PC World Business sales grew by 61 per cent to 329 million 2003 04 205 million, reecting a first time contribution from MicroWarehouse, which was acquired in June 2004.
PC World Business gross margins improved during the year.
There was strong growth in store catalogue and public sector sales.
Sales of services, including remote IT management, also performed well.
Genesis Communications New technology Sales in The Link grew by 5 per cent to 428 million 2003 04 407 million with like was a principal driver for like sales up 2 per cent.
The competitive environment in the mobile phone market of demand at The Link intensied, especially in the prepay sector.
The availability of phones through mass merchants heightened competition.
New technology was a principal driver of demand during the year, with sales of prepay camera phones and feature-rich contract phones performing well.
The Link opened 13 new stores, closed five stores and resited two stores during the year.
The chain completed a comprehensive store refurbishment programme.
The Link lost market share during the year, largely in lower price point phones to mass merchants.
Internet sales were strong, with new contract connections more than doubling.
The Link launched monthly customer support agreements, branded Linkplan, on contract phones during the year.
Customer reaction has been positive.
Genesis Communications sales were 103 million 2003 04 103 million with data connections growing by 4 per cent during the year and the average billing subscriber base up 16 per cent year on year.
During the year, Genesis launched a new customer strategy and a business accessories campaign.
CUSTOMER SUPPORT AGREEMENTS Further innovations in customer support agreements were implemented during the year, with service enhancements and new convenient payment options introduced for customers at Currys, PC World and The Link.
All chains made significant changes to their service offerings and focused on improving the clarity of the terms of the agreements.
Currys launched whateverhappens in February 2005, offering customers the option of monthly pay-as-you-go, or term payments, and PC World offered PC Performance on a monthly pay-as-you-go basis.
Early indications are that customers have embraced the changes positively.
The Group is actively engaged in maintaining dialogue with customers and consumer organisations to ensure that the benets and the terms of its customer support agreements are well understood and to keep abreast of, and respond to, the views of opinion formers and stakeholders.
THE LINK Sales m 04 Abdelkrim Zekagh repairs a customers PC in the Advice and 04 05 427.9 Service Centre at PC World, Staples Corner.
03 04 407.4 Total change 5% 05 PC World offers a marketLike for like change 2% leading range of PC accessories.
06 Tina Chikniwala at PC World, Staples Corner using eclipse, the new EPOS trading system.
04 05 06 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 21
