26 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Directors and Company Secretary 12345 6789 10 # 1 Antony Hichens 4 Jean-Paul Loison 7 Peter Johnson Appointed to the Board on 9 December Appointed to the Board on 8 December Chairman 2003.
He is Divisional Chief Executive 1999 as a non-Executive Director.
He is Appointed to the Board on 29 June 1999 Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc, of the Kaysersberg Packaging division of the as a non-Executive Director, became Chairman a Director of the Home Builders Federation Group, with responsibility for the Groups of the Board on 8 September 1999 and is Ltd, a Member of the Supervisory Board continental European Paper and Corrugated Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He of Wienerberger AG and a Member of the Packaging operations.
He joined Kaysersberg is a Member of the Takeover Panel, Chairman Council for Industry and Higher Education Packaging S. A. S. in 1970 and held various of WaterRower UK Limited and is also a nonand was previously Chief Executive of senior management positions before Executive Director of Candover Investments The Rugby Group PLC.
Age 57. becoming Divisional Chief Executive in PLC and The JPMorgan Fleming Income and 1993.
Previously, he # 8 Richard Marton held the positions of a Managing Director and # Appointed to the Board on 13 March 2000 as 5 Bob Beeston Chief Financial Officer of Consolidated Gold a non-Executive Director.
He was previously Appointed to the Board on 5 December 2000 Fields, Chairman of Caradon plc and Chairman Chief Executive and then non-Executive as a non-Executive Director.
He is Chairman of of Lasmo plc.
Director of Britax International plc.
Age 64. the Remuneration Committee and is the Senior Independent Director.
He is also Chairman of 2 Tony Thorne 9 Daniel Piette Cookson Group plc and was previously Chief Appointed to the Board on 1 October 1993 Group Chief Executive Executive of FKI plc.
He is Group Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2001 Executive Vice-President and a member of the as Chief Operating Officer and became Group # 6 Christopher Bunker Executive Committee of LVMH Corporation, Chief Executive on 5 December 2001.
He Appointed to the Board on 9 December 2003 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of LV was previously President of SCA Packagings as a non-Executive Director and is Chairman Capital and President of L Capital.
Corrugated Business Division and prior to of the Audit Committee.
He recently retired that held senior management positions in Shell.
as Finance Director of the Water Division of 10 Carolyn Cattermole Age 54.
RWE AG and was previously Group Finance Appointed Company Secretary on Director of Thames Water Plc.
Prior to that he 20 November 2000.
She was previously 3 Gavin Morris was Group Finance Director of Tarmac Plc, Company Secretary of Courtaulds Textiles Group Finance Director Commercial Director of GKN Aerospace plc and prior to that was a senior legal Appointed to the Board on 5 November 2002 and Defence and Finance Director of adviser with Courtaulds plc having qualified as Group Finance Director.
He was previously Westland Group Plc.
He is a non-Executive as a solicitor with Norton Rose.
Chief Financial Officer of Citex Group and Director of John Mowlem Plc and of Travis prior to that held Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Perkins plc.
Age 58. positions at Philips Lighting Holding BV, Member of General Purposes Committee Member of Nomination Committee Ionica Group plc, Alfred McAlpine Plc and Member of Remuneration Committee Norcros Plc.
