THE MARKET Our market Customers come to Aggreko when they need power, temperature control or oil-free compressed air.
They might need it very quickly, for example when a power transformer fails in the local electricity grid, or they may need it for such a short period of time that it is not economically viable to purchase a permanent installation, for example, a major sporting event might need additional power and cooling for only a few days.
The nature of Aggrekos business means that it is event-driven our customers turn to us when something unusual happens.
Events range from the very large and infrequent to the small and recurrent, such as local power failures.
Examples of high-value, infrequent events Demand is created by events which differ in value or situations we have worked on include: and frequency illustrative Value per occurrence Post-war reconstruction 1,000s Construction Afghanistan and Iraq Factory breakdown maintenance Hydro-electric power shortage 10,000s Utility breakdown maintenance Sri Lanka and Venezuela Entertainment Major sporting events Telecoms roll-out British and US Golf Opens, 2004 European 100,000s Football Championships Storms Utility augmentation Major natural events 1,000,000s Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
War Power crisis Examples of lower-value, more frequent events 10,000,000s Y2k on which we might work are: Occurrences per year 1 10s 100s 1,000s 10,000s 100,000s An oil renery needs additional cooling during the summer to maintain production throughput A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown in its plant and needs power and oil-free-air compressors while its own equipment is being repaired A city centre needs chillers to create an ice-rink for the Christmas period.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5 THE MARKET What is driving market growth?
We estimate that the market for the short-term rental of power, temperature control and oil-free compressed air is growing at some 2% above GDP.
So if GDP grows at 3% on average, our market should grow at 5%, and will be worth about 1.4 billion by 2008.
Growth in Aggrekos Local business is driven by The total market was worth 1.1 billion in 2003, four main factors: and is growing by an average of 5% 1,110 2003 GDP as an economy grows, so does demand for energy.
2008 1,366 Propensity to rent how inclined people are 1 CAGR 5% to rent rather than buy.
This is driven by issues such as tax treatment of capital assets and Source: Aggreko, Bain projections the growing awareness and acceptance of Local power Temperature control outsourcing.
Oil-free air Power projects Price this is linked to the first two, but is also dependent on rental equipment availability: if there is a surplus, prices will decline.
Events high-value low-frequency events change the size of a market, although only temporarily.
For example, the scale of Hurricane Katrina led to a short-term surge in temporary power demand in the areas affected by the hurricane.
These factors also affect our International Power Projects business.
There are however two factors in particular driving the growth in the power utilities market in developing countries: In the early stages of economic development, power demand increases very rapidly as economies industrialise and consumers buy power-hungry products such as televisions and air-conditioners.
Many developing countries around the world nd it hard to increase power capacity in line with this demand, which leads to power cuts.
This can be immensely damaging to economic development.
Growing afuence in many developing countries means that people are becoming ever-more dependent on power and increasingly intolerant of power failures.
Governments react to this and seek to nd ways of providing fast solutions to power shortages.
1 Compound Annual Growth Rate 6 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Our two different business models Aggreko is organised around two different business models.
Local business International Power Projects Our Local business focuses on the smaller, Our International Power Projects business more frequently occurring, events.
Although concentrates on very large contracts.
Most most of this business has a lead-time of more contracts in this business are worth over than 12 hours, about 25% of its revenues come 1 million and some can be worth over from responding to emergencies.
Customers are mainly in essential to have the capability to deploy developing countries and include power equipment and people to the customers site utilities, governments, armed forces, oil within a matter of hours.
This business operates companies and mines.
A typical contract from over 100 service centres in North America, in this business would be for the rental of South America, Europe, the Middle East, Asia 20-25 megawatts enough to power over and Australia.
These service centres look after 10,000 households for 6-9 months.
We customers who are typically within a radius of use standardised equipment: 1 megawatt 150 miles and they offer the complete range of containerised units assembled to our our products and services.
An average contract specication in our own facility in Scotland.
in this business would be worth around 5,000 These generators are designed specifically to and last 2-3 weeks.
In 2005 the Local business be easily transportable, reliable and robust.
accounted for 78% of our revenues excluding Power projects can arise anywhere in the world 1 pass-through fuel revenue, amounting to some and the required response time is generally days 308.3 million.
or weeks rather than hours.
To support these projects we concentrate our fleet in five hubs in South America, Africa, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
From each hub large amounts of equipment can be shipped or own to wherever it is needed.
In 2005, our International Power Projects business generated revenues 1 Pass-through fuel revenue relates to contracts in our of 86.6 million, or 22% of Aggrekos total International Power Projects business where we pass on fuel costs to the customer at a minimal margin.
revenue excluding pass-through fuel revenue.
Aggreko serves every industry that uses power, Revenue by customer segment Excluding pass-through fuel revenue % temperature control, or oil-free compressed air, making our customer-base very diverse, both in 1 Utilities 20 1 8 terms of geography and market segment.
2 Services 15 7 3 Oil & Gas 15 6 4 Manufacturing 14 2 5 Construction 13 5 6 Military 9 7 Entertainment 5 3 8 Other 9 4 Source: Aggreko internal reports Revenue by geography Excluding pass-through fuel revenue % 1 North America 36 5 1 4 2 Europe 29 3 Middle East and Africa 22 4 Asia and Australasia 8 5 South America 5 3 2 Source: Aggreko internal reports Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 7 THE MARKET Our market share We estimate that we have around one quarter share of the global market for rental, power, temperature control and oil-free compressed air.
In the Local business, Aggreko is number one or two in all the major markets in which we operate.
Competitive environment Four types of competitor in the Local business There is no single competitor that operates across the same geographic and product markets as Aggreko.
Examples The majority of our competitors in the Local business 2 are small, privately-owned businesses operating multinational Aggreko, CAT in a single country, and often in just a particular part of a country.
In most countries, competition is 15-20 regional intense, but the competitors will tend to vary GE, Atlas Copco, Longville, Bredenoord country to country.
There are a relatively small number of larger companies which compete with us Hundreds of national across a number of countries.
As well as specialist LCH, LMI, Power Electrics rental companies, Aggreko has to compete against general rental companies in the plant hire industry, Thousands of small independents many of which are large and who offer power, temperature control or compressed air as an ancillary product.
To compete on a global basis in the International Power Projects business, requires a large fleet and the ability to sell and deploy it around the world.
No other company has the integrated global network that Aggreko has developed which allows us to move fleet rapidly around the world to areas of high demand.
However, regionally, Aggreko often competes on a project-by-project basis with the local companies often distributors of major power equipment manufacturers such as Caterpillar and Cummins.
Regulatory environment A commentary on our regulatory environment can be found in our corporate social responsibility report on pages 30 to 34.
8 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
