Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Results and Dividends The profit for the financial year after taxation was 36.7 million 2004: 18.8 million.
The retained profit for the financial year of 21.0 million 2004: 3.6 million has been transferred to reserves.
An interim dividend of 2.34 pence per ordinary share was paid on 18 November 2005 at a cost of 6.2 million 2004: 6.0 million and the Directors now recommend a final dividend of 3.77 pence per ordinary share payable on 19 May 2006, at an estimated cost of 9.9 million 2004: 9.5 million.
Share Capital Details of the changes in issued share capital during the year are shown in Note 23 to the accounts.
Business Review and Principal Activities The Operating and Financial Review on pages 11 to 29 reports on the activities during the year ended 31 December 2005, post balance sheet events and likely future developments.
Principal subsidiary undertakings are listed in Note 29 to the accounts.
Financial Instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are described in note 1X of the accounting policies on page 69.
Going Concern The Directors, having made all the relevant enquiries, consider that the Group and the Company have adequate resources at their disposal to continue their operations for the foreseeable future, and that it is therefore appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis.
Directors The Directors of the Company and their biographical details are set out on pages 36 and 37.
Mr K Pandya was appointed on 20 June 2005 and is obliged to retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
Mr R V McGlone, Mr A C Salvesen, and Mr A G Cockburn retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In proposing their re-election, the Chairman confirms that the Nomination Committee has considered the contribution and commitment of the Directors that are required to offer themselves for re-election and has confirmed to the Board that their performance continued to be effective and, therefore, the Company should support their re-election.
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of appointment and the details of their terms are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 52.
No other contract with the Company, or any subsidiary undertaking of the Company, in which any Director was materially interested subsisted during or at the end of the financial year.
A statement of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company at the end of the financial year is given on pages 56 and 57.
Indemnity of Ofcers Under Article 145 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Company may indemnify any Director or other officer against any liability, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, and the Articles do grant an indemnity to the Directors against any liability for the costs of legal proceedings where judgement is given in their favour.
In addition the Company may purchase and maintain for any Director or other officer or auditor, insurance against any liability, and the Company does maintain appropriate insurance cover against legal action brought against its Directors and ofcers and the directors and ofcers of its subsidiaries.
Donations During the year the Group contributed 37,846 2004: 26,915 in terms of cash, employees time and other services to a range of charitable, community and disaster relief organisations.
Of this total 10,679 2004: 9,519 was donated to registered UK charities.
No political donations were made during the year 2004: Nil.
38 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Employees The Group continues to operate team briengs throughout its business to keep employees informed of developments and plans, both in their own operations and in the Group as a whole.
Employees have access to the Aggreko Resource Centre, an Intranet based system, which provides them with a wide range of information on the activities of the Group around the world.
The annual and interim results are publicised extensively throughout the business and are made available to all employees.
The Aggreko Savings-related Share Option Scheme Sharesave was launched in 1998 and currently more than a third of employees with over six months service participate in this scheme.
A substantial number of employees have shareholdings built up through Sharesave and other schemes.
The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career development and promotion of employees are based on the suitability of the individual and give those who are disabled equal treatment with the able bodied.
Where appropriate, employees disabled after joining the Group are given suitable training for alternative employment with the Group or elsewhere.
Supplier Payment Policy It is the Groups policy to settle the terms and conditions of payment with suppliers when agreeing each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of these terms and, in practice, providing the supplier meets its contractual obligations, to abide by them.
In overall terms, the Group had approximately 48 days credit outstanding as at the balance sheet date.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday 26 April 2006 at the Hilton Hotel, 1 William Street, Glasgow and the notice of this meeting is set out on pages 110 to 113.
Special Business Allotment for Cash Resolution 9 proposes as a special resolution to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights of shareholders on allotment of equity securities for cash up to a limit of a total of shares with a nominal value of 2,690,000, being approximately 5% of the current issued share capital.
The resolution also disapplies these rights to the extent necessary to facilitate rights issues.
The authority under this resolution would expire on the date of the Annual General Meeting in 2007 or on 25 July 2007, whichever is the earlier.
This resolution is on the same basis as approved last year and the Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Purchase of Own Shares The final item of special business is the Directors recommendation that shareholders renew the authority of the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares as permitted under Article 7 of its Articles of Association.
Accordingly, Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution seeking authority to make such purchases in the market.
The Directors will only use such authority when they consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and an improvement in earnings per share would result.
The Board is taking the power to hold shares in treasury: accordingly, any ordinary shares purchased under this authority will either be cancelled and the number of ordinary shares on issue reduced or held in treasury.
Resolution 10 species the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased representing approximately 10% of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital and the minimum and maximum prices at which they may be bought, reecting the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and of the Financial Services Authority, as set out in the Listing Rules.
The Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 39 Directors Report continued Treasury Shares Amendments to the Companies Act which came into force on 1 December 2003 allow companies acquiring their own shares to hold these shares in treasury for re-sale.
Resolutions 9 and 10 would provide the Directors with the authority they need to use treasury shares to give the Company more exibility in managing its share capital.
The Directors have no immediate intention of using such authority and would do so only when they consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The Directors intend that any buy back of shares into treasury and re-sale of shares from treasury will operate within the following limits: no more than 10% of the Companys issued shares will be held in treasury at any time: and treasury shares will not be sold at a discount of more than 10% to the middle market price of shares at time of sale.
Notiable Interests As at 20 February 2006 the Company had received notications of the following share holdings in excess of 3% of the issued ordinary share capital: Name of Shareholder Number of Shares % FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 19,191,380 7.13 A E H Salvesen 14,553,159 5.41 Barclays plc 13,334,575 4.95 Credit Suisse Asset Management Limited 11,409,462 4.24 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 8,695,451 3.23 including immediate family and trustee interests including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests The Directors are not aware of any other material interests amounting to 3% or more in the share capital of the Company.
Auditors A resolution re-appointing  LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board A Paul Allen Secretary 9 March 2006 40 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
