24 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Directors Report Principal activities The Group is engaged in the supply of drinking water in the London Boroughs of Croydon and Sutton, East Surrey and parts of Kent and Sussex through its subsidiary Sutton and East Surrey Water and also the distribution and supply of natural gas to the greater Belfast area through its subsidiary Phoenix Natural Gas.
The Group is also developing other trading activities through various subsidiaries.
Financial results and dividends Total turnover for the year ended 31 March 2005 increased from 73.1 million to 108.9 million.
This increase was mostly due to the consolidation of a years results from Phoenix Natural Gas.
Last year only three and a half months of Phoenixs results were fully consolidated.
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation was 12.0 million compared with 9.2 million in the previous year.
The directors propose the payment of a final dividend of 10.0p 9.55p per ordinary share, making a total dividend of 14.9p 14.3p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Total dividends cost 13.6 million 11.4 million, including preference dividends of 1.0 million 1.0 million, leaving a deficit of 1.5 million 3.4 million to be transferred from reserves.
Tangible fixed assets Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets was 41.4 million 31.2 million.
The directors consider that the market value of the land in current use included within tangible fixed assets is not substantially in excess of book value.
Directors The directors serving at the year end are shown on pages 22 and 23.
The directors retiring by rotation are P Barrett and P Holder.
J Newton is subject to annual re-election due to his length of service.
These directors, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Details of directors interests in shares of the Company and service contracts are given on pages 29 to 33.
Substantial shareholdings The following interests of 3% or more in the voting share capital have been notified to the Company at 21 July 2005.
Number % Deutsche Bank AG 7,676,622 9.1 AXA Sun Life Investment Management Ltd 6,789,635 8.0 Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities plc 3,624,924 4.3 Utilico Investment Trust plc 3,336,128 3.9 Legal & General 2,727,002 3.2 UBS Global Asset Management Life Ltd 2,706,588 3.2 Warner Estate Holdings 2,598,414 3.1 Employees Communication with employees is facilitated through formal and informal consultation, internal newsletter and other channels of communication appropriate to the business.
Employees are advised of annual and half-year results and of any other significant business matters.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicants concerned.
The Group will endeavour where practicable to maintain in useful duty employees who may become disabled because of illness or injury and will consider the development of alternative skills for such employees.
In 2002 the company launched an all employee Shareholder Incentive Plan.
There are currently 175 members of the plan.
Payments to suppliers Settlement terms are agreed with suppliers as part of negotiated contract terms and it is the Groups policy to pay in accordance with those terms.
Other creditors are paid in accordance with agreed invoice terms.
The creditor days of the principal trading subsidiaries, Sutton and East Surrey Water, and Phoenix Natural Gas were approximately 48 days 30 days and 20 days 14 days respectively.
The parent undertaking does not have any trade creditors.
East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 25 Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made charitable donations amounting to 12,577 21,744.
There were no political donations nil.
Auditors In accordance with S384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and the Group is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Post balance sheet events Details of post balance sheet events are given in note 33.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Throughout the year to 31 March 2005, the company complied with the provisions of the revised Combined Code on corporate governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 except for: The Audit Committee did not have at least one member possessing what the Smith Guidance describes as recent and relevant experience 2.17.
A process to appoint a suitably qualified individual has been initiated.
The Nomination committee has not been evaluated.
6 The revised Combined Code applied to East Surrey Holdings plc as from 1st April 2004.
The Board The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable them to meet those objectives.
The Board, which meets at least six times a year, has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
The specific responsibilities reserved to the Board include: 1.
Strategy and management including approval of the Groups long term objectives, commercial strategy and budgets.
Structure and capital including share issues.
Financial reporting and controls including annual and interim accounts and dividends.
Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of Internal controls and risk management.
Approval of significant contracts above agreed budget levels.
Communication approval of general meeting information, circulars and listing particulars.
Board membership and other appointments.
Division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Managing Director.
Policies code of conduct, health and safety, environmental etc.
The roles of the Chairman and Managing Director The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board and the Managing Director is clearly defined and has been approved by the Board.
The companys Board comprises four non-executive directors including the Chairman and three executive directors who assume collective responsibility for ensuring that the Groups activities are conducted competently and with integrity.
The table below shows the members of the Board and their various offices and roles.
26 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Directors Report continued The Board Name Office Executive Nomination Remuneration Audit Non-executive Committee Committee Committee J R Avery Senior Independent Director Non-executive Independent Member Member Chairman P A Barrett Chairman Non-executive Independent Chairman Member P Dixon Chief Executive Officer of Executive Phoenix Natural Gas N J Fisher Finance Director Executive P B Holder Managing Director Executive Member Sir G Loughran Non-executive Director Non-executive Independent Member Member Member J O Newton Non-executive Director Non-executive Independent Chairman Member The Board includes independent non-executive Directors who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The independent Directors are of sufficient calibre and number to ensure that their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision making.
The directors have a right of access to the advice and services of the company secretary and have the opportunity to take independent, professional advice in the course of their duties at the companys expense.
Day-to-day conduct of the Groups business is entrusted to the executive directors and their senior management colleagues.
The Board receives regular management reports and operates a system of review of individual business units within the Group against strategic objectives and targets.
The non-executive directors are not employees of the company and the Board considers that it complies with the Combined Code regarding the proportion of independent non-executive directors notwithstanding the existence of relationships and circumstances which could appear to affect the directors judgment which are:- On 15th July 2004 J Avery was appointed a non-executive director of Warner Estate Holdings plc which has a 3.1% shareholding in East Surrey Holdings plc.
J Avery during the year was also chief executive of Wellington Underwriting plc.
He retired as chief executive and director of Wellington Underwriting plc on 20th September 2004.
Wellington provides business continuity insurance for Phoenix Natural Gas Ltd.
Despite these various potential conflicts of interest, according to the Combined Code, it is the considered opinion of the other Board members that J Avery is independent.
J Newton has been a non executive director for over nine years being appointed on 5th November 1991.
In the Boards opinion a long length of service of a non executive director does not necessarily diminish his independence and this is certainly the case with respect to J Newton.
Both directors constructively and appropriately challenge the executive directors and the Board.
The chairman has stated emphatically that he is independent and the Board concurs with this assessment.
The composition of the Board is kept under review with the aim of ensuring that the Board collectively possesses the necessary skills and experience for the proper direction of the Groups business activities.
Details of the Chairmans professional commitments are included in the Chairmans biography.
Newly appointed directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and do so thereafter in accordance with the companys articles.
They receive induction training on appointment which includes a tour of some of our various operational sites.
At least one third of the directors must seek re-election by the shareholders each year.
To comply with the Combined Code, East Surrey Holdings policy is that no director can remain in office for more than three years without seeking re-election.
Performance evaluation The Board has established a formal process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal Committees, and individual Directors with particular attention to those who are due for re-appointment.
The Directors are made aware that their performance will be subject to an evaluation on appointment.
East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 27 Some of the annual evaluation is carried out using a series of questionnaires.
It was agreed at the Audit Committee meeting on 12 November 2004 that it would be more beneficial if a discussion was held on a one-to-one basis in order that significant issues might be highlighted using the questionnaire as an aide-mmoire to the discussions.
There are three questionnaires in total, one for each of the Board, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
The questionnaires include specific references to the objectives of the Board and Committees, and the goals of the individual Directors.
The senior non-executive director, J Avery, carried out the evaluation of Board effectiveness after consulting with all members of the board and summarised their views in a report.
The company secretary, J Hornby, carried out the evaluation of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Nomination Committee was not evaluated.
Individual Directors were assessed on an exception basis.
Led by the Senior Independent Director the non-executive Directors communicate annually, without the presence of the Chairman, to conduct a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Information Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
Relations with Shareholders In fulfilment of the Chairmans obligations under the new Combined Code, the Chairman gives feedback to the Board on issues raised with him by major shareholders.
This is supplemented by twice yearly feedback to the Board on meetings between management and investors.
The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all Directors, and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
The Group maintains a corporate website www.
com containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private investors.
The Group has frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting its performance.
These include meetings following the announcement of the annual results with the Groups largest institutional shareholders on an individual basis.
In addition, the Group responds to individual ad hoc requests for discussions from institutional shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Managing Director or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
All major shareholders will be given the opportunity to meet new non-executive Directors on appointment.
All shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to put questions to members of the Board on matters relating to the Groups operation and performance at the Annual General Meeting.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Combined Code requires that directors review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control to cover all controls including financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
The Board confirms that it has implemented the Turnbull guidance for the year ended 31 March 2005.
In order to achieve this, the Group has compiled a risk register, containing the key risks facing the Group during the conduct of its business.
The register has been discussed by the Board and is regularly reviewed.
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
Control is exercised through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority, and appropriate reporting procedures.
Information is regularly provided at all levels and compared with budgeted targets, which are reviewed on a regular basis.
Key procedures in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control have been established as follows: Control environment - the directors have put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Risk management - operating company management is responsible for identifying and mitigating risks facing each business.
Risks are assessed by individual operating units each year.
Information systems - there is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the directors.
Monthly trading results, balance sheets and cash flow statements are reported against the corresponding figures for the budget.
At each Group Board meeting the forecast for the full year is reviewed.
Control procedures - there are clearly defined policies for capital expenditure including appropriate authorisation levels.
Larger capital projects and major investments require Board approval.
Monitoring system - operating units prepare self-certification statements which describe the extent of their compliance with objectives.
These statements are approved by the managing director or, if appropriate, the accountant of each subsidiary and are reviewed by executive management.
28 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Directors Report continued The Board has reviewed the Groups internal financial, operational and compliance control systems for the period from 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005.
This involved considering a report summarising the results of the self-certification process and the reviews of executive directors.
Having examined the effectiveness of the Groups current controls the Board has formed the view that the controls are satisfactory.
The Group views the careful management of risk as a key management activity.
Managing business risk to deliver opportunities is a key element of all activities.
This is done using a simple and flexible framework which provides a consistent and sustained way of implementing the Groups values.
These business risks, which may be strategic, operational, reputation, financial or environmental, should be understood and visible.
The business context determines in each situation the level of acceptable risk and controls.
Board Committees The Board meets regularly as shown by the table below.
Attendance by directors at Board and committee meetings Board Nomination Remuneration Audit meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Number of meetings in year 13 2 2 5 Number of meetings attended by each director J R Avery 12 2 1 5 P A Barrett 13 2 2 5 P Dixon 13 1 2 N J Fisher 13 1 5 P B Holder 13 2 2 5 Sir G Loughran 13 2 2 3 J O Newton 12 1 2 5 Not a member of the committee, attendance by invitation only.
On 2nd April 2004 Sir G Loughran was appointed to the Audit Committee.
On 2nd April 2004 Sir G Loughran was appointed to and P Barrett resigned from the Remuneration Committee.
On the same date, J Avery was appointed a member of the Nomination Committee.
The Board has established several committees, which assist it in the exercise of its responsibilities.
Nomination Committee Under the chairmanship of P Barrett this committee has the task of recommending new appointments to the Board and reviewing re-appointments when they become due.
Before making an appointment the committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
It also regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
P Barrett will not chair this committee if it discusses the appointment of a new chairman of the Board.
During the year the committee considered the appointment of a new chairman for the Audit Committee.
This was done by employing the services of a recruitment agency and by consulting professional contacts.
Its current membership comprises P Barrett, P Holder, J Avery and Sir G Loughran.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on request.
Remuneration committee Under the chairmanship of J Newton this committee determines the remuneration and contractual arrangements of individual executive directors having regard to a general policy framework for executive remuneration established by the Board.
The Boards Report on Directors Remuneration appears on pages 29 to 33.
The members of the committee are J Newton, J Avery and Sir G Loughran.
They are all independent non-executive directors.
East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 29 The Remuneration Committee also has access to advice from Monks Partnership Ltd, independent remuneration consultants, who were consulted during the year.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available on request.
Audit committee Membership of the committee comprises independent non-executive directors J Avery chairman, P Barrett, J Newton and Sir G Loughran.
The purpose of the committee is to ensure the preservation of good financial practices throughout the Group, to monitor that controls are in force to ensure the integrity of those practices, to review the interim and annual financial statements and to provide, by way of timely meetings, a line of communication between the Board and external auditors.
It has formal terms of reference which deal with its authorities and duties.
The Committee did not have at least one member possessing what the Smith Report describes as recent and relevant experience.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of, and the need for, an internal audit function.
During the year the Audit Committee utilised the services of  to assess the need for an internal audit function and make recommendations as to the requirements of the enlarged Group.
The review concluded that an internal audit function was necessary, which policy was adopted by the committee and a Group Internal Audit Manager was duly appointed.
The Group Internal Audit Manager has functional reporting responsibility to the Audit Committee.
The Committee will review the effectiveness of the internal audit function annually and recommend any changes to the Board.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on request.
Auditors independence and objectivity The Audit Committee monitors regularly the non-audit services being provided to the Group by its external auditors.
The auditors do not audit their own work, make management decisions for the Group, have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group, and are not put in the role of advocate for the Group.
Prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any services provided by the external auditors where the fee is likely to be in excess of 30,000.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 3 to the financial statements.
Going concern After making enquires, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the financial statements continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee has given due consideration to the provisions of B.
1 to B1.6, and to Schedule A of the Combined Code in formulating the remuneration policy of the Group.
There have been no material changes to the remuneration policies of the company during the year.
Remuneration committee The Remuneration Committee comprises J Newton Chairman, J Avery and Sir G Loughran.
The responsibility of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the companys framework for executive remuneration, and to determine on its behalf the remuneration of the executive directors and other senior executives.
The Committee reviews the remuneration policies in the light of best practice and advice from Monks Partnership Ltd, independent remuneration consultants, who were consulted during the year concerning non-executive directors remuneration.
Remuneration policy The remuneration policy is designed to attract and retain good quality senior executives of the Group having regard to other UK-based businesses.
It provides for a remuneration package which reflects the Groups performance against operational and financial objectives and rewards above average performance.
Remuneration consists of short term rewards base salary, benefits and annual bonus and longer term benefits long term bonus, incentive plans and pension benefits.
Only base salary and benefits are pensionable.
Taxable benefits are considered to be an integral part of the base remuneration package and are therefore pensionable.
The Board considers that the performance element of the remuneration package is appropriate given the main activities of the Group.
30 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Directors Report continued Service contracts The service contracts of directors are terminable by the company giving 12 months notice.
If the employer terminates the employment he may elect to terminate with immediate effect by making a 12 months salary payment in lieu of notice.
The Directors service contracts commenced on the following dates:- P Holder 9 July 1997 N Fisher 9 July 1997 P Dixon 1 July 2000 J Newton 30 May 2001 J Avery 30 May 2001 P Barrett 5 June 2001 Sir G Loughran 29 January 2004 Fees Fees for non-executive directors duties are determined by the Board taking into account fees paid by comparable companies.
Fees for P Barrett were paid by Sutton and East Surrey Water plc.
Base salary and benefits Base salary for executive directors and other senior executives reflects job responsibilities, comparable levels in other companies and the sustained level of individual performance.
The company operates a flexible benefit policy that provides private health cover and a company car or the cash equivalent.
Bonuses Annual bonuses are dependent on the levels of service to customers, operational performance and the achievement of financial goals.
The director has remained in continuous employment with the Group.
The director has not been absent from work due to ill health for a period of more than six months.
All applicable performance targets are met.
East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 31 Share Incentive Plan P Holder, N Fisher and P Dixon are members of the company wide Share Incentive Plan.
The scheme is managed by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd who also act as Trustees of the scheme.
They invest 125 month, the maximum permitted for any employee, through the scheme.
The company gives one share for each 5 purchased by the scheme member.
All shares are held by the Trustee, until they are withdrawn by the scheme member or the member leaves the company.
Total shareholder return TSR information The Groups TSR performance relative to the FTSE All Share index for the last five years is shown in the following graph.
The Board believes this is the most appropriate broad equity market index with which to compare the Groups performance.
Five year graph for East Surrey Holdings TSR and FTSE All Share TSR rebased from 100 400 350 300 250 200 East Surrey FTSE All Share 150 100 50 0 Apr 00 Apr 01 Apr 02 Apr 03 Apr 04 Apr 05 The following schedules and information which form part of the Report on Directors Remuneration have been audited except for the directors interests.
2005 2004 Emoluments 000 000 Fees 195 181 Remuneration as managers 736 758 Costs of pension schemes 86 44 1,017 983 32 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Directors Report continued Emoluments payable to each director are detailed in the following table, including all benefits arising during the year.
Pension contributions, to secure pension benefits on retirement for these directors, amounted to 83,000 32,000.
Executive directors and other senior managers will be entitled to a pension based on one-eightieth of pensionable final salary for every year of service and years of accrued service and a lump sum of three eightieths of pensionable final salary.
Pensions paid to past directors amounted to 54,000 46,000.
Directors, in common with other members of WCPS, can retire between the ages of 60 and 65 provided that they have at least 25 years service.
There is no commutation of pension benefits.
For death before retirement, a capital sum of four times salary is payable together with a spouses pension of 50% of the members prospective pension.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension of 50% of the members pension is payable.
Information regarding directors pensions is shown below: Completed years of Increase in pensionable Accrued Inflationary pension as service pension increase a result of Accrued including entitlement in accrued additional pension Age at transfers in entitlement pension years service entitlement 31 March at 31 March at 31 March during and salary at 31 March 2005 2005 2004 the year Transfers in increases 2005 Years Years 000 000 000 000 000 P Holder 56 34 74 2 11 87 N Fisher 54 21 33 1 6 40 P Dixon 44 31 1 51 52 The highest paid director was P Holder.
His accrued pension at the year end is shown in the above table and his accrued lump sum was 259,724 223,063.
East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 33 P Dixon belonged to the B. G. Staff pension scheme until the end of May 2004.
This is a defined benefit scheme.
Payments made into the scheme on his behalf amounted to 3,566 for the period 1 April 2004 to 31 May 2004.
He has joined the WCPS scheme.
Transfer value Increase of Transfer value of accrued transfer value of accrued pension of accrued pension 2004 Transfers in pension 2005 000 000 000 000 P Holder 1,229 280 1,509 N Fisher 382 112 494 P Dixon 500 500 The Finance Act 1989 imposes limits on pensionable earnings.
P Holder is unaffected as his pensionable service began prior to the implementation dates in the Act.
N Fisher is affected by the legislation.
His pension arrangements provide an equivalence of benefits with the director who is not subject to the earnings cap.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to review pension arrangements for directors throughout the forthcoming year.
Directors Interests The interests of directors in the shares of the company are as follows: 31 March 2005 31 March 2004 Ordinary Ordinary Voting Preference Voting Preference Shares Shares Shares Shares J Avery 6,800 6,800 P Barrett 124,508 124,508 P Dixon 15,965 15,443 N Fisher 28,858 4,901 28,303 4,901 P Holder 185,903 7,478 185,402 7,478 G Loughran 3,000 J Newton 22,416 3,296 22,416 3,296 There have been no share transactions by the directors since the year end except for those made in accordance with the Share Incentive Plan.
The Directors Report and Remuneration Report By Order of the Board, J B Hornby Secretary Redhill, Surrey 29 July 2005
