plc 95 05 Directors 1 Sir Colin Chandler Non-Executive Chairman Colin 66 joined easyJet in April 2002 and was appointed Chairman in November 2002.
Until November 2004, he was Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of Smiths Group plc, having been a Non-Executive Director of TI Group since 1992.
Colin has been variously Managing Director, Chief Executive and then Chairman of Vickers plc.
Earlier in his career he was seconded from British Aerospace to the role of Head of Defence Export Services, Ministry of Defence.
He was Chairman of Racal Electronics plc.
He is Chairman of TI Automotive Limited, Chairman of Automotive Technik Limited and Pro-Chancellor of Cranfield University.
He was knighted in June 1988 for services to export.
12 3 2 Ray Webster Chief Executive Prior to joining easyJet in March 1996, Ray 59 had 27 years of experience in the airline industry at Air New Zealand.
In his career with Air New Zealand he held various positions within the engineering business unit, formed their cargo business unit and had responsibility for marketing, sales and operations within the Americas market.
His last role at Air New Zealand was as General Manager of Strategic Planning, where he was responsible for the identification, evaluation and implementation of corporate development options, including the concept development, planning and implementation of a start up value-based low-cost airline serving short-haul routes within the Australasian market.
3 Jeff Carr Group Finance Director Jeff 44 was appointed as Group Finance Director in March 2005.
Prior to joining easyJet, Jeff was Director of Finance, Performance and Planning for Associated British Foods plc.
He has previously held senior financial positions with Unilever, Grand Metropolitan and Reckitt Benckiser.
In addition to experience with major consumer orientated companies, Jeff has wide international experience in both mainland Europe and in the USA.
30 30 Annual report and accounts 05 4 Dawn Airey Independent Non-Executive Director Dawn 45 joined easyJet in April 2004.
As Managing Director of Sky Networks, Dawn is responsible for 90 whollyowned channels, including Sky One, Sky News, Sky Movies and Sky Media.
Prior to joining Sky in January 2003, Dawn was Chief Executive of Channel Five 20002002 : Director of Programmes, Channel Five 19962000 : Controller of Arts and Entertainment at Channel 4 19941996 and Controller of Network Childrens and Daytime Programmes at ITV 19931994.
Dawn has worked in television for over 20 years and began her career at Central TV as a management trainee.
She is Vice President of the Royal Television Society, the Executive Chair of the Media Guardian Edinburgh International Television Festival and a Trustee of the Media Trust.
Dawn is a member of the board of the International Emmy Awards, a governor of the Banff Television Festival and an Honorary Committee Member of the Monte Carlo Television Festival.
5 Amir Eilon Non-Executive Director Amir 57 spent the major part of his career working for investment banks specialising in particular in global capital markets.
Before joining easyJet in March 1999, Amir was at Credit Suisse First Boston private equity group where he had joint responsibility for Western Europe within its international group.
Prior to that, Amir was at Barclays fide Zoette Wedd for eight years where he was head of global capital markets.
Since then Amir has established his own consultancy group, Eilon & Associates Limited.
Amir is also Non-Executive Chairman of Spring Group Plc, and a Non-Executive Director of Flamingo Holdings, and Tidal Energy.
Amir will not offer himself for re-election as Non-Executive Director at the Annual General Meeting in February.
4 5 6 7 6 Stelios Haji-Ioannou Non-Executive Director Stelios 38 founded easyJet in 1995.
Prior to that he founded Stelmar Tankers, a shipping company which listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 2001 and in which he retains a significant shareholding, but no longer sits on the board.
In 1998, he established the easy group of companies, with the objective of exploiting the easy brand for ventures other than easyJet.
Stelios was Non-Executive Chairman of easyJet until 26 November 2002 and was reappointed to the Board on 16 May 2005.
7 Diederik Karsten Independent Non-Executive Director Diederik 49 joined easyJet in May 2001 and is currently Chief Executive Officer of UPC The Netherlands, the countrys leading cable TV company.
From February 2000 to November 2001 he was Chief Executive Officer of KPN Mobile N. V. Previously he was Director of the business unit Mobile Telephony and Director of The Mobile Net, both parts of KPN Telecom.
Prior to joining KPN in 1996, Diederik held various management and marketing positions at Pepsi Co, including Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Snacks Ventures Europe and Sales and Marketing Director Pepsi Cola, Germany.
Before that, Diederik held various marketing positions at Proctor & Gamble.
Diederik is also a Non-Executive Director of BGN B. V. Bookstores Group, The Netherlands.
Annual report and accounts 05 31 plc 95 05 Directors continued In addition, Colin Day and Tony Illsley both served as Independent Non-Executive Directors throughout the year and resigned effective from 30 September 2005.
The following Directors were appointed before 30 September 2005, but do not take up office until the new financial year.
Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer Andrew 48 will be taking up his new post on 1 December 2005.
Andrew was previously the Chief Executive of RAC plc prior to its acquisition by Aviva plc in 2005.
Andrew joined Lex Service plc in 1996 as Chief Executive and led its transformation from a vehicle distribution company into RAC plc, a strongly-branded, consumer-facing services company with 6.5 million members.
RAC plc delivered strong growth in a variety of consumer services, which included BSM, financial and legal services, as well as good expansion in business services, winning large contracts.
The successful integration of Lex and RAC resulted in a strong rise in profits and a tripling of the share price during Andrews tenure as Chief Executive.
Since 2000, Andrew has been a Non-Executive Director at Emap, where he chairs the Audit Committee.
Prior to Lex Service, Andrew was an Executive Director of Courtaulds Textiles plc since 1990.
David Bennett Independent Non-Executive Director David 43 was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2005.
He is the Group Finance Director of the FTSE 100 bank Alliance & Leicester plc and will join the Board of easyJet plc as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Prior to joining Alliance & Leicester in 1999, David held a number of senior management positions at Cheltenham & Gloucester Building Society and Lloyds TSB.
