plc 95 05 Directors report The Directors present the audited consolidated financial statements for easyJet plc the Company for the year ended 30 September 2005.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary companies the Group or easyJet is the provision of a low-cost, good value airline service on short-haul and medium-haul point-to-point routes within Europe.
Results for the year Retained profit for the year ended 30 September 2005 was 42.6 million 2004: 41.1 million.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend 2004: nil.
Safety and security easyJets commitment to safety is the top priority of the Group and management.
easyJet is committed to safe operations, which is manifested in its safety training procedures, its investment in the latest aircraft equipment and its adoption of a confidential safety issue reporting system.
Customer service easyJet seeks to provide its customers with a safe, low-cost, good value and reliable service.
easyJet operates an entirely ticketless sales and check-in service.
This service is, easyJet believes, less burdensome for passengers.
In addition, the service reduces the costs associated with ticket processing, including personnel costs, and simplifies administration and control.
In-flight service costs are kept to a minimum.
Food and drinks are served on board and are paid for by the passenger.
Third-party suppliers provide the in-flight catering.
People and culture easyJets employees have defined a statement of the organisations values the orange culture.
The Directors believe that the Groups framework of orange values helps to motivate and align employees to the Groups objectives.
The management of the Group is entrusted to an executive team with extensive commercial, operational and financial experience.
In keeping with the orange culture the Directors encourage employees to contribute to the management of the business and allow employees to have access to a significant amount of information stored on the Groups electronic document system.
The Group is an equal opportunity employer, which actively encourages the training and development of all its employees on an ongoing basis.
It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled individuals, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and to provide such individuals with equal training, development, and opportunities for promotion.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and will be given help with any necessary rehabilitation and retraining.
easyJet is committed to generating an awareness among its employees of the Groups performance, development and progress, and to providing employees with information on matters of concern to them.
It achieves this through regular communication meetings, employee newsletters and management briefings.
Also, communication meetings are used by employee representatives to air the views of employees.
Employees are encouraged to become involved in the Companys financial performance through participation in various share option schemes.
Going concern The Directors are satisfied, after due consideration, that the Group has sufficient financial resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
On this basis, they continue to adopt the going concern principle in preparing the financial statements.
44 Annual report and accounts 05 Directors and Directors interests The Directors who held office during the year were as follows: Non-Executive: Sir Colin Chandler Dawn Airey Amir Eilon Diederik Karsten Tony Illsley resigned 30 September 2005 Colin Day resigned 30 September 2005 Stelios Haji-Ioannou reappointed 16 May 2005 Executive Ray Webster Chris Walton resigned 18 March 2005 Jeff Carr appointed 7 March 2005 On 1 September 2005, the Company announced that Andrew Harrison will be appointed to the easyJet Board as Chief Executive on 1 December 2005.
Ray Webster will resign from the Board on this date.
David Bennett was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2005.
Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the easyJet UK Employee Share Ownership Trust and the easyJet Overseas Employee Share Ownership Trust the Trusts.
At 30 September 2005, ordinary shares held in the Trusts were as follows: Ordinary shares MCIP allocated but now lapsed 502 Total unallocated lapsed 502 Total held by UK Trust allocated 13,852 Total held by Overseas Trust allocated 51,904 MCIP Trust allocated 39,606 Total allocated 105,362 Total 105,864 Details of share options and share gifts granted to the Directors of the Company are disclosed below in the report on Directors remuneration.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors The Group and the Company do not follow a universal code which deals specifically with payments to suppliers but, where appropriate, their practice is to: l Agree the terms of payment at the start of business with the supplier: l Ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment: and l Pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
At 30 September 2005, the number of creditor days outstanding for the Group was two days 2004: seven days, and the Company, nil days 2004: nil days.
Annual report and accounts 05 45 plc 95 05 95 05 Directors report continued Political and charitable contributions During the year, the Group made charitable contributions totalling 110,033 2004: 64,321.
In addition, the Group provides free flights to selected charities.
There is minimal incremental cost to the Group associated with these gifts.
Further details can be found in the social, environmental and ethical report above.
There were no contributions made for political purposes.
Post-balance-sheet events David Bennett was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2005.
One Boeing 737-300 aircraft was transferred from fixed assets to debtors in September 2005 as a contract had been signed for its sale.
The aircraft was delivered in November 2005.
In 2002, Navitaire Inc. a former supplier of airline reservation software to easyJet Airline Company Limited, a Group company, issued proceedings against that Group company alleging copyright infringement in relation to airline reservations software.
In November 2005, the parties reached an amicable agreement fully resolving the dispute, bringing the litigation to an end.
Substantial interests As at 18 November 2005, the Company has been notified of the following disclosable interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: Number of shares Percentage easyGroup Holdings Limited holding vehicle for Stelios Haji-Ioannou 66,076,451 16.50 Flugleidir Fjarfestingarfelag ehf.
Icelandair Investments 64,754,337 16.17 Polys Holdings Limited holding vehicle for Polys Haji-Ioannou 47,954,575 11.97 Clelia Holdings Limited holding vehicle for Clelia Haji-Ioannou 47,954,575 11.97 Auditors The Directors considered the appointment of auditors during 2005 and, following a competitive tender, decided to appoint  LLP.
Accordingly KPMG Audit Plc have indicated that they will resign as auditors for the Group once they have completed the audits of all the statutory accounts of the Group companies to which they are appointed auditors.
At the Annual General Meeting, the Board will propose the appointment of  LLP as auditors of the Group.
On behalf of the Board J Carr Director easyLand London Luton Airport Luton Bedfordshire LU2 9LS 21 November 2005 46 Annual report and accounts 05
