advertising has not been accompanied The core portfolio information products and interactive by a similar growth in volume -0.6%.
Emap Frances year has been coloured by media and mainly serves professional the aggressive launch of two low-price readers and audiences.
These are in five For Emap this year, total advertising fortnightly TV listings magazines from Prisma key markets retail, construction, public revenues declined by 8% while underlying which affected the performance of both sector, healthcare and media.
Tl Star Tl Star and Tl Poche.
Tl Star was and Tl Poche accounted for 39% relaunched in September 2004 with more The strategy in business-to-business b2b of underlying advertising revenues and TV-related news and features and a stronger communications is to develop and expand were down 17%.
Both titles have been promoted the existing portfolio, to launch new products for the rest of the underlying portfolio successfully with cover-mounted DVDs and and to make bolt-on acquisitions in the UK were down 3%.
The automotive titles newsstand sales have been stable since and Europe that add value and complement again did well but were offset by weaker last September.
performances by the womens and mens titles.
This particularly applies to Top Sant, Elsewhere in the portfolio, the upmarket Revenue by market Biba, 20 Ans, Max and FHM and largely womens monthly title, Biba, has been 29% Retail reflects a slowdown in beauty and relaunched in both A4 and A5 size.
Growth categories 15% International Other were automotive and tourism while retail, As in the UK, Emap France has had 11% Healthcare services and clothing declined a good year for awards.
The French 14% Public Sector year-on-year.
Magazine Publishers Association, SPMI, 23% Construction named Auto Plus Best Automotive Magazine Overall, Emaps share of the consumer and Science & Vie Junior Best in the magazine advertising market declined from Family Children Young Peoples Magazine 11.2% to 10.0%, reecting difficulties in the of the Year awards.
Revenue by source The French consumer magazine marketplace 37% Events & exhibitions is beginning to see new launches.
The 12 21% Display advertising Advertising market share new magazines launched in 2004 accounted 21% Circulation information % 2004 2005 products subscription for 2.8% of retail sales value compared with 21% Recruitment 0.79% for new launches in 2003.
Emap 11.2%10.0% advertising Hachette 18.5% 17.2% To take advantage of this trend, and also to Prisma 10.0%10.6% capitalise on Emaps experience of launching Socpresse 16.7%18.4% in the UK, Emap France has developed a new weekly womens title for launch Led by Derek Carter, Chief Executive, Other 43.6%43.8% in summer 2005.
EC has had a very successful year, making Source: TNS Media Intelligence EC the fastest-growing division in Emap in both turnover and operating profits.
Distribution of magazines in France b2b In the past, magazine distribution has largely The b2b marketplace been controlled by NMPP, a subsidiary of The b2b marketplace is not a single communications Hachette.
With the arrival of MLP, however, marketplace but a series of different ones.
the system is becoming more competitive Emaps business-to-business division, Operating in different sectors with mixed and magazine sales in supermarkets, grocers Emap Communications EC, brings portfolios, b2b businesses are not easy and petrol stations are gradually becoming together magazines, exhibitions, to compare with others in their elds.
conferences, awards, directories, true to say, though, that EC is a high-quality emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 23 Based on their deep understanding of the sector, the Emap Construct team undertook a research project with the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors that revealed a gap in the market for a surveying publication.
Impressed by the teams conviction that this was a viable opportunity and its passion for the project, the EC Board committed funding for further research.
A team was formed from across the construction group, bringing together knowledge of the market, contacts and marketing expertise.
With a 1.2m investment, QS Week was launched in April 2005.
After six weeks of publication, QS Week appears to have captured the attention and imagination of the quantity surveying community, and reader registrations are well ahead of target, as is revenue.
business with stronger assets and better and New Civil Engineer, especially towards Advertising by sector margins than most of its competitors.
Markets have been Sectors 03 04 04 05 Its the largest trade exhibitions operator in volatile, with particular weakness in health the UK Source: Association of Exhibitions Construction 0% -10% service and nursing recruitment.
That said, Organisers 2005 and number one in paidthe premium nature of ECs brands has Retail 8% 5% for trade magazines Source: ABC & BPA.
made it possible to improve yields and Public sector 25% -28% EC has been one of the UKs fastest this has helped to offset falling volumes.
Media 3% 9% growing b2b businesses in terms of revenues over the past two years.
Another of ECs key performance indicators Source: Advertising Association, March 05 is the market shares of its top four EC revenue growth v competitors recruitment products.
This year all four EC underlying advertising performance increased their market share compared 2003 2004 by sector with direct competitors.
T&F Informa N A 14% Sectors 03 04 04 05 Emap Communications 11% 8% Market share growth of ECs top 4 Construction 3% 10% Centaur -9% 9% Nursing Times v. 1.2% Retail 10% 10% Royal College of Nursing Bulletin Reed RBI -3% 5% Public sector 3% 0% Health Service Journal v. 3.4% Trinity Mirror ICL -2% 4% Media 2% 11% The Guardian UBM CMPi -10% 4% Source: Advertising Association, March 05 Local Government Chronicle v. 0.1% VNU -9% 3% The Guardian Wolters Kluwer -13% -5% Construction News v. 4.6% Contract Journal Haymarket 1% N A ECs performance this year 04 gures not available Nearly half of ECs revenues are from display Source: Nielsen Media Research and recruitment advertising.
Source: Published Revenues Display advertising Circulation Unlike other b2b businesses, EC manages b2b display advertising grew by 6% or Circulation revenues account for 21% its assets according to its five key vertical 8% on an underlying basis which excludes 2004: 19% of ECs revenues.
This year the markets healthcare, media, retail etc.
There were strong division increased its circulation revenues by than by asset type magazines, exhibitions, performances across the portfolio, 17% or 6% on an underlying basis.
particularly at MEED, Retail Week, Broadcast, Screen International and In a magazine sector dominated by free Total advertising across the b2b sector rose Construction News, as well as good growth publications, EC has championed the by 4% over the last year Source: Advertising in conference sponsorship revenues.
move to paid-for magazines and online Association March 2005.
Over 60% of subscriptions mixed across the market, but EC Recruitment advertising are paid-for and these have shown steady outperformed all its sectors.
b2b recruitment advertising was down growth, accelerated by a strong performance 3% on both a total and an underlying basis.
from Glenigan subscriptions an online There was good growth across smaller service providing new business leads recruitment titles such as Drapers, Retail to the construction industry and, in the Week and Broadcast, but volumes declined non-underlying gures, by the acquisition in five of ECs top recruitment titles Health of ABI.
Service Journal, Nursing Times, Local Government Chronicle, Construction News emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 24 operating & financial review continued The Challenge the biggest construction projects The Results MEED Middle East Economic across the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Oman, A highly successful launch has seen MEED Digest has reported on the Middle Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, Iran and Iraq.
subscription numbers well ahead East for almost 50 years, circulating of plan in the first six months of Projects in more than 110 countries.
It is a trading and with a number of leading The Response hugely respected magazine providing international companies being early MEED Projects was launched high value information to very senior adopters of the product.
Subscribers supplying web-based information on executives needing to understand from 15 countries have signed up the top 1,000 construction projects this extraordinarily exciting market.
and the business has generated in the region.
MEED Projects based major growth for the MEED business its original concept on ECs long and EC.
Through MEEDs unique knowledge established and highly successful of the needs of its readers, MEED UK business Glenigan and worked saw the opportunity to develop a closely with the Glenigan team to high value web-based information formulate the product.
business delivering information on emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 25 operating & financial review continued Revenues from b2b exhibitions and events b2b online and information services are Paid-for circulation grew by 13% or 11% on an underlying a key area of development.
Two of Emaps biggest shows, The EC successfully launched MEED Projects, Autumn Fair and Glee, saw strong doublea construction information service for the digit revenue growth while The Spring Fair, Middle East.
Nursing Times and Health 33% 24% 11% despite being full to capacity, continued to Service Journal have extended their strong grow by changing its revenue mix.
Other brands online and are generating recruitment EC Reed Business Haymarket CMP notable successes were the bi-annual Pure revenues, while the online Careers Information Ltd Business Information Publications Ltd Ltd Womenswear, now wholly owned by Emap, in Construction continues to develop.
Source: ABC 2004 BPA 2004 and the Tradexpo shows in Paris.
Exhibitions and conferences Formed in 2000, the EC conference With their industry-leading margins, ECs business continues to grow strongly, building exhibitions are another major component of on the strength of ECs magazine brands the divisions growth.
The focus of growth in and high-level business relationships across the exhibitions business is to build the quality the country.
The conferences unit has had of events through improving the exhibitor and a good year with 246 conferences over the visitor experience.
Through this strategy EC period.
The focus for the forthcoming year has been able to increase its margins across will be to build on the number of large, annual its leading events.
This year, total delegate revenues were up over 45% year-on-year, making EC one of the most successful ECs exhibitions margin growth 04 05 conference organisers in the UK.
Spring Fair, Birmingham 1.8% Autumn Fair, Birmingham 4.8% Number of conferences Garden & Leisure Equipment 1.6% 246 Exhibition Glee Tradexpo Paris -1.2% 168 BETT Education Show -0.5% 82 Womenswear Shows Pure 8.6% 58 22 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 2004 05 b2b acquisitions in recent years have focused on exhibitions and events.
The Agor retail shows in Paris, acquired in February 2003 and Investment in the core and new launches now rebranded Tradexpo, have performed This year has seen the successful relaunch in line with expectations and form the basis of a number of the Groups b2b titles, of a growing French events business.
This also including Health Service Journal, Retail includes the acquired Print Or jewellery show Week and Local Government Chronicle, in Lyons and a new jewellery show to be as well as a strong performance from launched in Paris.
Cannes Lions International Broadcast, Drapers, MEED and Screen Advertising Festival, the Oscars of the International which were all relaunched last advertising community, was acquired and year.
In Spring 2005, EC launched QS Week, integrated into ECs media business to create a new weekly magazine for quantity surveyors, a major new vertical b2b market.
which sits in its construction portfolio.
emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 26
