operating & financial review Emap is a broad-based media group located in the UK.
It is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is part of the FTSE 100 Index.
Its business covers consumer magazines, radio, music television, b2b magazines, exhibitions, events and information products.
Its core business is based in the UK and France.
Emaps revenue mix market overview 12% Advertising consumer UK 4% Other 10% Advertising consumer France 8% Exhibitions and strategy 2% Advertising consumer 4% Circulation trade International 2% Circulation consumer 5% Advertising trade recruitment International Competitive environment 5% Advertising trade 18% Circulation consumer France Many of the specific markets in which 8% Airtime radio 21% Circulation consumer UK Emap operates experience a high degree 1% Airtime TV of competitive intensity.
Over the years Emap has developed a creative, innovative and competitive culture which enables it to thrive GDP growth UK Emaps revenue split in these markets.
3.1% 3.0% 3.0% 43% Advertising 57% Other 2.3% 2.2% In consumer magazines in the UK, Emaps 1.8% key competitors are IPC, now part of Time Warner: Bauer: BBC Worldwide: and The National Magazine Company, part of the 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005E 2006E Hearst Corporation.
In radio, Emap competes Source: Citigroup primarily with GCap, formed from the recently merged Capital Radio and GWR, and Chrysalis.
In music television Emap AA is recognised by the industry as a good GDP growth France competes with MTV, part of Viacom.
In b2b benchmark of future growth rates.
However, 2.4% 2.3% key competitors are Reed and UBM, and in other forecasters have started to reduce their 2.1% 2.0% France they are Lagardre and Prisma, part expectations for 2005 06, for example of the Bertelsmann group.
Deutsche Bank reduced their advertising 1.1% growth forecast from 4.9% to 2.2%, Macro-economic environment Lehman Brothers have also taken a view 0.6% In the UK, the economic environment over that is more pessimistic for the sector than 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005E 2006E the last year has been relatively benign, but these AA forecasts.
Source: Citigroup remains one of low growth.
GDP growth is estimated to have been 3.1% in 2004, the In France, advertising growth has 43% of Emaps revenues are derived from highest for four years, but is forecast to drop historically been weaker and is expected advertising.
Consumer magazine advertising back slightly in 2005 and 2006. to be somewhat weaker than in the UK, in the UK accounts for 12% of total revenues, as shown in the table on page 5. and around half of this is endemic for In France GDP growth has lagged the UK and is expected to continue to do so, with UK Advertising growth forecasts a slight recovery forecast for 2006.
In both 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 of Emaps core markets, therefore, 2005 is Total advertising 1.6% 3.9% 5.4% 6.3% 5.6% expected to be a little tougher than 2004.
Consumer magazines 0.8% 0.2% 4.5% 4.2% 4.4% Business professional mags 9.4% 3.6% 3.2% 3.6% 2.9% In the UK, the current advertising growth Radio 1.1% 6.8% 3.4% 5.3% 5.2% forecasts from the Advertising Association TV 4.9% 3.4% 5.4% 6.7% 4.6% AA, set out in the table, indicate some improvement in most of Emaps markets.
Source: Advertising Association These forecasts are updated quarterly.
emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 4 key priorities for 2005 restore growth momentum in France launch a significant weekly in France establish Grazia as the first weekly glossy develop information offering in b2b outperform the market in radio accelerate growth of digital businesses continue launching across the Group example market-specic advertising such Regulatory environment In France, the development of the consumer as Titleist golf balls in Todays Golfer.
All of Emaps businesses are subject to magazine market has been constrained by The remainder comes from advertisers with competition law.
This year, Emaps acquisition the Loi Bichet.
This law regulates newsstand broad appeal such as Procter & Gamble.
of building services business ABI was deemed distribution and guarantees equal newsstand 8% comes from radio advertising, of which by the Competition Commission to have led access to any publication, large or small, around 70% is from national advertisers such to a substantial lessening of competition in the regardless of circulation or marketing support.
as Sainsburys and BT, and the remainder market for project information and contract This has discouraged the selective retailing from local advertisers.
Television advertising data, and the business has now been sold.
and display of magazines by grocers, petrol accounts for around 1% of revenues.
Radio In consumer magazines, Future Publishings stations and other retail outlets.
The impact and television advertising have been more acquisition of Highbury House was referred of this law has lessened over the last couple cyclical than print media.
by the OFT to the Competition Commission, of years, gradually making magazine resulting in the deal being signicantly changed.
retailing more popular and more widespread b2b advertising accounts for 10% of total The merger of Capital Radio and GWR, however, in France.
The French market had also revenues, and tends to follow a different was not referred, although the combined group previously been constrained by a law which cycle to broadcast media, although will have over 40% of the national radio prevented consumer magazines from it is also affected by the markets such advertising market.
The way markets were advertising on television.
This legislative as the construction industry, for example dened in all of these three examples surprised restriction was removed on 1 January 2004. which the products serve.
Consumer the business community and highlights the In the past, Emap France has taken a lead magazine advertising in France accounts inherent risk in executing acquisitions in an in lobbying for regulatory change and will for a further 10% and has undoubtedly been environment where the conclusions of the continue to do so.
affected by a weak economic and advertising competition authorities can be increasingly environment.
The remaining 2% comes from difficult to predict, regardless of whether international consumer magazine advertising.
condential guidance is sought in advance.
strategy Emap has built a diverse spread of The remainder of Emaps revenues come Aside from competition regulation, Emaps high-quality media businesses with different largely from magazine circulation in the UK businesses are subject to relatively little degrees of cyclicality.
This gives the Group UK and France.
Within this, b2b circulation regulation, other than radio, which is regulated resilience, minimising risk and allowing it the 4% has proved to be more resilient than by Ofcom under the Broadcasting Act.
exibility to invest in its core brands at the consumer circulation.
Consumer magazine Ofcoms thorough and considered approach, point, in their different cycles, most likely to circulation is likely to be affected by the although at times burdensome on companies, gain the maximum strategic advantage and strength of consumer confidence, although has largely been successful in enabling create the best return.
the low out-of-pocket cost of magazines commercial radio businesses to compete mitigates this exposure.
more effectively with the BBC.
There is more There are three key elements to Emaps to be done and Emap will continue to press strategy for accelerating growth and creating for further change.
They are: France Advertising growth forecasts Focused investment in the core 2003 2004 2005 2006 New product development Total advertising 0.3% 4.1% 2.5% 0.9% Bolt-on acquisitions Consumer magazines 1.5% 1.3% 1.2% 0.8% Radio 4.3% 5.4% 2.5% 1.0% 1 Focused investment in the core TV 3.0% 6.5% 3.5% 1.0% The first element of Emaps strategy is to accelerate growth in the core business by Source: France Pub MPG increasing top line revenues, market shares and margins, keeping the xed-cost base emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 5 You can build a career at Emap.
Ive been here for 13 years, starting at Sky magazine, then working on Smash Hits and FHM before moving to advertising on the mens and entertainment portfolio and later becoming a Director of the newly-created Emap Advertising.
Next, I transferred from our consumer division to our b2b division to become MD of Emap Fashion, followed by a move to my current position as MD of Emap Retail.
The move from consumer to business has given me greater general management experience along with more autonomy and responsibility and Ive learned so much about the retail and fashion markets.
Emap is a large but fast-moving company that encourages good people to move on, seize opportunities and take on greater challenges.
Steve Newbold, Managing Director, Emap Retail low and investing in those products and Over the last five years, Emap Performance Many new b2b products have also been businesses which are likely to give the best has successfully extended its music brands developed over the years without the need returns.
Investment can be made in editorial across magazines, radio and television, and for significant investment, including Glass and programming, marketing, promotions or continues to make good progress in multiProcessing & Technology and Plastics Design in upgrading sales teams.
channel television, events, branded music, & Moulding.
brand extensions, ticketing, mobile, interactive There have been many successes this year.
These businesses now contribute Emap will launch a new weekly magazine FHM in the UK, for example, responded to the good revenues and profits to the whole Group.
in France in summer 2005, with a budgeted launch of mens weeklies ZOO Emap and In order to create opportunities for more investment in 2005 06 of 9m, to be funded Nuts IPC, relaunching in August 2004 with collaboration across Emaps broad range from the central launch budget.
FHM now has its of UK consumer-facing businesses, Emap will also be made in Grazia 9m, Kerrang!
highest ever share within its competitive set, Performance and Emap Consumer Media 105.2 FM 2m and in digital radio 3m.
at 56% ABC July-December 2004, while its have now been brought together under the key competitors in the mens monthly market leadership of Paul Keenan, Chief Executive 3 Bolt-on acquisitions have suffered disproportionately from the of Emap Consumer Media.
Emap Radio The third element of Emaps strategy changing competitive environment.
In radio, has become a separate division under the is to make bolt-on acquisitions, targeting Magic 105.4 in London has responded leadership of Dee Ford, Group Managing businesses which t well into the Groups magnicently to last years investment in Director of Radio.
existing portfolio and provide an attractive programming and reformatting.
It is now return through a combination of cost savings established as one of three commercial 2 New product development and revenue synergies.
This year Emap stations ghting for leadership in the all The second element of Emaps strategy is acquired the Cannes Lions International important London market, and is already the development of new products, an area Advertising Festival, which has been benefiting from the revenue upside that this in which it has an exceptionally strong track integrated into Emaps existing media changing market dynamic brings.
Emap holds centrally a budget of business, transforming it into a major vertical 1 investment in improved sales and visitor approximately 2-2 2% of its annual turnover b2b market for the Group.
Early signs are promotion for the garden and leisure to fund launch projects, with funds being that the festival is likely to deliver good equipment show, Glee, resulted in the best, allocated to the projects offering the most growth.
The outstanding 50% of Interbuild, most international show to date.
Emaps UK consumer the UKs largest construction exhibition, Germany, its key competitor, has recently magazine business has benefited most was also acquired, strengthening Emaps announced its decision to go biennial.
consistently from this in recent years with construction business.
the successful launches of heat, Closer, Emaps portfolio of strong brands provides ZOO and now Grazia.
This has proved the Emap continues to hold approximately 27% good opportunities to create new products most effective way of accelerating growth of Scottish Radio Holdings SRH, having by extending those brands onto new media ahead of its competitors.
Funds have also acquired this stake in January 2004 at platforms.
Emap Communications media been invested in developing Emaps digital a price of 930p a share.
The Board of Emap neutral strategy in b2b media, serving radio business, its new West Midlands believes that the radio assets of SRH would significant markets such as construction, Kerrang!
105.2 FM analogue radio licence and be an attractive strategic fit with Emaps retail and the public sector with magazines, The Hits TV on the rapidly growing Freeview existing radio assets.
Emap is, therefore, exhibitions, conferences, directories and platform.
There has also been investment interested in acquiring SRH.
However Emap information products ensures we deliver our in a new b2b information business, MEED has, on occasions since buying this stake, customers a rich mix of media, enabling them Projects, which looks extremely promising.
made clear that, were it to make any offer to create integrated market-facing solutions.
for SRH, it would not pay a price which runs counter to the interests of Emaps shareholders.
The Group will keep the situation under review.
emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 6
