operating & financial review continued look at ideas for improvement.
The business motivate the best in the market.
As well as Breakdown of staff by gender now has a buddying scheme for new enjoying competitive salaries, our staff can 55% Female recruits, a mentoring programme, a social benefit from a exible benets programme 45% Male committee and quarterly awards for business that allows them to customise their package and personal achievements.
with options such as buying or selling a weeks holiday from their basic allowance.
Over in Emap Advertising, one of the main challenges common to the media sales Another of our values is to encourage our sector is the relatively high turnover of staff.
Staff are given free Recognising peoples desire for a better shares every year and 79% of them now work-life balance, the business introduced own a stake in Emap.
Getting staff engaged a exible working scheme in 2003 as a way For Emap to succeed, our employees need of offering a more attractive deal.
The benets As well as offering attractive benets, weve to contribute not just their skills but a sense have been dramatic.
Staff turnover and won awards for the way we inform our staff of passion and commitment.
We believe our therefore recruitment costs have dropped.
In 2004, Emap won The people should have as much fun creating our Days absent are down from 5 to 1.5, Most Effective All-Employee Share Scheme products as the readers and listeners who productivity is up, people feel more valued and Strategy at the 2004 ProShare Employee enjoy the end result.
Emap Advertising has found a way to stand Benets Awards.
out from its competitors as an employer.
This belief is underpinned by a set of values that clarify how things get done at Emap.
Emap France, meanwhile, has been working consumer They promote, among other things, a hard to develop a consistent culture and supportive working environment, good identity across its various divisions, including magazines uk communications designed to provide a clear plans to move all its businesses to the same Emap principally publishes its consumer vision of the Companys performance, pride location in 2005.
For its tenth anniversary magazines in the UK, but it also has in the job and the expectation that the in 2004, it brought all its employees together titles in Australia, the USA and South strongest argument will always win.
In a uid for the first-ever joint event an innovation Africa along with operating licences for business such as ours, its shared values that that helped to create a more cohesive Emap FHM and other titles around the world.
hold Emap together and enable things to France identity.
More such events will take happen.
Such is their importance, we assess place in 2005.
Emaps UK consumer magazine strategy and reward our senior managers partly on is to grow by investing in the core portfolio the basis of how well theyve performed in and by launching new magazines.
Group staff turnover relation to our values.
31.7% 28.8% Under Paul Keenan, Chief Executive of One of these values is that people should 25.2% Emap Consumer Media, the team has had be free to express their ideas and opinions.
18.5% another successful year of launching new Accordingly, all divisions run a survey known products and expanding Emaps share 11.3% as Talkback.
Each year, they ask employees of the consumer magazine market.
for their feedback on areas such as internal communications, the working environment and UK FranceAustralia USA Group the way people are developed and rewarded.
The results are then fed back to each business.
Proper rewards One example of Talkback translated into In rewarding our people, we aim to offer action was the focus group formed by Emap packages that enhance their job satisfaction Communications public sector business to and enable Emap to attract, retain and emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 14 The Challenge Overall, the challenge was to grab The Result st st Emap sells more magazines to men new revenue from other media.
To date, the 1 4Men initiative has 1 4MEN than anyone else, housing a portfolio won the team three large pieces of of Emap brands and reaching over The Response business from a brewer, an online four million 15-44 year old men In November 2004, Emap Advertising retailer and a motor manufacturer.
st three times as many men as all daily launched 1 4Men an exclusive broadsheets combined and twice as package for advertisers targeting many men as Sky Sports 1. male consumers.
By expanding creative services to advertisers With this kind of strength, Emap including bespoke research and Advertising wanted to innovate the effectiveness and by developing market, leverage the combined specic mens magazine packages, strengths of the portfolio and drive the team have been able to meet advertising for its mens portfolio.
emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 15 operating & financial review continued value average circulation x frequency x Cover prices Revenue by market cover price, as recorded in the ABCs the Across the market, average cover prices 25% Automotive Audit Bureau of Circulation, which releases have gradually fallen over the past three years.
17% Active audited gures twice a year.
Emap is the The main reason, however, is the growing special interest established number two in the market, number of weekly magazines in the mix.
17% Entertainment increasing its share in 2004 to 17.7%.
Special interest titles such as automotive, 14% International FHM US home interest, sport and hobbies have seen 18% Mens Circulation market share in the UK increases in their cover prices.
9% Womens % 200220032004 Emaps approach is to raise its cover prices Emap 15.8 16.817.7 selectively, where there are opportunities to do so.
Time Warner IPC 22.1 21.6 21.1 The consumer magazine market in the UK H Bauer 8.9 9.1 8.6 is a dynamic and competitive sector with Advertising BBC 8.3 8.0 8.2 around 3,500 publications on offer.
However, Emaps share of the consumer magazine its the top 200 by retail sales value that Nat Mags 5.6 5.2 5.6 advertising market has grown consistently account for over 80% of the market.
Emap over the past five years.
Source: ABC Jul-Dec 04 Emap Retail Sales Value has 30 titles in this group.
This year, Emaps underlying consumer The retail sales value of Emaps magazine advertising revenues grew by No.
of magazines in Top 200 by publisher portfolio rose 9% year-on-year, strongly 4%.
Thats in line with the total consumer 11 Nat Mags outperforming the overall market which magazine advertising market which is 14 BBC increased by 1.2% ABC.
Emap now has forecast to have grown by the same amount 30 Emap four titles in the industrys top 20 by retail Advertising Association March 2005.
10 Bauer sales value heat, Closer, FHM and ZOO.
33 IPC Time Warner All of Emaps top five mens brands ZOO, If we include new launch ZOO, however, FHM, Arena, Empire and Q increased their Emaps total consumer magazine advertising Source: ABC Jul-Dec 04 Emap Retail Sales Value circulation over the year.
revenues increased by 7%, benefiting from Emaps higher share of circulation.
Closer has There are two main ways of measuring Circulation revenues for UK consumer seen significant increases in advertising this success in this sector circulation growth magazines were up by 7% 4% underlying.
year, supported by heat, Yours, Empire, Arena, and advertising revenues and growth.
Match has been a star performer along with Angling Times, Your Horse and Parkers.
Bliss, Closer, Yours, Empire, Arena and Q.
Particularly strong advertising categories Two areas of weakness have been the have been toiletries cosmetics, lms DVD, Revenue by source automotive and music sectors, in particular food snacks and computers games.
Telecoms 62% Circulation Max Power, Parkers and Kerrang!
advertising was down on the previous year.
38% Advertising Emaps share of consumer magazine advertising in the UK by volumes 15.2% Emap 19.6% IPC 6.9% Nat.
Mags 41.7% Other 5% Conde Nast 1.5% Northern & Shell 2.4% BBC Magazines 3.6% Dennis Circulation 2.8% Hachette Share of circulation in the UK magazine 1.3% H Bauer Source: MMS medialog market is measured according to retail sales emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 16 Fosters came to Emap wanting to raise the prole of their sponsorship of Formula 1 while communicating their no worries brand values to 18-34 year old men.
In response, Emap Advertising proposed The Fosters Pit Girls idea.
Promoted by FHM and branded with Fosters clothing, the Pit Girls toured selected Grand Prix to interview drivers and take part in TV shoots.
Commercials on Emaps TV brands, Kiss and Q, promoted the online activity while Emaps radio stations gave listeners the opportunity to meet the celebrity girl team.
The results were impressive, 40% more people viewing Fosters as fun and a 157% increase in Fosters being the only brand Id ever drink Source: Emap Insight Report.
Distribution of magazines in the UK growing top line revenues, market shares Independent retailers have traditionally been and margins while keeping xed costs low.
In recent years, however, supermarkets have begun to Reinventing a magazine is key to staying one take a greater share.
They now account for step ahead of the consumer and the focus 29% of magazine sales compared with 20% 2002 2003 this year has been on Arena, Empire and five years ago Source: Frontline.
FHM was relaunched in August 2004 and now has its biggest-ever share of the This trend is having an impact on smaller mens monthly market at 56%.
These three publishers and on magazines outside the top titles, together with ZOO and Q, form Emap st 200 because supermarkets have less shelf Advertisings 1 4Men package, the industrys space available to stock magazines.
Typically, 2004 2005 strongest advertising proposition for men.
a supermarket will stock around 300 titles and will therefore choose magazines that This year Emap won an unprecedented six are number one or two in their sector.
Out New launches are also crucial to the growth editorial awards at the PPA Awards, the of its 65 titles, Emap has 38 that fall within of the magazine sector as a whole.
It gained Magazine of the this category.
past five years, 15% of retail sales value has Year for Closer: Specialist Magazine of the come from new launches in the top 200 Year for Trail: International Magazine of the Total share of magazine sales by retailer Source: ABC.
In Emaps case, 21% of its Year for FHM: Interactive Magazine of the growth over the past five years has come Year for MCN.
com: Designer of the Year for Independents 36.3% from its new titles Sneak, Closer and ZOO.
Car and Publisher of the Year for Empire, as Tesco 11.7% well as many other nominations.
WH Smith High St 10.8% Although six years old, heat is still contributing well to advertising growth while Closers Emap Consumer Media continues to develop Sainsbury 5.0% circulation rose 30% over the year to 504,000 its online activities.
com now has around WH Smith Travel 4.4% and its advertising revenues increased by 79%.
2 million unique users a month and made Asda 4.1% heat and Closer together now sell over one 1m profit this year.
co. uk has TM Retail 3.8% million copies a week and Closer has moved 700,000 users and parkers.
co. uk around into profit this year.
In total, Emaps UK consumer Safeway 2.6% increased its circulation by 20% to 240,000. sites account for around 80 million page Other grocery 2.2% Buoyed by a ourishing new market for weekly impressions a month, 40% more than last year.
Morrisons 2.0% mens magazines, its already approaching Revenues come from advertising, sponsorship, breakeven after less than 18 months.
pay-per-view, SMS texting and e-mail services.
Other retailers 17.1% The FHM Friday E-Mail, for example, sends out Source: Frontline Our most recent new magazine is Grazia, half a million e-mails every week.
These carry launched in February 2005 and the UKs editorial, sponsorship and competitions while first weekly glossy for women in their 30s.
reinforcing the site and the magazine.
New launches With circulations of around 150,000, it has Since 2002, Emap Consumer Medias strategy started in line with expectations and is on International has been to launch fewer, bigger magazines track to achieve its business plan with good Following the sale of FHM Malaysia, FHM each year.
It has so far achieved one major support from advertisers.
Singapore and Asian Diver to MediaCorp launch a year, but the aim is to establish a Publishing earlier this year, Emaps capability that will support two.
Investing in core products international publishing business is now Emap invests in products that are likely focused on a portfolio of wholly-owned titles to give the best returns.
In making this in Australia along with FHM in the USA and a judgement, it assesses the likelihood of series of joint venture and licence operations emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 17
