board of directors & senior management Shown left to right Adam Broadbent Chairman Tom Moloney Group Chief Executive Ian Grifths, MA ACA Acting Group Finance Director Shown left to right Shown left to right David Rough BSc FCII Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Karen Jones BA Non-Executive Director Paul Keenan Chief Executive, Emap Consumer Media Pierre Danon Non-Executive Director Andrew Harrison BA MBA Non-Executive Director Shown left to right Shown left to right Arnaud fide Puyfontaine ESCP MBA Prsident Directeur Gnral Dee Ford Group Managing Director, Emap Radio Derek Carter Chief Executive, Emap Communications Nick Folland Company Secretary & Group Legal Director emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 30 Key to Committees Andrew Harrison BA MBA 48 The primary objective of the Executive A.
Member of the Audit Committee Non-Executive Director Board is to ensure strategic and R. Member of the Remuneration Committee Joined Board in March 2002.
Director and, operational alignment across the Group.
N. Member of the Nomination Committee until May 2005, Chief Executive, of RAC plc.
This enables timely decision-making, risk T. Member of the Treasury Committee Prior to that he was a Director of Courtaulds assessment and resource allocation.
The Textiles plc, having worked for the Courtaulds Executive Board, which meets every two Adam Broadbent 68 Group since 1986.
Chairman of the Audit weeks, consists of Tom Moloney, Paul Keenan, Chairman Committee.
A. R. N. T. Arnaud fide Puyfontaine Prsident Directeur Joined Board in November 1997.
Appointed Gnral of Emap France, Derek Carter Chief Chairman in May 2001.
Previously a Director Karen Jones BA 48 Executive of Emap Communications, Dee of Schroders plc where he was latterly Group Non-Executive Director Ford Group Managing Director of Emap Managing Director of Investment Banking Joined Board in 1997.
Chief Executive officer Radio, Ian Grifths in his capacity as Acting based in New York.
Currently a Nonof Spirit Group Limited, a managed pub Group Finance Director and Nick Folland Executive Director of Capital One Bank company of 2,030 pubs with brands such Company Secretary and Group Legal Europe plc, REL Consultancy Group Limited as 241 and Chef & Brewer.
The Secretary of the Executive and the Academy of Ancient Music.
Chairman Scottish & Newcastle Retail in November Board is the Deputy Company Secretary, of the Nomination Committee.
Co-founded the Pelican Group of Marianne Hogg.
restaurants, which she then sold to Whitbread, Tom Moloney 46 staying on as Managing Director for a further Arnaud fide Puyfontaine ESCP MBA 41 Group Chief Executive two years.
Board member of Royal National Prsident Directeur Gnral, Emap France Joined Emap in 1981.
Appointed Group Theatre Enterprises Limited.
A. R. N. Joined Emap France in 1995 as publishing Managing Director of Emap Metro and Elan in director of Tl Poche and Studio Magazine.
Appointed as Chief Executive, Consumer Pierre Danon 49 Was involved in the acquisition of Tl Star Magazines UK and joined Board in 1995.
Non-Executive Director and then become Managing Director of Joined Emap USA in April 1999 as Chief Joined Board in April 2004.
Chief Operating Emap Star, the company created after the Operating officer and appointed President and officer of Cap Gemini in Paris since March acquisition.
Appointed Directeur Gnral Chief Executive officer in October 1999.
Previously Chief Executive officer in 1998 and became Prsident Directeur Appointed as Group Chief Operating officer of the retail division of BT Group plc.
in May 2001 and promoted to Group Chief to this, worked for Xerox for 19 years and Executive on 23 January 2003.
N. T. became Senior Vice President of Xerox Derek Carter 55 Corporation before becoming President of Chief Executive, Emap Communications Ian Grifths MA ACA 38 Xerox Europe.
Previously a Non-Executive Joined Emap in 1978.
In 1989 became Acting Group Finance Director Director of Hays plc.
A. R. N. Managing Director of Emap Maclaren and Joined Emap in 1994 and after several in 1997 was appointed Chief Executive years at Emap Communications became Not pictured Alun Cathcart 61 of Emap Communications, which brings Group Head of Finance before being Non-Executive Director together the Groups business magazines, appointed Director of Financial Control Joining Board in June 2005.
Chairman trade exhibitions, conferences and in 2001.
Appointed Acting Group Finance of The Rank Group plc, Palletways Group information products.
Chairman of the Director in April 2005.
Before joining Limited and Avis Europe plc.
He first joined Periodical Publishers Association PPA Emap was a manager in Ernst & Youngs Avis Europe in 1980, and as Chief Executive 2001-2 and a director since 1997.
Audit and Corporate Finance departments.
led the company through two successful otations.
Dee Ford 44 David Rough BSc FCII 54 Group Managing Director, Emap Radio Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Not pictured Rita Clifton 47 Joined Emap in 1994 as Managing Director of Joined Board in February 2002.
Previously Non-Executive Director Rock FM.
Became Yorkshire regional Managing a Director of Legal & General Group plc.
Began her Director before being promoted to Managing Currently a Non-Executive Director of BBA career in advertising, becoming Vice Director of Emap Radio.
In 2000 became Group plc, Land Securities plc, Xstrata plc Chairman and Executive Planning Director at Group Managing Director of Emap and Mithras Investment Trust plc.
In 1997 joined Interbrand Performance and in 2005 was appointed of the Remuneration Committee.
A. R. N. T. Ltd, the worlds leading brand consultancy, Group Managing Director of Emap Radio.
as Chief Executive in London, becoming Paul Keenan 41 Chairman in 2002.
Currently a Non-Executive Nick Folland 39 Chief Executive, Emap Consumer Media Director of Dixons Group plc, and NonCompany Secretary & Group Legal Director Joined Board in April 2005.
After five years at Executive Chairman of Populus Limited, Joined Emap in 2001.
Previously Head of Emap Communications joined the Consumer pollster to The Times.
Legal and Company Secretary at 365 Division in 1997 as Acting Managing Director Corporation plc and prior to that a Senior Legal of Emap Elan and in 1998 moved across to Adviser of Cable & Wireless plc.
Qualied with Emap Metro as Managing Director.
Appointed Linklaters and Paines in 1993 and worked with Chief Executive of Emap Digital in April 2000. them in London, Singapore and Hong Kong.
In September 2001, appointed Chief Executive of Emap Consumer Media.
Also currently a Board Member of the Periodical Publishers Association PPA.
emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 31
