Our company More than 230 online stores around the world now offer music legally, over 10 times the number in January 2003.
1 1 The worlds finest record collection 2 EMI Music owns an outstanding catalogue of recordings covering all key music genres.
This is a selection of just some of the best-selling albums in the EMI catalogue.
3 EMI is a music content company operating in more than 50 countries.
Our music Our company publishing company is the largest and most successful in the world.
We have many renowned labels, including Blue Note, Capitol, Capitol Nashville, EMI Christian Music Group, EMI Classics, Parlophone and Virgin as well as the legendary Abbey Road Studios.
Our aim is to build shareholder value by developing the best musical content at EMI Music and EMI Music Publishing and fully exploiting this unique content on a global basis through all viable and economically attractive channels.
We do this by working with, and nurturing, the worlds best recording artists and songwriters: marketing and promoting their music: and delivering it to consumers in the ways they want.
Now is a very good time to be the owner of exceptional creative content.
The digital revolution has dramatically changed how consumers can access and buy music and is expanding retail opportunities.
New formats, uses, outlets and channels for our music content particularly those related to digital music are providing real growth in our markets.
We continue to invest in a considered, structured way to yield the greatest value from our music content and the many new opportunities brought about by digital advances.
Creative industries such as music have long been recognised for their social, cultural and educational contribution.
Today, they lie at the heart of the modern information society and are increasingly seen by governments and policymakers as key drivers of economic prosperity and innovation.
EMI today has an outstanding catalogue of songs and recordings covering all key music genres, geographies and time periods.
We constantly strive to expand this catalogue, as hits of today become the classics of tomorrow.
EMI Music has a diverse roster of around 1,000 talented recording artists, including music legends such as The Beatles, the Rolling Stones and Mstislav Rostropovich: contemporary big sellers like Norah Jones, Robbie Williams, Kylie Minogue and Coldplay: newly successful acts such as Joss Stone, Keith Urban and Yellowcard: plus some of the finest classical artists including Nigel Kennedy, Simon Rattle, Itzhak Perlman and Angela Gheorgiu.
EMI Music Publishings one million strong song catalogue contains older and contemporary titles the product of many of the worlds leading songwriters.
Our perennial best-selling songs include Bohemian Rhapsody, I Heard It Through The Grapevine, New York, New York, Over the Rainbow, the James Bond theme, Singin In The Rain, Santa Claus is Comin to Town, Wild Thing, We Will Rock You, Angels, Baby Love, Crazy In Loveand Daydream Believer.
The music industry has always been highly competitive and technological advances, in recent years, have led to considerable change.
EMI has embraced this change, taking important steps to position our company so that we compete most effectively, and can grow and benefit as our market improves.
We have built a highly capable, experienced management team, strengthened our capital structure, improved our business disciplines, developed new business models and, most importantly, continued to invest in the best creative talent around the world.
4 Improving operations Our aim is to build Central to EMIs strategy is our commitment to continuous improvement in our effectiveness as well as our efficiency.
We have taken a series of steps to lower our fixed shareholder value costs and improve our profitability.
Over the last three years these efforts have reduced our fixed costs by 150m.
We have already delivered 135m of those savings, and by developing expect to realise the remaining 15m in the financial year just started.
the best musical Among the initiatives taken, we have reorganised our North American recorded music operations, consolidated back office functions and streamlined certain labels in content and fully Continental Europe.
In addition, we have outsourced our primary manufacturing facilities which will maximise our flexibility in a music world that we believe will become exploiting this less oriented toward physical products.
unique content We are currently investing in a technology change programme in both businesses that will enable us to harness the opportunities brought about by digital technology.
multi-year effort is well underway, developing the infrastructure upon which we can grow and compete yet more effectively, further enhance our profitability and ensure that our artists reach their highest potential.
Of course, as important as an effective strategy is a companys capability to execute that strategy.
Our people are the lifeblood of our company and we are committed to their personal development.
We employ talented individuals with creativity, a passion for music, a willingness to take risks and a spirit of enterprise all balanced by financial responsibility, integrity and accountability.
Developing and marketing our music content We have continued to invest in our recording artists and songwriters, building our bank of content.
While music by the likes of The Beatles, Pink Floyd, Queen, Maria Callas, Frank Sinatra, Nat King Cole and The Beach Boys can be timeless and generate attractive revenue for decades, current artists and songwriters whose music forms an important part of todays popular culture are essential for delivering sustained growth.
An area of particular focus is the expansion of our American repertoire.
This offers good growth prospects for EMI Music as we are still relatively underrepresented in the US recorded music market.
EMI Music and EMI Music Publishing are committed to developing a portfolio that spans key musical styles or genres to serve the shifting tastes of consumers.
Both also maintain a global approach to building their rosters, focusing on artists and songwriters with international appeal as well as those whose music is targeted at a national audience.
Locally originated music is an important element in a range of countries.
For example, in Japan about 70% of music sold is from local artists, 60% in France and about 50% in Italy and Spain.
We believe that to be the most successful music company, we must compete effectively with both international and local music.
5 The worlds greatest songs ABC Aint No Mountain High Enough Always On My Mind At Last Baby I Need Your Loving Bent Blue Moon Bohemian Rhapsody The Boy Is Mine Breaking Up Is Hard To Do Cant Get You Out Of My Head Cant Take My Eyes Off You Chattanooga Choo Choo Crazy In Love Da Ya Think Im Sexy Dancing In The Street Drops Of Jupiter Everlasting Love Every Breath You Take Fallin Fast Car Frontin Genie In A Bottle Get Busy Gonna Fly Now The Good, The Bad And The Ugly Theme A Groovy Kind Of Love Help Me Make It Through The Night Here And Now Hero How Sweet It Is To Be Loved By You I Heard It Through The Grapevine I Left My Heart In San Francisco I Second That Emotion Ill Be Missing You Im A Believer Imagine Iris It Dont Mean A Thing If It Ain't Got That Swing Its Only Rock n Roll But I Like It The James Bond Theme Just Like A Pill Lady Marmalade Lets Get It On Lets Hang On To What Weve Got Let The Sunshine In The Loco-motion Louie Louie Maggie May Material Girl Me And Bobby McGee Money Thats What I Want 6 EMI Music Publishing controls the copyright to more than 1 million hit songs.
Together they comprise the best-performing song catalogue in the world.
Mony Mony Moonlight Serenade My Girl Never Can Say Goodbye No More Drama Nobody Does It Better Oh Happy Day On Bended Knee On Broadway One More Night Orinoco Flow Sail Away Oye Como Va Over The Rainbow The Pink Panther Theme Put A Little Love In Your Heart Reach Out Ill Be There Santa Claus Is Comin To Town The Shadow Of Your Smile Singin In The Rain Smells Like Teen Spirit Someday Well Be Together Stand By Your Man Stardust Start Me Up Stop!
In The Name Of Love Stranger On The Shore Superman Its Not Easy Thats The Way I Like It Theme From New York, New York Three Times A Lady Touch Me In The Morning Try A Little Tenderness Tubular Bells U Got It Bad Walk On The Wild SideThe Way We Were War The Way You Do The Things You Do We Will Rock You What Becomes Of The Brokenhearted Whats Going On Where Were You When The World Stopped Turning Wild Thing Will You Love Me Tomorrow You Are The Sunshine Of My Life You Cant Hurry Love Youve Got a Friend 7 EMI Music Publishing signs songwriters who are capable of writing the hits of today.
These songs will sell year after year as EMI markets them so they are repeatedly performed, recorded or used in advertisements, films, television programmes or computer games.
Many of these songwriters are current recording artists with an established, active market for their music.
However, EMI has also sought out talented writer producers who work with the top recording artists.
Through this approach, EMI Music Publishing has maintained the worlds leading roster of active songwriters whose collective presence in the current charts towers above other publishers.
Our prolific songwriters include Alicia Keys, Usher, Jamiroquai, Kanye West, Ms Dynamite, Rob Thomas, Norah Jones, Jay-Z, Cathy Dennis, Guy Chambers, Pharrell Williams, Scissor Sisters, P. Diddy and Sting.
EMI Music focuses on signing and developing recording artists with the potential for growing success over a series of albums.
Through targeted marketing and promotion of that music we seek to build an ever-broadening set of fans for each artist.
We believe that developing long-term career artists, who have a substantial base of fans eagerly awaiting each new release, is the best way to grow sales and optimise profitability.
The following are a few examples from our active roster of career artists: Robbie Williams has released a total of eight albums and a range of DVD-music videos with EMI.
Collectively, these have sold over 40m units since 1997 and they keep selling.
Robbie Williams is recording his next album which is planned for release in the current financial year.
At the beginning of 2002, Norah Jones was a virtually unknown artist.
Since then, she has become a global superstar, selling almost 30m units of her two albums.
With this level of sales, along with her record-setting eight Grammy awards won in one year, Norah Jones is one of the top female artists in the world today.
We have released four albums by Utada Hikaru since 1999 and she is now one of the most popular Japanese artists recording today.
Her albums and videos have collectively sold over 25m units.
Coldplay has developed a massive global fan base through its two albums.
The first album has sold 7m units while their second has sold 10m copies so far.
Their eagerly awaited third album, X & Y, is being released in June 2005.
Joss Stone, Chingy and Keith Urban are all examples of new artists from our US labels who EMI has broken through to multi-million unit sales success in the last two years, and who also during that time have each had two albums selling in excess of 1m units.
Exploiting our creative content As the owner of one of the worlds best catalogues of music content, EMI has been, and continues to be, intensely focused on maximising the uses, formats and outlets for our recording and song copyrights.
The music industry is undergoing a transformation brought about by new digital music formats and channels.
While digital technologies enable new, virulent forms of music piracy, they can also offer new legal ways to consume music and are ultimately fuelling consumers appetite for music.
The explosion in digital music catalysed by portable players such as the iconic iPod and mobile phones are helping to transform the consumer experience and creating exciting, new revenue opportunities.
So while driving our own business in new directions, we are stimulating other new businesses which will create growth for us all in the future.
8 In this digital environment, protecting the use and term of our music copyrights is an ever more important element of our strategy.
Over the last three years, we have increased our investment in fighting piracy, both online and physical.
We have established a team around the world who develop and implement anti-piracy initiatives locally.
We are at the forefront of the industrys efforts in this area, raising the level of consumerawareness, lobbying governments, utilising technological countermeasures, and, where necessary, taking legal actions against those stealing or facilitating the theft of music.
We believe these efforts are having a positive impact.
Consumer acceptance of digital music since launch has been exceptionally strong.
It is estimated that the global recorded music industry has seen digital music go from virtually nothing two years ago to more than 2% of sales in the financial year just ended, and an estimated 3% to 4% of sales in the first calendar quarter of 2005.
We recognise that it is very difficult today to forecast the multi-year path of digital industry sales, as these are still early days for digital music.
Consumer-based econometric research commissioned by EMI projects that digital music, in all its forms, could represent as much as 25% of total global recorded music industry sales in five years.
While a portion of digital sales will substitute for physical sales, the research finds that the overall effect of digital music is positive for the industry, and could drive a compound annual growth rate of 5% to 2010 for the global recorded music market.
Other research companies have estimated similar levels of total music industry growth, given their projected positive impact from digital music.
This type of digital uptake will be beneficial to both arms of our business, fuelling revenue growth and profitability increases.
While physical formats will likely be the larger part of our business for many years to come and there remains a host of opportunities to develop new physical propositions digital music expands consumers opportunities to buy music.
Stores are open round the clock and product is never out of stock.
Shelf space is unlimited, enabling us to offer the full range of our catalogue including the older hits, specialised genres and music in all languages.
Certain costs borne in the physical world such as manufacturing, returns and pickpack-ship are not relevant for digital products.
For physical products, these costs are in the range of 15% to 18% of sales.
While there are some digital-specific variable costs and infrastructure investments needed to fully pursue the digital opportunity, it is reasonable to expect that our company will be more profitable as digital sales grow as a proportion of our business.
Developing technologies and business models centred around digital music are presenting new and exciting opportunities on an almost daily basis for our music content.
While we cannot yet be precise on the magnitude and timing of this growth, we are pursuing it with our full energy, confident in the strength of our position as the owner of a highly valuable commodity one of the best banks of music content in the world.
