09 Enodis plc Leading brands Leading brands 6 top hotels The world famous Promenade des Anglais in Nice, France, that hosts the rich and famous all year round is now referred to in culinary circles as the Promenade Convotherm.
Six of the top hotels along the boardwalk in the Baie des Anges have installed Convotherm combination ovens.
Those who visit Nice are known to want only the best and Convotherm combi-ovens now assure that every dining experience there is perfect.
The power of Convotherm does not stop in Nice, but travels further along the Riviera.
For example in Monaco, many top hotels and restaurants now boast Convotherm combi-ovens as well.
10 Enodis plc Leading brands Leading brands 40% sales increases At Taco Time Northwest, an upscale quick service restaurant chain in the western US, they have learned that customer-preferred Scotsman Nugget Ice leads to operational success.
We hear positive comments on our ice every day, says Colin Ury, Vice President, Business Affairs for Taco Time.
Scotsman Nugget Ice has played an invaluable role in his companys fountain beverage programmes success for more than 15 years.
Customers really love our ice and have grown to think of it as our own.
They appreciate the ice and they comment on it.
Taco Time is among many foodservice chain restaurants, convenience stores and retail operators who have discovered the benefits of Scotsman Nugget Ice.
Scotsman and Enodis launched an industry campaign in 2005 to inform operators how Scotsman Nugget Ice contributes to higher customer traffic, increased sales and water and energy savings, all leading to higher profits from beverage sales.
That campaign is paying off for operators and also for Scotsman, which enjoyed sales increases of approximately 40% on Nugget Ice machines in FY05.
11 Enodis plc Leading brands As restaurants respond to the continuing demand for consumer-favourite fried foods while also offering more nutritious menu options, Frymaster, one of the industry leaders, is equipping foodservice operators with its Four Factors for Fit Frying.
Based on expertise gained from more than 70 years of frying experience and backed by scientific documentation from leading sources, Frymasters Four Factors for Fit Frying provide simple, easy-to-follow tips to help operators reduce fat and naturally-occurring contaminants associated with frying and fried foods.
Frymaster introduced the Fit Frying initiative at the National Restaurant Association show in the US in May.
Since then, Frymaster has widely distributed an executive summary on the topic to leading chains in the US, Canada and throughout Europe.
Frymaster and Enodis are continuing educational programmes with a series of Fit Frying seminars planned for the Enodis Technology Center, at major trade shows and using web conferencing technology.
70 years frying experience 12 Enodis plc Leading brands Leading brands Two-sided cooking is faster, reduces the risk of undercooking and enhances product consistency.
Quick Restaurants, with 400 outlets, is the largest European based fast service restaurant chain.
Having extensively tested the Garland Xpress Grill, Quick has chosen to use it as the chains only doublesided cooking platform which grills two times faster than other grills.
Quicks success is built on constantly inventing new tastes for its exclusive, high quality, delicious products.
Quick mobilises its people to deliver high-quality products and service, with the very best value for money.
The Garland and Enodis France team have demonstrated that Xpress is the cooking platform that will give them the speed, flexibility and high production capability to achieve these goals.
2x faster 13 Enodis plc Leading brands 70 countries Scotsman Beverage Systems has been chosen by Heineken from 115 companies worldwide to manufacture, market and maintain its David product.
David is a mobile fridge which holds a keg of Heineken and is designed to be quick to install, easy to operate and provides a low maintenance way of serving chilled draught lager.
David is already marketed in 70 countries.
Scotsman Beverage Systems contract will involve a dedicated production area plus a team of project, logistics, sales and assembly people to handle every aspect from sourcing components to delivering the finished product.
14 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Our markets The global food equipment market is estimated to be some $26bn per annum.
Our focus is on the largest segment, foodservice equipment, which totals approximately $16bn.
We do not address retail markets outside North America nor the vending sector.
15 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Market drivers Foodservice equipment Market growth Europe Sales of foodservice equipment are driven by a number In general, Europe is experiencing low GDP growth with a of factors: corresponding impact on food service equipment investment.
There are however some areas experiencing higher growth 4 Growth in food and beverage sales, which are in turn due to the impact of globalisation of US based chains and driven by increasing disposable income and lifestyle associated exporting of US market dynamics.
Cumulative growth has been seen throughout particularly to the response to competition and associated the last 15 years, even during recessions: expansion of menus and drive to improve same store sales.
4 Expansion of multi-unit operators fast food, casual, full Market growth Asia service restaurants, supermarket, hotel, convenience stores and contract caterers : Asia is a largely untapped region in respect of Western-style foodservice equipment.
The introduction of international 4 Operator desire to increase same store sales is driving style menus coupled with the growing influence of global the replacement of the large installed equipment base.
chains predominantly US is opening up the vast potential Pent up demand for replacement equipment is being of this region.
released as operators ease capital expenditure restrictions: and GDP growth in China is anticipated to be approximately 8-9% in calendar 2006.
Several US chains have announced 4 Changing menus requiring new equipment.
significant store openings and hotel construction will be Foodservice equipment is a capital spend, and therefore high in preparation for the Olympics in 2008. historic data suggests that growth in individual markets is Market drivers Food retail equipment related to GDP with some time delay.
While sales of food and beverage in retail outlets continue Market growth North America to grow, the market is polarising between the large, more The Technomic forecast for calendar 2006 is for market successful outlets and small mid sized retailers who are growth in North America of c4% in foodservice equipment.
Growth in foodservice equipment is driven by multi-unit This creates a corresponding impact on the retail equipment operators who, while increasingly competing on traditional market, with some areas being buoyant but others struggling.
product delineations, are also expanding and introducing new 1 The overall growth figures of 1 2-2% forecast in FY06 menu items in order to drive increased same store sales.
therefore mark a wide diversity of underlying trends the Demands from food and beverage customers for improved more successful chains buying increasing amounts of speed, quality and safety are pushing our customers to equipment, whereas other sectors are in decline.
review existing kitchens to meet these demands.
This market differs from the foodservice equipment market in that, following a bid process, our customers frequently place contracts for two to three years.
This leads to medium term volume volatility and pressure on margins.
16 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Review of operations finance Our strategy Top line growth Objective: To profitably grow our sales, through product innovation, integrated solutions and by leveraging our distribution and service networks.
1 Long-term goal: Organic sales growth GDP 2%.
Our strategic priorities have remained consistent over the last few years, with developments representing a gradual evolution reflecting experience and history.
We therefore maintain our focus on: Our top line growth strategy can be differentiated 4Top line growth geographically.
4Lean enterprise In North America we will focus on: 4Financial flexibility 4 Development of next generation products brands and Accelerated Cooking Technology systems: Underpinned by people and 4 Marketing and product specification efforts targeting information technology.
end users while leveraging our distribution and STAR service capabilities: and 4 Re-establishing long-term growth at Kysor Warren.
In Europe we will invest in products where we believe that we have a global presence, namely ice, Accelerated Cooking Technology and combi-ovens.
In addition, beverage represents a significant regionalised opportunity.
We will continue to leverage our distribution and service companies to support our global customers.
Our Asia Pacific strategy will revolve around supporting chains as they expand into China and other parts of Asia and consolidation of distribution and service to improve local support and enhance current offerings.
Bolt-on acquisitions will be considered for both product and geographic expansion.
1 Like-for-like Food Equipment turnover growth.
17 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Lean enterprise Financial flexibility Objective: Protect and improve margins in the face of Objective: Maintain leverage headroom to allow commoditisation, imports and pricing pressures through investment, acquisitions and dividends.
product innovation, global manufacturing sourcing and Lean processes throughout the Group and supply chain.
2 3 Long-term goal: EBITA margins pre corporate costs 12%.
Lean enterprise initiatives help to counter materials and other cost inflation Purchasing savings Lean initiatives Materials inflation Price increases Lean is the elimination of waste in business processes.
Building on the strength of our cash generative businesses For Enodis Lean has become a key lever for change in we will maintain flexibility to fund dividends, investments support of our business objectives and we have seen and bolt-on acquisitions.
We therefore continue to rigorously considerable benefits.
review plans and projects to ensure appropriate returns whilst ensuring that appropriate levels of debt are maintained Our strategy is to continue with this never ending process at all times.
whilst expanding the methodologies to cover all areas of the business.
In our operations we will continue to focus on Lean manufacturing and value engineering.
We will continue to review our global manufacturing and purchasing initiatives, to eliminate cost and improve quality with low cost sourcing a high priority where appropriate.
On a corporate level we will extract the remaining value from our legacy property investments and work on the Groups structure to reduce administrative burdens and optimise tax structures.
In FY06, we intend to support local efforts with the introduction of an Enodis-wide award for Lean achievement.
This is named after Steve Whiteley, the recently deceased founder of our Manufacturing Excellence Group, and this programme should do much to encourage ongoing progress and continuous improvement.
2 3: Like-for-like Food Equipment operating profit before exceptional items and Leverage ratio Net debt to earnings before interest, exceptional items, goodwill amortisation.
18 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Review of operations finance Our people We will continue to focus on building our organisational capability through a variety of proven human resource We will continue to focus on getting the right people in management strategies.
High quality external recruitment the right places through development of existing employees practices and judicious promotions from within have helped and disciplined hiring practices: enhanced by short and us make sure that we are putting the right people in the right long-term incentives aligned to shareholder value.
For example, we recruited several key executives Human resources in FY05 who are already making substantial contributions to our business results.
Rick Caron was brought in as We believe that people are our number one asset and so Chief Technology Officer, Steve Beck was recruited to head human resources are integral in all our management and up Merrychef in the US, we hired Jeff From to be President planning decisions.
Furthermore, we are continually of Lincoln and finally, Charlie Kingdon joined us as President seeking to develop our people and our initiatives can be of Jackson.
In terms of significant internal promotions, we categorised as: used our succession planning process to make executive 4 Developing an appropriate culture: placement decisions which are working well.
Chris Karssiens 4 Improving our talent pool by development and was promoted from the presidency of Ice-O-Matic to be recruitment: and Group Managing Director Asia Pacific.
Kevin Fink, formerly 4 Aligning contribution with strategic direction.
President of Enodis USA, succeeded Chris at Ice-O-Matic.
Jim Weaks, the Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Culture Scotsman then replaced Kevin at Enodis USA.
We are fostering a culture where it is recognised that we To help ensure that our senior leaders have the right skill will only succeed if our people have the right skills and sets for doing business in todays world, we are committing attitude.
We facilitate this by providing training to support Enodis to university-sponsored executive education our key initiatives and compensation plans based on a programmes.
We are making sure that this coursework pay for performance mentality.
The foundation of our focuses on the critical elements essential for effective culture continues to be the values of integrity, teamwork support of our vision and strategies, including such topics and shared accomplishment.
as growth strategies, competitive analysis, global business, Talent pool supply chain concepts, brand management and change It is now apparent that the increasing demands on our management.
Basic instruction in supervisory skills will businesses are working in our favour from an executive also be introduced broadly at lower management levels.
Our executives are being Alignment faced with challenging circumstances and difficult tasks.
We are committed to continuing our human resource Our long range strategies force us to learn Lean strategies which have recently proven to be most successful.
manufacturing, solutions selling, enterprise resource To make sure that all of our people are working on planning and many other skills.
In addition, we must deal the right things, our leadership continues to strive for with business evolutions, manpower realignments, service frequent, clear and consistent communication of direction.
network installations, chain roll-outs, production transfers, Individual goals have been aligned with our business plans.
new distribution channel strategies and product launches Explicit accountabilities have been assigned with appropriate across companies and geographic boundaries.
Performance feedback from management These challenges are bringing out the best in our people, continued to be encouraged so that employee efforts are building their leadership capabilities far more quickly and appropriately guided and reinforced.
comprehensively than could be achieved through traditional Inherent in this effort has been a planned and incremental training programmes or off-site executive development evolution of the organisation structure consistent with our experiences.
Over the last two years, we have stabilised the strategic intent.
organisation and improved the focus on initiatives through the Performance Management Process.
Functional depth has Finally, to help establish clear direction for the enterprise been added at both the operating company and Group levels.
and better align the efforts of our leadership cadre, we are We have also developed a larger pool of candidates capable refining our short and long-term incentive plans to link of running our businesses.
closely with our business strategies, and ultimately, with shareholder value.
In combination, the aforementioned human resource strategies should take us further on the path toward establishing competitive advantage through our people.
Furthermore, we believe that the resulting organisational capability is a competency that cannot be quickly duplicated by our business rivals.
19 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Information technology We will continue the process of implementing common systems, processes and data across the Group, enhanced by business information tools to ensure the highest level of efficiency and customer service.
Over the past two years we have installed a common Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system at five operating companies.
Over the next three years we will continue this process across the Group: enhanced where necessary with additional business information systems.
Management of key risks The Board has identified the following potential risks and uncertainties that could have a material impact on the Groups performance, and has in place the internal processes and controls to manage each risk.
See page 37 for reference to the Groups statement of internal control.
Risk Internal processes and controls 4Adverse change to macro economic condition of major markets 4Detailed planning process and appropriate contingency plans 4Regular monitoring of market and company trends 4Diversification of geographic footprint 4Competitive pressures 4Lean manufacturing and purchasing initiatives 4Multi-source purchasing 4Major product recall 4Embedded New Product Development protocol 4Quality control procedures 4Strategy not aligned with capabilities 4Appropriate planning processes 4Strengthening of talent pool 4Succession 4 Robust review and development process for all employees 4 Specific HR plans reviewed at Board level 4Acquisitions and disposals 4Clear financial targets 4Rigorous due diligence processes 4Board approvals 4Litigation loss of Consolidated cases 4Vigorous defence coordinated by Board Committee 4Flexibility obtained within banking facilities 20 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Review of operations finance Group turnover in FY05 was 665.4m FY04: 656.1m, an Performance increase of 9.3m 1%.
This growth occurred despite the adverse impacts of 11.7m arising from the translation effect of foreign exchange rate movements, FY05 being one week shorter than FY04 11.9m, a decrease of 8.3m in respect of disposed businesses and the absence of any significant property transaction FY04: 11.4m.
In FY05, Group operating profit before goodwill amortisation 1 and exceptional items adjusted operating profit was 55.9m FY04: 57.3m, a decrease of 1.4m 2% principally The growth that we 2 because the increase in Food Equipment like-for-like profits began to see in the second of 5.4m has been offset by the adverse impact of 0.9m arising from the translation effect of foreign exchange rate half of FY04 continued movements, the effect of the extra week of 2.8m and a throughout FY05.
reduction in property profits of 3.1m.
In FY05, the loss before tax was 3.4m FY04: profit of 25.3m as we incurred exceptional charges of 37.0m FY04: 3.7m.
A summary of these charges and the 4Like-for-like Food cash effect in FY05 is as follows: Equipment sales up 9%.
Capital restructuring programme 17.5 13.7 European restructuring programme 6.7 4.7 4Net debt down 13%.
Charge in respect of onerous property leases 5.4 Loss on disposal of Vent Master 7.4 2.7 37.0 15.7 including goodwill written-back of 8.0m Adjusted profit before tax was 45.4m FY04: 41.2m, an increase of 4.2m 10% as we benefited from a 5.6m reduction in our pre-exceptional interest charge, principally as a result of lower average principal debt balances, the 3 redemption of 80.1m of our 100m 10 % Senior 8 Subordinated Notes Notes, lower borrowing margins and reduced deferred finance charges.
Profit after tax was 6.8m FY04: 44.0m, with the reduction principally as a result of the increase in exceptional items.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share increased by 9% to 9.4p FY04: 8.6p.
Basic earnings per share were 1.6p FY04: 11.0p.
Performance against our long-term goals was: Long-term goal 2005 2004 Top line organic sales growth GDP 2% 2005 2004 5.1% 5.7% 9% 5% 1 Adjusted information is used throughout this document to indicate underlying operating performance.
See unaudited other information Adjusted Food on pages 74 and 75.
Equipment operating 2 Prior year turnover and operating profit adjusted for operating profit margin before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation, disposals, the 53rd week corporate costs 12% 10% 10% in FY04 and foreign exchange.
Current year turnover and adjusted Covenant leverage ratio 1 1.5 x 1.07 1.33 operating profit adjusted for disposals.
See unaudited other information on pages 74 and 75.
21 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Review of operations In FY05 the Group achieved strong Food Equipment growth both in turnover 9% and operating profit 9%.
Food Equipment operating margins were in line with FY04 at 10%.
Global Food Service Equipment We continued to improve our performance in FY05.
We have achieved turnover growth of 7%, operating profit growth of 8% and maintained operating margins at 11%.
Several operating companies grew turnover by over 15%.
Our results by segment were as follows: Turnover Operating profit 2005 2004 Change 2005 2004 Change By origin m m % m m % North America 401.8 369.4 9% 52.0 47.7 9% Europe and Asia 145.8 140.3 4% 7.7 7.4 4% 547.6 509.7 7% 59.7 55.1 8% Operating margin 11% 11% North America In North America, the improvements in performance we began to see in the second half of FY04 continued throughout FY05.
Our turnover growth was 9%, with a 14% increase in H105 and a 4% improvement in H205.
As indicated in our interim announcement, the halves were skewed because Enodis innovation highlighted the 2005 NAFEM show, of the effect of turnover pulled into the first half in advance at Anaheim, California in September, where equipment of our January 2005 price increases and also the timing of buyers, dealers and consultants experienced new products chain roll-outs.
and industry-leading solutions that distinguished Enodis as We benefited from a number of factors including: a recognised leader in the foodservice market.
4strong industry growth in North America with growth At the high-energy event, Enodis launched in North America in the food and beverage and food equipment market the new Convotherm 3 combi-ovens.
We also showcased estimated at c5% for the year: solution capabilities with Scotsman Nugget Ice, the industryleading Enodis Accelerated Cooking Portfolio, Frymasters 4continued product innovations: Factors for Fit Frying and Enodis Service capabilities.
4chain roll-outs assisting strong international growth: and Throughout the show, a new Enodis exhibit greeted visitors 4new customers.
at the main entrance with live demonstrations of the Convotherm, Merrychef and Lincoln ovens, and Scotsman Nugget Ice.
Chefs from Germany, the UK and Canada carried out culinary demonstrations, many utilising our integrated solutions systems which combine Accelerated Cooking Technology products, Delfield custom refrigeration and Merco merchandising equipment into compact, high productivity work centre solutions.
Throughout the Review of operations, references to operating profit or turnover are to like-for-like operating profit or like-for-like turnover defined as follows: Prior year turnover and operating profit adjusted for goodwill amortisation, exceptional items, disposals, the effect of the 53rd week in FY04 and the effect of foreign exchange rate movements.
Current year adjusted operating profit and turnover are further adjusted for the effect of disposals.
22 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Review of operations finance In FY05 we have benefited from our customers shift towards new menus resulting in demand for our integrated Accelerated Cooking Technology systems and other new product offerings.
We have completed a number of product roll-outs during the period: 4We completed shipments of Delfield Lincoln equipment packages to support the McDonalds Hot-Deli Sandwich concept.
The Hot-Deli Sandwich station comprises a Lincoln Dual Technology Toasting oven and a Delfield Liquitec energy efficient refrigerated preparation station.
In H105, we completed the shipment of product packages to support roll-outs in Australia and New Zealand and also shipped 1,300 product packages for Canada.
In H205 we shipped 1,200 product packages for the UK roll-out bringing the total international shipments for FY04 and FY05 to approximately 3,400 stores.
4In Q105, Garland Canada shipped 350 product packages for the first phase of a roll-out for integrated pasta stations to a casual dining chain.
This featured customised Delfield preparation stations together with Garland induction cooking units: 4White Hen, a Midwest US C-store chain, decided to power its new sandwich programme at more than 100 locations with the Lincoln Dual Technology Finisher DTF : and 4These successes were followed by the first orders for integrated cooking and sandwich systems by the South Eastern division of one of the largest C-store chains in North America.
These integrated systems, which leverage Enodis industry-leading breadth of product offerings, included Merrychef accelerated cooking ovens, Lincoln DTF units, Delfield custom Four Enodis companies, Cleveland, Delfield, Frymaster and preparation stations with Liquitec technology and Lincoln received Best in Class awards from a major other Enodis equipment.
foodservice industry publication in the US, being placed first Several tests are underway involving Accelerated Cooking in their categories.
Garland, Jackson, Merco-Savory and Technology with major fast food, casual dining and C-store Scotsman were rated in the top three of their categories.
chains which could lead to roll-outs in 2006.
The awards are based on operator satisfaction, quality products, service, support and responsiveness in a survey We were also very active on the beverage side of our of US dealers, consultants, and broad line distributors.
One of the worlds leading retailers has initiated Enodis companies and brands received Best in Class a programme to convert a number of its stores to Scotsman recognition in more categories and for more companies than Nugget Ice for beverage dispensing.
This technology any other competitor in the US foodservice industry.
provides savings in energy costs to operators.
This, along with a particularly hot summer in North America, resulted in strong growth in ice machine sales.
We successfully implemented sales price increases which, together with our Lean manufacturing and purchasing initiatives, offset significant materials price inflation.
23 Enodis plc Review of operations finance We successfully implemented sales price increases which, together with our Lean manufacturing and purchasing Outside North initiatives, offset significant materials price inflation.
We will continue our focus on Lean manufacturing and purchasing America, the initiatives since we believe that there are further benefits to come in the future.
We continue to improve information technology at all our sites and during the year upgraded ERP Convotherm 3 systems at two operating companies.
We expect to upgrade systems at a further four sites in FY06.
combi-oven has been Europe Asia very well received During the period we successfully completed our European restructuring programme which involved closure of our Guyon leading to increased facility in France, consolidation of our Beverage business into the UK and reshaping of other UK businesses.
We launched are clearly visible, as operating profit and margins in H205 improved significantly compared to FY04 and H105.
In H205 turnover improved by 4% compared to H204 even though the the 3 in North comparative figure included turnover in respect of businesses now closed.
The benefits of the programme on operating America at NAFEM profit were even more dramatic with H205 up 17% compared to H204.
The improvements were partially offset by a c0.5m in September 2005 decline at our Thai operations.
In addition, the operating profit effects of improved volumes to favourable have offset the increased marketing expenses of the Convotherm 3 launch and increased R&D expenditure on reviews.
other products, particularly at Merrychef.
We have started to incur additional infrastructure costs, particularly in Asia, as we expand our presence to service our global customers.
Scotsman Beverage Systems SBS has achieved significant sales growth, up over 20%, through the combination of broader market penetration and new products, despite overall conditions in the UK being difficult.
SBS has worked closely with Scottish Courage to introduce new coolers and fonts and in a new partnership with Heineken Beer Systems BV to supply mobile dispense units.
A number of opportunities exist for Merrychefs technology both in the UK and internationally, especially in the US, and we have incurred further costs developing the next generation of Merrychef ovens.
Elsewhere in the UK business, we are beginning to see the benefits of our restructuring programme where margins have improved with costs reduced and unprofitable product lines exited.
During the year, we completed the roll-out of 250 Convotherm AR ovens to Burger King and supported the McDonalds sandwich station roll-out.
24 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Review of operations finance In continental Europe, sales of the new Convotherm 3 combi-oven have been good.
As a result of our decisions Our Customer to launch the 3 product range in the US market and to manufacture the product locally at our Cleveland, Ohio operation, we did not renew our US distribution contract Service initiatives for the previous generation Convotherm products when it expired.
Despite effectively losing all US revenue in FY05, have continued to Convotherm still grew sales.
Turnover in our European ice business was flat, and operating profit was down due to the reap benefits in strengthening of the Euro and intense price competition.
Throughout Europe our distribution companies have our Food Retail recorded strong performances with all achieving double-digit sales growth bolstered by the successful Equipment group.
introduction of the Convotherm 3 combi-oven.
Food Retail Equipment Strong sales growth has continued but at a slower rate than in H105 with full year sales up 15% over FY04.
Operating profit improved by 12% compared to FY04 with a 33% improvement in H205 as we were able to offset the effects of materials price inflation through the combination of sales price increases and the benefits of our Lean manufacturing and purchasing initiatives.
Operating Turnover profit 2005 2004 Change 2005 2004 Change By origin m m % m m % Food retail 113.4 98.8 15% 7.4 6.6 12% Operating margin 6.5% 6.7% Operating margins were broadly flat although we saw significant improvement in H205.
We believe that our customer service initiatives have continued to reap benefits as Kysor Warren gained share in the refrigerated cases and systems markets.
As one of the industrys leaders, Kysor Panel Systems continues to increase turnover as large retailers increase demand and new customers are won.
We had some success at passing on price increases to our customers although the market remains competitive.
This, combined with our continued focus on costs, has contributed to margin improvement in H205 although the benefits of achieved sales price increases lagged behind the cost increases particularly at Kysor Warren.
It should be noted that the FY04 comparative numbers benefited from the release of a provision of 0.8m, first established in FY03 against possible exposure in a lawsuit that was no longer required.
25 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Our goal is to improve profitability and quality through Market outlook and long term goals continued Lean manufacturing success, with more emphasis The food and beverage end markets are expected to continue on product materials costs by redesigning our core products, their historical 4% annual growth as time pressured working applying value engineering techniques, and partnering with families with more disposable income increasingly eat out or key suppliers.
We believe the foodservice equipment market We will continue to maximise cash generation both in terms broadly follows food and beverage growth over time, while of continued focus on cash conversion days and, going also being susceptible to short term fluctuations in GDP.
forward, an increased focus on tax optimisation as we utilise For food retail, while sales of food and beverage in our remaining US tax losses.
This will help fund dividends, retail outlets continue to grow, the market is polarising capital expenditure and bolt-on acquisitions.
between the large, more successful outlets and small mid In particular we will seek to differentiate Enodis as the sized retailers.
innovation leader and solutions provider to meet operator Emerging markets such as China, India, Latin America and needs for speed, quality, safety, cost, flexibility and footprint Eastern Europe are expected to underpin continued growth in a fast changing industry.
At the centre of this thrust, we will in food and beverage and equipment going forward.
seek to develop or acquire patent protected key technologies that can create step change in the food and beverage industry.
We also see some key trends which present opportunities We believe that Accelerated Cooking Technology systems are to replace existing equipment earlier than normal or add a key part of this platform with the potential to create growing innovative equipment to existing kitchens to address replacement of conventional technologies.
operator needs as they focus on speed of service and address food safety concerns.
We will increasingly work with strategic partners such as Halton to create High Performance Kitchens with quantum In addition, we are also seeing menu convergence where improvements in productivity and employee comfort.
the lines are blurring between the traditional multi-unit operations such as hamburgers, casual dining and sandwich We are excited about the long term prospects for the chains, and the more recently active premium coffee and industry and the significant opportunities for Enodis.
Property Against this backdrop, we will continue to focus on our three The pre-exceptional loss in the period of 0.4m represents long-term strategic goals of: the ongoing costs of running our property segment.
4top line organic sales growth of greater than GDP 2%: The results of our property segment are dependent upon the sale of land principally at our residential development 4improving return on sales to greater than 12% EBITA site at Felsted, UK.
margin pre-corporate costs through Lean initiatives: and No significant property sales occurred in the current period 4building headroom for strategic spending with leverage of and hence no turnover or profit was generated.
We expect 1 to 1.5 times net debt to EBITDA.
that there will be land sales in FY06 and potentially in FY07 As our chain customers expand in Asia, creating or FY08.
In FY06, there will be little profit associated with opportunities for us in the region, we intend to evolve to such transactions.
a more balanced geographic mix between the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and product mix between hot and cold equipment.
26 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Review of operations finance European restructuring Financial review During FY05, we undertook a restructuring programme in a number of our European operations.
There were Interest three elements to the programme: The Groups pre-exceptional net interest cost in the period 4closing manufacturing at the Groups Guyon factory was 10.5m, an improvement of 5.6m from the prior year.
in France: This follows from the Groups refinancing of its senior debt 4consolidating manufacturing of our European Beverage in September 2004, resulting in lower borrowing rates and business in the UK: and reduced deferred finance charges in addition to lower average principal debt balances.
This position was enhanced by the 4reshaping other UK businesses, including exiting minor successful tender offer for, and repurchase of, 80% of the unprofitable product lines.
Our Group debt is now primarily Associated costs include redundancy, fixed asset and funded by our current senior credit facilities.
We estimate that inventory write-downs, vacant property costs and operating these factors will lead to savings of c3m p. a. in future losses arising from the decision to cease manufacturing.
The programme has been successfully completed and Exceptional items during the second half of the year we saw early benefits.
We have incurred exceptional charges as shown below.
We expect the annual benefits to be c2m of which 0.5m is incremental in FY06.
Capital restructuring Property We have completed a capital restructuring programme by a reduction of capital which allowed the reinstatement of Our property segment incurs costs in the ongoing dividends and led to the termination of our US reporting management of our residual property portfolio and as obligations.
The programme has simplified the Groups debt referred to above, we have carried out a review of the financing, reduced interest and compliance costs and now Groups surplus leasehold properties.
We have concluded allows management to focus on further business growth.
that an additional provision of 5.4m is required against the The programme is expected to deliver considerable financial cost of these leasehold properties, which has been charged benefits to the Group in the future.
Compliance and listing as an exceptional item.
There is no cash impact of this cost savings will be approximately 3m in FY06 compared increase in provisions in the current period.
The incremental saving Sale of Vent Master businesses in compliance cost in FY06 is expected to be approximately 1.5m over the benefit that was seen in FY05.
On 4 March 2005, we completed the sale of the Groups Vent Master businesses to the Halton Group Halton.
The tender offer for the Notes was 80% subscribed.
For the The Group received cash consideration of $6.0m 3.1m balance, we implemented a process of legal defeasance and incurred costs associated with the sale of 0.6m.
which involved setting up an independent trust, with the The exceptional loss on disposal was 7.4m primarily as Bank of New York as trustee.
We deposited sufficient cash a result of the non-cash write-back of goodwill 8.0m and gilts in the trust to satisfy all remaining obligations to previously written off to reserves.
As a result of the disposal, the remaining holders of Notes.
We no longer have direct Group net assets increased by 0.6m.
financial involvement in either the assets or liabilities.
However, we are unable to derecognise the liabilities and Amounts included in our Group results in respect of the we are required to consolidate the assets and, as a result, Vent Master business are as follows: account for interest accordingly.
This reduces the original FY05 FY04 expected interest savings of 4.5m to approximately 3m m m per annum but only for the next 18 months.
Turnover 4.3 12.6 We have charged an exceptional cost of 17.5m in respect Operating profit loss 0.6 0.4 of the capital restructuring including 2.1m of professional fees, 12.6m of early redemption interest on the Notes and At the time of the disposal, Enodis and Halton also we have written off non-cash deferred finance costs of announced a strategic alliance including specific supply and 2.8m.
The cash cost of the programme was 13.7m.
development agreements together with an overall vision of creating high performance kitchens.
Halton will provide the technologies for climate controlled, environmentally friendly indoor air systems and Enodis will continue to develop small footprint Accelerated Cooking Technology systems creating High Performance Kitchens that are profitable for restaurant operators.
27 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Taxation Our cash tax charge for the period on pre-exceptional profit Capital restructuring was 6.8m FY04: 6.4m, approximately 15% of profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
will save the Group Our US operations benefit from brought forward tax losses.
Therefore, the current tax charge in the year principally relates 6m per annum.
to tax on the profits of our European and Canadian businesses.
During the year we have recognised substantial deferred Dividends reinstated.
We have continued confidence in our US businesses and estimates suggest that we will utilise substantially all our US federal tax losses before they expire.
Therefore, we have recognised a net profit and loss account credit of 7.8m in the current year as well as the tax benefit of current year exceptional items of 9.3m.
Dividend Following the completion of our capital restructuring programme, the Company is now in a position to pay dividends.
We are recommending a final dividend in respect of FY05 of 1.3p equivalent to 2p on a full year basis per share FY04: nil payable on 20 February 2006 to shareholders on the register on 20 January 2006.
Details of our dividend policy are set out in the Chairmans statement on page 2.
Pensions The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes as discussed in Note 25 to the accounts on pages 68 to 71.
Applying FRS17 principles, we would have a net pre-tax pension liability of 14.9m FY04: 19.2m compared to a balance sheet liability under SSAP 24 of 17.0m FY04: 15.8m.
Cash contributions to our defined benefit plans are determined following actuarial advice and were 1.2m in FY05.
We expect the annual funding level to increase in FY06.
28 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Review of operations finance Free cash flow of 25.6m.
1 The ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, exceptional items, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
2 The ratio of adjusted operating profit before depreciation to total interest.
29 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Liquidity and cash flow Food Equipment cash conversion days goal is 40 days 36 At the end of FY05 our net debt was 79.1m FY04: 91.3m.
The principal factors behind the reduction in net debt were a free cash inflow of 25.6m FY04: 38.5m offset by a net 30 cash outflow in respect of exceptional items and disposals of 29 15.7m FY04: 0.8m.
Of the cash outflow in respect of exceptional items, 11.6m represented the accelerated payments in respect of our Notes which will reduce future 2003 2004 2005 interest payments significantly.
The movement in net debt is analysed as follows: m m In certain circumstances, it is possible for the assets Net debt at 3 October 2004 91.3 and liabilities of the trust to be returned to the Company.
Operating cash flow before exceptional items 58.2 These circumstances, which are considered to be highly Net capital expenditure 11.9 remote, are: Tax and interest before exceptional items 20.7 Free cash inflow 25.6 4 that within 123 days from the date of transfer the UK Exceptional items and disposals 15.7 Government defaults on the gilts invested in the trust or Other items 2.5 that the Trustee absconds with the cash and or gilts Foreign exchange rate movements 0.2 invested: Net debt at 1 October 2005 79.1 4 that within 180 days from the date of transfer the Company enters bankruptcy with the consequence Liquidity that the funds in the trust would be considered as As part of the capital restructuring programme undertaken the Companys assets for the purpose of distributions during the year, the Group made certain changes to its to the various creditors: debt facilities.
4 that a Court, government or similar authority issues On 6 May 2005, the Group entered into an amended and an order preventing the Trustee from applying the funds restated Credit Agreement the Facility increasing the to settlement of the debt obligations: existing facility amount from $225 million to $400 million, 4 circumstances in which the transfer is not effective due with the additional $175 million maturing in October 2010. to insufficient funds being initially deposited: and The remaining terms of the existing facility remain unchanged: all additional amounts were provided by the 4 if any amounts remain unclaimed by April 2009. existing lenders.
Accordingly, the Notes and associated gilts and cash are Drawings under the Facility bear interest at between 0.75% not derecognised from the balance sheets of the Company and 1.50% above LIBOR as periodically determined by or the Group.
reference to certain agreed financial ratios.
Current drawings Free cash flow bear interest at LIBOR 0.85%.
The Group continues to generate strong operating Most of our significant subsidiaries are guarantors under the cash flows.
The free cash inflow in FY05 was 25.6m Facility and have unconditionally guaranteed all of the FY04: 38.5m including a working capital outflow of outstanding obligations under the Facility.
6.5m FY04: inflow 9.8m principally due to: On 17 May 2005, the Group launched a tender offer to 4the timing of our period ends, resulting in lower creditors: repurchase the 100m senior subordinated notes Notes.
4the absence of a significant property transaction: and The tender offered 1,144.22 per 1,000 principal of Notes 4improved trading supported by increased levels of debtors for all notes successfully tendered.
Offers for 77.0m were and inventory.
received by the Group and these were repurchased on In line with prior years, the majority of our cash inflows were 21 June 2005.
An amount of 3.1m of Notes were generated in the second half of the period.
subsequently repurchased in the open market.
Capital expenditure was 2m-3m below expectations as On 27 July 2005, the Group irrevocably transferred the projects were delayed into FY06.
We anticipate FY06 capital remaining 19.9m of liabilities under the Notes into a trust expenditure will be in the range of 17m-20m.
administered by Bank of New York together with UK government gilts and cash sufficient to meet all remaining future liabilities arising on the Notes including an early redemption fee payable in April 2007.
30 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Review of operations finance Cash conversion days remain the Groups principal measure Enodis has significant capital employed in overseas of working capital conversion.
We have an established target operations.
As a result, the Groups balance sheet can be of 40 days on a consolidated basis and we are pleased that affected by movements in foreign exchange rates.
The Group the trend of improvement experienced over the past few has a policy to hedge this risk, where appropriate, to limit the years has continued.
We met our target for the third impact of foreign exchange rate movements.
Accordingly we consecutive year, achieving 29 days.
The number of have loans in the same currencies as the capital employed in companies achieving this target has increased, with all our the Groups main overseas operating units.
Cross currency North American companies beating the 40 day measure for swaps are also used to convert the currency of the Groups the first time.
We will continue to drive this in the future.
borrowings to such functional currencies.
1 An analysis of the Groups free cash flow is as follows: Interest rate risk management The Group finances its operations through a mix of retained 2005 2004 m m profits and borrowings.
Borrowings are made at both fixed 2 and floating rates of interest.
The Group may use interest rate Operating profit 55.9 57.3 swaps and forward rate agreements to generate the desired Depreciation and amortisation interest profile and to manage the Groups exposure to of other intangible assets 11.6 11.5 interest rate fluctuations.
Utilisation of provisions 2.8 3.3 Working capital 6.5 9.8 As at 1 October 2005, the Group had gross borrowings of Net capital expenditure 11.9 13.4 approximately 152m: the interest rate on 72m of these Cash inflow from operating activities, borrowings was fixed, principally through interest rate swaps, after capital expenditure 46.3 61.9 for a period greater than one year.
Together with other minor Net interest payable 13.3 16.7 fixed rate borrowings, these represent 47% of the Groups Taxation 7.4 6.7 total borrowings, the remaining 80m 53% remains floating.
Free cash inflow 25.6 38.5 The interest rate profile is in line with the Groups objectives.
2 Before operating exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Commodity Risk Management The Group contracts to purchase a range of materials and Foreign exchange and treasury management utilities.
Some of the Groups purchase contracts fix the price Treasury management of items being bought, while other contracts allow for price variations.
The Groups stainless steel supply contract allows The Group Treasury function of Enodis is responsible for variations based on the price of nickel.
To reduce for ensuring the availability and flexibility of funding exposures to fluctuations in the price of nickel, the Group arrangements in order to meet the ongoing requirements often enters into contracts for difference that have the effect of the Group.
In addition, it is responsible for managing the of fixing the overall price paid.
interest rate risks, liquidity risks and foreign exchange risks of the Group.
Appropriate policies that regulate the activity Investment of the Group Treasury function are in place and have been Our current investment focus includes improving our approved by the Board.
The Group Treasury function, in turn, ERP systems throughout the Group, new product has implemented policies and guidelines to regulate and development and equipment upgrading.
We therefore monitor the activities of subsidiary companies.
anticipate that capital expenditure will rise over the next Foreign exchange risk management few years and is expected to be 17m-20m in FY06.
In the area of acquisitions and disposals, we will consider We sell products in over 100 countries and have and evaluate appropriate opportunities to improve the manufacturing operations in eight countries.
Therefore, we Groups strategic positions.
face transactional currency exposure when our operating subsidiaries enter into transactions denominated in currencies Sarbanes-Oxley other than their local currency.
Foreign exchange transaction As we completed the deregistration of our shares under exposures are generally managed directly by operating the US Securities Exchange Act on 31 October 2005, subsidiaries within policies and guidelines established by we are no longer required to comply with US reporting Group Treasury.
Group Treasury also enters into foreign obligations including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley exchange hedging transactions on behalf of subsidiaries Act relevant to foreign issuers.
We continue to comply where this is beneficial to the Group.
It is the Groups policy with all regulatory requirements applicable to us.
not to hedge profit and loss account foreign exchange translation exposures.
We estimate that a one cent movement in the US dollar will affect our adjusted operating profit by approximately 0.3m and net debt by approximately 0.7m.
31 Enodis plc Review of operations finance Significant accounting policies The Groups significant accounting policies are set out in the IFRS will be Notes to the Accounts.
During the period ended 1 October 2005 there were no significant changes in previously adopted applicable to the policies or their application with respect to UK GAAP.
The following accounting policies have been identified by Group in FY06.
the Board as being significant to the accounts as they are significant to an understanding of the performance and financial position of the Group, focusing particularly on those where judgement is required: 4 Deferred taxation: 4 Warranty liabilities: 4 Goodwill impairment: 4 Litigation accruals: and 4 Non-operational accruals particularly in respect of onerous property leases.
International Financial Reporting Standards The Council of the European Union announced in June 2002 that listed companies in Europe would adopt International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
The adoption of IFRS will first be reflected in the Groups financial statements for the half year ending in March 2006 and the annual report for the financial year ending in September 2006.
Our UK GAAP 2005 comparative results will be restated.
We have assessed current IFRSs that have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Additionally we have taken steps to quantify the impact of our transition to, and ongoing reporting under, IFRS.
The significant areas of impact and the unaudited effect on FY05 adjusted operating profit are expected to be: m 1 Adjusted operating profit 55.9 Items increasing decreasing operating profit to reconcile to IFRS: Share option costs 1.8 Pension costs 0.7 Other 0.2 Adjusted operating profit following the application of IFRS 54.6 1 Before operating exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
See unaudited other information on pages 74 to 78.
Other principal items that affect retained profit will include the cessation of goodwill amortisation, the taxation effect of GAAP adjustments and the timing of dividend declarations.
We will present reconciliations including profit and loss account and balance sheet disclosures, in January 2006.
