04 04 Enodis plc Enodis plc Integrated solutions Buffalo Wild Wings Three years ago, Buffalo Wild Wings opened to the public.
The Minneapolis-based chain launched a national roll-out, and grew to 329 stores in 33 states.
Helping to facilitate the rapid growth is a fully integrated equipment package from Enodis and a win-win supplier relationship that comes as part of that package.
Lee Sanders, Senior Vice President of development and franchising for Buffalo Wild Wings says: As a growth company, we needed to ensure that we had taken care of all areas to support our expansion plans.
Kitchen equipment was one of the most critical areas.
Sanders describes the partnership with Enodis as a transition.
Now we have a single corporate point of contact, a single-service system and a single company supplying market-leading brands for all of our major equipment needs.
With the rate of start-ups were doing, that efficiency has been tremendously important.
Today, new Buffalo Wild Wings stores utilise Frymaster fryers, Delfield refrigeration units, Garland cooking equipment, Jackson warewashers and Scotsman ice machines.
05 05 Enodis plc Enodis plc Integrated solutions 06 Enodis plc Integrated solutions Integrated solutions Culinary Development Center In chain restaurants, menu development is a collaborative process.
Development chefs, food and ingredient suppliers and a wide range of culinary experts fuse texture, flavour and appearance into tantalising offerings, many of which will be served at thousands of locations with a consistency, required for quality and value.
The Culinary Development Center of Noble and Associates in Springfield, Michigan, is a leading menu development centre in the United States.
The Enodis equipped showcase kitchens are ideal menu development spaces where culinary teams experiment with ingredients, preparation and a variety of Enodis-powered cooking methods.
Equipment from Cleveland, Delfield, Frymaster, Garland, Lincoln and Merrychef is utilised extensively.
Enodis equipment powers culinary development efforts at a variety of similar facilities, at development kitchens of major chains, at culinary schools and at the Enodis Technology Center.
In 2005, Enodis sponsored the Culinary Research and Development Conference of Nations Restaurant News.
More than 100 development chefs from leading chain restaurants explored menu trends and participated in culinary demonstrations held in Enodis equipped kitchens at the Orlando Culinary Academy.
Further extending its culinary outreach, Enodis provided scholarships to the students from Orlando Culinary Academy who worked with the chain chefs at the demonstrations.
07 Enodis plc Integrated solutions 08 Enodis plc Integrated solutions Integrated solutions As another example of integrated solutions, Enodis operating companies Lincoln and Delfield partnered to develop a sandwich preparation station to support the McDonalds Toasted Deli Sandwich programme in 3,400 locations in Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the UK.
Working closely with McDonalds Innovations and Operations personnel, the team developed a compact production cell that allowed McDonalds to deliver hot, toasted, quality sandwiches and still meet drive-thru time expectations.
