22 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2005 The Directors present their Report and audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal activities The principal activities of Filtrona are the light manufacture and supply of speciality plastic and fibre products.
The principal activity of the Company is a holding company.
Business review The Company was registered as Filtrona plc on 5 May 2005.
On 6 June 2005 the Company acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Filtrona International Limited and its subsidiaries from Bunzl plc, the consideration for the purchase being 274.1m settled through the issue of shares with a nominal value of 125p each to the shareholders of Bunzl plc.
The Companys shares were admitted to the London Stock Exchange on the same day.
On 9 June 2005 the nominal value of each ordinary share was reduced from 125p to 25p with a consequent reduction in the authorised share capital of the Company from 625.0m to 125.0m.
A review of the business and future development of Filtrona is set out in the Chairmans statement, Operating review and Financial review on pages 4 to 19 which should be read as part of this Report.
Results and dividends The accompanying financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 which were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2006 are set out on pages 39 to 78.
The Company has paid the following dividends in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005: Per share Total p m Interim paid 31 October 2005 2.13 4.7 The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 4.27p per share be paid, making a total dividend distribution for the year of 6.4p.
The final dividend of 4.27p will, subject to shareholder approval, be paid on 28 April 2006 to shareholders on the register at 10 March 2006.
Directors and their interests The Board of Directors comprises: Jeff Harris Non-executive Chairman appointed 12 May 2005 Mark Harper Chief Executive appointed 5 May 2005 Steve Dryden Finance Director appointed 5 May 2005 Paul Drechsler Senior Independent Non-executive Director appointed 12 May 2005 Adrian Auer Non-executive Director appointed 12 May 2005 Paul Heiden Non-executive Director appointed 12 May 2005 Paul Hussey Director appointed 5 May 2005, resigned 12 May 2005 Directors interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company are detailed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 26 to 32.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mark Harper and Steve Dryden are retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Paul Heiden will retire as a Director of the Company with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
23 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company is shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
Substantial shareholders At the close of business on 1 March 2006, the Company was advised of the following interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: % of issued ordinary share capital INVESCO Perpetual 12.10 Threadneedle Asset Management Limited 10.14 Brahman Capital Corporation 8.62 Ivory Investment Management LP 8.00 Fidelity Management & Research Company 6.66 Baillie Gifford & Company Limited 6.05 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.64 Property values In the opinion of the Directors there was no significant difference between the market and book values of the property held by the Group, as shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2005.
Charitable and political contributions The Company made no political contributions during the year.
Donations to UK charities amounted to 0.1m 2004: 0.1m, of which nil were made by the Company 2004: nil, with all contributions being made by its subsidiary companies.
Employees Filtrona is guided by its aim to deliver a competitive and fair employment environment and the opportunity to develop and advance employees subject to personal performance and business opportunity.
Filtrona encourages its employees to develop and manage their own careers.
It facilitates this by providing appropriate job training and, where appropriate, aiming to fill vacancies with existing staff where employees are suitably qualified and experienced.
Filtrona supports the principle of equal employment opportunity and is opposed to all forms of discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or age.
Filtrona companies conduct their business in a way that seeks to ensure individuals are treated equally and fairly and that all employment, training and career development decisions are made on job-based criteria.
Employees involvement Filtronas policy is to communicate with employees to ensure understanding of the businesses and the impact business decisions have on employees.
Filtrona is keen to obtain feedback and ideas from employees to improve the operation of the business.
Creditor payment policy The Group policy for payment to suppliers is to pay to terms agreed with suppliers from time to time, subject to the suppliers performance in accordance with agreed terms and conditions.
As the Company has no trade creditors, the disclosure of creditor days does not apply.
24 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Directors Report Annual General Meeting The first Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 2HQ on Wednesday 26 April 2006 at 12 noon.
In addition to the ordinary business of the AGM, resolutions in respect of the following matters of special business are included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting: Authority to allot unissued shares The Directors will, under Resolution 7 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, seek power until the next AGM to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5% of the issued share capital at 31 March 2006, equivalent to 10,966,300 shares.
The proposal conforms with the guidelines issued by the institutional investment protection bodies to ensure that existing shareholders interests are safeguarded.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising their authority to allot unissued shares except those relating to share options.
Allotment of shares for cash The Directors will, under Resolution 8 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, seek power until the next AGM to allot shares for cash otherwise than in accordance with the statutory pre-emption rights, either in connection with a pre-emptive offering, or otherwise, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5% of the issued share capital at 31 March 2006, equivalent to 10,966,300 shares.
Purchase of own shares The Directors consider it expedient to seek shareholders approval to enable the Company to purchase its own shares.
Accordingly, under Resolution 9 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, authority will be sought to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% of the issued share capital at 31 March 2006 for the period of one year following the date of passing the resolution.
In accordance with the requirements of The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the maximum price for shares purchased in the market shall not exceed an amount equal to 105% of the average middle market quotation taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price per share shall be not less than 25p, being the nominal value of the shares.
The Directors will only utilise this authority if satisfied that to do so will result in an increase in earnings per share and that it is in the best long term interests of the shareholders.
Auditor KPMG Audit Plc have indicated that they are willing to continue in office.
A resolution to re-appoint them, and to authorise the Board to set their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM Resolution 6 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Recommendation The Directors believe that the resolutions in the Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
25 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements continued Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group.
The Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, a Report of the Remuneration Committee and a Corporate Governance Report in compliance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Jon Green Company Secretary 1 March 2006
