Divisional Activities Home Shopping The division provides a personal shopping service to 1.6 million customers.
Through its five major catalogues and statement mailing programme it offers a wide range of merchandise and exclusive products at a discount.
Increasingly the division is offering recognised branded products at prices competitive to the high street.
Customers may choose to pay within 28 days, or take advantage of a monthly credit programme.
The range of products it offers is diverse covering leisurewear, electrical, household, textile, bedding, furniture, nursery products, gifts and greeting cards.
It offers a unique personalisation service, which is unmatched in UK retail.
All large products are handled at its 500,000 square foot distribution centre at Chadderton, near Manchester.
The automated collation warehouse at Accrington is capable of handling a vast number of items per day, many of which are personalised.
An increasing proportion of the divisions sales are transacted over the internet.
Findel Services The division is responsible for the groups buying ofces in Hong Kong, India and Shanghai, and through them procures a wide range of merchandise for group companies and a substantial number of third party customers.
This is a growing activity, which is becoming increasingly important.
The division is also responsible for our joint venture and partnership activities with services provided to Home Farm Hampers, The Webb Group, and Confetti.
It also provides a bespoke end-to-end solution to third party customers.
Among the services offered to these customers are product development, database management, marketing, warehousing, pick, pack and despatch, customer relationship management, and of course overseas product sourcing through its own ofces.
4 Divisional Activities Educational Supplies The division is the largest independent supplier of educational products to schools in the UK.
Its international unit exports to 150 countries worldwide.
Through its leading brands it covers an extensive product range.
Its specialist brands supply science, sports, musical instruments and furniture to educational establishments whilst its large mainstream brands supply an extensive range of traditional merchandise.
It invests in the development of merchandise and through this activity offers a wide range of exclusive products that it has developed.
The acquisition of GLS Educational Supplies in 2004 demonstrates the divisions continued commitment to growth in the large complementary market for school commodity supplies.
Nottingham Rehab is the market leader in the provision of outsourced Integrated Community Equipment Services to NHS trusts and local authorities, a position that has been reinforced with the acquisition during 2004 of its closest competitor, Huntleigh National Care.
co. uk Home Shopping Division Educational Supplies Division www.
