GROUP OVERVIEW UK BUS UK RAIL NORTH AMERICA We are the UKs largest bus operator, running We are one of the UKs largest rail operators Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, our three more than one in five of all local bus services.
with four passenger rail franchises: First operations are spread across the US A fleet of some 9,300 buses carries 2.8 million Great Western, First Great Western Link, and Canada.
passengers every day in over 40 major towns First TransPennine Express and First ScotRail.
The majority of our operations are in We also operate Hull Trains, a non-franchised We are the second largest provider of student urban areas where the bus is the most effective open access operator.
We run nearly one-sixth transportation in North America with a fleet of means of tackling trafc congestion.
We are of the UK passenger rail network, with a over 20,000 yellow school buses, carrying working in partnership with local authorities and balanced portfolio of intercity, commuter and nearly 2 million students every day across other stakeholders to provide cost effective, regional rail operations.
We also provide freight the US and Canada.
transport solutions that improve services and services through GB Railfreight.
We have a offer more choice for passengers.
strong track record of delivery and of investing First Transit in improved services, such as new rolling stock We are one of the largest private sector and customer facilities across all of our providers of transit management and rail operations.
contracting, managing public transport systems on behalf of transit authorities in cities such as Atlanta, Los Angeles, Houston and Seattle.
We are also one of the largest providers of airport shuttle bus services in the US, serving airports in cities such as Cincinnati, Miami and Philadelphia.
We also manage call centres, paratransit operations and other light transit activities.
First Services Our Services operation is the largest private sector provider of vehicle maintenance and support services in the US.
We provide fleet maintenance for public sector customers such as the Federal Government, cities and re and police departments.
We also provide a range of services including vehicle maintenance, logistics support and facilities management to public and private sector clients including the US Navy and US Air Force.
