MARTIN GILBERT LLD MA LLB CA 4.
JOHN SIEVWRIGHT MA CA 4,5 1,2, 3 Chairman Director UK Bus Non-Executive Director 1,3 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Appointed to the Board in May 2002.
He is A Chartered Accountant, he is one of the He joined the Group in 2001 as Managing Managing Director and Chief Operating officer founding directors and Chief Executive of Director UK Bus.
He has held various senior of Global Markets and Investment Banking for Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
He was posts in the transport industry including Merrill Lynch & Co. A Chartered Accountant, appointed to the Board of FirstGroup plc in Chief Executive of Travel West Midlands and he has held various senior management 1995.
He is Chairman of Chaucer Holdings subsequently Group Marketing Director of positions in banking in London, New York, PLC and a director of a number of investment National Express Group plc.
He is a Fellow Dublin and Japan.
He is a member of the trusts.
He is a non-executive director of of the Institute of Logistics and Transport North American Board of the Michael Smurt Primary Health Properties PLC.
Age 49. and a past President of the Confederation Business School, Dublin.
MARTYN WILLIAMS Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive: 5.
DAVID DUNN CA Non-Executive Employee Director 3,4, 5 Chairman of the Safety Committee Senior Independent Non-Executive Director: Appointed to the Board as Employee Director 1,2, 3 Chairman of the Audit Committee Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman since in January 2003.
He is employed as a the Group's formation in 1995.
Originally Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive customer services supervisor in Swansea a mechanical engineer he joined Grampian Director in December 1999.
He is a Chartered and has worked for the Group for 27 years.
Transport in 1985 as General Manager and Accountant and is Non-Executive Chairman Age 50. went on to lead the successful employee of Brammer plc.
He is also a Non-Executive buy-out of GRT Bus Group PLC.
In 1996 Director of Croda International plc and B LOUISE RUPPEL LLB he was awarded the OBE for services to SMG plc.
Company Secretary the bus industry and he is a past President 1 Member of the Audit Committee of the Confederation of Passenger Transport.
JAMES FORBES CBE MSC BSC CENG MIEE 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee Age 60.
Non-Executive Director: Chairman of the 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 1,2, 3 4 Remuneration Committee Member of the Safety Committee 5 3.
DEAN FINCH BSC MBA ACA Member of the Executive Committee Appointed to the Board in April 2000, he is 4,5 Finance Director the former Chief Executive of Scottish and Appointed to the Board as Commercial Southern Energy plc.
His career began with Director in February 2004 and subsequently the South of Scotland Electricity Board and appointed Finance Director later that year.
he has since held various senior posts in the He is also responsible for all of the Groups electricity industry.
Age 58. rail activities including re-franchising.
He joined the company in 1999 as Commercial Director Rail Division and was subsequently appointed Managing Director of the Rail Division in August 2001.
He qualied as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG where he worked for 12 years specialising in Corporate Transaction Support Services including working for the Ofce of Passenger Rail Franchising on the privatisation of train operating companies.
