Energy Technology 292.1m 2005 Turnover 1 2 3 1 2 3 Bristol Babcock controllers Docklands Light Railway Brush 2-pole generators Field technicians and system engineers London Chicago, Illinois USA prefer Bristol Babcock controllers for FKI Switchgear supplied their latest DC Four gas turbine based 23 MW mobile their automation systems.
They deliver Switchgear product Lightning to generating units, incorporating Brush 2-pole superior reliability, flexibility, communications, Docklands Light Railway as well as their generators, providing emergency power to and overall value in data acquisition and existing Eclipse AC Switchgear, for the new Chicago, Illinois, USA.
The continued emphasis on innovative customer driven product development, market leading technology, quality and efficient production continue to be the key to the growth of Energy Technology.
Turnover in Energy Technology was 292.1 million There was a mixed performance from smaller companies within the group.
2004: 268.1 million and underlying operating profit was Demand increased, particularly in the Far East, for small motors and 27.8 million 2004 restated: 25.7 million.
The turnover generators produced at the Marelli facility in Italy.
The incremental profit increase was due to a 10.3% 27.6 million improvement in arising from the increased sales was, however, largely offset by the inability underlying trading offset by a 3.6 million adverse currency to immediately pass on raw material price increases to customers because translation impact.
Underlying operating profit increased by of existing contractual arrangements.
The profitability of the transformer 2.6 million 10.1% in constant currency terms.
operations has improved significantly following the consolidation of operations onto one site.
Froude, the specialist vehicle testing business, The improvement in Brush Turbogenerators fortunes continued.
had a difficult year and the decline in order volume necessitated a The industrial power market continues to grow in line with global demand rationalisation of operations and a consolidation of manufacturing and for energy and this fed through into increased turnover and profitability.
The sustained high level of global oil prices has reactivated capital investment in oil and gas projects worldwide and this has significantly The continued emphasis on innovative customer driven product benefited demand for the specialist 4 pole generators produced at the development, market leading technology, quality and efficient production Brush HMA unit in Holland.
The rapidly expanding power market in China continue to be the key to the growth of Energy Technology.
Allied to that continues to form an important part of the long term growth strategy and investment the vigorous exploitation of export opportunities and the long the delivery of 2 x 500MW hydrogenerator units for the Shen Tou term growth in global electricity consumption should ensure a positive development has significantly increased Brushs total installed power outlook for the division.
The importance of the Group s product development capability was underlined by its success in delivering 3 x 50MW MAX synchronous motors for the Ormen Lange gas pipeline project in Norway.
This is an exciting new market sector for large synchronous machines and Brush is well placed to capitalise on future gas transmission projects of this kind.
FKI Switchgear had a difficult period following the success of the previous year.
Order intake and turnover were down by more than 9% as a result of deferrals to a number of light rail projects and the reduction in spend by the UK electricity utilities as the industry awaited the conclusion of the regulating electricity distribution price control review published in December 2004.
Bristol Babcock continues to invest heavily in new product development and this, allied with the increase in activity in the oil and gas sector in North America, resulted in an encouraging 23% increase in product sales which more than offset a decline in system contracts.
