FKI Logistex 348.3m 2005 Turnover 1 2 3 1 2 3 AIPC Robotic Palletiser Sorting system for Swedish Post Data capture for Danish Post Arizona Stockholm Denmark A robotic palletising system installed at Unloaded parcels on their way to the OCR Optical Character Recognition and American Italian Pasta Co in Tolleson, sorting system at Swedish Post in Stockholm.
VCS Video Coding Systems technology is Arizona.
This facility was awarded the 2003 The system is designed to handle 32,000 used for automation of data capture and New Plant of the Year Award by Food parcels per hour, using two S-3000M tilt-tray optimisation of capacity at Danish Post.
sorters together with 20 infeed lines and 106 destinations.
The reshaping of the Group has been well received, both by customers and employees.
The turnover of FKI Logistex in the year was 348.3 million The North American Warehouse and Distribution market continued to 2004: 372.7 million.
The reduction in turnover was due to a show no improvement and order intake for this division declined by 15% 5.3 million reduction in trading and a 19.1 million adverse with only significant orders being received from Target and Barnes & Noble.
Order intake during the year The Manufacturing Systems division continued to be affected by the amounted to 370.1 million and was 13% up on the previous generally low levels of factory utilisation, although high speed palletiser year, resulting in a closing order book of 216.4 million order volumes with major bottling facilities for Anheuser Busch and Pepsi 2004: 194.6 million.
This is the first year since FKI Logistex bottling were maintained.
was formed where order intake has increased year-on-year.
The UK had a record order intake, with major contracts being secured from Underlying operating profit of 9.4 million 2004 restated : 9.0 million B&Q, Coca Cola, Helga and Kimberley Clark.
Elsewhere in Europe activity was reduced by 0.6 million as a result of currency translation but reflected remained depressed.
a margin of 2.7% compared with 2.4% last year.
The year saw the completion of two landmark contracts, at Munich This year has seen a period of considerable change to the branding and airport, which now has the worlds most advanced baggage handling structure of the group.
system, and at the European distribution centre for a major fashion retailer.
This distribution centre is one of the most technologically advanced in To improve customer focus, product development and project execution Europe.
The installation has the capability of sorting over 30,000 items a number of market facing divisions have been formed from the numerous an hour and incorporates a system for hanging garments warehousing FKI Logistex trading units, each with responsibility for one particular market and distribution.
segment, e. g. US Airports, Post and Parcel.
Furthermore, all divisions now trade under a common brand of FKI Logistex.
Procurement and The reshaping of the Group has been well received, both by customers and manufacturing operations are also being consolidated to concentrate skills employees.
The emphasis on process improvements, the continuing and expertise and improve efficiencies.
As a consequence, a number of investment in product development and the 13% increase in order intake smaller operational and sales facilities have been downsized or closed in trend over the year leaves the division still with much to do but, with a more the US, UK and Europe.
positive outlook for the new year.
Activity levels in US airports remains buoyant as the FAA releases funds for the completion of the  projects required under new security regulations.
Order intake increased from the previous year and major orders were received for Atlanta, Chicago and Las Vegas airports.
Activity levels in the post and parcel sector increased substantially, with significant orders from DHL for sortation equipment for their major North American investment programme.
Encouragingly, an order from Fedex Ground was also secured, the first order from this important customer for several years.
Considerable progress has also been made with USPS, with a major order being secured for their facility at JFK Airport in New York and further orders won on their new Integrated Despatch and Receipt development programme.
