Hardware 1 99.7m 2005 Turnover 1 2 3 1 2 3 Maxim Casement Lock Wright Impressions Hinge Lifts Lid on Trike Trunk The high performance window locking system Leading big box retailers and home A new hinge design by Weber Knapp from Truth Hardware compliments the improvement chains look to Wright Products Company has allowed Lechman Trikes to companys popular Maxim operator and for innovative new offering such as the convert high end touring motorcycles with hinges allowing customers to build the large Impressions door lock and handle sets.
a rear trunk mechanism which allows the rider windows that homemakers desire.
easy access from a comfortable position.
Customer focus, cost reduction and an active strategic outsourcing program has ensured the group is well positioned to deal with future challenges.
Turnover in Hardware during the year amounted to completed, with 95% of all decorative hardware and 75% of US casters 199.7 million 2004: 221.8 million, with underlying operating sourced from the Far East.
However, the initial establishment of an efficient profit of 26.4 million 2004 restated: 36.1 million.
The fall in supply chain did lead to some increased costs, which exacerbated the profit turnover was due to a 2.9% 6.5 million downturn in trading impact of the weaker trading environment.
As mentioned in last years as well as the impact of an adverse 15.6 million currency Annual Report, Belwith secured a major contract in the second half of translation.
Underlying operating profit declined by 7.4 million 2003 04 to supply decorative hardware to one of the largest privately 20.5% in constant currency terms.
owned retailers in the US.
The initial stocking of this customer had a significant impact on last year and the absence of any similar new contract Housing starts and refurbishment activity in North America remained in the current year and the lower than expected replenishment orders strong.
Consequently Truth Hardware, which contributes 58% of the impacted second half and full year performance.
As predicted, the move to groups turnover, enjoyed another excellent year with robust demand a sourcing and distribution business model reduced operating margins but being supported by an active new product introduction programme.
this was compensated by reduced capital employed, such that the return on During the year, Truth implemented a new Customer Care Commitment net operating assets, although reduced, remained strong.
initiative aimed at better understanding the needs of customers and providing solutions rather than just products.
It is believed that this Encouragingly, demand for Weber Knapps ergonomic and office furniture improved customer focus and service will enhance the reputation of an products has stabilised and order intake showed a modest 3% improvement already strong brand and provide growth opportunities.
The period did, over the prior year.
however, reflect some market share erosion with the loss of a significant Despite the difficulties encountered during the year, the continuing attention customer to lower cost, lower quality imports.
As part of the continuous to strengthening the groups competitive position through, customer focus, process of maximising manufacturing efficiencies, a facility in Pacoima, cost reduction and an active strategic outsourcing program has ensured the California was closed and production transferred to existing facilities in group is well positioned to deal with future challenges.
This rationalisation will help ensure that the business remains flexible and competitive on a lower capital employed base.
Overall margins in the business reduced slightly as it was not possible to fully recover material cost increases in selling prices.
Belwith decorative hardware and the Faultless caster businesses had another difficult year.
Demand continued to be weak, with continued market erosion, as customers transferred manufacturing and sourcing offshore.
Both businesses have now totally withdrawn from US manufacturing and the outsourcing projects have now been substantially 13 FKI plc Hardware
