Lifting Products and Services 367.9m 2005 Turnover 1 2 3 1 2 3 Deepwater Construction Vessel Balder Wembley Harris Shredder Heerema Marine Contractors Deepwater London Atlanta GA Construction Vessel Balder was used in the Bridon manufactured 6000m of galvanised Harris shredder model HS98115 purchased deployment of the Bridon supplied sheathed spiral strand and supplied 170 sockets for by Blaze Recycling in Atlanta GA. spiral strand mooring cables for BPs Holstein the new Wembley Stadium.
The installation processes an average of Spar and Thunderhorse facilities.
Bridon also The main arch at 133 metre high supports all 100 to 110 tons of scrap per hour and has supplied the six strand crane ropes for the the weight of the north roof and 60% of the exceeded over 120 tons per hour.
deepwater lifting equipment onboard this southern side.
Measuring 315 metres long it vessel and its sister vessel the DCV Thialf.
will become the longest single roof structure in the world.
The outlook for the group remains positive as many of its major markets, especially the energy, mining and scrap processing segments, remain buoyant.
Turnover in Lifting Products and Services was 367.9 million The acquisition of a 52.85% stake in Tianjin No 1 Steel Wire Rope Company 2004: 332.2 million and underlying operating profit amounted Limited for 0.9 million was announced on 25 January 2005 and regulatory to 37.6 million 2004 restated : 33.3 million.
The turnover approval obtained on 9 May 2005.
This acquisition, although small, increase was due to a 15.1% 50.3 million improvement in represents an important step in the development of the Bridon business underlying trading offset by a 14.6 million adverse currency for the following reasons: translation impact.
In constant currency terms, underlying it allows access to the rapidly expanding Chinese market for operating profit increased by 6.5 million 19.5%.
elevator ropes The healthy growth in underlying turnover and profitability was underpinned it will provide a future platform for other more sophisticated special by a number of positive macroeconomic factors, principally: purpose ropes, for example crane ropes, for manufacture and The sharp rise in global oil prices, which has led to increased oil and gas consumption within China production, particularly in North America but also globally, which in turn it establishes a future source of low cost manufacture for commodity has benefited the Crosby operations worldwide.
In total some 25% of the general purpose ropes.
groups turnover is in the oil, gas and mining sectors.
Following the year-end, on 3 May 2005 the group announced the The rapid rise in global steel prices, caused by steel shortages following acquisition of IP Clamps, the European market leader in lifting clamps, which increased demand from China.
This has benefited the groups Harris will become part of the Crosby business.
IP Clamps fits Crosbys strategy of operations that supply scrap processing equipment, where turnover has growth through the acquisition of businesses with high quality products increased by 6.9 million and which are now operating at full capacity.
which can be distributed through Crosbys international sales network.
The significant rise in raw material costs, which has been passed through The outlook for the group remains positive as many of its major markets, to customers in increased sales prices.
This factor has contributed especially the energy, mining and scrap processing segments, remain approximately 25 million to the increase in group turnover.
It is also expected that the group will continue to reshape itself to The increased steel prices also raised the carrying value of inventory.
In ensure that development resources are concentrated on the major addition, as a result of reduced supplier consignment stocks and increased businesses of Bridon and Crosby.
lead time from suppliers, an increase in the level of buffer stocks was necessary to smooth supply fluctuation.
In total, the impact has been to raise group inventory values by c. 10 million.
Following the strategic review, the group has been active in reshaping itself to focus on the key businesses of Bridon and Crosby.
This led to a number of disposals, including the Kosan Crisplant LPG operations in Denmark and the Certex distribution operations in the USA, UK, France, Holland and the Caribbean.
Subsequent to the year end, the Group also announced the disposal of its Certex European operations in Scandinavia, Russia, Germany and the Baltic States.
This leaves only the Italian Certex operation, which is targeted for sale in the coming year.
11 FKI plc Lifting Products and Services
