Directors report The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements of Employment policies FKI plc for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Companies within the Group have developed a wide range of voluntary Principal activities practices and procedures for employee involvement appropriate to their own circumstances and needs.
The Group encourages this approach to The principal activities and the development of the Group are given in the providing information and consultation and believes that this promotes Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Operating a better understanding of the issues facing the individual business in which review on pages 5 to 15.
The financial statements for the year ended the employee works.
It is the policy of the Group to give full and fair 31 March 2005, including other information about the Groups financial consideration to applications made by disabled persons for job vacancies, position, are set out on pages 43 to 76. where particular job requirements are within their ability and, where Dividends possible, arrangements are made for the continuing employment of employees who have become disabled.
The directors recommend a final dividend on ordinary shares in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005 of 3.0p per share, payable on 7 October Further details of employment and health and safety policies are included in 2005 to shareholders on the register on 9 September 2005, which with the the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 16 to 21. interim dividend paid on 25 February 2005 absorbs a total of 26.2 million Environmental policy of distributable reserves.
The Group is committed to adopting a responsible approach to Directors environmental matters.
The Groups overall policy forms the basis of The names of the directors as at the date of this report are listed on detailed guidelines that are appropriate to the individual businesses.
page 28, together with brief biographical notes.
Mr G Page was appointed Management seeks to minimise any adverse impact on the environment of to the Board on 1 August 2004, and as Chairman in September 2004. all aspects of the Groups operations by means of environmentally sound Mr K Orrell-Jones retired from the Board on 1 September 2004, disciplines, which take practical steps to control effectively or eliminate any Mr N Bamford was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2004, Mr J Biles known pollution risks.
Specifically, capital expenditure is directed towards retired from the Board on 30 June 2004 and Mr S D Jones left the Board the replacement of hazardous materials with environmentally friendly on 1 April 2004. alternatives and methods of minimising the costs of disposal of toxic waste, At the forthcoming annual general meeting and in accordance with the the recycling of wood, the reuse of cardboard and paper products, and the companys Articles of Association, Mr G Page having been appointed reduction of energy consumption.
since the last annual general meeting, and being eligible, offers himself Further details of the Groups environmental policies are included in the for re-election.
Mr P Heiden and Mr C Clark retire by rotation and, being Corporate social responsibility report on pages 16 to 21. eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Payments to suppliers No contract or arrangement has been entered into at any time during the year in which any director had a material interest which was significant in Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions relation to the Groups business except for those disclosed in the of their transactions with suppliers.
Payment is made on those terms subject to the terms and conditions Directors interests being met by the supplier.
FKI plc, as a holding company, did not have any amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 March 2005.
The interests of the directors including their family interests all of which are beneficial, in the share capital, share options and the Long-Term Share capital Incentive Plan of the Company appear in the Remuneration report on pages The movement in the share capital during the year is detailed in note 27 39 and 41. to the financial statements.
Political and charitable donations During the year ended 31 March 2005 the Group contributed 0.1 million 2004: 0.1 million in the UK for charitable purposes.
There were no political donations during the year 2004: nil.
Research and development Product development and innovation is a continuing process.
The Groups businesses commit resources to research and development to assist them in securing their competitive positions in their chosen markets.
31 FKI plc Directors report continued Significant shareholdings Directors responsibilities As at 8 June 2005, the following major interests of 3% or more in the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each ordinary shares in issue had been notified to the Company by: financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that Number of Holding period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: ordinary shares % select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Janus Capital Management LLC 34,490,861 5.94 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: FMR Corp Fidelity International Limited 34,333,992 5.92 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, Scottish Widows Investment subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial Partnership Ltd 29,780,353 5.11 statements: and Nordea S. A. Luxembourg 29,437,044 5.05 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is Legal & General Investment inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Management Limited 21,348,055 3.67 The directors are also responsible for maintaining proper accounting Corporate governance records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group, and enable them to ensure that the A review of the Companys application of the principles and provisions of financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also The Combined Code appears on pages 29. responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and for Auditors taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Ernst & Young LLP are the current auditors.
A resolution to reappoint Going concern Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditors will be proposed at the annual After making appropriate enquiries, the directors are confident that the general meeting.
Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence Annual general meeting for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Groups financial statements.
The annual general meeting of the Company will be held at 12 noon on 20 July 2005 in the Council Room at One Great George Street, Westminster, By order of the Board London SW1P 3AA.
A notice of meeting appears in the enclosed circular Antonio Ventrella, Secretary and for those members wishing to attend a location map has been included within the circular.
9 June 2005 The Special Business to be considered at the meeting relates to the following matters: Description Resolution number General authority to allot equity securities 9 Limited authority to allot equity securities for cash excluding pre-emption rights 10 Authority to purchase shares 11 32 FKI plc Directors report
