PORTS BUSINESS We run a group of regionally based ports in the central belt of Scotland and Tayside.
Grangemouth is Scotlands largest container port, serving both the Glasgow and Edinburgh Metropolitan Regions.
The Port of Tilbury is Londons major distribution hub for south east England.
We provide marine services, controlling navigation in the Forth and Tay Estuaries and have a significant presence in container handling in the Gulf of Finland at Helsinki, Kotka and St. Petersburg.
WHAT } WHERE PROPERTY BUSINESS Our property business owns 400 acres of land available for development and forms the major part of Edinburghs waterfront, just 10 minutes from the city centre.
2 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 LOCATIONS OVERVIEW 1.
Litke Bay, St. Petersburg Russia 3 Forth Ports acquisition of Tilbury in 1995 took 3.
Helsinki & Kotka Finland the company outside its Scottish base and The investment in these three ports is an 2 transformed it into one of the powerhouses excellent opportunity to join together with an of the British port industry.
existing container customer to provide a quality container terminal service in the Baltic.
Leith Grangemouth is the main port of Scotland.
Leith is the largest enclosed deepwater port 2 Each year approximately 9 million tonnes of in Scotland and has the capability to handle cargo are handled through the dock facilities.
It has the It has the potential to be one of Scotlands potential to develop a major cruise liner facility.
Dundee The Port of Rosyth opened for business in 1998 3 The Port of Dundee is located on the north side and offers tremendous potential for businesses of the Tay estuary on the East Coast of Scotland.
that require a riverside location for the import of raw materials and the export of finished goods.
Our two business areas work together to deliver performance LOCATIONS OVERVIEW 1.
Leith Leith is continuing to enjoy the regeneration that is now an accepted part of the expansion of the city.
New cafes, bars, shops and businesses sit alongside their historical partners blending the old and new, to create a unique vibrancy that is not found anywhere else in the city.
1 { Edinburgh Forthside Forth Ports has successfully delivered the umbrella brand Edinburgh Forthside into the market.
It will be identified in the future as a means of integrating the communities of Leith, Newhaven and Granton with the ambitious regeneration of Edinburghs waterfront.
