Group 4 Securicor Annual Report & Accounts 2005 CHANGING NEEDS CONSTANT VISION OUR VISION The group has a clear corporate vision and a strong set of values which ensure that everyone is clear about the strategy of the organisation and their role in its delivery: To be recognised as a global leader in providing security solutions.
Recognised our stakeholders know the organisation well and respect its position as a leader in its field.
Global Leader the largest security company in the world, which delivers the highest quality services in the fields of security services, cash services and justice services, and achieves the best financial returns in the industry.
Security Solutions we take time to get close to our customers to ensure that we understand their security needs our skill is in providing solutions to their needs which deliver business benefits for them.
OUR VALUES J Customer Focus The organisation focuses on customers understanding the issues they face, the markets in which they operate, and delivering the highest quality of service.
J Expertise We are experts in security solutions and know what makes a difference to our customers.
J Performance Through understanding customers needs, applying our expertise and working together to always deliver on what we promise, we are able to drive superior performance - service performance for customers and financial performance for the organisation and its shareholders.
J Best People By attracting, employing and developing the best people in the industry, we use our security expertise to develop solutions to customers needs.
J Integrity Integrity is a fundamental principle of our organisation openness, honesty and operating to the groups ethical standards underpins every element of the organisation.
J Teamwork & Collaboration Teamwork and collaboration is the glue which binds the organisation together.
Our people strive to create the best organisation and to deliver on what we promise to our stakeholders.
We will only achieve our vision by working together.
Sharing of knowledge and resources brings continuous improvement and ongoing development of the organisation.
