32 Executive Management Group 4 Securicor Annual Report & Accounts 2005 33 CHANGING CHALLENGES CONSTANT LEADERSHIP Nick Buckles Chief Executive Officer Trevor Dighton Chief Financial Officer Nick has worked in the security industry for 21 years, focusing Trevor has worked in the security industry for 20 years.
After several throughout this time on the commercial and strategic aspects of all years in both the accountancy profession and commerce working in the areas of security services.
finance function and general management, he joined BET in 1986 as Finance Director of their Security and Communications Division.
After a variety of commercial roles throughout the group, he was responsible for driving significant profit improvements in many Securicor Trevor joined Securicor in 1995 and, following a number of years as businesses throughout the 1990's as a business unit managing director Finance Director of the security division, he was elected to the board of and divisional chief executive of the security division.
He was also Securicor in June 2002 as Group Finance Director.
He became Chief instrumental in the development of Securicors security sector focus and Financial Officer of Group 4 Securicor in July 2004. in bringing together Group 4 Falck and Securicor to create the new Trevor is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management combined group.
Nick became Chief Executive Officer of Group 4 Accountants.
Nick is President of ESTA, the European cash services association.
Grahame Gibson COO & Divisional President Security Services Ken Niven Divisional President Cash Services Grahame has been involved in the security industry for 23 years, having Ken has 10 years experience in the security industry, having joined joined Group 4s UK operating company in 1983 as Finance Director.
Securicor in 1996 as Operations Director of the UK Cash Services Since that time, Grahame has held a number of operational, management business where he was later promoted to Managing Director and was and board positions in the UK, Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria.
instrumental in the development of new product areas, including cash His broad experience of the security industry and management of centre outsourcing and establishing Securicors independent ATM network.
businesses across a diverse range of cultures has been invaluable to the Ken was appointed to his current role in July 2004 and is now responsible group throughout its development.
Grahame joined the board of Group for the cash services division, which includes all of the major cash services 4 Securicor in April 2005. business units, and sharing cash services best practice throughout the entire organisation.
Ken joined the security industry following a successful Grahame is a board member of the Ligue fide Scurit fide Surveillance, career within the logistics management industry where he held senior the international association of leading security companies.
roles at Express Foods, Excel Logistics and Coca Cola.
Ken is a member of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
Sren Lundsberg-Nielsen Group General Counsel Irene Cowden Group HR Director Sren began his career as a lawyer in Denmark and since 1984 he Irene has spent her career in HR management, specialising in employee has had a wide range of legal experience as General Counsel for relations, organisational development, talent management and international groups in Denmark, Belgium and the US before joining compensation issues.
She has been involved in major change projects Group 4 Falck in 2001 as General Counsel.
Sren has been involved including the cultural and integration aspects of mergers and acquisitions in a wide range of successful mergers and acquisitions during his career, as well as large scale organisational change involving workforce including the acquisition of Wackenhut and the merger of Group 4 Falck restructuring, working in partnership with major trades unions.
Sren now has overall responsibility for all internal and Irene has worked in the security industry for over 25 years and has held external legal services for Group 4 Securicor as well as the groups director level positions at business unit, divisional and corporate level.
Irene is a Member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Sren is a Member of The Danish Bar and Law Society, a board member Development MCIPD.
of the Danish Blood Donation Society and author of the book Executive Management Contracts, published in Denmark.
