qxd 10 3 06 14:42 Page 31 Directors Report The Directors submit to the members their Report and Accounts of the Share capital Company for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The report on Corporate At the 2005 Annual General Meeting authority was given to the Company Governance and the Remuneration Report on pages 33 and 36, respectively, to purchase up to a maximum of 10% of its own shares.
This authority expires at form part of this Directors Report.
the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, at which a special resolution will be proposed to renew the authority for a further year.
Principal activities and business During 2005 the Groups principal activities were in housing and land The Board has no present intention of exercising this authority but will, development under the George Wimpey, Laing Homes and Morrison Homes as is its practice, keep the matter under review.
Purchases will only be made brand names.
A summary of the results of these activities is set out in note 1. if the Directors consider that they are in the best interests of shareholders Further details of the Companys activities and future developments are generally and if the purchase s could be expected to result in an increase described on pages 2 to 29. in earnings per share after taking into account other available investment opportunities.
In exercising this authority, the Board may cancel the shares Profit and dividends that have been bought back or hold them in treasury or a combination of The profit for the financial year of 252.8 million is reported in the both.
Holding bought back shares in treasury provides the Company with Income Statement on page 44.
An interim dividend of 5.7 pence per share, the ability to sell or transfer them quickly and cost effectively and also amounting to 22.4 million, was paid on 31 October 2005 and the Directors provides flexibility in using such shares for employee schemes.
If any such recommend a final dividend at the rate of 11.9 pence per share amounting to shares are used, the Company will, so long as required under the guidelines 47.2 million.
As disclosed in note 5, the dividends paid during 2005 include of the Association of British Insurers Investment Committee, count them the interim dividend detailed above and the 2004 final dividend of 10.8 pence towards the limits in the schemes as if they were newly issued shares.
This made a total of 16.5 pence per share or 64.7 million in aggregate.
Options were outstanding as at 13 February 2006 to subscribe for a total The Company introduced a scrip dividend scheme in 2002 and this will number of 7,432,054 ordinary shares, or 1.9% of the issued share capital.
continue to operate until the Board determines otherwise.
Should shareholders wish to elect to participate in the scheme, further information is set out on If the authority to purchase shares is ever used in full and the purchased shares cancelled, the proportion of issued share capital represented by page 77. this figure would be 2.1%.
Directors Biographical details of the Board of Directors are shown on page 30.
An ordinary resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to authorise the Directors, in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act The Articles of Association require one third of the Directors who are subject 1985, to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount to retirement by rotation to retire at each Annual General Meeting.
However, of 33,070,976 for a further one year to the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
if their number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not Previously this authority has been renewed annually for successive periods exceeding one third shall retire from office.
The Directors to retire by rotation of five years as is permitted by the Act and this change in practice follows shall be those who have been longest in office since their last appointment the Companys consultation with RREV Research, Recommendations and or reappointment.
In line with the Combined Code each Director also seeks Electronic Voting the joint venture between the NAPF National Association re-election every three years.
Accordingly, at the forthcoming Annual General of Pension Funds and ISS Institutional Shareholder Services.
Meeting two Directors will be required to retire by way of rotation.
John Robinson and David Williams being the longest standing Directors since their A special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to appointment or reappointment will therefore retire and offer themselves for enable the Directors to allot shares for cash by way of rights issue, scrip reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
dividend or in an amount equal to, but not more than 4,960,646, in aggregate of the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital, Any new Directors appointed by the Board since the last Annual General without regard to the pre-emption rights of the Companies Act.
Meeting must, in accordance with the Articles, seek reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting and shall not be taken into account in determining the Employee share schemes Directors or the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation as outlined The Company operates a Savings Related Share Option Scheme for all of its above.
Accordingly, Anthony Reading, Robert Sharpe and Steve Parker, who UK employees who have been employed by the Group for a minimum of were appointed on 13 April 2005, 1 September 2005 and 1 January 2006 six months and an Executive Share Option Scheme for all UK regional board respectively, will be seeking reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
The limit that may be issued under each Scheme is the lower of 20,000,000 and 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The beneficial and non beneficial interests of the Directors in shares of the Company, disclosed to the Company, are set out below: Options were granted during the year over 962,430 shares at 328.2 pence under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Shares at Shares at 01 01 2005 31 12 2005 Options were granted during the year over 639,854 shares at 448.5 pence and 728,671 shares at 419.25 pence under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
J H Robinson 29,770 29,770 P M Johnson 296,684 477,707 The number of options outstanding at 31 December 2005 under the Savings A C P Carr-Locke 25,000 175,604 Related Share Option Scheme was 4,174,734, exercisable between now and P TRedfern 0 29,340 2011 at between 101.0 pence and 328.2 pence per share and, for the D M Williams 5,408 5,613 Executive Share Option Scheme, 3,485,888 shares exercisable between now C Cross 3,454 5,847 and 2015 at 121.5 pence to 448.5 pence per share.
The number of options B Dean 1,000 1,000 outstanding under both schemes was 7,660,622 shares of which 0.24% are A J Reading on appointment 0 10,139 in relation to the Executive Directors.
R Sharpe on appointment 0 0 Until 2000, the George Wimpey Plc Executive Incentive Scheme required Former Directors participants to invest part of their annual cash bonus in shares of the S M Cline resigned 31 December 2005 10,000 10,000 Company to be held in trust.
As at 31 December 2005, the Trust held a J M Blackburn resigned 1 September 2005 11,227 11,227 total of 2,392 shares with a market value of approximately 11,500.
Under the Scheme shares were to be retained for three or five years and were on resignation then matched by 50% and 75% respectively.
This Scheme will close when all current obligations are met.
No Directors participate in the Scheme.
Interests of the Directors in options over the shares of the Company are shown on page 41.
Substantial shareholdings There has been no change in the interests of the Directors between As at 13 February 2006 the Companys register of substantial shareholdings 31 December 2005 and the date of signing of the accounts, 21 February 2006. showed the following interests in 3% or more of the Companys shares.
qxd 10 3 06 14:42 Page 32 Directors Report continued we are committed, wherever practicable, to achieving and maintaining a % Issued workforce which broadly reflects that of the local catchment area within which Number of Shares Share Capital we operate.
No employee or potential employee will receive less favourable Axa S. A. various funds 78,428,888 19.76 treatment due to their race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, Prudential Corporation PLC 31,988,974 8.06 political or other opinion, affiliation, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, Lehman Brothers 17,856,000 4.50 family connections, age, membership or non membership of a trade union, or Barclays Bank PLC 17,577,387 4.43 disability unless justifiable, for example due to health and safety considerations.
FMR Corporation and Fidelity International 17,321,566 4.36 Employment of disabled persons The Company is committed, where possible, to ensuring that people with Creditor payment policy disabilities are supported and encouraged to apply for employment with the The Groups policy and practice, for itself and its businesses, is to agree Company and to achieve progress once employed.
They will be treated so that in advance the terms and conditions for business transactions with suppliers they have an equal opportunity, so far as it is justifiable, to be selected, trained and sub-contractors.
Payment is generally made on this basis, subject to and promoted.
Every reasonable effort is made to enable disabled persons to terms and conditions being met by the suppliers and sub-contractors.
The be retained in the employment of the Company by investigating the possibility number of creditor days as at 31 December 2005 was 26 days 2004: 30 days.
of making reasonable adjustments to the job, workplace or equipment.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 December 2005.
Charitable contributions Contributions for charitable purposes were made during the year amounting Research and development to 546,532 2004: 505,905.
The Charitable Contributions Committee, an George Wimpey continues to employ both traditional and innovative executive committee under the chairmanship of Andrew Carr-Locke, considers approaches to construction, taking into account the needs for safe working charitable contributions made by the Company and also monitors on a practices, customer satisfaction, good design and build efficiency.
During 2005 quarterly basis both UK and US charitable contributions which have been the Company strengthened its commitment to advancing its construction made by the regional businesses.
Donations are made in accordance with the methods by continuous improvement and a series of trials of new methods.
policy laid down by the Board and the guidelines adopted by the Committee.
These consisted of both incremental changes to our current practices and wider changes to build methodology.
They have included timber and steel Directors responsibilities for the financial statements frame as well as re-examining the principles of modular construction.
The Directors prepare the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting George Wimpeys successful involvement in the Design for Manufacture Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are competition has provided the opportunity to stand back and look critically responsible for preparing financial statements for each financial year which at existing methods.
However, the Company continues to be cautious about give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group making wholesale changes to construction methods until new technologies and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
The Directors are also are tried and tested.
responsible for preparing the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance George Wimpey has maintained its partnership with the School of the with the Companies Act 1985.
In preparing the financial statements, Built Environment at The University of Nottingham: the number one ranked appropriate accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, university in the UK in the study of architecture and building technology.
This and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
The gives the business access to knowledge to take further steps in improving financial statements are prepared in accordance with relevant applicable construction practices and particularly energy efficiency.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for The Board formally reviews production technology initiatives taking place preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
in both the UK and the US on an annual basis.
A copy of the financial statements of the Company is placed on the George Employee involvement and communication Wimpey Plc website www.
Executive management The Company is committed to ensuring open and regular communication is responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
throughout the Group on both business related issues and issues of general Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with interest.
The intranet is continually updated thereby providing a valuable different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing communication tool across the Group and an important facility for providing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from all employees with access to a wide range of information.
We continue legislation in other jurisdictions and third parties in such jurisdictions should to cascade information widely throughout the business supported by take their own legal or professional advice as appropriate.
In 2005 we introduced Employee Consultative Committees in all of our UK businesses and elected representatives ensure Indemnities that employee suggestions and business changes are well communicated.
Throughout the year and as at the date of this Annual Report, the Articles of Association contained provisions for the benefit of Directors, officers During the year the Board visited local businesses in both the UK and US, and auditors of the Company indemnifying them out of the assets of the meeting staff on site and in regional offices.
The Board spent time with staff at Company to the full extent allowed by law against liabilities incurred by them all levels and discussed a range of topics related to their businesses.
In addition, in the course of carrying out their duties.
A resolution will be proposed Directors carry out regular visits to all parts of the business and hold informal at the Annual General Meeting to amend the Articles of Association to discussions with employees, helping them to better understand the Companys reflect current law on Directors indemnities as set out in the Companies objectives, and listen to feedback from employees on any issues they may have.
Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004.
The proposed The Company produces an internal quarterly magazine for all employees resolution together with an explanation is set out in the Notice of Meeting.
across the Group called In House.
The magazine, edited independently, Auditors receives contributions from all businesses and aims to keep staff informed In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution of new developments and initiatives, employee and business issues as well for the reappointment of  LLP and to authorise as social events and employee achievements including charity related work the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration, will be proposed and fundraising.
at the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2006.
The Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme was again made By Order of the Board available during the year and was taken up by 1,054 employees.
It is intended to make a further issue in 2006.
Under this Scheme, employees may acquire shares, at a 20% discount to the market price at the time of each grant of options, in three or five years time depending upon their election at the commencement of the savings contract.
James J Jordan Equal opportunities Group Company Secretary and General Counsel The Company is committed to equality of opportunity in all its employment George Wimpey Plc practices, policies and procedures.
To this end, within the framework of the law, 21 February 2006 32 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
