18 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 GKN people and their achievements in 2005 TM TM GKNs new crosstrack and countertrack technologies are the first major breakthroughs in CVJ technology for 70 years.
Thomas Weckerling, Design Engineer CV Joints and Wolfgang Hildebrandt, Advanced Sideshaft Development Manager, GKN Driveline, demonstrate GKNs new countertrack sideshaft.
Countertrack technology reduces weight through its smaller package size, improving fuel economy and performance.
The new technology also improves a vehicles driveability and can improve overall levels of renement.
These new joints were introduced to customers in 2005.
The first pilot applications are now underway.
Managing our impact on the environment is a long-established concern of GKN.
Our environmental team at GKN Driveline in Porto Alegre, Brazil, led by Environmental Co-ordinator Andrea Pampanelli developed a composting process which, in a year, was able to convert 600 tonnes of organic waste and sludge from the facilitys treatment plants into a saleable compost.
This process not only reduces the cost of waste disposal but also benets the environment.
The team was honoured with the Chief Executives Award last year for their outstanding environmental contribution.
The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter is an important programme for GKN Aerospace.
In addition to major work on the aircrafts engine and on the airframe, GKN has been contracted by Lockheed Martin to design and produce the cockpit canopies.
These canopies represent radical progress as they embody a continuous outer skin incorporating an external coating system with a thick windshield laminated to the inside.
The advantages of this design are a combination of high-speed bird strike resistance, canopy ejection capability and low signature.
JSF Canopy team members Herbie Rodriguez and Ray Rodriguez prepare one of the first canopies to be shipped from GKNs plant in Garden Grove, California.
GKN plc 19 Annual Report 2005 Lean Enterprise is a global initiative launched by GKN to drive significant improvements in its performance.
Sharon Nash is plant director of GKN Drivelines majority-owned Unidrive plant in Clayton, Victoria in Australia.
In 2003 the plant created a programme called the The New Way of Working the Unidrive Way which set out to align their practices with the Lean Enterprise initiative.
Between 2003 and 2005 the plant, which produces automotive sideshafts and propshafts, has been transformed.
There has been a 21% improvement in productivity, the number of parts per million classied as rejects has dropped into single gures, return on sales has doubled and the accident frequency rate has been halved.
All of this has happened as a result of a concerted effort by all members of the 450-strong Unidrive team.
Peter Watkins, Global Best Practice Director with Bob Poole, Site Continuous Improvement Leader SCIL at GKN Drivelines plant in Arnage, near Le Mans in France.
A major element in GKNs global drive for a Lean Enterprise culture is the development of a cadre of specialists who can coach and advise plant leadership and employee teams on how to engage employees and how best to deploy Lean tools and techniques.
Bob Poole became one of the Groups first ight of SCILs during 2005.
SCILs are recognisable on the shop oor by their distinctive white polo shirts with GKNs Lean Enterprise symbol.
