Description of business The Description of business discusses the strategy, activities, Mission resources and operating environment of the business and identies developments and achievements in 2005, under the following Our global quest is to improve the quality of human life by headings: enabling people to do more, feel better and live longer.
Strategy Our Spirit Strategy and business drivers 06 We undertake our quest with the enthusiasm of entrepreneurs, Business drivers excited by the constant search for innovation.
We value Build the best product pipeline in the industry 07 performance achieved with integrity.
We will attain success as Achieve commercial and operational excellence 14 a world class global leader with each and every one of our Improve access to medicines 15 people contributing with passion and an unmatched sense of Be the best place for the best people to do their best work 16 urgency.
Global manufacturing and supply 17 Corporate responsibility and community investment 18 Annual Report and Review Products and competition This report is the Annual Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year Pharmaceutical 20 ended 31st December 2005, prepared in accordance with United Consumer Healthcare 23 Kingdom requirements.
Regulatory environment A summary report on the year, the Annual Review 2005, intended for Regulation 24 the investor not needing the full detail of the Annual Report, is Intellectual property 25 produced as a separate document.
Responsibility for environment, health and safety 26 The Annual Review includes the joint statement by the Chairman and Discussion of the Groups management structures and corporate the Chief Executive officer, a summary review of operations, summary governance procedures is set out in Corporate governance pages 27 financial statements and a summary remuneration report.
The Annual Review is issued to all shareholders.
The Annual Report is The Remuneration Report gives details of the Groups policies on issued to shareholders who have elected to receive it.
Both documents Directors remuneration and the amounts earned by Directors and are available on GlaxoSmithKlines corporate website at www.
senior management in 2005 pages 37 to 54.
Discussion of the Groups operating and financial performance and financial resources is given in the Operating and financial review and prospects pages 55 to 80.
In this report: GlaxoSmithKline, the Group or GSK means GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
The company means GlaxoSmithKline plc.
GlaxoSmithKline share means an Ordinary Share of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p.
American Depositary Share ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
Throughout this report, gures quoted for market size, market share and market growth rates relate to the 12 months ended 30th September 2005 or later where available.
These are GSKs estimates based on the most recent data from independent external sources, valued in sterling at relevant exchange rates.
Figures quoted for product market share reect sales by GSK and licensees.
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trademarks either owned by and or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies, with the exception of Baycol and Levitra, trademarks of Bayer, Boniva Bonviva, a trademark of Roche, Entereg, a trademark of Adolor Corporation in the USA, Hepsera, a trademark of Gilead Sciences in some countries including the USA, Integrilin, a trademark of Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Micropump, a trademark of Flamel Technologies, Natrecor, a trademark of Scios and Janssen, Navelbine, a trademark of Pierre Fabre Mdicament, Nicoderm, a trademark of Sano-Aventis, Elan, Novartis or GlaxoSmithKline in certain countries, Pritor, a trademark of Boehringer Ingelheim and Vesicare, a trademark of Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals, and in Japan and South Korea a trademark of Astellas Pharmaceuticals, all of which are used in certain countries under license by the Group.
GSK Annual Report 2005 05 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Strategy and business drivers GlaxoSmithKline is addressing the key challenges that face both the Corporate Responsibility pharmaceutical industry and society as a whole: In working to meet these challenges and implement these business drivers, GSK recognises that it has a responsibility to support the improving productivity in research and development delivery of better healthcare and education in under-served ensuring patients have access to new medicines communities and to connect business decisions to ethical, social and environmental concerns.
GSKs commitment to these is outlined on The strategies to meet these challenges focus on several business pages 18 to 19, with more information available in the Corporate drivers: Responsibility Report, which is available on the website at Build the best product pipeline in the industry www.
com The Group is aiming to create the best product pipeline in the industry for the benefit of patients, consumers and society.
This includes developing a focused portfolio strategy to support the pipeline and manage the full life cycle of compounds from their launch as prescription medicines through to becoming over-the-counter products where appropriate.
This strategy includes selective inlicensing and efficient execution of development, commercialisation and the supply chain processes.
GSKs R&D organisation measures productivity by the number and innovation of the products it creates, and also by the commercial value of these products and their ability to address the unmet needs of all consumers.
This includes patients, healthcare professionals, budget holders and regulators, each with their own perspective on what constitutes a valuable new product.
Further details are given on pages 7 to 13.
Achieve commercial and operational excellence GSK links research and commercial operations closely in order to maximise the value of the portfolio.
As compounds are developed and tested, marketing campaigns and sales efforts are planned.
Where appropriate within markets, the Group aims to build strong relationships with patients and consumers as the ultimate users of its medicines.
Common approaches to management processes and business functions are used by an internationally diverse and talented management team in order to create and sustain competitive advantage in all markets.
Further details are given on page 14.
Improve access to medicines GSK has created extensive programmes designed to improve the healthcare of people who have limited access to medicines both in the developed and developing world.
These are set out in the Improve access to medicines section of this report page 15.
Be the best place for the best people to do their best work The single greatest source of competitive advantage of any organisation is its people.
The Groups ambition is to be the place where great people apply their energy and passion to make a difference in the world.
Their skills and intellect are key components in the successful implementation of the Groups strategy.
The work environment supports an informed, empowered and resilient workforce, in which the Group values and draws on the diverse knowledge, perspectives, experience, and styles of the global community.
Further details are given on page 16.
GSK Annual Report 2005 06 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Build the best product pipeline in the industry Each CEDD is responsible for assessing the safety and other Research and Development Pharmaceuticals development characteristics of lead compounds in preclinical screens, GSKs strategic intent is to become the indisputable leader in the some of which may involve using animals.
This allows the selection of industry.
This success depends on the bedrock of the Groups the best candidate for a new medicine.
Once this is achieved, the business a vibrant and productive Research and Development CEDDs are responsible for demonstrating that the compound has R&D function that develops new ways to help patients while satisfied a proof of therapeutic concept during mid-stage clinical trials.
A decision is then made on whether the information available justifies Focus on the Patient the compounds progression into late-stage drug development, where R&Ds focus on the patient involves seeking the views of patients and large-scale clinical trials are conducted to register and commercialise their families for an understanding of the most important aspects of the product.
their disease and the impact it has on their lives.
This information, in During 2005 18 compounds entered clinical trials for the first time.
conjunction with discussions with key opinion leaders, is then used to shape drug development programmes so that new medicines are A GSK research facility focusing on new therapies in the treatment of likely to benefit patients.
neurodegenerative illnesses, such as Alzheimers disease, was opened in Singapore in 2005.
Finding candidate compounds Two components are needed in the early stages of nding new The application of experimental medicine is a major opportunity for medicines targets that can be shown to affect mechanisms of the industry.
An important tool in this eld is clinical imaging, which important pathological processes in human disease and compounds enables visualisation of changes in the body made in response to the able to modulate the behaviour of specic targets.
In 2005 world-class imaging experts were recruited from both the USA and UK, as GSK prepared Many diseases arise through complex interactions between gene to open the Clinical Imaging Centre at the Hammersmith Hospital variants and environmental factors.
Within GSK, Genetics Research in London in 2006.
In addition, R&D has established global aims to take advantage of this by identifying genes which influence collaborations with academic imaging centres that make it a leader common diseases with large unmet medical needs and major patient in application of imaging for drug discovery and development.
These insights help in the search for targets with known relevance to the disease, and hence a greater chance of delivering Converting candidates to medicines benefit to the patients.
Preclinical Development PCD includes a wide range of activities throughout the entire drug development process.
It is also involves the Discovery Research DR produces the lead compounds that may enhancement of existing products by devising more convenient influence targets which form the basis of drug discovery efforts in formulations.
Early in the development process, the metabolism and GSKs Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery CEDDs.
In 2005, safety of compounds are evaluated in laboratory animals before DR performed over 90 million assays and provided the CEDDs with testing in humans.
The testing required in animals is highly regulated 50 high-quality new lead compounds.
Investment in DR has been see Animals and research, page 10. focused on increasing the quality and quantity of the lead compounds available.
PCD researchers investigate appropriate dosage forms for example, tablets or inhalers and develop formulations to enhance a drugs Selecting the best candidate molecules effectiveness and ease of use by the patient.
Processes and The fundamental steps in turning a lead compound into a drug supporting analytical methods for drug synthesis and product candidate are optimising it for potency, efcacy and safety and then formulation and delivery are scaled up to meet increasing supply demonstrating the validity of the therapeutic hypothesis through early requirements.
This leads to the technical transfer of the processes and clinical trials of the resulting candidate.
The New Product Supply process, a These steps are helped by rapid, informed decision making and creative partnership between R&D and Global Manufacturing and Supply, solutions to the issues that inevitably arise in this phase of development.
ensures that a robust product is developed for large-scale commercial GSK has designed the CEDDs, which are focused on specic disease manufacturing and launch.
areas, to be nimble and entrepreneurial.
There are seven CEDDs, based To provide focus for the development process, all the major functional in Europe and the USA: components of clinical, medical, biomedical data, regulatory and Biopharmaceuticals Stevenage, UK safety are integrated into a single management organisation, Cardiovascular & Urogenital Diseases Upper Merion, USA Worldwide Development WWD.
Metabolic & Viral Diseases Research Triangle Park, USA GSKs Medicine Development Centres MDCs, which provide a focus Microbial, Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases, including cancer for late-stage development, are responsible for creating value through Upper Providence, USA the delivery of full product development plans, managing the day-toNeurology & Gastrointestinal Diseases Harlow, UK day operational activities for the late-stage development portfolio and Psychiatry Verona, Italy ensuring strong partnerships with the CEDDs and Global Commercial Respiratory and Inammation Stevenage, UK.
GSK Annual Report 2005 07 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Build the best product pipeline in the industry Continued The MDCs are based at the major USA and UK sites and are aligned Extending the use of existing products with the following therapeutic areas: Once a product is launched, it is important to establish additional ways in which patients can be helped.
This can be through Cardiovascular Metabolic investigating whether any other illnesses may be treated with the Infectious Diseases including Diseases of the Developing World product or by the development of additional, more convenient dosage DDW forms.
Some developments reect feedback from patients and the Musculoskeletal Inammation Gastrointestinal Urology medical professions, while others are the result of continuing research Neuroscience Psychiatry Neurology into disease and its causes.
Examples of the importance of lifecycle management to GSK include the new indication of restless leg syndrome for Requip and monthly These teams are responsible for maximising the worldwide dosing of Boniva to simplify its administration for prevention of development opportunities for each product within their remit so that osteoporosis.
Line extensions add significant value to the product all the information needed to support the registration, safety portfolio.
Recent examples, such as Augmentin ES XR, Seroxat Paxil programmes, pricing and formulary negotiations is available when CR and Wellbutrin XL, achieved sales of 888 million in 2005. needed.
Commercial input from Global Commercial Strategy ensures that regional marketing needs are integrated into any development Productivity plans at an early stage.
The challenge of increasing R&D productivity continued in 2005.
Programmes to identify associations between diseases and genes have In addition, R&D is investigating new ways of operating to enable it helped point to areas of research more likely to produce new ways of to respond to the variety of external pressures on the industry, such helping patients.
Increased automation in screening has provided as increasing regulatory stringency, so that it is positioned to ensure higher quality lead compounds more quickly.
that effective new medicines reach patients as soon as possible.
Progress of the portfolio is communicated to investors and the media GSK believes that pharmacogenetic research, which correlates at regular intervals during the year.
A major presentation on the genetic data with response to medicine, will help to reduce pipeline vaccine portfolio was held in June and on the oncology and supportive attrition and improve productivity.
R&D is collecting DNA samples in care portfolio in November 2005.
Details of GSKs product clinical studies to identify pharmacogenetic information that can help development pipeline are given on pages 11 to 13. predict a patients response.
This information is intended to define patient groups likely to gain benefit from treatment, or to suffer a Managing the portfolio side effect, as the compound progresses through development in With improved productivity, more compounds are progressed into the clinic.
Ultimately, pharmacogenetics promises to provide later phases of development.
This progress, however, puts demands physicians with information to help them select the medicine and on our R&D resources and it is important to look objectively at the dose most likely to benefit their patient.
Key projects reaching significant milestones are reviewed each month by the Product Management Board PMB, which is During 2005, R&D has taken several approaches to improving responsible for determining if an asset has met criteria for passing productivity in clinical trials, including an increasing use of countries into the next phase of development.
outside Western Europe and the USA and the introduction of direct electronic data capture in most new clinical trials.
These GSK continues to identify compounds from other companies that improvements in productivity will continue going forward.
would enhance the portfolio and to create innovative collaborations to ensure that the Group is regarded as the partner of choice for large All clinical trials sponsored by GSK, irrespective of where they take and small companies.
place, are conducted according to international standards of good clinical practice and applicable laws and regulations.
The protocols In 2005 a specic Centre of Excellence for External Drug Discovery was are reviewed by the external regulatory agencies in the relevant created.
This small internal management team is responsible for countries where required and all protocols are considered by an Ethics delivering compounds with clinical proof of concept by establishing Review Committee, whose remit covers the site where the study will and managing long-term strategic collaborations with biotechnology take place.
Safety data is routinely collected throughout development companies, smalland mid-sized pharmaceutical companies, and programmes and is reported to national and regional regulatory academic institutions.
The Group has committed funding for two agencies in line with applicable regulations.
years to these collaborations, with an option to renew for an additional three years.
The GSK Global Safety Board is responsible internally for approving pivotal studies and investigating any issues related to patient safety In-licensing arising during the development programme.
During 2005, GSK took In-licensing or co-marketing co-promotion agreements concluded in a further step in making information from its clinical trials widely and 2005 were: easily available by extending its Clinical Trial Register, a public website The development and commercialisation of Vertex Pharmaceuticals on which clinical trials data are published.
Regulatory authorities will Inc. s VX-409, Nav1.8 Na-channel blocker plus back-up molecules continue to be informed of the data generated so they may be for pain preclinical reassured of the safety and efcacy of GSKs products.
The Clinical Trial The development and promotion of Allergan Inc. s Botox in Japan Register will enhance the ability of clinicians to make informed clinical and China judgements to benefit their patients.
The development and commercialisation of a renin inhibitor program preclinical with Vitae Pharmaceuticals Inc. GSK Annual Report 2005 08 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Build the best product pipeline in the industry Continued The exercise of an option for Theravance Inc. s inhaled muscarinic Vaccine manufacturing is particularly complex as it requires the use antagonist beta 2 agonist programme preclinical of living micro-organisms.
Sophisticated quality assurance and quality The exercise of options for Human Genome Science Inc. s control procedures are in place to ensure both quality and safety of LymphoStat B completed Phase IIa for rheumatoid arthritis and the vaccines and this commonly includes animal use.
Due to their systematic lupus erythematosus and mapatumumab TRAIL R1 biological nature, health authorities may subject vaccines to a second monoclonal antibody for various cancer indications Phase II.
control to guarantee the highest quality standards.
Discontinuations In 2005, GSK made a number of investments that strengthen its All R&D carries a risk of failure.
Lead compounds showing positive vaccine capabilities: activity against a validated target may prove insufficiently safe to a significant increase in u vaccine manufacturing and development introduce to humans or impossible to manufacture on a commercial capacity by: scale.
Also, compounds may not show the expected benets in acquiring ID Biomedical, a North American developer of vaccines patients in large scale clinical testing.
These discontinuations occur for infectious diseases and producer of inuenza vaccines with despite extensive predictive testing.
sites in Canada and the USA, for 874 million investing over 64 million in extending its German vaccine facility Late-stage projects terminated during 2005 in Phase III included purchasing a vaccine R&D and manufacturing site in the USA aplaviroc 873140 and 695634, both for HIV, Avandia for psoriasis acquiring US based Corixa Corporation, a developer of innovative and Lamictal XR for schizophrenia.
vaccine adjuvants, for approximately 150 million Research and development GSK vaccines entering into three groundbreaking public-private partnerships to The majority of GSKs vaccine R&D activities are conducted at its develop vaccines against the three biggest killers in the developing biologicals headquarters in Rixensart, Belgium.
These include clinical world, AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
development, regulatory strategy, commercial strategy, scaling up, GSK expects to launch five major new vaccines within the next five years: vaccine production, packaging and all other support functions.
Over 1,500 scientists are devoted to developing new vaccines and more a human papilloma virus vaccine preventing cervical cancer cost-effective and convenient combination vaccines to prevent the USA and EU launch of a vaccine against rotavirus induced infections that cause serious medical problems worldwide.
GSK is gastroenteritis and the strengthening of its presence in international also targeting therapeutic vaccines that may prevent relapse in markets cancer patients.
a vaccine against pneumococcal disease an improved vaccine for inuenza Vaccine discovery involves many collaborations with academia and vaccine combinations against meningitis.
the biotech industry worldwide and allows identication of new vaccine antigens which are then expressed in yeast, bacteria or The strength of GSKs vaccine pipeline is expected to provide mammalian cells and puried to a very high level.
opportunities for GSK to deliver new vaccines for many years to come.
This is followed by formulation of the clinical lots of the vaccine.
This Research and development Consumer Healthcare may involve mixing antigens with selected novel proprietary adjuvants, R&D has aligned itself closely with the new Consumer Healthcare which are designed to stimulate a good immune response.
The first operating model and structure.
For the Global brands, it now mirrors step is to evaluate the safety and efcacy of the candidate vaccine in the commercial structure with R&D teams paired with commercial a preclinical setting, usually involving an animal model.
The candidate teams and located in the principal centres for Consumer Healthcare vaccine is then tested in clinical trials in healthy individuals to evaluate R&D at Weybridge in the UK and in Parsippany in the USA: with this safety and effectiveness in inducing an immune response to protect co-location, these sites are now termed Innovation Centres.
The focus the body from infection encountered later in a natural setting Phase of R&D is on the identication and rapid development of novel I II.
Large-scale eld trials in healthy individuals follow to establish products that bring benets to consumers in the over-the-counter safety and efcacy in a cross section of the population Phase III.
OTC, oral care and nutritional healthcare markets.
The results obtained during clinical trials and data regarding the Diseases of the developing world development of a quality and large-scale production process and Continued investment in research into diseases that disproportionately facilities are then combined into a regulatory le which is submitted affect the developing world is essential if there is to be a long-term to the authorities in the various countries where the vaccine is to be improvement in the health of people who live in these regions.
of GSKs response to this challenge, it operates a drug discovery unit, dedicated to nding new medicines for these diseases, based at Tres After launch, post marketing studies of considerable size are set up Cantos, Spain.
The work undertaken in Tres Cantos focuses on malaria to assess vaccination programmes impact and to monitor vaccine and tuberculosis which, together with work elsewhere in the Group safety Phase IV.
on HIV AIDS and vaccines, means GSK is addressing the prevention and treatment of all three of the World Health Organizations WHO top priority diseases.
GSK Annual Report 2005 09 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Build the best product pipeline in the industry Continued GSK currently has 14 clinical programmes of relevance to the developing GSKs submissions to the regulatory authorities in the USA and EU for world, eight of which are aimed at producing vaccines and medicines the first time and approvals during 2005 were: USA Europe for diseases that disproportionately affect developing countries.
Submission 5 7 Public private partnerships PPP remain essential to fund research Approval 6 6 where there is no commercially viable market for a potential product.
11 13 GSK is a leader in working with PPP and continues to collaborate closely with many governments, academic centres, United Nations agencies In 2006, the late-stage pipeline is expected to expand further with and other global funding bodies in this area, to maximise expertise eight major assets anticipated to enter phase III development.
This has the dual benefit of encouraging research and in 2006, GSK anticipates seven products will be approved and or development and accelerating access to the medicines in the launched and seven product lings are planned.
For further details developing world.
For example, in 2005, GSK announced partnerships of these developments expected in 2006 see the GSK outlook on with the Global Alliance for TB Drug Development, the Aeras Global TB Vaccine Foundation and the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative.
GSKs malaria falcipain inhibitors project was chosen for the Medicines GSKs policy is to obtain patent protection on all significant products for Malaria Venture project of the year award.
discovered or developed through its R&D activities.
Patent protection for new active ingredients is available in all significant markets.
Animals and research Protection can also be obtained for new pharmaceutical formulations For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals and manufacturing processes, and for new medical uses and special remains a small but vital part of research and development of new devices for administering products.
GSK only uses animals where there is no alternative and only in the numbers required for each test.
The Group strives to exceed regulatory standards in the care and use of the Key animals it uses and undergoes internal and external review to assure v Vaccine p Pharmaccine these standards.
Compounds in  Pharmaceuticals LLC joint The vast majority of the experimental methods do not use animals.
venture In-license or other alliance relationship with third party GSK is actively engaged in research to develop and validate more tests S Date of first submission that either avoid the use of animals in research or reduce the numbers A Date of first regulatory approval for MAA, this is the first EU needed.
When animals are used in research unnecessary pain or approval letter suffering is scrupulously avoided.
AL Approvable letter indicates that ultimately approval can be given subject to resolution of deficiencies GSK understands that use of animals for research purposes MAA Marketing authorisation application Europe commands a high level of public interest.
The GlaxoSmithKline Public NDA New drug application USA Policy Position The care and ethical use of animals in research, and Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers further information and reports, are available on the website, Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efcacy, conducted in a small number of patients www.
Phase III Large comparative study compound versus placebo and or established GSKs pipeline treatment in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety The chart on the right shows new chemical entities NCE and product line extensions PLE for projects in the clinic in 2001 and 2005.
At the 160 end of February 2006, GSK had nearly 200 pharmaceutical and vaccine 149 projects in development.
Of these, 149 are in the clinic comprising 95 11 NCEs, 29 PLEs and 25 vaccines, compared with 118 in 2001.
Since 26% of pipeline 2001 the number of projects in the late stages of development has 38% of 118 120 46 pipeline increased from 31 to 57.
Late-stage 12 growth This maturity in the late stage pipeline is expected to lead to an increase 19 in registrations in the coming years.
The content of the drug 80 development portfolio will change over time as new compounds 38 25 progress from discovery to development and from development to the market.
Owing to the nature of the drug development process, many of these compounds, especially those in early stages of investigation, 41 40 29 may be terminated as they progress through development.
Phase I NCEs with multiple indications are counted only once.
NCEs in later phases are counted by each indication.
For competitive reasons, new 25 21 projects in pre-clinical development have not been disclosed and some 0 project types may not have been identied.
2001 2005 NCEs Phase III NCEs Phase I registration PLEs NCEs Phase II Vaccines GSK Annual Report 2005 10 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued Estimated ling dates Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Cardiovascular & Metabolic 256073 high afnity nicotinic acid receptor dyslipidaemia I HM74A agonist 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis also rheumatoid arthritis & chronic I obstructive pulmonary disease, COPD 813893 factor Xa inhibitor prevention of stroke in atrial brillation I 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis also rheumatoid arthritis & COPD I rilapladib  phospholipase A2 atherosclerosis I Lp-PLA2 inhibitor 501516 peroxisome  receptor dyslipidaemia II PPAR delta agonist 590735 PPAR alpha agonist dyslipidaemia II odiparcil indirect thrombin inhibitor prevention of thrombotic complications of cardiovascular II disease darapladib Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis ll III Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor treatment of acute coronary syndrome III 2006 2006 Coreg CR beta blocker hypertension & congestive heart failure once-daily Submitted N A S:Dec05 Metabolic projects 625019 PPAR pan agonist type 2 diabetes I 716155 glucagon-like peptide 1 agonist type 2 diabetes I 856464 melanin concentrating hormone antagonist obesity I radafaxine noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor obesity also bromyalgia, neuropathic pain & depression I 189075 sodium dependent glucose transport SGLT2 type 2 diabetes II inhibitor 677954 PPAR pan agonist type 2 diabetes II 869682 SGLT2 inhibitor obesity II denagliptin dipeptidyl peptidase lV DPP IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes II solabegron beta3 adrenergic agonist type 2 diabetes also overactive bladder II Avandamet XR PPAR gamma agonist metformin type 2 diabetes extended release III 2007 Avandia simvastatin PPAR gamma agonist statin type 2 diabetes III 2007 Avandaryl PPAR gamma agonist sulphonylurea type 2 diabetes xed dose combination Approved S:May05 A:Dec05 Infectious Diseases 565154 oral pleuromutilin treatment of bacterial infections I 742510 oral pleuromutilin treatment of bacterial infections I 270773 phospholipid anti-endotoxin emulsion sepsis II farglitazar PPAR gamma agonist hepatic brosis II sitamaquine 8-aminoquinoline treatment of visceral leishmaniasis II N A chlorproguanil, dapsone antifolate artemisinin treatment of uncomplicated malaria IIl 2007 N A artesunate CDA Etaquine 8-aminoquinoline malaria III Altabax retapamulin topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections Submitted 2006 S:Nov05 Antivirals 825780 DNA antiviral vaccine HIV infection I brecanavir aspartyl protease inhibitor HIV infection II Relenza neuraminidase inhibitor inuenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Nov05 S:Nov05 Musculoskeletal, Inammation, Gastrointestinal & Urology 221149 oxytocin antagonist threatened pre-term labour I 232802 3G-selective oestrogen receptor modulator treatment of menopausal symptoms I 267268 vitronectin integrin antagonist age-related macular degeneration I 366074 potassium channel opener overactive bladder I relacatib cathepsin K inhibitor osteoporosis & osteoarthritis also bone metastases I 751689 calcium antagonist osteoporosis I 768974 parathyroid hormone agonist osteoporosis I 786034 tyrosine kinase inhibitor psoriasis I 842470 PDE IV inhibitor topical atopic dermatitis I 876008 corticotrophin releasing factor CRF1 antagonist irritable bowel syndrome also depression & anxiety I dutasteride testosterone 5-alpha reductase inhibitor testosterone hypogonadism xed dose combination I solabegron beta3 adrenergic agonist overactive bladder also type 2 diabetes I 270384 endothelial cell adhesion molecule inhibitor inammatory bowel disease II 274150 selective iNOS inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis also migraine II 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis also atherosclerosis & COPD II 683699 dual alpha4 integrin antagonist VLA4 inammatory bowel disease also multiple sclerosis II 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor oral rheumatoid arthritis also atherosclerosis & COPD II casopitant NK1 antagonist overactive bladder also depression & anxiety, II chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody eosinophilic esophagitis also asthma & nasal polyposis II rosiglitazone XR PPAR gamma agonist rheumatoid arthritis also Alzheimers disease II Avodart alpha blocker 5-alpha reductase inhibitor alpha blocker benign prostatic hyperplasia xed dose combination III 2007 2007 Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor reduction in the risk of prostate cancer III Entereg Entrareg peripheral mu-opioid antagonist opioid induced GI symptoms III 2007 2007 mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody hypereosinophilic syndrome also asthma & nasal polyposis III 2006 2006 Entereg Entrareg peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus Approvable 2007 AL:Jul05 Boniva Bonviva bisphosphonate treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis Approved S:Apr05 A:Jan06 i. v. injection GSK Annual Report 2005 11 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued Estimated ling dates Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Neurosciences 163090 presynaptic mixed 5HT1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 189254 histamine H3 antagonist dementia I 234551 endothelin A antagonist stroke I 406725 gap junction blocker migraine, epilepsy & neuropathic pain I 644784 dual-acting COX-2 inhibitor acute & chronic pain conditions including neuropathic I pain & schizophrenia 737004 endothelin A antagonist stroke I 823296 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 842166 non-cannabinoid CB2 agonist inammatory pain I 876008 CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety also irritable bowel syndrome I radafaxine noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor bromyalgia & neuropathic pain also obesity I 274150 selective iNOS inhibitor migraine also rheumatoid arthritis II 372475 triple 5HT noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake depression and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder II inhibitor 468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation II 683699 dual alpha4 integrin antagonist VLA4 multiple sclerosis also inammatory bowel disease II 705498 transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 acute migraine II TRPV1 antagonist 742457 5HT6 antagonist dementia II 773812 mixed 5HT dopaminergic antagonist schizophrenia II casopitant NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety also overactive bladder, II chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting radafaxine noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression also obesity II rosiglitazone XR PPAR gamma agonist Alzheimer's disease also rheumatoid arthritis II talnetant NK3 antagonist schizophrenia II vestipitant paroxetine NK1 antagonist selective serotonin re-uptake depression & anxiety II inhibitor 406381 dual-acting COX-2 inhibitor acute & chronic pain III Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder acute treatment III N A 2006 Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy once-daily III 2006 Requip extended release non-ergot dopamine agonist restless legs syndrome III 2006 Requip Modutab XL non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinsons disease once-daily controlled release Submitted S:Dec05 2006 24 hour formulation Trexima 5HT1 agonist naproxen migraine xed dose combination Submitted N A S:Aug05 Wellbutrin XL noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor seasonal affective disorder Submitted S:Dec04 Wellbutrin XL noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression Approved 2006 A:Aug03 Oncology 559448 thrombopoietin agonist thrombocytopaenia I 743921 kinesin spindle protein KSP inhibitor cancer I elacridar oral bioenhancer cancer I relacatib cathepsin K inhibitor bone metastases also osteoporosis & osteoarthritis I casopitant NK1 antagonist postoperative nausea & vomiting II 2007 2007 also overactive bladder, depression & anxiety casopitant NK1 antagonist chemotherapy induced nausea & vomiting II also overactive bladder, depression & anxiety ethynylcytidine selective RNA polymerase inhibitor solid tumours II iboctadekin recombinant human IL18 immunomodulator  cancers melanoma & renal cell II ispinesib KSP inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer & other tumours II pazopanib vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF solid tumours II tyrosine kinase inhibitor vestipitant NK1 antagonist postoperative nausea & vomiting II eltrombopag thrombopoietin agonist thrombocytopaenia III 2006 07 2006 07 Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor ovarian cancer first-line therapy III 2007 2007 Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second-line therapy oral formulation III 2007 2007 Tykerb Tycerb ErbB-2 and epidermal growth factor receptor breast cancer also renal, head & neck cancers III 2006 07 2006 07 EGFR dual kinase inhibitor Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor cervical cancer second-line therapy Submitted 2006 S:Dec05 Arranon guanine arabinoside prodrug acute lymphoblastic leukaemia & lymphomas Approved 2006 A:Oct05 Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second-line therapy Approved A:Jan06 A:Nov98 GSK Annual Report 2005 12 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued Estimated ling dates Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Respiratory 256066 PDE IV inhibitor inhaled asthma, COPD & allergic rhinitis I 656398 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD I 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor oral COPD also atherosclerosis & rheumatoid arthritis I 870086 novel glucocorticoid agonist asthma I 961081 muscarinic antagonist, beta2 agonist COPD I 159797 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 159802 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 233705 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD II 597901 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 642444 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 678007 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor oral COPD also rheumatoid arthritis & atherosclerosis II 685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma & COPD in combination with a long-acting II beta2 agonist also allergic rhinitis 799943 glucocorticoid agonist asthma & COPD in combination with a long-acting II beta2 agonist mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody asthma & nasal polyposis also hypereosinophilic syndrome II & eosinophilic esophagitis Avamys Allermist glucocorticoid agonist allergic rhinitis III 2006 2006 Seretide Advair beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid COPD mortality claim III 2006 2006 Seretide beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid asthma initial maintenance therapy Submitted S:Aug04 N A Ario PDE IV inhibitor oral COPD Approvable AL:Oct03 Seretide Advair beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid asthma non-CFC inhaler Approved A:Jun00 AL:Oct01 & Oct02 Paediatric Vaccines Hib-MenCY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y disease & II Haemophilus inuenzae type b disease prophylaxis MenACWY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease II prophylaxis Globorix conjugated diptheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, Haemophilus lll 2006 inuenzae type b disease, Neisseria meningitis groups A & C disease prophylaxis Streptorix conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis for children lll 2007 Priorix-Tetra live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella & varicella prophylaxis Submitted S:Apr04 Rotarix live attenuated oral rotavirus induced gastroenteritis prophylaxis Submitted S:Dec04 Menitorix conjugated Neisseria meningitis group C disease & Haemophilus Approved A:Dec05 inuenzae type b disease prophylaxis Other Vaccines HIV recombinant HIV infection prophylaxis l S. pneumoniae elderly recombinant S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis l S. pneumoniae paediatric recombinant S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis l PGCvax Varicella Zoster virus recombinant Varicella Zoster prevention l Tuberculosis recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis I II Dengue fever attenuated tetravalent vaccine Dengue fever prophylaxis ll Epstein-Barr virus recombinant EBV infection prophylaxis ll Flu improved inactivated split-adjuvanted inuenza prophylaxis ll Flu intranasal FluINsure inactivated split-adjuvanted inuenza prophylaxis ll Hepatitis E virus recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis ll Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis ll Cervarix recombinant human papilloma virus infection prophylaxis lll 2006 2006 Fluviral inactivated split inuenza prophylaxis lll 2006 Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis lll Flu pandemic inactivated whole-aluminium salt adjuvant inuenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Dec05 Pharmaccines P501 recombinant treatment of prostate cancer l Her2 recombinant treatment of breast cancer l II MAGE-3 recombinant treatment of non-small cell lung cancer & melanoma ll GSK Annual Report 2005 13 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Achieve commercial and operational excellence GSK undertakes a range of activities to maximise the commercial Consumer Healthcare marketing excellence potential of its intellectual property, by introducing innovative products The structure of this business was redesigned in 2004 in order to focus into as many markets as possible, accelerating the process of bringing on brands and their growth opportunities.
For those brands that have new products to market, increasing brand recognition and ensuring sales in multiple markets a new team called the Future group has that patients have access to new medicines.
Both the pharmaceutical been created to develop a global approach to support these global and consumer healthcare businesses focus on ways to improve brands.
For those brands that are large and marketed in several existing performance through commercial and operational excellence territories, but generally with one lead market, one anchor market initiatives.
Some of these are: team leads development of these lead market brands.
The remaining valuable local brands are managed through a new model, which Worldwide pharmaceutical sales force excellence retains local responsibility for the brand, communications and GSKs sales force has always ranked high on surveys with healthcare innovation.
These local enterprise brands are also supported globally professionals.
Worldwide sales force excellence WSFE aims to and regionally to ensure the application of best practice and cross improve customer satisfaction even further.
The time available for physicians to learn about new medicines and Maintaining high standards clinical studies is precious.
Through the WSFE initiative, sales GSK expects employees to meet high ethical standards in all aspects representatives strengthen product knowledge and learn to deliver of business by conducting activities with honesty and integrity, patient-specic treatment options more efficiently and more adhering to corporate responsibility principles and complying with effectively.
Research shows that a sales visit is highly effective when a applicable laws and regulations.
GSK audits its operations to ensure representative engages the physician in dialogue around patient types relevant standards expected, such as those in marketing practices, and supports the message with visual aids that illustrate clinical results.
The Group has introduced a single global sales call model that focuses Commitment to the GSK Code of Conduct is reinforced each year by on treating the patient through a dialogue about when a GSK a senior management certication programme, and in 2005 over medicine is appropriate, why it is effective and how to administer 12,000 managers certied they had complied with Performance it safely.
All eld people in the Groups key markets had been trained with Integrity principles.
The entire sales organisation is now involved in WSFE to bring about a cultural change Patient advocacy that raises ethical standards and helps build long-term, trusting The Patient advocacy initiative has demonstrated significant progress relationships with the healthcare community.
The rationale for the strategy centres on enhancing access for the Groups medicines by connecting with Pharmaceutical marketing excellence patient groups to ensure that they are informed of disease treatments, Large numbers of patients suffering the effects of their disease as well as improving GSKs reputation as a patient-centric group.
continue to be unable to benefit from innovative medicines and treatments.
One of GSKs goals is to provide accurate and balanced Initially launched as a US programme, it is now a critical initiative in information on the Groups products to allow as many people as strategic plans throughout the world.
Patient advocacy teams in the possible to benefit from GSKs medical advances.
For example within USA and Europe have shared best practices and established processes Europe, around 50% of patients suffering from Chronic Obstructive to optimise interaction with patient groups.
In 2005, Patient advocacy Pulmonary Disease COPD are diagnosed and, of those, only 60% Leaders Summits were held in the USA, Europe and Canada, with receive regular maintenance drug therapy.
GSKs marketing initiative over 1,000 patient advocates attending GSK sponsored meetings implements programmes to overcome the barriers to proper diagnosis throughout the world.
Two diabetes summits were held with minority and treatment.
As these programmes begin to show effects, the legislative groups in the USA in the hopes of developing a base for societal costs of disease will decrease.
To the extent that a GSK product future legislation and awareness activities.
is chosen for patients treatment, the Group will benefit as well.
Vision Factory Marketing codes GSK introduced the Vision Factory initiative in Global Manufacturing GSK is committed to ethical, responsible and patient-centred and Supply which is identifying improvements in productivity and cost marketing.
The Groups Pharmaceutical Marketing and Promotional reduction.
This will increase operational excellence in the Activity policy governs marketing activities and apply to all manufacturing operations to ensure product quality and patient safety employees, suppliers, contractors and agents.
This policy requires are paramount.
that all marketing and promotional activities are based on valid Procurement scientific evidence, and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
GSK non-production operations are supported by a number of third This policy is supported by regional marketing practices codes in party purchases: worldwide this covers all areas including media, Europe, GSKs International region, Japan and the USA.
These codes travel, R&D, IT and marketing.
These purchases are managed by apply the same ethical standards but reect differences in market procurement, on behalf of their internal customers, and covers structures, national healthcare systems and regulations.
They assurance of supply, service, quality, cost and innovation.
Widely incorporate the principles of industry codes of practice such as the recognised by industry analysts as a global best practice leader, European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries Associations, the procurement works collaboratively with the business to develop and International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations, implement sourcing strategy that ensures GSK receives best value Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and Pharmaceutical when buying goods and services.
Research and Manufacturers of America marketing codes.
GSK Annual Report 2005 14 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Improve access to medicines While much was achieved in 2005, sustainable progress will only occur Access to healthcare in the developing world if the significant barriers that stand in the way of better access to Access to healthcare in developing countries remains a major healthcare are tackled as a shared responsibility by all sectors of global challenge to the global community.
The problem, which is rooted in society governments, international agencies, charities, academic poverty and a lack of political will, continues to demand a significant institutions, the pharmaceutical industry and others.
mobilisation of resources and a true spirit of partnership.
GSK continues to play a vital role, through its commitment to R&D into Access to medicines in the developed world diseases particularly prevalent in the developing world, through its programme of preferential pricing for its anti-retrovirals ARVs, antiProgrammes in the USA malarials and vaccines, through its community investment GSK is working to provide meaningful access to medicines for people programmes and through its willingness to seek innovative solutions, with limited financial resources and without prescription drug such as voluntary licencing arrangements.
In 2005, GSKs US patient assistance programs provided $464 million worth of medicines, valued at wholesale acquisition cost, Preferential pricing programme to 565,000 qualifying low income US residents.
GSK has offered its vaccines to key organisations for vaccination For uninsured Americans who do not qualify for Medicare or programmes in developing countries at preferential prices for over Medicaid, GSK and 11 other pharmaceutical companies created 20 years.
The Group also sets a single not-for-profit price for each Together Rx Access, a programme for qualied individuals offering of its ARVs and anti-malarials to a wide range of customers in the reductions in the usual pharmacy cost on more than 275 medicines.
Least Developed Countries UN denition and sub-Saharan Africa, Launched in 2005, there are over 353,000 Together Rx Access as well as Country Coordinating Mechanism-projects fully funded cardholders, who saved about $10.1 million in 2005. by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria and the US Presidents Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief PEPFAR.
GSK participates in the Partnership for Prescription Assistance PPA, the largest national programme dedicated to helping people in need GSK is committed to contributing to health improvements in a access prescription medicines.
PPA has matched more than one million sustainable manner.
The prices for its ARVs and anti-malarials are US patients in need to programs providing significant help.
GSK and therefore set at levels at which no profit is made, but direct costs are other US pharmaceutical companies launched the program in 2005 covered, allowing supply to be sustained for as long as required.
in partnership with healthcare, physician and patient advocacy During 2005, GSK shipped to developing countries over 45 million organisations.
tablets of  Combivir and over 81 million tablets of  Epivir.
Programmes in other countries The Group has also introduced Orange Cards providing discounts The offer of not-for-profit prices requires a sustainable framework, on certain GSK prescription medicines for eligible patients in Bulgaria, combining GSKs commitment to preferential pricing with Lithuania and Ukraine.
The nature of the discounts varies between commitments from governments of the developed world to avoid countries, depending on the needs of the patient and the way in price referencing against preferentially priced medicines and to help which the healthcare system operates.
GSK has taken steps to minimise the threat of diversion.
Retrovir syrup, Epivir solution, Combivir, Epivir Preparing for a u pandemic tablet and Trizivir are now available in special access packs in more The Group is committed to doing everything it can to support than 50 countries.
Differentiated red as opposed to traditional governments and health authorities around the world in planning white Combivir and Epivir tablets are now registered across a responses to a possible global inuenza pandemic.
GSK was the first number of International markets.
GSK is the only company to have company to submit a mock-up dossier to the EMEA to apply for registered its ARVs under the European Unions Anti-Diversion a pandemic inuenza vaccine marketing authorisation in the EU, Regulation.
During 2005, it also continued to encourage other which allows for an accelerated final registration once a pandemic countries to take the necessary steps to ensure the introduction is declared.
GSK is also developing an H5N1 prototype pandemic and strict enforcement of appropriate anti-diversion measures.
vaccine and clinical trials testing of this vaccine against the H5N1 u strain are taking place in 2006.
To increase the performance of its Innovative solutions prototype pandemic vaccine, GSK has developed an innovative GSK has shown industry leadership in granting voluntary licences to adjuvant that may allow lower amounts of antigen to be used, which seven generic companies for the manufacture and supply of ARVs to is essential for manufacturing large number of doses in the event of both the public and private sectors in sub-Saharan Africa.
Looking ahead GSK will continue to build on its products, pricing and partnership commitments to help improve healthcare in the developing world.
However, a significant increase in funding from the global community is still needed.
It is also important to maintain incentives for R&D through protection of intellectual property.
GSK Annual Report 2005 15 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Be the best place for the best people to do their best work The Group is committed to employment policies free from GlaxoSmithKline people discrimination against potential or existing staff on the grounds of GlaxoSmithKline is committed to creating the best place for the best age, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, faith people to do their best work to deliver the Groups business strategy.
GSK is committed to offering people with disabilities The Group employs over 100,000 people in over 116 countries.
access to the full range of recruitment and career opportunities.
Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become disabled Recruitment, talent management and leadership while working with the Group.
development Attracting the best people in the industry is critical to enhancing and Communication and employee involvement sustaining GSKs performance.
The Groups recruiters in the USA and Good internal communication is important in achieving GSKs business UK are focussed on pro-active identication of talented external objectives as well as creating an open and inclusive work environment.
candidates for key jobs, acting as an internal headhunting function.
There are a range of communication channels to keep employees The annual performance and development planning PDP process up-to-date with GSKs news and enable them to give feedback.
These include: ensures that employees set objectives aligned with corporate strategies, set behavioural goals and create a development plan.
PDPs myGSK, the global intranet site, provides news and updates and a are reviewed throughout the year, culminating with an end of year Q&A section where employees put questions directly to the Chief review that is factored into compensation decisions.
Executive officer and other senior executives.
Up to 100 questions are answered each month.
Behind the News, a section of the GSK The annual talent management cycle identies the highest performing intranet, gives the Groups position on important issues linked to people in each business and function.
Individuals are given feedback press stories about GSK on development needs and key talent is developed through Spirit, GSKs internal magazine, reaches around 50,000 employees exceptional management and leadership programmes for more detail throughout the world four times a year see the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report, exposure to top condential feedback mechanisms enable employees to raise management through programmes such as the Chief Executive Forum concerns.
These include GSKs integrity helpline.
A pool of successors is identied for all Vice-President positions and other critical roles in the organisation.
The Group conducts a Global Leadership Survey GLS every two years.
The last GLS was conducted in 2004 among more than 10,000 Performance and reward managers to gauge opinion on critical issues such as culture and Reward systems are designed to support a culture of high confidence in the Groups future.
Results showed significant performance and to attract and retain the best people.
Performance improvement on 29 of 31 items compared with 2002 results.
based pay, share awards and share options align employee interests Compared with global benchmarks, managers rate highly on fostering with the accomplishment of business targets.
alignment between personal goals and the GlaxoSmithKline mission Business ethics and reputation and fostering an environment of ethics and integrity.
In the survey, Performance with Integrity is central to operating at GSK.
The most 80% of managers were proud to be part of GlaxoSmithKline and recent Global Leadership Survey showed over 90% believe that would gladly refer a friend or family member to work for GSK.
people in their department show commitment to performance with Between Leadership Surveys many business areas conduct surveys of integrity.
To enhance managers and leaders skills a programme on all employees to gauge levels of engagement, satisfaction and ethical decision making was run in 2005, attended by 479 people.
Each business and function has developed action plans Further training in this area is planned for 2006. to address areas for improvement based on results from the GLS and The PDP process includes an assessment of how well employees have these other surveys.
implemented the GSK Spirit the principles used to define the Groups The Group also consults employees on changes that affect them and culture.
This can have a significant impact on bonus payments, discusses developments in the businesses with the European potentially reducing them to zero if an employee is found not to have Employee Forum and similar committees in countries where this is followed the Spirit, and can also affect future career development.
this way the Group holds employees accountable for delivering performance with high standards of integrity to protect and enhance Health and well-being GSKs reputation.
Healthy employees and healthy ways of working contribute to GSKs sustained performance.
Global policies on Employee Health are Diversity supported by mandatory standards that integrate employee health The GSK diversity initiative focuses on improving performance by and safety and environmental requirements.
These standards are responding to the diverse needs of employees, customers and external applied to all the Groups facilities and operations worldwide.
At the third annual Multicultural Marketing and Diversity Awards, 60 entrants from the USA, UK and Continental Europe A commitment to exible working through exi-time, telehighlighted innovative activities that demonstrated business impact.
conferencing, remote working and exible work schedules, recognises In 2005, the global management population was 64.5% male and that employees work best in an environment that helps them integrate 35.5% female.
For more details on diversity measures, see the their work and personal lives.
During 2005 the Groups Employee Employment Practices section of the Corporate Responsibility report.
Health Management function won Personnel Todays Managing Health at Work award in the UK in recognition of its impact in promoting a healthy workplace.
GSK Annual Report 2005 16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Global manufacturing and supply GSK has a large portfolio of products, ranging from tablets and New product and global supply toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over 28,000 different New product and global supply focuses on ensuring that the pack sizes and presentations.
appropriate technical competencies exist to support rapid and successful new product introduction.
It works closely with R&Ds Manufacture of medicines begins with the development of a development team to do this.
It also ensures secure supply of the key therapeutic active ingredient bulk active in a selected formulation.
brands that are sold across many markets and have global distribution.
Global Manufacturing and Supply GMS develops manufacturing This division is the focal point for developing and introducing new processes for full scale volume production of active compounds at secondary manufacturing technologies for GMS.
It co-ordinates with primary manufacturing sites.
Converting active compounds into a Primary supply operations to ensure alignment between the two nished dosage formulation is the responsibility of the secondary divisions and a full value stream approach to introducing new manufacturing sites.
There are eight sites in six countries in New product and GMS operates as a single global network of 80 sites in 37 countries.
Each year GMS produces around 6,000 tonnes of bulk actives and Operational excellence over four billion packs, which are packaged and delivered for sale in GMS has developed a set of measures and a uniform way of working over 160 countries.
Throughout the world it also supports about to drive business improvement.
These activities are mainly focused on 2,000 new product and line extension launches a year.
increasing the quality of products supplied to customers.
Extensive By adopting leading edge practices and developing its people GMS leadership education has been carried out to reinforce a culture of expects to derive benets from: continuous improvement, with staff involved in solving problems in a rigorous, controlled and structured way.
All this has provided the a secure source of supply of high quality products capability to improve signicantly performance, and to accelerate compliance with regulatory requirements and customer expectations delivery of benets across the manufacturing network.
Since the formation of GSK, merger rationalisation and operational Organisation excellence initiatives have reduced the number of manufacturing sites by 35 30%.
Supply divisions There are four supply divisions, with sites grouped together based External suppliers upon common business drivers, areas of expertise and the commercial Manufacturing spends over 2 billion with many external suppliers activities that they support.
These four divisions are described below: every year, including on the purchase of active ingredients, chemical intermediates and part-nished and nished products.
GMS takes Primary supply and Antibiotics appropriate steps to protect its supply chains from any disruption Primary supply and Antibiotics focuses on ensuring the supply of high resulting from interrupted external supply through appropriate stock quality and competitively priced bulk actives and on driving levels, contracting and alternative registered suppliers.
improvements in primary technologies and processes.
It also supports the delivery of maximum value from the antibiotics franchise through Vaccines supply chain a combined primary and secondary approach to cost competitive In Europe, vaccine manufacturing is located primarily at Rixensart and supply and response to market opportunities and customer needs.
Wavre in Belgium, with three other sites in France, Germany and There are 17 sites in eight countries in Primary supply and Antibiotics.
In 2005, GSK strengthened its global production network in North America through three major acquisitions: US based Corixa Consumer Healthcare supply Corporation, which produces an important component in many of Consumer Healthcare supply focuses on delivering high quality, GSKs vaccines under development, a vaccine production site in competitively produced products and offering the capability for rapid Marietta, Pennsylvania and ID Biomedical with u vaccine new product introduction in a highly innovative and competitive manufacturing facilities in Canada.
In Asia, new vaccine production business which has far shorter time frames than pharmaceuticals.
facilities are being built in India and Singapore.
GSKs vaccine division New technologies have become a fundamental platform for lowering also has two joint ventures in China and Russia.
Managing the vaccine costs and providing exibility in operations.
There are 24 sites in 17 supply chain involves anticipating market needs and using a exible countries in Consumer Healthcare supply.
approach to be able to meet uctuations in demand.
These are based Regional pharma supply on forecasts from the different markets and rm orders from health Regional pharma supply focuses on several key activities, the supply authorities for mass vaccination campaigns.
of products that are key in one or more regions, the supply of products Bulk, lling and packaging are carefully balanced and stocking of that are important in a particular market and the tailoring of vaccines helps manage short-term increases in demand.
Such packaging to meet specic local requirements.
A key focus for the increases result from disease outbreaks or increased demand from regional pharma supply team is on reducing costs so that GSK can the public owing to disease awareness campaigns.
compete more effectively in all its markets.
There are 31 sites in 23 countries in Regional pharma supply.
GSK Annual Report 2005 17 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Corporate responsibility and community investment Commit to corporate responsibility Corporate programmes in North America focused on improving GSK is committed to connecting business decisions to ethical, social public education and access to better healthcare for children and and environmental concerns.
Thus, corporate responsibility is an seniors with funding of almost 8 million.
In addition, the Groups integral and embedded part of the way GSK does business.
US-based businesses donated 14 million to regional community activities.
In 2003, GSK published a set of Corporate Responsibility principles to provide guidance on the standards to which the Group is committed.
GSK does not operate a single charitable foundation for its community This sets out the approach to ten areas: standards of ethical conduct, investment programmes, but has a number of country based research and innovation, products and customers, access to foundations.
The grants made by these foundations in 2005 are medicines, employment practices, human rights, community included in the investment total.
investment, caring for the environment, leadership and advocacy, and Global Health Programmes engagement with stakeholders.
The Group reports annually on Eliminating lymphatic lariasis progress in upholding these principles in its Corporate Responsibility The Groups effort to help rid the world of the disabling disease, Report, which is available on the website at www.
lymphatic lariasis LF, continued in close partnership with the Partnership success governments of countries where the disease is endemic, the WHO GSK works as a partner with under-served communities in the and over 40 partner organisations.
GSK is committed to donate as developed and developing world.
It supports programmes that are much of the anti-parasitic drug albendazole as required to treat the innovative and sustainable and that bring real benets to these one billion people at risk in 80 countries by 2020.
The Group engages with numerous external million albendazole treatments, worth over 14 million at wholesale stakeholders, funds community-led initiatives around the world and acquisition cost, were donated to 36 countries.
Since the global donates medicines to support humanitarian efforts and community elimination programme started in 2000, a cumulative total of 442 based healthcare.
million albendazole treatments have been donated and the programme is now reaching over 100 million people.
During 2005, Community investment GSK opened a new $3 million manufacturing facility in Cape Town, GSKs global community investment activities in 2005 were valued South Africa to produce albendazole.
at 380 million, equivalent to 5.6% of Group profit before tax.
This Positive Action on HIV AIDS comprised product donations of 296 million, cash giving of 61 Positive Action is GSKs pioneering global programme working with million, other in-kind donations of 2 million and costs of 21 communities affected by AIDS.
Started in 1992, it supports million to manage and deliver community programmes in more than community-based organisations to deliver effective HIV and AIDS 100 countries.
education, prevention and healthcare services.
During 2005, Positive Product donations in 2005 were as follows: Action worked with 29 partners to support programmes in 30 countries.
The programme also supported the participation of 1.
Product donations community involvement at regional and international AIDS 3 2 conferences.
1 Patient Assistance Programs 255 million The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership Since 2002, this partnership has supported three behavioural 2 Albendazole for LF 14 million development programmes working in eight African countries.
The 3 Humanitarian Product Donations programmes are targeting nearly two million people and focus 27 million particularly on young children and pregnant women, encouraging 1 effective prevention measures, prompt treatment and antenatal malaria management.
Extending this programme in 2005, the Group GSKs cash giving was targeted primarily at health and education announced a three-year grant of 900,000 to the Malaria initiatives.
Consortium for a new initiative Mobilising for Malaria.
Breakdown of cash giving increased and sustained advocacy activities in the UK, Europe and African countries, the programme aims to increase awareness of 5 malaria and mobilise resources.
1 Health 40% PHASE 1 2 Education 35% 4 3 The PHASE initiative Personal Hygiene And Sanitation Education, 3 Arts and Culture 3% initiated by GSK in 1998, is now providing education to thousands 4 Environment 1% of school children in Kenya, Uganda, Zambia, Nicaragua and Peru 5 Other 21% to improve their health and hygiene to ght infectious diseases.
In 2 2005 the Group committed three year funding of 300,000 to extend the programme to Bangladesh in partnership with Save the In the UK, GSK contributed 4 million in 2005 to its continuing Children, USA.
corporate programme of charitable activities supporting over 80 organisations in health, medical research, science education, the arts and the environment.
In addition, Group companies in the UK provided a further 8 million for charitable purposes.
GSK Annual Report 2005 18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Corporate responsibility and community investment continued Humanitarian product donations GSK continued to support the Innovative Scheme for Post-docs in During 2005, GSK donated essential products, such as antibiotics, Research and Education INSPIRE, developed in partnership with through non-profit partners including AmeriCares, MAP International Imperial College London and the Specialist Schools and Academies and Project HOPE, to support humanitarian relief efforts and Trust, with a 1 million donation over four years.
In December 2004, medicines donated by the post-doctoral researchers in specialist science schools to assist with Group were among the first to be shipped to support the south Asia science teaching.
In 2005, GSK continued to donate these lifeScience in the Summer, a free library-based science education saving medicines to tsunami-affected countries and to those affected programme in the Philadelphia area teaching basic scientific concepts, by other disasters, including hurricanes in the USA.
continued to receive support with a grant of $300,000.
Science Across In 2005 the total value of the Groups international humanitarian the World is an award-winning international education programme product donations was 27 million.
This excludes albendazole donated that uses web-based resources to promote discussion of science issues as part of the Groups commitment to the lymphatic lariasis between 3,600 teachers, 100,000 children and schools in more than 115 countries.
A further grant of 110,000 was made in 2005 elimination programme.
Product donations are valued at wholesale bringing GSKs total contribution to this programme to 670,000 over acquisition cost which is the wholesale list price, not including five years.
discounts, and is a standard industry method.
Community initiatives Employee involvement GSK is dedicated to strengthening the fabric of communities where GSK employees are encouraged to contribute to their local we live and work through providing health and education initiatives communities through employee volunteering schemes.
Support and support for local civic and cultural institutions that improve the varies around the world, but includes employee time, cash quality of life.
donations to charities where employees volunteer and a matching gifts programme.
GSKs contribution to improve healthcare includes a new grant of In 2005 in the USA, the Group matched more than 20,000 employee $2.65 million over three years to the Childrens Health Fund to expand and retiree gifts at a value of over $5 million.
The Group also matched their Referral Management Initiative RMI to sites in Philadelphia, more than $1.3 million of employee donations to GSKs annual including the Delaware Valley Community Health Center.
The RMI United Way campaign.
GSKs GIVE program provided grants of over ensures continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk children who $300,000 to more than 350 organisations where US employees have are often homeless.
The annual Impact Awards recognise excellence in the work of nonprofit community health organisations across the UK and in the GSKs Making a Difference programme in the UK provided grants of Greater Philadelphia area of the USA.
Over 20 charities receive almost 300,000 to over 440 non-profit organisations and registered unrestricted awards for their work dealing with diverse issues such as charities based on employee involvement.
domestic and community violence, sexual health services for young people and bereavement and counselling services.
To further medical research, over 470,000 was provided to four UK medical charities, The Alzheimers Research Trust, The British Liver Trust, Meningitis UK and The Samantha Dickson Research Trust for childhood brain tumours.
As part of GSKs support for the arts, the Group sponsored the popular Gardens of Glass: Chihuly at Kew, an innovative exhibition of the work of Dale Chihuly, the contemporary glass artist, at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew near London.
Education initiatives GSKs efforts to improve public and science education included a three-year grant of $300,000 to the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards to increase the number of science teachers pursuing certication in the North Carolina and Philadelphia areas.
During 2005 GSK led a group of companies to come together to create the US Business Education Network BEN.
BEN is a new business coalition staffed by the Center for Corporate Citizenship of the US Chamber of Commerce, and is dedicated to harnessing the power of the business community to address issues facing the US education system.
GSK Annual Report 2005 19 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Products and competition Anti-virals Pharmaceutical products Combivir, a combination of Retrovir and Epivir, has consolidated the GlaxoSmithKlines principal pharmaceutical products are currently position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the directed to nine therapeutic areas.
An analysis of sales by these cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens.
Physician therapeutic areas, and a description of the principal products, are acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed on minimising set out below: the pill burden faced by patients.
2005 2004 2003 Ziagen is a reverse transcriptase inhibitor.
The products potency, ease Turnover by therapeutic area m m m of use and resistance prole allow it to play a significant role in a Respiratory 5,054 4,394 4,390 variety of highly active, well tolerated and simplied HIV treatment Central nervous system 3,219 3,462 4,446 regimens.
Anti-virals 2,598 2,359 2,345 Trizivir is a combination of Combivir and Ziagen, combining three antiAnti-bacterials anti-malarials 1,519 1,547 1,800 HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice daily administration.
Metabolic 1,495 1,251 1,077 Vaccines 1,389 1,194 1,121 Epzicom Kivexa, approved for use in the USA and Europe, is a Oncology and emesis 1,016 934 1,000 combination of Epivir and Ziagen that is taken as one tablet with Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,331 932 770 once-daily dosing for HIV AIDS in combination with at least one other Other 1,040 1,027 1,165 anti-HIV drug.
18,661 17,100 18,114 Lexiva Telzir is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV that is well tolerated and more convenient than Agenerase which it Sales in 2005 were 8% higher in CER terms and 9% in sterling terms supersedes.
Lexiva may be taken twice daily or once daily when than in 2004. boosted with ritonavir.
Products and all their formulations may not be approved for all Zefx has been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China and indications in all markets where they are available.
other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
Respiratory Valtrex is a treatment for episodic genital herpes as well as the long Seretide Advair, a combination of Serevent and Flixotide, offers a longterm suppression and reduction of transmission of genital herpes, acting bronchodilator and an anti-inammatory in a single inhaler.
It zoster shingles, cold sores and chicken pox.
Valtrex supersedes is approved for the treatment of asthma and COPD.
Zovirax, which is also used to treat herpes infections.
Flixotide Flovent and Becotide Beclovent are inhaled steroids for the Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials treatment of inammation associated with asthma and COPD.
Augmentin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the treatment of a wide range of common bacterial infections and is particularly Serevent is a long-acting bronchodilator used to treat asthma and effective against respiratory tract infections.
Augmentin ES-600 is an COPD, and Ventolin is a selective short-acting bronchodilator used to extra strength suspension specifically designed to treat children with treat bronchospasm.
recurrent or persistent middle ear infections.
Augmentin XR is an extra Flixonase Flonase and Beconase are steriod intra-nasal preparations for strength tablet form for adults to combat difficult to treat infections.
the treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis.
Zinnat is an oral antibiotic used primarily for community-acquired Central nervous system CNS infections of the lower respiratory tract.
Seroxat Paxil is a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor SSRI for the Malarone is an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and treatment of depression, panic, obsessive compulsive disorder, post prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum.
traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder and generalised anxiety disorder.
Lapdap is an effective and well tolerated therapy for the treatment of malaria, which has been developed through a public private Wellbutrin is an anti-depressant, available in the USA and some collaboration.
international markets in normal, sustained-release SR and once daily formulations.
Imigran Imitrex is a 5HT1 receptor agonist used for the treatment of severe or frequent migraine and cluster headache and has become the reference product in this sector.
Naramig Amerge is a newer migraine product.
Lamictal, a well established treatment for epilepsy, is now also indicated for bipolar disorder.
Requip is a specic dopamine D2 D3 receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinsons disease and is the first approved product for Restless Leg Syndrome RLS.
GSK Annual Report 2005 20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Products and competition continued Metabolic Oncology and emesis Avandia is a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the Zofran is used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes.
chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in both oral and injectable forms.
It is also approved for use in the Avandamet is a combination of Avandia and metformin HCI: it is the prevention and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting.
first medicine that targets insulin resistance and decreases glucose production in one convenient pill.
Hycamtin is a second line treatment both for ovarian cancer and for small cell lung cancer.
Avandaryl is a xed-dosed combination of Avandia and Amaryl, a Sano-Aventis product.
Bexxar is a treatment for patients with CD20 follicular, nonHodgkins lymphoma with and without transformation whose Bonviva Boniva is a once-monthly oral bisphosphonate for the disease is refractory to rituximab and who have relapsed following treatment of osteoporosis.
It was launched in the USA and several chemotherapy.
Cardiovascular and urogenital Vaccines Coreg is an alpha beta blocker which has been proven to be effective GSK markets over 25 vaccines worldwide.
In GSKs hepatitis vaccines in treating patients with mild, moderate and severe heart failure, heart range, Havrix protects against hepatitis A and Engerix-B against attack or hypertension.
GSK has sole marketing rights in the USA and hepatitis B. Canada.
Generic versions of the product are available in Canada.
Twinrix is the only available combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, Levitra is a PDE-5 inhibitor indicated for male erectile dysfunction.
protecting against both diseases with one vaccine and available in GSK has co-promotion rights in the USA and more than 20 other both adult and paediatric strengths.
In 2005, GSK received European markets.
approval for Fendrix, a vaccine to prevent hepatitis B in patients with renal insufficiency including high-risk groups such as preAvodart is a 5-ARI inhibitor currently indicated for benign prostatic haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients, from 15 years of age hyperplasia.
A large clinical outcome study is underway examining its onwards.
efcacy in the prevention of prostate cancer.
Fluarix is indicated for prevention of certain types of inuenza.
It is Arixtra and Fraxiparine were acquired in 2004 as part of the distributed in 79 countries and was approved in the USA in 2005. divestitures required for the merger of Sano and Aventis.
Fluarix is the first vaccine to receive FDA approval under the agencys Arixtra, a selective Factor Xa inhibitor, is indicated for the prophylaxis accelerated approval regulations.
of deep vein thrombosis, which may lead to pulmonary embolism, in Infanrix is GSKs range of paediatric vaccine combinations.
Infanrix hip fracture surgery, knee replacement, hip replacement surgery and provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis abdominal surgery.
It is also indicated for the treatment of deep vein whooping cough.
Infanrix PeNta Pediarix provides additional thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.
protection against hepatitis B and polio, and Infanrix hexa further Fraxiparine is a low-molecular weight heparin indicated for adds protection against Haemophilus inuenzae type b, which is a prophylaxis of thromboembolic disorders particularly deep vein cause of meningitis.
In 2005, GSK launched Boostrix in the USA, a thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in general surgery and in vaccine that adds protection against pertussis whooping cough to orthopedic surgery, treatment of deep vein thrombosis and the routine tetanus diptheria booster administered to teenagers.
prevention of clotting during hemodialysis.
GSK also markets Priorix, a measles, mumps and rubella vaccine, Integrilin is a GP IIb-IIIa inhibitor, approved in the EU for the Typherix, a vaccine for protection against typhoid fever, and Varilrix, prevention of early myocardial infarction in patients with unstable a vaccine against varicella or chicken pox.
In addition, the Group angina or non-Q-wave MI.
markets a range of vaccines to prevent meningitis under the umbrella name Mencevax.
GSK recently received approval in the Other UK for a new Hib-MenC vaccine, Menitorix.
GSKs meningitis This category includes Betnovate, the higher potency Dermovate and vaccine portfolio wil be complimented by new meningitis conjugate the newer Cutivate, which are anti-inammatory steroid products vaccines in the near future.
used to treat skin diseases such as eczema and psoriasis, Relafen, a non-steroidal anti-inammatory drug for the treatment of arthritis, As part of its paediatric franchise, GSK has also developed a vaccine and Zantac, for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and a range against rotavirus induced gastroenteritis.
Since its launch in Mexico in of gastric acid related disorders.
2005, Rotarix has been licensed in several additional countries worldwide among them a number of Latin American countries including Brazil, with the Philippines and Singapore being the first Asian countries.
GSK Annual Report 2005 21 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Products and competition continued Anti-virals Pharmaceuticals competition GSK is a pioneer in the HIV market, launching AZT Retrovir in 1987 The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.
GSKs principal and Epivir in 1995, which today are available as Combivir in a single competitors range from small to large international pharmaceutical tablet, a cornerstone of HIV combination therapy.
The launches of companies with substantial resources.
Some of these companies and Ziagen, Agenerase, Trizivir, Lexiva and Epzicom have broadened their major products are mentioned below.
the Groups portfolio of HIV products.
Major competitors in the HIV market include Gilead, Bristol Myers Squibb, Abbott, Merck and Pzer.
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other products during the period of patent protection and, once off patent, from Valtrex has strengthened the Groups position in the anti-herpes area, generic versions.
The manufacturers of generic products typically where GSKs Valtrex and Zovirax compete with Novartis Famvir.
do not bear significant research and development or education and Valtrex is the market leader, whilst Zovirax faces competition from marketing development costs and consequently are able to offer their generic acyclovir.
In the hepatitis B market, GSKs Zefx was the first products at considerably lower prices than the branded competitors.
Gileads Hepsera was the second.
The Group A research and development based pharmaceutical company will has secured marketing rights to Hepsera in some key markets.
normally seek to achieve a sufciently high profit margin and sales Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials volume during the period of patent protection to repay the original Generic versions of both Augmentin and Ceftin Zinnat are available investment, which is generally substantial, and to fund research for the in the USA.
Augmentin also faces generic competition in various future.
Competition from generic products generally occurs as patents European countries.
Augmentin XR and Augmentin ES compete in major markets expire.
Increasingly patent challenges are made prior against a broad range of other branded and generic antibiotics.
to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent is not valid and or Malarones safety prole and convenient dosing regimen have that it is not infringed by the generic product.
Following loss of patent helped put this product in a strong position versus meoquine for protection, generic products rapidly capture a large share of the malaria prophylaxis.
market, particularly in the USA.
GSK believes that remaining competitive is dependent upon the Metabolic discovery and development of new products, together with effective The major competitor for Avandia is Takeda Chemicals Actos, which marketing of existing products.
Within the pharmaceutical industry, is co-promoted with Eli Lilly in the USA.
the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may Monthly Boniva Bonviva competes with Mercks weekly Fosamax and affect pricing levels or result in changing patterns of product use.
Proctor & Gamble Sano-Aventiss weekly Actonel.
Generic Fosamax There can be no assurance that products will not become outmoded, alendronate is available in a few markets such as the UK and Canada.
notwithstanding patent or trademark protection.
In addition, increased government and other pressures for physicians and Vaccines patients to use generic pharmaceuticals, rather than brand-name The vaccine market is dominated by four key players.
GSKs major medicines, may increase competition for products that are no longer competitors include Sano Pasteur SP, Merck and Wyeth.
In the protected by patent.
hepatitis market, Engerix-B and Havrix compete with vaccines produced by SP and Merck respectively Comvax and Recombivax HB Respiratory for hepatitis B, and Vaqta and Avaxim for hepatitis A.
Within the GSKs respiratory franchise is driven by the growth of Seretide Advair, paediatric vaccine eld, Infanrixs main competitor is SPs range of gaining patients from competitor products and the cannibalisation of DTPa-based combination vaccines, although the Infanrix hexa Serevent and Flixotide Flovent.
Major respiratory competitors are combination is the only available hexavalent paediatric combination Singulair from Merck, especially in the USA and in Europe, Symbicort in Europe.
from AstraZeneca and Spiriva from Pzer Boehringer Ingelheim.
Oncology and emesis CNS disorders Zofran presently provides GSK with a leadership position in the antiMajor competitors in the USA to Paxil are its generic forms, as well emetic market where competitor companies include Roche, Sanoas generic uoxetine, the generic form of Eli Lillys Prozac, Zoloft from Aventis and more recently MGI and Merck.
Major competitors in the Pzer, Forest Laboratories Celexa and Lexapro, and Effexor from diverse cytotoxic market include Bristol Myers Squibb, Sano-Aventis, Wyeth.
The principal competitors in the USA for Wellbutrin are Pzer and Novartis.
GSKs cytotoxic portfolio, led by Hycamtin, generic forms of bupropion, the generic forms of SSRIs and Effexor currently holds a relatively small market position.
Paxil CR and the once-daily Wellbutrin XL help to retain a strong presence in the anti-depressant market, given the Cardiovascular and urogenital availability of both generic paroxetine and bupropion in the USA.
GSK markets Coreg in the USA where its major competitors are Toprol Generic competition for Seroxat Paxil has also commenced in the XL and generic betablockers.
Avodart competes directly with Mercks UK and a number of other markets.
Proscar within the BPH market.
The Group has co-promotion rights in the USA for Levitra, which faces competition from Pzers Viagra and Lilly Icos Cialis.
GSK Annual Report 2005 22 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Products and competition continued Oral care Consumer Healthcare products The leading Oral care products are toothpastes and mouthwashes GlaxoSmithKlines principal consumer healthcare products are in three under the Aquafresh, Sensodyne, Macleans and Odol brand names, major areas.
An analysis of sales by these areas is set out below: and a range of toothbrushes sold under the Aquafresh and Dr Best names.
In addition, denture care products are available principally 2005 2004 2003 under the Polident, Poligrip and Corega brand names.
m m m Nutritional healthcare OTC medicines 1,437 1,400 1,472 The leading products in this category are Lucozade glucose energy Oral care 943 913 915 and sports drinks, Ribena, a blackcurrant juice-based drink rich in Nutritional healthcare 619 573 569 vitamin C, and Horlicks, a range of milk-based malted food and 2,999 2,886 2,956 chocolate drinks.
In 2005 sales were 2% higher in CER terms and 4% higher in sterling Consumer Healthcare competition terms than in 2004.
GSK holds leading global positions in all its key consumer product Major products, which are not necessarily sold in all markets, are: areas.
Worldwide it is the third largest in Oral care and in OTC Category Product medicines.
In Nutritional healthcare it holds the leading position in the UK, India and Ireland.
Over-the-counter medicines Analgesics Panadol The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business Dermatologicals Zovirax operates has become ever more challenging: Abreva consumers are demanding better quality, better value and improved Gastro-intestinal Tums performance Citrucel Respiratory tract Contac retailers have consolidated and globalised which has strengthened Beechams their negotiation power Smoking control Commit competitors are nding conditions equally challenging and Nicorette competing more aggressively across all elements of the marketing NicoDerm CQ mix NiQuitin CQ Nicabate CQ cycle times for innovation have been reduced.
Natural wellness support Abtei The main competitors include the major international companies Oral care Aquafresh Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, Pzer, Procter & Gamble, Dr Best Unilever and Wyeth.
In addition, there are many other companies Macleans that compete with GSK in certain markets.
Odol Odol Med 3 The major competitor products in OTC medicines are: Polident in the USA: Metamucil laxative, Pepcid indigestion and private Poligrip label smoking control products Sensodyne in the UK: Lemsip cold remedy, Nurofen and Anadin analgesics, Nutritional healthcare Lucozade and Nicorette and Nicotinell smoking control treatments.
Ribena Horlicks In Oral care the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolives Colgate and Procter & Gambles Crest.
Over-the-counter medicines In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks are Ovaltine The leading products are Panadol, a widely available paracetamol and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks.
The competitors to acetominophen analgesic, Nicorette gum in the USA, the NicoDerm, Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products, while Lucozade NiQuitin CQ and Nicabate range of smoking control products, Tums, competes with other energy drinks.
a calcium-based antacid, Citrucel laxative, Contac for the treatment of colds, Abtei, a natural medicines and vitamin range, and Zovirax and Abreva for the treatment of cold sores.
GSK Annual Report 2005 23 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Regulatory environment Recent government healthcare reforms in countries such as France, Regulation Pharmaceuticals Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
GSK operates within a highly regulated environment.
Regional and country-specic laws and regulations define the data required to show In the USA, recent legislation on healthcare reform, cross-border safety and efcacy of pharmaceutical products, as well as govern trade, the acceleration of generics to market and increased patient testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of drugs.
contributions have further increased the focus on pricing.
Currently, These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining there are no government price controls over private sector whether a marketable product may be successfully developed and purchases, but federal law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers the amount of time and expense associated with this development.
to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs in order to be eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid and other federal healthcare In Europe, pharmaceutical rms and regulators are managing a programmes.
transition following the implementation of new medicines legislation Medicare at the end of 2005. significant changes are being implemented in a In 2006, the US Medicare program, a federally funded healthcare number of areas, including approval procedures, post marketing insurance program benefiting senior citizens and certain disabled requirements, manufacturing controls on active ingredients and Americans, included coverage for prescription medicines.
This is a excipients, labelling requirements, pharmacovigilance processes and new benefit under the Medicare program and the most dramatic an increased emphasis in involvement and availability of information change in the program since its inception in the 1960s.
The coverage for patients in the EU.
is voluntary, includes brand-name and generic drugs and is open to The climate of change will continue, with the expectation that a new the 41 million Americans with Medicare coverage.
Paediatric Regulation will be nalised in 2006, stimulating industry A number of competing private organisations provide the new benefit research into paediatric indications, via intellectual property incentives.
with premiums subsidised by the government.
Benets must satisfy The European Medicines Agency EMEA has published the final a minimum standard outlined in federal law.
While the law provides version of its Road Map, a strategic plan to 2010.
This will be an incentives for manufacturers to negotiate prices with private plans, it additional driver for change, covering areas such as new technologies, does not provide for government price controls.
The government innovative development approaches and enhanced provision of provides additional help to more than 14 million people on Medicare agency advice during the development process.
with limited incomes and resources.
Those qualifying beneciaries pay no or reduced premiums and deductibles, and low copayments In the USA, safety issues of prescription drugs are a primary focus of for their prescriptions.
the FDA and congressional oversight committees since the recent withdrawal of several products from the market for safety reasons.
Value for money GSK is working closely with the FDA to assess any impact this will It is increasingly necessary to demonstrate the value for money of have on any of its own current development programmes.
In particular, the impact on drug budget expenditure Europe, evaluation of benefit and risk continues to be an important and the burden of the disease that will be treated must be apparent.
consideration for approval of a new drug by the FDA.
In some markets, this requirement to satisfy healthcare purchasers as The FDA has introduced a new focus called the Critical Path Initiative.
to value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for product This is intended to facilitate innovation in drug development, hopefully acceptance over and above the regulatory tests of safety, efcacy and allowing for more rapid development and approval of needed quality.
This may delay bringing effective and improved medicines to medicines.
This initiative will investigate the use of pharmacogenomics the market and reduce their effective patent protection time.
and surrogate markers of efcacy, among other things, such as In many markets, especially in the USA and Europe, it is becoming manufacturing innovations, as tools for rapidly developing and more difficult for even a signicantly improved therapy to obtain a producing safe and effective drugs for unmet medical needs.
The premium price over existing medication.
Value-based pricing may be pharmaceutical industry, including GSK, are collaborating with the difficult to apply in such circumstances, although in the USA it is still FDA and National Institutes of Health in a number of these areas, possible to price products to reect their value.
It is not possible to including the use of biomarkers.
predict whether, and to what extent, the Groups business will be A new health information source has been launched by the US affected by future legislative and regulatory developments relating to government that includes electronic labelling of all approved specic pharmaceutical products or their price.
prescription drugs, posted within one day of an FDA approval action, for immediate access by physicians and patients.
GSK is now providing Regulation Consumer Healthcare labelling to the FDA for all products in this new electronic format.
New The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation for regulations from the FDA will be implemented mid-2006 that will the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of completely change the format of prescribing information in the USA.
In many countries, high standards of technical appraisal GSK is well placed to manage effectively these changes in the external involve a lengthy approval process before a new product is launched.
National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the switch Price controls of products from prescription to OTC.
The requirements include longIn many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are controlled term experience of the quality, safety and efcacy of the product in a by law.
Governments may also influence prices through their control wide patient population and data to confirm that the relevant of national healthcare organisations, which may bear a large part of condition is both self-limiting and easily diagnosed by the consumer.
the cost of supplying products to consumers.
GSK Annual Report 2005 24 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Regulatory environment continued Paxil Seroxat.
The patent on the commercial form of paroxetine is not Intellectual property c due to expire until 2007 USA and 2006 Europe.
Litigation relating Intellectual property is a key business asset for GSK.
The effective legal to the validity and infringement of the patents protecting this product protection of intellectual property is critical in ensuring a reasonable e is ongoing in the USA.
Generic competition has commenced in the return on investment in R&D.
Intellectual property can be protected USA, Europe and certain other markets.
Paxil CR is protected by a by patents, trademarks, registered designs, copyrights and domain formulation patent that is not due to expire until 2012.
Patent and trademark rights are regarded as manufacturer has applied for FDA approval of a generic form of Paxil particularly valuable.
e CR asserting non-infringement of this patent.
In many cases generic manufacturers launch, or attempt to launch, a Requip.
The patent on ropinirole is not due to expire until 2007 USA generic versions of patented drugs prior to normal patent expiry, b and 2008 Europe.
A patent relating to the use of ropinirole in arguing that the relevant patents are invalid and or are not b Parkinsons disease is not due to expire until 2008 USA and 2011 infringed by their product.
significant litigation concerning these Europe.
Litigation challenging the validity of these patents is ongoing challenges is summarised in Note 41 to the f financial statements, e in the USA.
There are no patents on zidovudine.
Patents covering Patents pharmaceutical formulations containing zidovudine and their medical GSKs policy is to obtain patent protection on all significant products use have expired in the USA and will expire in 2006 in Europe.
The patent on the specic combination of salmeterol for new active ingredients is available in all significant markets.
xinafoate and uticasone propionate is not due to expire until 2010 Protection can also be obtained for new pharmaceutical formulations b USA and 2013 Europe.
An application for re-issue of the US patent and manufacturing processes, and for new medical uses and special e has been led by GSK with the US Patent and Trademark Ofce devices for administering products.
In January 2006, the USPTO issued a final ofce action The patent position with respect to the active ingredients in significant rejecting this application.
GSK will seek reconsideration of this products is as follows: e rejection.
The UK patent has been revoked by the UK courts.
The patent on rosiglitazone is not due to on the individual ingredients have expired in the UK.
In the USA, the a, c b expire until 2012 USA and 2013 Europe.
Patents on the patent on salmeterol xinafoate does not expire until 2008. commercial form of the active ingredient rosiglitazone maleate are not Serevent.
The patent on salmeterol xinafoate is not due to expire until b due to expire until 2015 USA and 2014 Europe.
In Europe, the patent has expired, except France challenging the validity of the patents protecting these products is b b 2008 and Italy 2009. e ongoing in the USA.
The patent on the method of treatment using a combination a Avodart.
The patent on dutasteride is not due to expire until 2015 of lamivudine, zidovudine and abacavir does not expire until 2016 b USA and 2017 Europe.
The patent on the specic combination of lamivudine and a Valtrex.
The patent on valaciclovir is not due to expire until 2009 b zidovudine is not due to expire until 2012 USA and 2013 Europe.
Litigation challenging the validity of the Coreg.
GSK is the exclusive licensee under the US patent on carvedilol, e patent protecting this product is ongoing in the USA.
a, c which is not due to expire until 2007.
Wellbutrin SR, Wellbutrin XL and Zyban.
The patent on the active a, c Epivir.
The patent on lamivudine is not due to expire until 2010 ingredient has expired.
There is now generic competition for the b USA and 2011 Europe.
sustained release SR and instant release IR forms in the USA.
In Europe, regulatory data exclusively provides protection until 2009 in Flixotide Flovent and Flixonase Flonase.
The patents on uticasone some markets.
In the USA, Wellbutrin XL is protected by formulation propionate have expired in the EU and USA.
Generic competition to patents that expire in 2018.
Litigation relating to the validity and Flixonase exists in the EU and the FDA recently approved a generic e e infringement of these patents is ongoing in the USA.
version of Flonase in the USA.
The patent on abacavir is not due to expire until 2012 USA Imigran Imitrex.
The patent on sumatriptan is not due to expire until b c b b and 2014 Europe.
2009 USA and generally 2006 Europe, except 2008 Italy.
Litigation challenging the validity of the patent protecting this product Zofran.
The patent on ondansetron has expired in the USA and e is ongoing in the USA.
b b Europe, except France 2007 and Italy 2010.
A patent on use in a, c treating emesis expires in 2006.
Litigation challenging the validity of Lamictal.
The patent on lamotrigine is not due to expire until 2009 e the emesis use patent is ongoing in the USA.
Litigation challenging the validity of this patent in the USA has e been settled.
In Europe, the corresponding patent has expired and a Including patent term restoration under the Hatch-Waxman Act generic competition exists.
b Including extension of term by national or European supplementary protection certicates d Levitra.
GSK has co-promotion rights under the US patent on c Including granted or pending extension of term for paediatric exclusivity vardenal which is not due to expire until 2018 in the USA.
d A registered trademark of Bayer AG e See Note 41 to financial statements Legal proceedings.
GSK is the exclusive licensee under the patent on b fosamprenavir, which is not due to expire until 2017 USA and 2019 Europe.
GSK Annual Report 2005 25 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Description of business Regulatory environment continued Trademarks EHS management All of GSKs pharmaceutical products are protected by registered GSK takes a systematic approach to managing EHS risks and impacts.
There may be local variations, for A framework of information and programmes based on the global example, in the USA the trademark Paxil is used instead of Seroxat EHS standards guides the management of key aspects, impacts and and Advair is used instead of Seretide.
Trademark protection may generally be extended for as long as the EHS audits trademark is used by renewing it when necessary.
GSKs trademarks As part of its governance responsibility, GSK conducts EHS audits of on pharmaceutical products are important for maintaining the brand its sites, assessing performance against the EHS standards and identity of the product upon expiration of the patent.
In 2005, when 36 sites were audited, 70% of these achieved audit scores of 70% or better.
The Consumer Healthcare trademarks are particularly important, as As part of the continuous improvement process, progress was the business is very brand orientated and many products do not have monitored on actions arising from issues raised on all audits.
As part of the commitment to corporate responsibility and the proResponsibility for environment, health and safety active management of the GSK manufacturing and supply base, 41 suppliers were also assessed, representing about 20% of priority Environment, health and safety EHS is a key element of corporate suppliers.
This process evaluated the management of key EHS risks responsibility for the Group and has a high priority.
Responsibility for and impacts, as well as human rights issues, based on the Groups EHS is at the highest level.
There is a corporate group reporting to requirements for priority suppliers.
Recommendations were made for the General Counsel that has overall responsibility for providing improvements where needed.
governance and leadership on EHS issues.
The head of this group makes regular reports to the Corporate Executive Team CET and the EHS targets Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees of the Board of As part of the EHS plan, targets are set every five years and 2005 is Directors.
Within the businesses, operations managers are the end of the first five-year target period.
Targets were set for 10 responsible for EHS and are supported by site-based EHS and environmental measures and for one measure of occupational health occupational health staff.
EHS strategy and plan Progress towards meeting these targets has been tracked every year.
GSK has a strategic planning process for EHS that looks forward 10 Final data for 2005 showing the level of achievement of targets will years but is reviewed every year.
The plan is aligned with the GSK be published on the website www.
significant progress has business drivers and includes both management and performance been made towards achieving eight of the 10 EHS targets with some measures and targets.
Progress has been made in all areas of the plan, of the progress due to outsourcing some processes to contract with particular success in incorporating EHS into the selection and manufacturers.
For hazardous waste disposed and the proportion of management of contract manufacturers and key suppliers, in waste recycled, the targets have not been achieved.
The targets have developing and maintaining an open and effective dialogue with not been achieved because of products transferred to facilities without external stakeholders, in providing EHS data for decision making on appropriate recycling systems in place, other recycling systems that new products and processes and in ensuring safety and health were down for maintenance and new products coming into concerns are properly addressed at GSKs facilities to minimise risk manufacturing.
and avoid disruption of product supply.
Some areas for additional GSK selects its measures of performance improvement based on the focus are driver safety, occupational chemical exposure, machine potential for adverse impact on people or the environment, business guarding, pharmaceuticals in the environment from patient excretion, continuity or business reputation.
Most of the measures selected are energy conservation and the use of hazardous chemicals in similar to those reported by other companies and are recommended manufacturing.
by the Global Reporting Initiative, a long-term, multi-stakeholder, Strategic focus in 2005 international undertaking to develop and disseminate globally The plan provides an area of special focus each year.
In 2005, the applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.
focus was on completing core programmes.
These programmes are Sustainability essential to prevent injury or illness or harm to the environment and In the work towards eventual sustainability, GSK is addressing to ensure the continuity of GSKs business.
Some of them will be economic, environmental and social issues in research, manufacturing, common to all operating locations.
Operations with different risks sales and distribution of its medicines.
Sustainability starts with may have different core needs and therefore different core healthcare solutions found by R&D and continues with sustainable programmes.
For a programme to be complete it must have a solutions in manufacturing and sales.
R&D is considering improving management system in place, acceptable audit scores and acceptable operational efficiency for new products.
In the future, the EHS plan progress against the EHS targets.
for excellence proposes investigating the use of renewable resources There is a need to operate and maintain the programmes, monitor and the overall balance of its impact on society and the environment.
their performance and continually look for improvements.
Progress in The Group seeks dialogue with external stakeholders and considers this strategic focus area may be seen in the audit scores and progress their views when developing approaches to sustainable development.
More information on EHS programmes and performance may be found on the website.
GSK Annual Report 2005 26 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
