Directors and advisors Sir Patrick Brown 65 Christopher Collins 65 Christopher Moyes 56 Advisors Non-executive chairman Non-executive director Group chief executive Stockbroker & Financial Advisor Sir Patrick Brown joined the board in Christopher Collins is a non-executive Christopher Moyes is group chief Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein 1999 as a non-executive director, director and joined the board in executive.
He has been a board PO Box 560 becoming non-executive chairman in September 1999.
He is non-executive member of Go-Ahead since 1986 and 20 Fenchurch Street 2002.
He is also chairman of Amey plc chairman of Old Mutual plc and was involved in the management buyLondon and a non-executive director of Forth Ports PLC.
Until recently he out of that business in 1987.
Earlier EC3P 3DB Northumbrian Water Group plc.
was chairman of Hanson PLC, he held a variety of management Joint Stockbroker He spent 10 years in industry and having previously been executive posts with the National Bus Company.
Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited management consultancy before vice-chairman 1995 to 1997 and A graduate engineer, he is also a fellow Commercial Union House joining the Civil Service.
He was corporate development director 1991 of the Chartered Institute of Logistics 39 Pilgrim Street permanent secretary of the to 1995.
He is also a non-executive and Transport and was a member of its Newcastle upon Tyne Department of Transport DoT director of Alfred McAlpine PLC UK Council 1990 to 1995.
Involved in and is chairman of Racecourse president of the Confederation Registrars privatisation in the DoT during Holdings Trust.
He is a qualied of Passenger Transport CPT, he is Lloyds TSB Registrars the 1980s, he then moved to the chartered accountant.
chairman of Go-Skills, the Sector The Causeway Department of the Environment Skills Council for passenger transport.
Worthing DoE to manage the privatisation Keith Ludeman 55 He is also chairman of council at West Sussex of the water industry in England Chief executive Rail the University of Durham.
In 1990 to 1991 he was Keith Ludeman is chief executive second permanent secretary in the Rupert Pennant-Rea 57 Auditors rail.
He joined Go-Ahead in 1996, DoE before returning to the DoT.
Non-executive director Ernst & Young LLP following the sale of London General Citygate to the group.
Prior to this he held Rupert Pennant-Rea is a non-executive Ian Butcher 54 St James Boulevard senior management positions in director and joined the board in Group finance director and Newcastle upon Tyne several bus companies, mainly at October 2002.
He has been editor of company secretary NE1 4JD managing director level, in Greater The Economist and deputy governor Ian Butcher is group finance director Manchester, Lancashire and London.
He is chairman Solicitors and company secretary.
He is a He has also worked overseas and of Henderson Group and a director Dickinson Dees chartered accountant and joined the as a transport consultant.
He was of various other companies.
St Anns Wharf management team of Go-Ahead in appointed chief executive of the 112 Quayside 1996.
Prior to this he spent 12 years, groups London bus division in 1997, Newcastle upon Tyne up to senior management level, with and then moved over to head the NE99 1SB KPMG, including overseas, gaining rail division in 1999.
He has been a Principal Banker extensive experience of corporate main board advisor since 1998 and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc finance, insolvency and audit.
This was a director since September 2004.
Corporate Banking followed by 11 years in a broad A postgraduate transport planner, he 8th Floor range of industries at group finance is a fellow of the Institute of Logistics 135 Bishopsgate director level, the majority of which and Transport, and a fellow of the London were spent with public companies, Institute of Railway Operators.
Until EC2M 3UR before joining Go-Ahead recently he was also chairman of the Association of Train Operating Companies ATOC.
Directors left to right Sir Patrick Brown Christopher Moyes Ian Butcher Keith Ludeman Rupert Pennant-Rea Christopher Collins The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005 15
