DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their annual report together with the Details of the directors service agreements, remuneration, and audited financial statements of the company and the group for interests in shares and share options are set out in the the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2005. remuneration report on pages 50 to 57.
Except as disclosed, there have been no changes in their interests between 1 May Profits and dividends 2005 and the date of this report.
The groups profit before taxation, exceptional items and the amortisation of goodwill for the period amounted to 94.0 million Interests in contracts 2004 - 82.6 million and the profit before taxation was 72.8 No director had a material interest in any contract that was million 2004 - 73.7 million.
A net interim dividend of 10.45p significant in relation to the groups business at any time during per share 2004 - 9.5p was paid on 24 January 2005.
directors recommend a net final dividend of 25.85p per ordinary share 2004 - 23.5p, making a total dividend for the period of Share capital 36.3p per share 2004 - 33.0p.
Subject to the approval of Details of the share capital of the company are set out in note shareholders at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 12 22 to the accounts on page 45.
September 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 August 2005.
The total dividends for the period A total of 445,685 ordinary shares of 25p each with an amount to 26.2 million, the profit after taxation, goodwill and aggregate nominal value of 111,421 were allotted, for cash, exceptionals amounted to 54.1 million and the retained profit of during the period in connection with the companys sharesave 27.9 million will be transferred to reserves.
and executive share option schemes.
Activities No shares in the company were bought by the company during Greene King plc is the holding company for a group whose the year.
The trustees of the companys employee benefit trust, principal activities are operating managed, tenanted and leased Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited, acquired public houses, brewing beer, and wholesaling beers, wines, 312,023 shares and transferred 356,080 ordinary shares in the spirits and soft drinks.
The chairmans statement, the chief company to employees to satisfy the exercise of share options.
executives review and the financial review provide further details of the groups activities during the period and likely developments A number of resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming in the future and form part of this report.
The disclosures within AGM in connection with the companys share capital: the corporate governance statement also form part of this report.
Share split Directors This resolution proposes sub-dividing every one existing Details of the current directors are given on page 19.
Eight of ordinary share into two new ordinary shares, which will have these directors held office throughout the period, whilst Jane the effect of reducing the share price for each share.
The Scriven was appointed to the board on 18 March 2005, and proportion of the issued share capital of the company held John Brady was appointed after the year end, on 24 June 2005. by each shareholder following the share split will however In accordance with article 90 of the companys articles of be unchanged and the value of each holding should also be association, both Jane Scriven and John Brady will retire at the unaffected.
Apart from having a different nominal value, forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for each new ordinary share will carry the same rights as an election.
Graham Greene served as a non-executive director of existing ordinary share.
the company until 2 September 2004, and David McCall served as non-executive chairman of the company until 1 May 2005.
Share allotment authority This resolution seeks to renew the authority of the directors Under article 85 of the companys articles of association Tim to allot securities in the company up to an aggregate Bridge and David Elliott retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer nominal amount of 5,960,946, being the authorised but themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
unissued capital of the company and representing approximately 33.3 per cent of the current issued ordinary In accordance with the provisions of the combined code Alan share capital, for up to fifteen months after the AGM or until Bowkett retires at the AGM as he has served on the board for the date of the AGM in 2006, whichever is earlier.
The more than nine years and offers himself for re-election this year.
directors consider that this authority is desirable to allow the company to retain flexibility, although they have no present intention of exercising this authority.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 47 DIRECTORS REPORT Dis-application of statutory pre-emption rights the minimum price per share which may be paid is the This resolution seeks to renew the authority of the directors nominal value: to dis-apply pre-emption rights and allot equity securities for cash in connection with a rights issue and otherwise and to the maximum price per share that may be paid is 105 per cent sell ordinary shares held in treasury see below up to an of the average mid-market price for the companys shares as aggregate nominal amount of 894,142, being shown in the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the approximately 5 per cent of the current issued ordinary share five business days immediately preceding the purchase.
capital, for up to fifteen months after the AGM or until the date of the AGM in 2006, whichever is earlier.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the company will not repurchase shares in the period of two months immediately Authority for the purchase of own shares preceding the preliminary announcement of its annual or This resolution seeks to renew shareholders authority for interim results or, if shorter, between the end of the financial the company to make market purchases of its own shares, period concerned and the time of a relevant announcement as permitted by article 8 of the articles of association for up or, except in accordance with the Listing Rules, at any other to fifteen months after this AGM, or until the date of the time when, in terms of the Model Code, the directors would AGM in 2006, whichever is earlier.
The directors would only be prohibited from dealing in shares.
purchase and cancel shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for The full exercise of all options outstanding at the date of this shareholders generally.
report would require the issue of 2,283,167 ordinary shares.
This represents 3.19% of the current issued share capital Pursuant to the Companies Act 1985 as amended, the excluding any shares held in treasury and 3.55% of what company can hold any shares which are repurchased as the share capital would be if the proposed authority to treasury shares and either re-sell them for cash, cancel them, purchase the companys own shares had been obtained either immediately or at a point in the future, or use them for and exercised in full.
The company has issued no warrants the purposes of its employee share schemes.
The directors to subscribe for share capital.
believe that it is desirable for the company to have this choice.
Holding the repurchased shares as treasury shares Substantial shareholdings will give the company the ability to re-sell or transfer them As at 4 July 2005, the last practical date prior to the date of this quickly and cost-effectively and will provide the company with report, the company has been notified, in accordance with the additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No provisions of sections 198 to 202 of the Companies Act 1985, dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be of the following interests in 3 per cent or more of the issued exercised in respect of, treasury shares.
share capital of the company.
Shares held as treasury shares will not automatically be Capital Group Companies Inc 3.2% cancelled and will not be taken into account in future calculations of earnings per share unless they are Charitable donations subsequently re-sold or transferred out of treasury.
Donations for charitable purposes made during the period amounted to 38,200 2004 - 52,300.
The group makes no The authority that will be sought contains several important political donations.
restrictions, being: Going concern The authority is limited to a specified period of time and only The directors expect the group to continue in operational permits the company to purchase on the London Stock existence for the foreseeable future and have, therefore, used Exchange i if the resolution regarding the share split the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
becomes wholly unconditional and effective, 14,306,272 1 shares of 12 2p each with a total nominal value of Payments to suppliers 1,788,284, or, ii if the resolution regarding the share split The group understands the benefits to be derived from does not become wholly unconditional and effective, maintaining good relationships with its suppliers and where 7,153,136 shares of 25p each with a total nominal value of possible enters into agreements over payment terms.
Where 1,788,284, being, in each case, approximately 10 per cent such terms have not been agreed it is the group policy to settle of the companys current issued share capital: invoices close to the end of the month following invoicing.
This 48 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 DIRECTORS REPORT policy is dependent on suppliers providing accurate, timely and sufficiently detailed invoices.
Payment in respect of 42 days average purchases from trade creditors was outstanding at the end of the period 2004 - 38 days.
Annual general meeting and special business The AGM will be held at 12 noon on Friday 2 September 2005 at Culford School, Culford, Suffolk.
The notice of the AGM and an explanation of the items of non-routine business are set out in the explanatory circular that accompanies this annual report.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint the firm as the companys auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the board Lindsay Keswick Company Secretary 5 July 2005 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 49
