Directors Report The directors have pleasure in presenting their annual report and Directors and their interests the audited accounts for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2005.
The names of the directors in office during the year together with The comparative period is the 53 weeks ended 1 January 2005. their relevant interests in the share capital of the Company as defined in the Companies Act 1985 at 31 December 2005 and Principal activity 1 January 2005 or at date of appointment if later are set out in The principal activity of the Group is the retailing of sandwiches, note 24 to the accounts.
Details of directors share options are set savouries and other bakery-related products with a particular focus out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 72. on takeaway food and catering.
The majority of products sold are On 1 March 2005, Julie Baddeley was appointed a non-executive manufactured in house.
Results and dividends In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Stephen Sales for the financial year excluding VAT were 533,435,000, Curran, Ian Gregg, Sir Michael Darrington, Bob Bennett and Julie an increase of 29,249,000, or 5.8% over the previous financial Baddeley retire from the Board and, being eligible, offer themselves year.
Group profit before taxation amounted to 50,159,000, an for re-election.
increase of 5.0% over the previous financial year.
Substantial shareholdings An interim dividend of 36.0p per ordinary share was paid on At 10 March 2006, the only notified interests of substantial 3 October 2005 and the directors propose a final dividend of shareholdings in the issued share capital of the Company were: 70.0p payable on 25 May 2006.
Number of Percentage shares held of issued Business review share capital A review of the business during the year and an outline of future Aberforth Partners LLP 1,279,404 10.49% developments are given in the Chairmans statement and Managing A. J. Davison Directors report.
as trustee of various settlements 1,151,365 9.44% FMR Corporation 589,091 4.83% Fixed assets Aegon Asset Management UK plc 541,950 4.44% In the opinion of the directors the market value of all of the M&G Investment Management Limited 512,400 4.20% Groups properties is not significantly different from their historical Barclays plc 487,906 4.00% net book amount.
Mrs G. V. Richardson and family 467,447 3.83% Standard Life 459,141 3.76% Various trustees jointly hold shares with A. J. Davison above, some of whom, by reason of such joint holdings and other holdings in their own name, have declarable interests as follows: Mrs F. M. E. Nicholson 7.69% jointly held with A. J. Davison and others plus 0.04% in other holdings, Mrs F. K. Deakin 7.69% jointly held with A. J. Davison and others plus 0.03% in other holdings and Mr J.
A. Wardropper 5.93% jointly held with A. J. Davison and others.
Employment policies Charitable contributions We are committed to promoting policies which are designed to The Group is a member of the Per Cent Club.
Charitable donations ensure that employees and those who seek to work for us are of 609,000 representing 1.2% of profit before tax were made treated equally, regardless of sex, marital status, creed, colour, race by the Group during the year, including 350,000 to Greggs Trust.
More details about Greggs Trust can be found on page 73.
It is our policy to give full and fair consideration to applications Authority to purchase shares for employment by people who are disabled, to continue At the AGM on 17 May 2005, the shareholders passed a wherever possible the employment of staff who become disabled resolution authorising the purchase by the Company of its own and to provide equal opportunities for the career development of shares to a maximum of 607,095 ordinary shares of 20p each.
That authority has not been used and remains in force until the The number and dispersion of the Groups operating locations make conclusion of the AGM in 2006 or 16 August 2006, whichever is it difficult, but essential, to communicate effectively with the earlier.
Communication with our shop staff is principally through the operational structure of shop area and divisional management.
Corporate Governance We communicate with our bakery staff by regular briefings and The Board recognises the importance of, and is committed to, letters.
All staff receive a copy of divisional and Group gazettes.
high standards of corporate governance and to integrity and high ethical standards in all of its business dealings.
The Group operates Profit Sharing and Savings Related Share Option Schemes to encourage its employees to identify with its The Board considers that it has complied throughout the year corporate objectives.
under review with the principles of governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on corporate governance published by Payments to suppliers the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code effective Supplier credit is an important factor in the success of the Group.
Whilst the Group does not follow any code or standard on payment The following statements, together with the Directors Remuneration practice, payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the Report on pages 66 to 72, describe how the relevant principles and Groups normal terms and conditions of business except where provisions of the Combined Code were applied to the Company in varied terms and conditions are agreed with individual suppliers, 2005 and will be relevant to the Company for the 2006 financial year.
in which case these prevail.
Where disputes arise we attempt to resolve them promptly and amicably to ensure delays in payment are kept to a minimum.
The average creditor payment period for the Company and the Group at 31 December 2005 was 39 days 2004: 41 days.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 16 17 Directors Report continued Corporate Governance continued The Board Composition Ian Gregg OBE, 66, qualified as a solicitor before joining the The Board currently comprises the Chairman, 2 executive and 5 Company as Executive Chairman and Managing Director on the non-executive directors as follows: death of his father in 1964.
He built the business up from a single-shop operation to a multi-divisional specialist retailer with Derek Netherton Chairman, 61, spent his career in investment almost 300 shops by the time of its successful flotation in 1984. banking and retired in 1996 from his position as joint head of Following the appointment of Mike Darrington as Managing corporate finance at J Henry Schroder & Co Limited.
He is a Director in January 1984, Ian continued in the role of Executive non-executive director of Next plc, Hiscox plc and St Jamess Place Chairman until July 1993.
He was then invited to become nonCapital plc.
He was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2002 and executive Chairman, which role he handed over to Derek was appointed Chairman in August of the same year.
There have Netherton in August 2002. been no significant changes to the Chairmans other commitments Susan Johnson OBE, 48, was appointed to the Board in March during 2005.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
She obtained an MBA in 1993 after which she pursued a Sir Michael Darrington Managing Director, 64, qualified as a career in sales and marketing before being appointed as Chief Chartered Accountant and then spent 17 years with United Biscuits, Executive of the Northern Business Forum.
She was an Executive latterly in General Management.
During this time he attended the Director of Yorkshire Forward until her appointment in 2005 as PMD course at Harvard Business School.
He joined Greggs in Chief Executive of County Durham and Darlington Fire and 1983 and was appointed Managing Director in January 1984.
Malcolm Simpson Finance Director, 64, qualified as a Chartered Bob Bennett, FCA, 58, was appointed to the Board in December Accountant with what is now KPMG and then worked for eight 2003.
He trained as a Chartered Accountant with Spicer & Pegler years within the finance department of Procter and Gamble Limited.
and has, since 1993, been Group Finance Director of Northern He joined the Company in 1973 and was appointed Finance Rock plc.
He has been Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2004.
Julie Baddeley, 54, was appointed to the Board in March 2005.
Stephen Curran, 62, joined the Board in 1981.
He was appointed She has held senior executive roles in the Woolwich plc where she Chairman of Candover Investments plc in May 1999, having was responsible for Information Technology and Human Resources, previously been Chief Executive of Candover since January 1991.
Julie is a non-executive director Prior to joining Candover in May 1981, he was a managing of Yorkshire Building Society, Computerland UK and the Pension consultant with Coopers & Lybrand Associates and then an Client Group within the Governments Department of Works investment manager with what is now Cinven.
Julie was appointed as Chair of the Remuneration appointed as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Effectiveness The Board is satisfied that a strategy is in place for orderly The Board, under the chairmanship of Derek Netherton, meets succession to the Board and to positions of senior management regularly to discharge its duties.
At these meetings, it reviews Group so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience strategy, performance, resources, risk management procedures within the Company and on the Board.
and other matters reserved for the Board.
Whilst the executive After carefully reviewing the guidance in the Combined Code, all responsibility for running the Companys business rests ultimately of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be with the Managing Director, Mike Darrington, the non-executive independent in character and judgement and to be free from any directors ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive business or other relationship or circumstance which is likely to directors are fully discussed and critically examined prior to adoption.
affect or to interfere with the exercise of their independent During 2005, the Board met five times.
All directors attended all judgement.
The following relationships might appear to be capable meetings, save that Julie Baddeley and Stephen Curran were each of affecting the individual non-executive directors independence.
unable to attend one meeting.
However, having considered these relationships carefully, the The Board has adopted a paper identifying the separation of the Board is of the view that they do not and that the individuals roles of the Chairman and the Managing Director.
The Chairman concerned are of sufficient strength of character to avoid allowing sets the agenda for Board meetings and ensures that the Board is their independence to be so compromised: supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a Ian Gregg is a member of the Companys pension scheme and quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board a former employee, Managing Director and Chairman of the considers that it effectively leads and controls the Company.
directors take decisions objectively and in the interests of the Stephen Curran and Ian Gregg have both served on the Board Company.
The non-executive directors scrutinise the performance for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
All directors receive induction The Board is grateful for the continued involvement of Ian and training on joining the Board and regularly update and refresh their Stephen, who bring considerable experience and insight to Board knowledge through reading, attendance on relevant courses and or discussions.
Both are now required by the Companys Articles of activities outside the Company.
Association to seek re-election to the Board by shareholders annually see below.
The Board meets with the Management Board at a different operating division each year.
In addition, as part of the process of maintaining The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors an awareness of the Companys activities and assessing the ability of must retire and seek re-election at the first AGM following the management team, several members of the senior management appointment.
Thereafter, one half of the directors other than team are invited to attend Board meetings and or to present those appointed since the last AGM being those who have been papers to the Board.
This process also affords senior managers the in office longest since last re-election and any other director who opportunity to bring matters to the attention of the Board.
has not been elected or re-elected at either of the two preceding GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 18 19 Directors Report continued Corporate Governance continued AGMs must seek re-election at each AGM.
Any non-executive The Committee, in performing these functions, reviews the annual director who has served on the Board for more than nine years and interim financial statements issued to shareholders, compliance must seek re-election annually.
with financial reporting standards and the size and remit of the internal audit function.
The Committee also considers and makes All directors are able to receive training and to take independent recommendations to the Board in relation to the independence professional advice at the expense of the Company.
They also have and objectivity of the external auditors including the impact of direct access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for any non-audit work undertaken by them and their suitability for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Audit Committee determines the scope of During the year, the Chairman met with the non-executive directors the external audit in discussion with the external auditors and agrees without the executive directors present.
The Senior Independent their fees in respect of the audit.
The Committee normally meets Director meets the non-executive directors without the Chairman with the Finance Director and the external auditors in attendance, present annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The although time is set aside annually for discussion between the performance of the Board, its Committees and of all directors is Committee and the external auditors and with the internal auditors, evaluated annually by a formal and rigorous process.
Each director in each case in the absence of all executive directors, and the completes a questionnaire.
The results are fed back to the Chairman Committee has the power to engage outside advisers if it sees fit.
and the Senior Independent Director and then to the Board for The Committee also monitors and reviews the effectiveness of discussion.
These discussions are used to identify actions to the internal audit activities.
improve effectiveness and also to identify individual and collective training needs.
The Remuneration Committee currently consists entirely of independent non-executive directors Julie Baddeley - Chair, Stephen Board Committees Curran, Bob Bennett and Ian Gregg.
The Board delegates some of its activities to the following committees, All Committee members attended all meetings in the period they each of which has written terms of reference, which are available were members, save that Bob Bennett, Julie Baddeley and Stephen on request.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of Curran were each unable to attend one meeting.
main duties are to determine the basic salary, benefits in kind, terms The Audit Committee currently consists of four independent nonand conditions of employment, performance-related bonuses, executive directors Bob Bennett - Chairman, Susan Johnson, share options and pension benefits of the executive directors and Stephen Curran and Julie Baddeley.
During 2005 it met three times.
the Chairman on behalf of the Board.
The Committee is also All Committee members attended all meetings in the period they responsible for the operation of the Companys share option were members, save that Julie Baddeley and Stephen Curran were schemes and, when requested by the Board or by the Managing each unable to attend one meeting.
The Committees main Director, for monitoring and making recommendations in respect functions are to endeavour i to ensure that the accounting and of the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
financial policies of the Company are proper and effective: ii to A separate Executive Director Committee sets, after discussion monitor the integrity of the financial statements and information with the Chairman, the fees for the non-executive directors so as published by the Company: iii to review the internal financial to ensure that no director is involved in setting his or her own controls and the Groups approach to risk management: and iv to monitor compliance with the Listing Rules and the recommendations remuneration.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on of the Combined Code.
pages 66 to 72 of this Annual Report.
The Nominations Committee currently comprises Derek through the normal channels of the Chairman, Managing Director or Finance Director have failed to resolve or for which such Netherton - Chairman, all of the non-executive directors and Mike contact is not appropriate.
During 2005 it met formally only twice with all Committee members present except that Julie Baddeley and Susan At the AGM, the balance of proxy votes cast for and against each Johnson were each unable to attend one meeting but held resolution and the number of abstentions is displayed.
All substantial several informal discussions during the year.
The Committees main issues, including the receipt of the annual report and accounts, are functions are to review the balance and constitution of the Board: proposed at the AGM as separate resolutions.
to advise the Board as to whether directors retiring by rotation Risk Management should be nominated for re-election by the members: and to The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of approve and manage the process for setting the specification for internal control, which covers all aspects of the business, and for all Board appointments, identifying candidates who meet that reviewing its effectiveness.
However, any such system can only specification and making recommendations to the Board on the be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to basis of merit and compliance with objective criteria in respect of achieve the Companys objectives and, therefore, is only able to all new Board appointments.
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material Each of the Committees is provided with sufficient resources to misstatement or loss.
The directors regularly review the risks to undertake its duties.
which the Company is exposed, as well as the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
This is an ongoing Relations with shareholders process which accords with the guidance in the Turnbull report, The Chairman ensures that there is effective communication with involving the identification, evaluation and management of the individual and institutional shareholders through the announcement significant risks faced by the Company.
Key elements of the internal of regular trading updates, as well as general presentations after control system, which have been in place during the whole of the announcement of the interim and preliminary results and the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual posting of results on the Companys website.
The Board receives report and accounts, are: reports on any comments received from shareholders following Board of Directors these presentations.
The Board takes a proactive approach to the management of all The Board considers that the AGM is the main forum for forms of risk, and views risk management as a vital constituent of communication with investors, with the Chairmen of the Board and its role.
At each Board meeting, the effectiveness of the controls its committees available to answer any issues raised and any newly relating to the most significant risks i. e. those which may restrict appointed non-executive directors being available to meet the Companys ability to meet its objectives are monitored and shareholders.
In addition, the Company Secretary and the Companys reviewed.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, conducts Brokers draw the attention of the Board to all relevant shareholder a formal review of risks and risk management procedures and communications.
The Board also reviews briefings and comments reports its findings to the Board.
Remedial action is determined by analysts in order to maintain an understanding of market where appropriate.
For some key risks, where it is felt necessary, perceptions of the Company.
The Senior Independent Director is specialist advice is sought from external agencies and professional available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact advisers.
The Board also reviews, at least annually, the level and GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 20 21 Directors Report continued Corporate Governance continued scope of insurance cover maintained within the business.
The Health and Safety The Company is committed to improving continuously the working Board receives reports from management on significant changes environment with the objective that accidents and work related ill in the business and external environment which might affect the health should be progressively reduced.
An occupational health risk profile.
It has also set in place a system of regular hierarchical strategy has been produced with Health and Safety Officers and reporting which provides for relevant details and assurances on Occupational Nurses appointed in every Division.
Targets are set the assessment and control of risks to be given to it.
and programmes are devised to implement them.
This approach Management Board involves a rigorous health assessment, during which hazards are The Senior Executive Team and the wider Management Board, identified, risks assessed, control measures applied and improvement answerable directly to the Managing Director, are responsible for actions agreed to manage residual risks to an acceptable level.
implementing decisions of the Main Board and providing protection Financial Reporting against the major risks by various techniques, including sharing best The Company operates a comprehensive financial control system practice, monitoring, supervision and training.
that incorporates Divisional Financial Controllers who have responsibility for financial management within each Division.
Each Risk Committee Divisional Financial Controller works closely with their respective A Risk Committee, consisting of the heads of each management Divisional Managing Director to monitor performance at Divisional function within the business including Health and Safety, Food Board level as against planned and prior year comparatives.
In Safety, Personnel, Production and Purchasing, has responsibility for addition, assets and liabilities are scrutinised at several levels on a analysing, assessing, measuring and understanding the Companys regular basis and remedial action taken where required.
risk environment, as well as devising a sound risk management A comprehensive annual planning process is carried out which strategy for review and approval by the Board.
The Risk Committee determines expected levels of performance for all aspects of the reports its findings and important changes to the Board on a business.
Each Divisional Financial Controller also reports directly regular basis through personal presentation, narrative reports and to the Finance Director on technical matters.
key performance indicators internal and external to the organisation Whistle Blowing and through the Audit Committee.
The Risk Committee also The Company has adopted whistle blowing procedures enabling feeds the results of its assessments back into the business planning employees to bring matters to the attention of the senior for each division at least annually.
The risks are assessed on a management and for the confidential, proportionate and regular basis across all functional areas but, in particular, the areas independent consideration and follow-up of any matter so raised.
of food safety, health and safety, information flow, asset protection The whistle blowing procedures are reviewed regularly by the and regulatory requirements.
Policies and Procedures Internal Audit Policies and procedures, covering control issues across appropriate The internal audit function visits every Division on an annual basis aspects of the business, are defined and communicated to the and reviews performance of the Division across a range of respective managers and staff at all levels.
Adherence is monitored financial and non-financial requirements, reporting findings to the and reported upon on an ongoing basis.
relevant senior managers and direct to the Audit Committee.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Auditors system of internal control covering all material controls, including In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors during the year under review and up to the date of approval of of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual the annual report and accounts.
Accountability, Audit and Going Concern By order of the Board The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a balanced and Andrew Davison understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Secretary This is fulfilled by the statements contained in the Chairmans Greggs plc CRN 502851 statement and Managing Directors report, which supplement the Fernwood House statutory accounts themselves.
A statement of directors Clayton Road responsibilities in respect of the preparation of accounts is given on Jesmond page 24.
A statement of auditors responsibilities is given in the Newcastle upon Tyne report of the auditors on pages 25-26.
NE2 1TL Auditor Independence 10 March 2006 The Audit Committee has reviewed whether, and is satisfied that, the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, continue to be objective and independent of the Company.
KPMG Audit Plc does perform non-audit services for the Group but the Audit Committee is satisfied that its objectivity is not impaired by such work non-audit fees amounted to 98,000 during 2005 and related to taxation compliance services and pensions advice.
The Audit Committees policy to ensure that the auditors objectivity is not impaired by non-audit work is that the Company should be able to incur fees of up to 100,000 per year on non-audit work inclusive of tax compliance advice.
Any fees in excess of this must be discussed in advance with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Companys internal audit function assists in the monitoring of systems of control and augments the examination carried out by the external auditors.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 22 23
