Our savoury plant at Balliol Park allows us to control product quality while maximising efficiency.
State-of-the-art production facilities CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED THE BOARD PROSPECTS Malcolm Simpson, who reaches the age of 65 in October, has The trends that emerged during the second half of 2005 have decided to retire as Finance Director after serving on the Board in continued in the current year to date.
Like-for-like sales in the first that position since 1975.
He will relinquish the finance role with nine weeks are level with last year, and we are facing increases in effect from our AGM in May, though he will remain an Executive the order of 5 million in our energy costs.
This includes the full Director with continuing responsibility for our important IT function.
year impact of a new one year electricity supply agreement covering I would like to record our appreciation of his exceptionally long, the majority of our shops, which took effect in autumn 2005: this dedicated and effective service.
winter has also brought significantly increased gas and power costs in our bakeries and some larger retail outlets not covered by our Richard Hutton FCA 37, who is currently Deputy Finance Director, contract.
We believe that it will prove difficult to recover these extra is appointed to the Board as an Executive Director with effect from costs through higher selling prices, given the less buoyant consumer 13 March 2006, and will succeed Malcolm as Finance Director in spending climate and increased competition.
Richard qualified as an accountant with KPMG and gained career experience with Procter & Gamble before joining Greggs in 1998.
We are taking action to ameliorate the effects of this more He is a Non-Executive Director of Northern Recruitment Group plc.
challenging trading climate by continuing to bear down on costs across the Group as well as finding more cost effective ways of We are delighted to welcome Sir Ian Gibson CBE 59 who has increasing sales.
However, profits in the first nine weeks are agreed to join the Board as an additional Non-Executive Director materially below the level of last year: whilst it is much too early to with effect from 1 April 2006.
Ian was Chief Executive of Nissan predict the performance of the business for the year as a whole, Europe, Senior Vice President of Nissan Motor Company Japan, we believe that it is unlikely that we will attain the level of profit Deputy Chairman of Asda Group and Chairman of BPB plc.
The business has great fundamental strengths a Non-Executive Director of Northern Rock plc and of GKN plc.
in its brands, reputation, finances, management and people, and I On appointment, Ian will become a member of the Companys am sure that these will continue to stand us in good stead during Audit and Remuneration Committees.
PEOPLE Perhaps our greatest competitive strength is the cheerfulness and dedication of our excellent team in our shops and bakeries, and their commitment to delivering customer satisfaction by providing Derek Netherton excellent products and service.
Once again I would like to express Chairman the Boards thanks for their hard work during the year.
10 March 2006 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 67
