MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT Sir Michael Darrington Managing Director We have achieved another record result despite slowing sales growth and increasing cost pressures in the second half.
This is a testimony to the strength of our proposition and above all to the quality of our excellent team of people.
Their pride and confidence in the business, and their commitment to providing a friendly and efficient customer service, are our greatest assets for the future.
TRADING PERFORMANCE As the Chairman has noted, trading conditions grew progressively the high street.
This has led to reduced demand from both shoppers more difficult during 2005.
These affected our operations under both and shop workers, while the proliferation of takeaway food outlets in recent years has created an increasingly competitive trading climate.
our brands, and in every part of the country.
After a healthy start, with like-for-like sales growth of 5.8 per cent in the 19 weeks up to Our selling price inflation was 2.9 per cent in the first half and our AGM in May, growth slowed in the final weeks of the first half 3.0 per cent in the second, averaging 3.0 per cent for the year.
and remained under pressure for the remainder of the year.
Following Although this partly reflected our continuing programme to upgrade the 5.2 per cent uplift reported for the first half, which included core our products, we were able to recover some of our increased volume growth of 2.3 per cent, second half like-for-like sales costs in wages and energy, though the major impact of higher increased by an underlying 2.0 per cent, increased to 3.0 per cent electricity and gas prices came only in the final months of the by the benefit of additional trading days over the Christmas holiday year.
The environment for ingredient costs was generally benign period.
Core volume in the second half was level with last year.
throughout the year, though our suppliers are now also coming The like-for-like sales increase for the full 52 weeks was 4.0 per cent, under pressure from rising energy prices.
We can be certain that including core volume growth of 1.0 per cent.
energy will be a major inflationary element for the foreseeable future, with our total costs in this area in 2006 likely to be some Taking the year as a whole, the weather was average for our 5 million higher than last year.
business, and we do not believe that it had any appreciable effect on our performance.
More important factors appear to have been a Including the benefit of new shop openings in the current and general slowing of growth in our market place, influenced by prior year, total sales rose by 5.8 per cent, comprising increases increasing pressure on consumer spending and reduced activity on of 9.1 per cent in the first half and 3.3 per cent in the second.
National Baking Industry Awards Student Bakers Both Daniel and I would like to thank of the Year Greggs for providing us with the best training and guidance to help us get this far.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 89 MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Operating profit grew by 8.7 per cent in the first half and 0.7 per offer and improving products.
Although the profit contribution from cent in the second, making an increase of 3.0 per cent for the year.
the brand was lower than in 2004, when a very significant Pre-tax profit improved by 5.0 per cent to exceed 50 million for improvement was achieved, I believe that the longer term trends the first time.
in Bakers Oven are encouraging.
GREGGS BRAND UK GREGGS CONTINENTAL EUROPE The nine Greggs divisions in the UK account for over 80 per cent We opened a third shop in Antwerp in September 2005 and of our retail portfolio and are the main contributor to Group continue to trade in two locations in Leuven, giving us a total of five shops in Belgium.
Sales trends are positive and our knowledge profits.
Like-for-like sales for the year grew by 4.2 per cent, of the market place is constantly improving.
We expect to open a including core volume growth of 1.1 per cent.
In the first half likefurther two to three shops in Belgium over the next 12 months.
for-like sales increased by 5.5 per cent, including core volume growth of 2.3 per cent, while in the second half like-for-like sales RETAIL PROFILE advanced by 3.1 per cent.
We opened 72 new shops during the year and closed 16, giving We have trialled several new sales promotion activities to help us a net increase of 56 units to a total of 1,319 at the year end.
drive core growth, and we plan to roll out the more successful of This exceeded the target of 45 net openings that we set at the these as the year progresses.
BAKERS OVEN BRAND At 31 December 2005 there were 1,098 units under the Greggs brand in the UK, a net addition of 53: five under the Greggs fascia The four Bakers Oven divisions grew more slowly than the Greggs in Belgium, an increase of one: and 216 under the Bakers Oven brand, with like-for-like sales for the year increasing by 3.2 per cent, brand, a net addition of two.
including core volume growth of 0.5 per cent.
After a 3.9 per cent like-for-like uplift in the first half, including a core volume gain of Work has continued to refine and develop the new Greggs shop 2.0 per cent, the second half produced a like-for-like increase of format, so as to reinforce our bakery heritage and reduce the cost 2.7 per cent with nearly maintained volumes.
Selling price inflation of refits.
I am pleased to report that we have made significant over the year as a whole was 2.7 per cent, compared with 3.1 per progress in this area, reflected in an acceleration of our refurbishment cent in Greggs.
programme during 2005, when we completed 34 comprehensive shop refurbishments and 15 minor refits.
Bakers Ovens seated catering business makes it more exposed than Greggs to the effects of reduced consumer activity on the high We plan to add approximately 35 new shops to our portfolio in street, though its management has enjoyed considerable success in 2006, net of closures.
These will be predominantly under the Greggs countering these trends by focusing and simplifying the catering brand in the UK.
The bread we use in our sandwiches is baked fresh every day.
Baking on your doorstep GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 10 11 MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED PRODUCT PROFILE Takeaway food categories continued to outperform other product a total investment of 13 million, during the current year, providing groups under both our brands.
Although they are now a small additional capacity for the future growth of the business, enhanced proportion of our sales, we were encouraged that our marketing efficiencies and improved working conditions for our staff.
We have focus on re-emphasising our bakery credentials helped to generate nearly completed a new production and distribution facility for modest growth in sales of bread and rolls in the second half, for Bakers Oven at Balliol Park to replace the Carricks bakery in the city.
the first time in many years.
During 2005 we have significantly During 2006 we plan to invest 40 million in the business, with strengthened our capability in the area of category management, major projects including the relocation of our Rutherglen bakery in in terms of both people and processes, allied to the substantial Glasgow to a new site at nearby Cambuslang, where we will resources and facilities at our Group Technical Centre in Newcastle construct a new plant delivering improved productivity and with the upon Tyne.
We expect to see increasing benefit from our initiatives capacity to serve more shops in Scotland as our expansion continues.
in both product development and range optimisation during 2006 CASH FLOW AND BALANCE SHEET and beyond.
One important example of this will be the expansion The business is consistently and strongly cash generative, and this and improvement of our healthier-eating range.
has permitted us to increase dividends to shareholders by a total of CAPITAL INVESTMENT 32.5 per cent over the last two years while maintaining an Capital expenditure during the year totalled 41.7 million, a substantial exceptionally strong balance sheet.
We have also made an additional increase on the 25.0 million we invested in 2004, but below our contribution of 4.0 million to our main pension scheme, previous budget of 47.0 million.
The main components of our notwithstanding which we have a deficit of 9.7 million measured expenditure were 18.2 million 2004: 13.4 million on new shops under IAS 19 at 31 December 2005. and refurbishments, 18.4 million 2004: 8.3 million on land, Net cash at the year end totalled 65.6 million, an increase of 3.0 buildings and plant, and 5.1 million 2004: 3.3 million on vehicles.
million during the year, though our average cash balances were The construction of our second central savouries unit at Balliol Park, substantially higher than in 2004.
We are currently considering Newcastle upon Tyne, is progressing on schedule and on budget.
plans for the use of our surplus cash.
We expect to commission this major new plant, which has involved Keeping it Our sandwiches are made fresh in the shop every day with bread fresh we baked.
We even bake all our own pasties and muffins!
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 12 13 MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED to maximise the recycling of packaging and other appropriate THE COMMUNITY AND THE materials, and we are working on a further initiative to reduce the ENVIRONMENT use of packaging at source.
Caring for the community is one of the most important of our values, which make Greggs such a special place to work.
In May PEOPLE 2005 we passed an important milestone with the opening of our Our super team of people are critical to the business, and we have 100th Greggs Breakfast Club, and 113 of these now operate in always been committed to treating them with fairness, consideration primary schools in disadvantaged areas across the country, and respect.
By treating our staff well, we believe we will ensure providing free, healthy breakfasts to children.
Other charitable that they in turn will treat our customers well, which is one of the initiatives during the year included raising over 310,000 for childrens most important keys to business success.
I am grateful to all our cancer charities through regional fun runs, which attracted over 18,833 employees for the hard work they have done to produce 11,000 participants.
Over 150,000 was distributed by our another record result for the Group, in an increasingly testing divisional charity committees, which receive around a third of trading climate.
I would also like to take this opportunity to record their funding from employees Give As You Earn donations, which our appreciation of the particular contribution of Steve Smith, are matched pound for pound by the Greggs Trust.
The Trust a member of our senior executive team who retired during the remains our principal channel for the distribution of the Groups year after 27 years with Greggs, including 13 as managing director charitable donations, which last year totalled 609,000 of our South West division.
2004: 615,000, in line with our commitment as a founder THE FUTURE member of the Per Cent Club.
We also remain an active supporter As the Chairman has noted, 2006 looks set to be the most of Business in the Community.
challenging year the Group has faced for some considerable time.
As well as working to improve the lives of people in the communities We are doing all we can to continue driving the business forward where we operate, we aim to adopt a responsible approach to the without compromising our core values, or our commitment to environment.
We continue to comply with all relevant legislation excellent products and service.
I am sure that these provide us with and regulations, and conduct regular environmental audits of all the firmest of foundations for the future, as we continue our drive our operations.
During 2005 we have paid particular attention to to deliver long term growth as Europes finest bakery-related retailer.
our SEBA Save Energy Be Aware initiative in all shops and factories, designed to reduce energy consumption.
We have also introduced a waste management initiative designed to reduce the Sir Michael Darrington amount of food waste generated by our shops and bakeries, and to Managing Director examine alternatives to landfill for its disposal.
Efforts have continued 10 March 2006 Greggs pasties are the best.
Satisfaction delivered daily GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 14 15
