Mission, vision and values Enjoyable Experience: we will deliver customer satisfaction by Our Business offering great-tasting food at unbeatable value to the highest Greggs plc is the UKs leading retailer specialising in sandwiches, standards of food safety.
This will be achieved from shops that savouries and other bakery-related products, with a particular provide friendly and efficient service in attractive surroundings.
focus on takeaway food and catering.
We continue to show Business Excellence: our people will seek continuous significant growth and now have over 1,300 retail outlets, trading improvement in their areas of responsibility, enabling them to make under the Greggs and Bakers Oven brands.
a real and lasting contribution to the objectives of the Company.
Our Vision and Purpose Challenging Targets: we will strive to achieve a turnover of 1 billion by 2010 through continued core growth and the Our vision is to be Europes finest bakery-related retailer.
Our acquisition of new units, taking us to over 1,700 shops.
purpose is the growth and development of a thriving business, Caring for the Community: our continued emphasis on social operating with integrity, for the benefit and enjoyment of our responsibility will encourage even greater involvement in local people, customers, shareholders and the wider community.
charity activities and social projects, and a growing focus on Our Strategy protecting the environment.
Our people will be enabled, within overall guidance from the Our Values centre, to work towards the successful attainment of world-class As a people-focused business, we aim to be enthusiastic and standards.
To achieve this, the focus will be on: supportive in all that we do, open, honest and appreciative, and A Great Place to Work: we will place major emphasis on to treat everyone with fairness, consideration and respect.
promoting a culture that encourages personal development, Our Culture leadership qualities and creativity.
This will be supported by working conditions that meet the needs of our present and We are achievers!
Working hard in a friendly and informal way, future people.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 23 As expected, we made modest progress this year in the face of an increasingly challenging trading environment and substantial cost pressures in the second half, particularly in energy.
This is the Groups fourteenth consecutive year Derek Netherton of profit, earnings and Chairman dividend increases, and our strategy remains focused on the delivery of continued growth in the longer term.
We are extremely proud of the quality of the beef we supply to Greggs.
