The combination of Gyrus and ACMI in July 2005 RESEARCH brought together two Research and Development teams AND DEVELOPMENT with largely complementary capabilities.
We now have core strengths in the areas of bipolar electrosurgery in the UK and the US from which our PK PlasmaCision platform is derived.
Added to this is our conventional Fiberscope and opto-mechanical endoscopy capability in the US and our digital video sensor and image enhancement technology capabilities in Israel and the US.
The following is a sample of the products, many of them largely developed in 2005, which will be introduced to market in 2006: PK PlasmaSeal in open surgery A device to seal and cut blood vessels electronically.
G400 general surgery generator A workstation for the general surgeon which can power a suite of over 30 instruments.
Plasma Trissector in General Surgery A device to cut and seal tissue simultaneously providing more rapid operating time and a reduction in the number of different instruments necessary to perform certain procedures.
Plasma J-hook in General Surgery An adjunct to the Plasma Trissector to provide a shaped cutting and sealing tool.
Surgical Dissector in Head and Neck Surgery To perform partial neck dissection procedures e. g. tumour excision.
Digital Ureteroscope for trans ureteral visualisation To improve visualisation quality and further reduce the size of our class-leading small diameter flexible scopes Frank DAmelio using digital technology.
Chief Technology Officer Megapixel Camera To bring the benefits of digital camera technology and storage to current users of fibre-optical scope systems.
The Groups technological focus is on bringing the best visualisation technology the See together with the best tissue management technology the Treat OUR CORE SKILLS and continuing to build and protect the combined intellectual property portfolio.
PK bipolar rf technology Lens crafting and optical fibres Digital image enhancement Micro-engineering Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19 WE HAVE THE VISION TO ENTER NEW MARKETS WE HAVE THE POWER TO COMPETE GLOBALLY
