DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal Activities The Group designs, develops, manufactures and markets advanced surgical systems.
It develops innovative tissue management and visualisation systems for minimally invasive surgery.
A full discussion of the Groups results, activities and future developments can be found in the Chairmans Statement, the Business Reviews and the Financial Review on pages 02 to 25.
Results and Dividends The audited financial statements are set out on pages 44 to 79.
The Group made a profit after taxation for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 6,276,000 2004 profit after taxation of 8,483,000.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
Directors The Directors who held office during the year were: BL Steer Executive Chairman SJB Shaw Chief Financial Officer GR Davis Chief Operating Officer appointed as director 1 April 2005 MF Garner Independent Non-Executive Director, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director C Goodson-Wickes Independent Non-Executive Director KT Krzywicki Independent Non-Executive Director CW Cummings Independent Non-Executive Director NM Goble Non-independent Non-Executive Director resigned 15 March 2006 Remuneration Details of Directors remuneration is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 42.
Substantial Shareholdings At 1 March 2006, substantial interests in the issued share capital of the Company, notified and registered in accordance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, were as follows: Number of Percentage of ordinary shares issued share capital Fidelity Investments 15,825,531 10.84% Framlington Investment Management 9,329,136 6.38% Scottish Widows 8,427,377 5.77% Legal & General Group 7,186,445 4.95% Aviva plc 5,810,884 4.00% Royal London Asset Management 5,041,784 3.47% Standard Life Investments 4,751,165 3.27% Directors Interests in Shares The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company appearing in the register of directors interests were as follows: Ordinary shares Ordinary shares 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Executive BL Steer note 1 572,865 552,865 SJB Shaw 18,000 10,000 GR Davis note 2 4,000 Non-executive MF Garner 20,010 12,010 C Goodson-Wickes 10,000 6,586 KT Krzywicki 8,000 CW Cummings 4,500 2,500 NM Goble note 3 40,000 2,840,000 Notes: 1 Includes 321,617 ordinary shares held by Royal and Sun Alliance Inc for the benefit of Mr BL and Mrs S Steer.
2 Mr GR Davis held no shares at the time of his appointment to the Board on 1 April 2005.
3 Comprises ordinary shares held by a family trust for the benefit of NM Goble and his family.
There have been no changes to Directors shareholdings since 31 December 2005.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 30 Directors Interests in Contracts None of the Directors had a beneficial interest in any contract of any significance in relation to the business of the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year with the exception of NM Gobles interest in Rhytec Limited.
In December 2004 Gyrus invested in Rhytec Limited a company in which Dr Goble had a 12.3% interest at 31 December 2005.
Gyruss investment represents a minority 15.5% equity stake.
Rhytec and Gyruss Partnered Technologies Division work closely on the development and supply of products into the cosmetic and dermatological surgery market.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to be held on 2 May 2006.
Corporate Governance Application of the Principles set out in the Combined Code Throughout the year to 31 December 2005, the Company complied with the provisions of the Revised Combined Code On Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 except for the non-separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer which is explained below in the section headed Board of Directors.
The Board considers that it applies the principles of the Combined Code in an appropriate and effective manner.
This is demonstrated as follows: Board of Directors Until 1 April 2005, the Group was managed by a Board of Directors comprised of seven Directors.
The names of the Directors together with their biographical details are set out on page 29.
All the Directors served throughout the period under review.
From 1 April, the number of Directors was increased to eight with the appointment to the Board of GR Davis, Chief Operating Officer.
Five of the Directors were Non-Executive Directors and, with the exception of Dr Goble, all the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent based on the guidelines in the Combined Code.
All of the Non-Executive Directors bring strong independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to bear in matters of strategy, performance, resources, corporate governance and financial control.
From time to time, the Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the executives present.
The Board meets at least seven times a year and has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
This includes overall Group strategy, planning for the succession of the executive and the Board itself, approving appointments of Board Directors and of the Company Secretary, financing arrangements, material licensing transactions, acquisitions and disposals of companies, approval of the annual budget, major capital expenditure, risk management, treasury policies and the operation of internal controls.
At each meeting the Board is briefed on issues arising, reviews the progress of the Group towards its objectives and monitors financial performance against budget.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
They are encouraged regularly to update and refresh their skills and knowledge, for example, through attending courses on technical areas or external briefings for Non-Executive Directors.
Newly appointed Directors are provided with appropriate induction training.
The Board has established a procedure for Directors to take, if necessary, independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
Appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance has been arranged by the Company.
All Board members receive monthly management accounts and regular management reports enabling them to review the Groups performance against agreed objectives.
Regular reports and papers are circulated to Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
This information includes items specifically requested by the Non-Executive Directors from time to time.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by request at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
The Board is led by BL Steer who holds dual responsibility as both Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Board is aware that Mr Steers role as both Chairman and CEO is contrary to the recommendations of the Revised Combined Code.
The current position derives from the origins of the Company and Mr Steers entrepreneurial role in growing the organisation.
It is planned that Mr Steer will relinquish responsibility at the end of 2007 and it is not envisaged that the role of Chairman and Chief Executive will be exercised by one individual following Mr Steers retirement.
Mr Steer has no other significant business commitments.
The dual role performed by Mr Steer is balanced by a strong independent non-executive presence on the Board of Directors including an experienced Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, MF Garner.
In addition there is the Executive Committee which meets monthly and is responsible for the creation and implementation of Gyruss strategy, reporting to the Gyrus Group PLC Board of Directors.
In addition to the Executive Chairman, the Executive Committee includes four senior executives with clearly defined responsibilities: SJB Shaw, Chief Financial Officer, has responsibility for Finance, Legal and Investor Relations, GR Davis, Chief Operating Officer, has responsibility for Operations, Information Technology, Human Resources and the integration of the ACMI business acquired in 2005, TF Murphy, US-based Executive Vice President, has responsibility for sales and marketing and Frank DAmelio, Chief Technology Officer, is responsible for research and development.
The Operating Board, which comprises the Executive Committee, the Divisional Presidents, the US-based Group Vice President of Finance and the Vice President of Legal Affairs, is primarily responsible for the implementation of Group Strategy and tactical development.
It meets at least six times per year.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The number of full Board Meetings and Committee meetings attended by each director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Meetings Committee Committee Committee BL Steer 8 N A N A 2 SJB Shaw 8 N A N A N A GR Davis 8 N A N A N A MF Garner 83 6 2 C Goodson-Wickes 8 3 6 2 KT Krzywicki 8 3 N A N A CW Cummings 8 N A 6 N A NM Goble 3 N A N A N A Number of meetings in 2005 8 3 6 2 In addition to the scheduled full Board Meetings there were three additional Board meetings and three additional Remuneration Committee meetings to consider specific matters which were all properly constituted.
Appointments to the Board and Re-election of Directors There is a Nomination Committee to consider the appointment of new Directors and make recommendations to the Board.
All Directors terms of appointment are governed by the Companys Articles of Association requiring that all Directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment and that at each AGM one third of the Directors retire and submit themselves for re-appointment.
During the year, the Board approved that GR Davis be appointed as an Executive Director with effect from 1 April 2005 and shareholder approval of this appointment was obtained at the 2005 AGM.
Mr Davis was a Non-Executive Director of the Company from October 1997 to September 2003 when he relinquished his role as Non-Executive Director to take up his current position as Chief Operating Officer with the Group.
Since the year-end Dr Goble has resigned as a Non-Executive Director in order to focus on his role as CEO of Rhytec Limited, a company in which the Group has an equity investment.
SJB Shaw retires by rotation pursuant to Article 113 of the Articles of Association and stands for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Companies Articles do not require Board members to retire at 70 years of age but as a matter of best practice board members over 70 years stand for re-election on an annual basis, accordingly BL Steer and CW Cummings stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
MF Garner and C Goodson-Wickes, who have already served eight years as independent Non-Executive Directors and were re-elected at the 2005 AGM for one year, retire and submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM for a further year.
The Board has undertaken rigorous formal performance reviews and has concluded that both Directors continue to be effective and to demonstrate independence and commitment.
In order to give effect to the Nomination Committees recommendation to extend BL Steers contract of service until 31 December 2007, a resolution to approve this extension will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
Biographical details of all Directors standing for re-election at the AGM and the Boards reasons for recommending their re-election are contained in the Notice of AGM which will be sent to all shareholders.
Board Performance Evaluation A formal process of Board performance evaluation was followed during the year which included individual completion by all Board members of questionnaires regarding the effectiveness of the Board and of each of the Board committees together with discussion by the Board of the performance evaluation results and agreement of actions arising.
Individual evaluations of each Board member were performed by the Chairman and discussed with the relevant Director on a one to one basis.
The independent Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director meet annually to conduct a performance evaluation of the Chairman and take into account the views of the executive Directors.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 32 Board Committees Audit Committee The Audit Committee is comprised of three Non-Executive Directors, MF Garner Chairman, C Goodson-Wickes and KT Krzywicki.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee has a wealth of experience in finance in both an executive and non-executive capacity.
The Board considers that Mr Garner provides the Audit Committee with the necessary recent and relevant financial experience required by the Smith guidelines and the Combined Code.
His biographical details can be found on page 29.
The main responsibilities of the Committee as defined under its agreed terms of reference are: To review the appointment of the external auditor and assess the independence of the external auditor.
To review and recommend the audit fee to the board and pre-approve any fees in respect of non audit services provided by the external auditor and to ensure that the provision of non audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
To review with the external auditor the nature and scope of the external audit.
To review the external auditors management letter and managements response.
To regularly review the need for a formal internal audit function and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
To review the Companys procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers.
To review managements reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management.
To review, and challenge where necessary, the actions and judgements of management in relation to the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board.
To review the Companys statement on internal control systems prior to endorsement by the Board and to review the policies and processes for identifying and assessing business risks and the management of those risks by the Company.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year to discharge its responsibilities and provides the forum through which the Groups external auditors report to the Board.
Executive Directors and finance management are regularly invited to attend Audit Committee meetings but the Committee meets at least annually with the external auditor in the absence of executives and management.
The Audit Committee continually reviews the need for a formal internal audit function.
Despite the increase in size of the Group during 2005, in the light of the involvement of Group finance staff in regular reviews of the finances and controls operating in subsidiary companies, the Audit Committee has concluded that a separate internal audit department is not required at this stage in the Groups development.
However, the Audit Committee and management have agreed to increase the amount of time spent by finance staff on internal audit and peer review duties and to formalise the reporting of such activities to the Audit Committee.
External auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded by a policy that any non audit services over 10,000, other than tax compliance and advisory work, must be pre-authorised by the Audit Committee and be supported by a tender process where appropriate.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out on page 59 in note 5 to the financial statements.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is comprised of three Non-Executive Directors, C Goodson-Wickes Chairman, MF Garner and CW Cummings.
Details of the role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and the Companys Remuneration Policy are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 42.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is comprised of three members, the Executive Chairman, BL Steer Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, MF Garner Deputy Chairman of the Nomination Committee, and Non-Executive Director C Goodson-Wickes.
The Committee meets at least once a year and more frequently when required.
In 2005, the Committee met twice.
The main role of the Committee is to: Regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments it deems necessary.
Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment including the time commitment required.
Identify and nominate for the approval of the Board suitable candidates to fill board vacancies.
Recommend to the Board whether or not Directors retiring by rotation should be put forward for re-appointment at the next Annual General Meeting.
Satisfy itself with regard to succession planning with regard to both Board and senior appointments.
The Executive Chairman does not chair the Nomination Committee when it deals with matters relating to the appointment of a successor to the Chairmanship of the Board or the role of CEO.
The Deputy Chairman chairs the Nomination Committee on these occasions and may request the attendance of all the independent Non-Executive Directors.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Nomination Committee intends to engage an external adviser to conduct a skills and attributes audit of the Senior Management Team in 2006.
It has also determined to seek additional Non-Executive Director candidates as part of its broader succession planning remit.
The terms of reference for each of the Board Committees may be obtained from the Company Secretary or from the Companys website: http: www.
com Relations with Shareholders Institutional Investors The Group has designated BL Steer, Executive Chairman, and SJB Shaw, Chief Financial Officer, as its principal spokesmen with institutional investors, analysts, press and other interested parties.
Meetings are held with the Groups institutional investors at least twice a year following the interim and final results announcements.
Visits to the Groups operating facilities are arranged on a regular basis depending upon demand.
All members of the Board are encouraged to attend analyst or brokers briefings to develop an understanding of the views of shareholders.
In addition, the Executive Chairman and CFO provide feedback to the Board at least twice a year on issues raised with them in meetings with shareholders.
The AGM is normally attended by all Directors and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings.
The Senior Independent Director, MF Garner, is available to shareholders if they have concerns for which the normal channels of communication through the Executive Chairman or CFO are inappropriate.
Major shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet new Directors and investors may request meetings with Directors, including the Senior Independent Director.
Private Investors All shareholders are sent copies of the Interim and Annual Reports and are given notice to enable them to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and any Extraordinary General Meetings.
Shareholders whose shares are held by nominees may receive the information on request.
Information on the Group, its products and technology, press releases, and the Interim and Annual Reports may be found on the Groups website: http: www.
com Internal Control The provisions of the Code in respect of internal controls require that Directors review all controls including operational, compliance and risk management, as well as financial controls.
The Directors, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during the period covered by the Annual Report and Accounts and for the period to the date of approval.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, it is noted that any system of internal control can only be designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the Groups internal control system are as follows: Control environment An organisation structure with clearly defined responsibilities and levels of authority.
The appointment of experienced and professional staff with the necessary ability to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
Regular monitoring of key areas of business risk.
An approved Group policies and procedures manual and a self-certification process for management to confirm compliance.
Control Procedures, Monitoring and Risk Assessment The Group has a framework of control procedures that are communicated to all relevant employees.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The risk assessment process involves the senior management of all the Groups businesses in addition to the Groups executive Directors and the Executive Committee.
The results of these assessments are summarised and the results reviewed regularly by the Board.
In line with the Turnbull guidance, the process is designed to enable management to determine the likelihood of the risk, the adequacy of controls in place to minimise the occurrence of the risk and the appointment of an individual to be responsible to the Board for mitigating or managing that risk.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 34 Management Information The Group has a comprehensive process of medium term planning, annual budgets, mid-period forecasts and detailed monthly reporting of performance against budget.
The annual budgets are reviewed and revised, if appropriate, by the executive Directors before formal approval by the Board.
The Group seeks continuous improvement of its management information systems.
Going Concern After making detailed enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
EU-adopted International Financial Reporting Standards For reporting periods on or after 1 January 2005, the consolidated accounts of the Group must comply with EU-adopted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and accordingly the 2005 financial statements have been prepared under IFRS.
The Company only Financial Statements have been prepared under UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Employees The Group continued its policy of providing regular information on the financial performance, business activities and related matters to all employees.
Extensive team briefing is operational in the Group to ensure employee awareness of factors affecting Group performance and their involvement in decisions.
Group policy with regard to disabled people is to provide equal employment opportunity by giving full and fair consideration to their applications for employment and continuing employment, wherever possible, of employees who become disabled and providing suitable opportunities for their training, career development and promotion.
Policy on payment of suppliers It is the Groups policy to agree the terms of payment with all suppliers when entering into a transaction, to ensure that all suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and pay them in accordance with their agreed terms and conditions.
The Groups average creditor payment period at 31 December 2005 was 35 days 2004: 27 days and the Companys average creditor payment period at 31 December 2005 was 33 days 2004: 41 days.
Donations and contributions During the year the Group made charitable donations of 19,173 2004: 5,314.
No political donations were made during the current or preceding year.
Market value of land In the opinion of the Directors there is no material difference between the market value of the land owned by the Group and the value included in the balance sheet.
By order of the Board R Honig Company Secretary 15 March 2006 Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35
