Michael Garner Executive Chairman Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 2.
Professor Charles Cummings Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director 3.
Dr Charles Goodson-Wickes Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director 7.
Keith Krzywicki Non-Executive Director Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 28 1.
Michael Garner Executive Chairman and CEO Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Brian Steer, Executive Chairman and CEO, is 72 years Michael Garner, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, is old and has a wealth of international senior management 68 years old and was the Finance Director of TI Group experience in the healthcare industry.
He was President PLC from 1979 to 1993.
Since then he has been a Nonof Zimmer International Inc from 1983 to 1993 and Executive Director of a number of companies including prior to that was President of Travenol International Enterprise Inns plc from September 1995 to January Services Inc. now Baxter Healthcare Corporation 2005.
He was a founder member of the Accounting and has considerable experience in international Standards Board and has been a member of The markets for medical devices.
He originally joined Hundred Group of Finance directors since 1978.
Gyrus as a consultant in January 1994, was appointed He is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
to the Board in November 1994 and became Executive Chairman in 1996.
Mr Steer has overseen the 5.
Professor Charles Cummings development of the Groups business organically Non-Executive Director and by acquisition since its flotation in 1997.
Professor Charles Cummings, Non-Executive Director, is 70 years old and is the director Emeritus of 2.
Roy Davis Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery at the Johns Chief Operating Officer Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland, US and is Roy Davis, Chief Operating Officer, is 50 years old and on the Board of Directors of Johns Hopkins Medicine.
has over 25 years of line management and strategic He has written over 125 scientific papers, is a past consulting experience.
He joined Gyrus from NTERA, a president of both the American Society for Head Nanotechnology company, where he was Chief Executive.
and Neck Surgery and the American Academy of Before this he spent nearly 10 years with Arthur D. Little, Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery and has served the global management consulting company, where he on the American Board of Otolaryngology for 19 years.
was Vice President and Global Head of its Operations Management business.
Mr Davis has also held senior 6.
Dr Charles Goodson-Wickes D. L. operational positions for Trican, Reuters and Molex in Non-Executive Director the US, Taiwan and Europe.
Before becoming Chief Dr Charles Goodson-Wicks, Non-Executive Director, is Operating Officer Mr Davis served as a Non-Executive 60 years old and is qualified both as a physician and Director of Gyrus from its flotation in 1997.
He has held appointments in the NHS, has mechanical engineering degree and an MBA.
seen active service in the Army as a Medical Officer and built up his occupational medicine practices.
Simon Shaw was a Member of Parliament for 10 years, serving as Chief Financial Officer Parliamentary Private Secretary in three Government Simon Shaw, Chief Financial Officer is 41 years old and departments.
He currently holds a number of Nonjoined the group in October 2003 to take responsibility Executive Directorships.
He is Chairman of the for the Group financial management, financial strategy Remuneration Committee.
He is non-executive Chairman of Synairgen, listed on AIM.
Mr Shaw was Chief Operating 7.
Keith Krzywicki Officer of Profile Therapeutics plc, a listed drug delivery Non-Executive Director and medical devices business, from 1997 to 2003.
Keith Krzywicki, Non-Executive Director, is 61 years old Prior to 1997 he was a corporate financier, latterly and has over 30 years experience in the Pharmaceutical with Hambros Bank.
He qualified as a Chartered Industry with responsibility for manufacturing and Accountant in 1990. commercial operations.
He has held Chief Executive positions in Denmark and Belgium and from 1990 until 2003 was President of Pharmacia Ltd, UK and Ireland.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 29
