Directors Report The Directors of Halfords Group plc the Company Directors present their annual report to shareholders, together Profiles of the Directors are given on page 17. with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the financial year ended The following have served as Directors during the financial 1 April 2005. year ended 1 April 2005: Principal Activities Rob Templeman appointed 4 March 2003 The principal activity of the Group is the retailing of auto, David Hamid appointed 27 June 2003 leisure and cycling products.
As at 1 April 2005 the resigned 29 March 2005 Group traded from 395 outlets in the UK and 3 in the Ian McLeod appointed 17 May 2004 Republic of Ireland.
Nick Carter appointed 19 September 2003 Richard Pym appointed 17 May 2004 Review of Activities Keith Harris appointed 17 May 2004 A review of the Groups activities and of its future Nigel Wilson appointed 17 May 2004 development is contained within the Chairmans Statement, Bill Ronald appointed 17 May 2004 the Chief Executives Report, and the Finance Directors Jonathan Feuer appointed 24 July 2002 Report on pages 3 to 15.
ChristopherWoodhouse appointed 4March 2003 resigned 30 May 2004 Results and Dividend Soren Vestergaard-Poulsen appointed 28 July 2002 The Groups results for the year, together with the resigned 30 May 2004 appropriations made and proposed, are set out in the Group Profit and Loss Account on page 38.
David Hamid resigned on 29 March 2005, due to ill health.
The profit on ordinary activities of the Group before In his place, Ian McLeod was, on the same date, appointed taxation amounted to 64.1m 53 weeks ended 2 April as Chief Executive.
2004: 27.8m and the profit on ordinary activities after taxation amounted to 39.9m 53 weeks ended 2 April In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, 2004: 13.5m.
Rob Templeman is retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, has indicated Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General that he will offer himself for re-election at that meeting.
Meeting to be held on 13 July 2005, a final dividend of Jonathan Feuer was appointed to the Board to represent 8.3p per ordinary share will be paid on 1 August 2005 to the CVC Shareholders as defined in the Companys shareholders whose names are on the register of members Articles of Association, in essence, being the investment at the close of business on 17 June 2005.
This payment, funds advised, directly or indirectly, by CVC Capital together with the interim dividend of 3.7p per ordinary Partners Limited.
In accordance with the Companys share paid on 10 January 2005, makes a total for the year Articles of Association, he also retires at the forthcoming of 12.0p per ordinary share.
The total dividend payable to Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, has indicated shareholders charged to the profit and loss account is that he will offer himself for re-election at that meeting.
The Directors addition, Ian McLeod, Richard Pym, Bill Ronald, Keith Harris propose to transfer the retained profit of 12.5m and Nigel Wilson were all appointed as Directors by the 53 weeks ended 2 April 2004: 13.5m to reserves.
Board in May 2004 shortly before the flotation in June Arrangements are in place for Hill Samuel Offshore Trust 2004 and, under the Articles of Association, each retires Limited, as trustee of the Halfords Employees Share Trust, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and each has to waive entitlements to dividends.
indicated that he will offer himself for election at that meeting.
Each of the Directors standing for election or re-election are recommended by the Board for appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
20 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Directors Interests Employees The Directors interests in shares and options over shares The Board seeks to instill high standards of customer in the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration care and service in the Group and the commitment Report on pages 34 to 35.
No Director has any other of every employee to this business requirement is interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
The Company has established a communication framework for employees concerning No Director was or is materially interested in any business performance including financial and economic contract, other than his service contract, subsisting factors affecting performance, company benefits during or existing at the end of the financial year, which including share options and innovation.
Group-wide was significant in relation to the Groups business.
training reinforces the Groups commitment to employee involvement and development.
To ensure that the Company could act independently of the CVC Shareholders following the IPO, on 3 June The Group is committed to the principle of equal 2004, the Company entered into a relationship opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no agreement with each of the CVC Shareholders.
The applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment agreement provides, among other things, that whilst on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, ethnic they hold at least 15% of the Companys ordinary origin, religion, disability, sexuality, age, or is disadvantaged shares, the CVC Shareholders are entitled to appoint by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown one Director to the Board.
The CVC Shareholders can to be justified.
The Group applies employment policies require that such Director be appointed to any which are fair and equitable and which ensure entry into committee of the Board or be invited to attend such and progression within the Group.
Appointments are meetings of such a committee.
Where the CVC determined solely by application of job criteria, personal appointed Director receives information in a capacity ability and competency.
other than as a Director of the Company which imposes on him a duty of confidentiality, the Director is not The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications obliged to disclose that information to the Company.
for employment made by disabled persons, having regard The agreement also provides that, excluding the to their particular aptitudes and abilities, wherever suitable Chairman, at least half of the Board must comprise opportunities exist and training and career development Directors who are independent.
support are provided, where appropriate.
Should an employee become disabled when working for the Group, During the year the Company maintained liability insurance efforts are made to continue their employment and for its Directors and officers.
retraining is provided, if necessary.
Charitable Donations and Political Contributions A whistle-blowing policy and procedure is in place and During the year, the Group contributed 36,000 2004: has been notified to staff.
The policy enables them to 44,000 to charities in the UK.
The Groups policy is not report any concerns on matters affecting the Group or their to make any donations for political purposes.
However, employment, without fear of recrimination, and includes the the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 risk of things going wrong or of malpractice taking place has redefined the term donations very widely and, as a such as fraud, risks to health and safety, etc.
In addition, result, certain expenses legitimately incurred as part of the Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to matters of the process of talking to Government at all levels and discrimination, harassment and bullying in all aspects of making the Groups position known, are now reportable.
its business operations, whether they relate to sex, race, Although during the year no such expenditure or political national origin, disability, age, religion or sexual orientation, donations were made, resolutions will be proposed at the and policies and procedures are also in place for reporting forthcoming Annual General Meeting to provide limited and dealing with these matters.
The Companys pension arrangements for the UK-based employees of the Group are summarized in note 26 on page 60.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21 Directors Report Owning shares in the Company is an important way of Major Shareholders strengthening employees involvement in the development At 31 May 2005, the Companys share register of of the Groups business and bringing together their and substantial shareholdings showed the following interests shareholders interests.
The Company therefore in three per cent.
or more of the Companys issued encourages and helps the Groups employees to ordinary shares: participate in its Sharesave Scheme.
Holder Number % of issued Corporate Social Responsibility of shares shares 1 The Group takes its obligations to employees, customers, CVC Capital Partners 45,198,433 19.8 suppliers, and to the environment and society generally, F&C Asset Management 12,530,222 5.5 very seriously.
To this end, a detailed statement of Fidelity 12,440,708 5.5 corporate social responsibility has been developed and can Barclays Global Investors 10,847,360 4.8 be found on the Groups website.
The statement includes Britannic Asset Management 9,951,004 4.4 the Groups environmental policy, including waste Legal & General Investment management and recycling, prevention of pollution and Management 8,160,297 3.6 damage to the environment, compliance with applicable Note industry standards and legislation: and its social 1 Funds managed or advised by CVC Capital Partners Advisory responsibility policy which, amongst other matters, sets out Company Limited, or an affiliate thereof, hold a total of 45,198,433 the Groups commitment to fair employment practices, shares: included within that total the following funds have substantial working arrangements and pay and working hours, health holdings: and safety matters, and a prohibition on the exploitation CVC European Equity Partners III LP: 18,868,089 shares 8.3% CVC European Equity Partners II LP: 12,811,705 shares 5.6% of the labour of children and young people.
Further details of our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility is on page 19.
Auditors  LLP have indicated their Supplier Payment Policy willingness to accept reappointment as the Auditor of the The Group does not follow any formal code or standard on Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment is payment practice, but agrees terms and conditions for its contained in the notice of the Annual General Meeting and business transactions when orders for goods and services will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
are placed, and includes the relevant terms in contracts, where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to Annual General Meeting when making payments, subject to the terms and The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Stratford conditions being met by suppliers.
The number of trade Moat House Hotel, Bridgefoot, Stratford on Avon, creditor days outstanding at the period end for the Group Warwickshire, CV37 6YR, on Wednesday 13 July 2005 was 53 days 2004: 58 days.
The Company is a holding at 11.30 a. m. The notice of the Annual General Meeting company and had no trade creditors at the end of the and explanatory notes regarding the special business to financial year.
be put to the meeting are set out in a separate circular to shareholders accompanying this Annual Report and Accounts.
By Order of the Board Philip Parker Company Secretary 8 June 2005 22 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005
