Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 Group Board Nick Carter Rob Templeman Ian McLeod Richard Pym 5 6 7 8 Keith Harris Bill Ronald Nigel Wilson Jonathan Feuer Halfords Limited Management Board left to right Nick Wharton Steve Whyman Business Development Supply Chain and and HR Director Business Systems Director Nick Carter Phil Parker Finance Director Company Secretary Andy Torrance Paul McClenaghan Retail Operations Director Trading Director Ian McLeod Chief Executive 16 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Rob Templeman 47 Richard Pym 55 Nigel Wilson 48 Non-executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Rob was appointed to the Board as Richard joined the Board as the Nigel joined the Board as a NonChairman in March 2003, following Senior Independent Director in May executive Director in May 2004.
Halfords acquisition by CVC in 2004.
He is Group Chief Executive of Currently, he is Chief Financial Officer August 2002.
Previously, he Alliance & Leicester plc.
He has also of United Business Media plc.
Prior to was Chief Executive of Homebase been a Non-executive Director of this he was Group Finance Director of Group Limited, where he managed a Selfridges plc and has held various Viridian Group plc from 1996 to leveraged buy-out with Permira from roles at Thompson McLintock & Co, 2000, and became Managing Sainsburys.
Prior to this Rob held British Gas plc, BAT Industries plc Director of Viridian Capital in 2000. several retail executive positions, and The Burton Group plc.
Previous appointments include Group including Chief Executive of Harveys Finance Director at Waste Furnishing plc.
Rob has over 20 Management International plc, Head years experience in the retail sector.
Keith Harris 52 of Corporate Finance and Group Currently Rob is Chief Executive Non-executive Director Commercial Director of Dixons Group of Debenhams.
Keith was appointed a Non-executive plc, Managing Director of Stanhope Director in May 2004.
He has been Properties plc and a consultant at Executive Chairman of Seymour McKinsey and Company.
Ian McLeod 46 Pierce Limited since its acquisition Chief Executive from Investment Management Ian joined Halfords in September Holdings plc.
Prior to this, Keith Jonathan Feuer 42 2003, and was appointed to the was Chairman of the Football Non-executive Director Board in May 2004.
He became Chief League and Chief Executive of Jonathan joined Halfords in July Executive in March 2005.
Previously, HSBC Investment Bank plc.
He is also a partner of CVC he was Chief Executive of Celtic plc currently on the Board of Wembley Capital Partners and a Director of for two years.
Prior to this, Ian was on National Stadium Limited.
the Executive Board of WalMart, Jonathan joined CVC Capital Partners Germany, and held several positions in 1988, having previously worked in within Asda over the course of 20 Bill Ronald 49 the Corporate Finance Department of years and was Director of Asda Non-executive Director Baring Brothers & Co. Ltd and for Stores Limited between 1997 Bill joined the Board as a NonErnst & Whinney, where he qualified and 2001.
Ian is a Non-executive executive Director in May 2004.
He is as a Chartered Accountant.
Director of Fulham Football Club Deputy President of the Food and 1987 Limited.
Previously, Bill was Chief Executive of Uniq plc.
Prior to Nick Carter 38 this, he was Managing Director of the Finance Director UK confectionery operation of Mars Nick was appointed Finance Director Incorporated and a Vice-President of in August 2003.
Prior to this, he was Masterfoods Europe.
Bill has also Finance Director at Birthdays Group held various director roles at the Limited and held a number of finance BCCCA The Biscuit, Cake, Chocolate and commercial roles at Superdrug and Confectionery Association, ISBA Stores plc and Kingfisher plc.
Nick Incorporated Society of British qualified as a Chartered Accountant Advertisers and the IGD Institute of at KPMG.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 Employee focus Becky Wiberg Child Seat Fitter Travel in safety Becky has worked for Halfords for five years and is a trained child seat fitting specialist.
She has advised on and fitted over 1,000 child car seats into her customers cars.
Safety is paramount and my job is to make sure the customer gets the right seat for their child.
More than eight out of ten seats are incorrectly fitted, which is a frightening statistic 18 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005
