HALMA Halma Management Team 1 Andrew Williams 8 Nigel Young aged 38 is Chief Executive of the Halma Group.
He aged 55 is Chief Executive of the Specialist Products joined Halma in 1994 as Manufacturing Director of Reten Division.
He joined Halma as Managing Director of Fortress Acoustics now Palmer Environmental and became Interlocks Limited when the company joined the Group in Managing Director of that company in 1997.
Nigel was appointed Assistant Divisional Chief Divisional Chief Executive of the Optics and Water Executive in 1990 and took up his current position as Instrumentation Division and a member of the Executive Divisional Chief Executive in 1992.
He was appointed to Board in 2002.
He was appointed as Deputy Chief the Executive Board in 1994.
He has an MBA from Aston Executive in 2004 and Group Chief Executive in February University.
Andrew is a Chartered Engineer and a production engineering graduate of Birmingham University.
9 Richard Stone aged 62 was appointed a non-executive Director of 2 Geoff Unwin Halma in January 2001.
He serves on the Audit aged 62 is Chairman of the Halma Group and serves on Committee, Remuneration Committee Chairman and the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee and is the Senior Independent Nomination Committee Chairman.
He is Chairman of CSW Group Limited, a nonDeputy Chairman and Chairman Elect in September 2002 executive Director of Gartmore Global Trust p. l. c. Trust and Chairman in July 2003.
He is Chairman of United Union Finance 1991 plc, Engandscot Limited and TR Business Media plc and Liberata plc and a non-voting Property Investment Trust plc.
board director of Capgemini Group.
He is also an advisory board member of Hartwell plc and Palamon Capital 10 Carol Chesney Partners LLP.
aged 42 is Company Secretary of Halma p. l. c. She spent three years with English China Clays p. l. c. before joining 3 Kevin Thompson Halma in 1995 as Group Finance Manager.
Carol was aged 45 is Finance Director of the Halma Group.
He appointed Company Secretary in 1998.
She is a maths joined the Group in 1987 as Group Financial Controller and graduate of Randolph-Macon Womans College, Virginia and in 1995 was appointed to the Executive Board as Finance qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen.
In 1997 he became Group Finance Director and in 1998 was appointed to the Halma p. l. c. Board.
An 11 Andrew Richardson economics and accounting graduate of Bristol University, aged 40 is Chief Executive of the Water Management Kevin qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Price Division.
He joined Halma in April 2004 and is a member Waterhouse.
Andrew is an engineering graduate of Cambridge University.
Prior to joining Halma he was 4 Andrew Walker Divisional Managing Director of the Clutch Division for the aged 53 was appointed a non-executive Director of Automotive Products Group.
Halma in May 2003 and serves on the Audit Committee Chairman and Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman 12 Nigel Trodd of Bioganix Limited, a non-executive Director of Ultra aged 47 is Chief Executive of the Process Safety Electronics Holdings plc, Manganese Bronze plc, Division.
He joined Halma in July 2003 and is a member of API Group plc, Delta plc and Porvair plc.
Prior to joining Halma he was V. P. Europe, Middle East and Africa for Tyco Suppression 5 Keith Roy Systems based in Frankfurt.
Nigel is a business studies aged 55 is Chief Executive of the Water and Gas graduate of Thames Valley University and is a member of Technology Division.
He joined Halma having been joint the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
owner of Reten Acoustics when Halma acquired it in 1992 and was appointed Managing Director and subsequently 13 Bill Seymour Chairman of Palmer Environmental Limited.
He became an aged 45 is Chief Executive of the Elevator and Door Assistant Divisional Chief Executive in 1998.
He joined Halma on the acquisition of was appointed Divisional Chief Executive of the Water Janus Elevator Products in December 1990 and became Technology Division and was appointed to the Halma p. l. c. Vice President of that company in 1991.
He is an electronic engineering graduate of appointed Joint President of Janus and in 1999 became an both Nottingham University BSc and Aston University Assistant Divisional Chief Executive.
appointed Divisional Chief Executive of the Elevator Electronics Division and a member of the Executive Board.
6 Neil Quinn He is an electrical engineering graduate of Limerick aged 55 is Chief Executive of the Fire Division.
He joined College of Technology.
the Group as Sales Director of Apollo Fire Detectors Limited in 1987, becoming Managing Director in 1992.
In 14 John Campbell 1994 he was appointed Chief Executive of the Fire aged 46 joined the Group in 1995 as President of IPC Detection Division and was appointed to the Halma p. l. c. Resistors Inc. and became Chief Executive of the Resistors Board in 1998.
He is a material science graduate from Division upon its formation in 1998 and a member of the Sheffield University.
He is an electrical engineering graduate of the University of Toronto and before joining Halma was 7 Adam Meyers a senior sales and marketing executive within the aged 43 is Chief Executive of the Fluid Technology Industrial Power Group of Rolls-Royce p. l. c. Division.
He joined Halma in 1996 as President of BioChem Valve Inc.
He was appointed Assistant Divisional 15 Stephen Pettit Chief Executive in April 2001 and became Divisional Chief aged 54 was appointed a non-executive Director of Executive of the newly formed Fluid Technology Division Halma in September 2003 and serves on the Audit and a member of the Executive Board in April 2003.
He is Committee and Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman a systems engineering graduate of the University of of ROK Property Solutions plc and a non-executive Pennsylvania and gained his MBA from Harvard Business Director of National Grid Transco plc and National Air School.
