27 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Corporate and associates Hedef Alliance, Turkeys leading At the beginning of April we completed wholesaler, contributed 27.7 million to the restructuring of our relationship with the Groups earnings.
Galenica, our 25.5% owned Swiss associate, to create greater focus on our respective areas of operations and to simplify trading relationships.
Corporate hospitals to community pharmacies, the market like earnings from these other associates Corporate costs totalled 21.5 million, a growing we estimate by around 4% in volume increased by 0.8% year on year, earnings 3.3 million increase on the previous year.
terms, and very low inflation by historic growth being held back partly by restructuring This change was due to a number of factors, standards.
The inflation accounting monetary costs taken by Galenica which is to close two including the full year impact of the loss adjustment within operating profit was wholesale depots in Switzerland and relocate strengthening of the corporate office lower because the wholesale price index into one new facility.
management team to run business inflation rate at 4.5% was around a third At the beginning of April we completed the improvement programmes which took of the inflation rate in 2004.
The Turkish Lira restructuring of our relationship with Galenica, place during the first half of 2004. strengthened by 10.6% against Sterling over our 25.5% owned Swiss associate, to create the course of the year which favourably Associates greater focus on our respective areas of affected the reported results in Sterling, a year Performance from our associate businesses operations and to simplify trading relationships.
end rate of 2.32 Turkish Lira being used to was well ahead of our expectations at the As a result, the Group increased its direct translate Hedef Alliances inflation adjusted beginning of the year, driven by Hedef Alliance ownership in Alloga, one of Europes leading earnings into Sterling.
During the year a net 38 in Turkey which performed particularly well.
specialist healthcare logistics and predepots were opened in Turkey, of which 37 wholesaling providers, from 20% to 100%, Our share of associates post tax earnings was were small satellite facilities, bringing the total with the exception of the Swiss part of the 45.3 million, a 33.2% increase on the number of depots at the year end to 99, of business which was fully acquired by Galenica.
previous year, our share of profits from which 68 are satellites.
In addition, we sold our 50% direct interest in operations increasing by 53.6% to UCP, Hedef Alliances associate in Egypt, the GaleniCare Swiss pharmacy chain to 70.8 million and our share of revenue by continues to perform well.
The net cash inflow from these 15.1% to 1,965.3 million.
Adjusting for intends shortly to exercise its option to acquire transactions was 15.7 million.
As part of this changes in associate interests, including the control and majority ownership of UCP.
restructuring, we also extended our associate inclusion of Alliance UniChem Farmacutica in agreement with Galenica for a further five Portugal as an associate from the end of June From the beginning of 2006 we will no longer years to 2014.
As a consequence of this 2005, on a constant currency basis, like for account for Hedef on an inflation adjusted restructuring, the results of the various like earnings increased by 24.5%, like for like basis.
As a result, we will not have to reduce European subsidiaries which make up Alloga operating profits by 44.4% and like for like Hedefs operating profits by a monetary loss are included within the relevant countrys revenues by 26.8%.
The underlying tax rate on adjustment and will change from translating wholesale results.
The results of Allogas own associates earnings was 30.5%, an increase of earnings into Sterling at a year end rate to an associates, the largest of which is UDG in the 0.9 percentage points on the previous year, average rate, as with other associates and UK, are included in the associates category.
mainly due to the non-deductibility of Hedef owned businesses.
Had we not had to Alliances monetary loss adjustment in 2005 as account for Hedef on an inflation adjusted inflation in Turkey was below 10%.
This was basis throughout 2005, its reported earnings partially offset by a reduction in the Turkish in Sterling would have been around corporate tax rate.
Hedef Alliance, Turkeys leading wholesaler, Our share of earnings from associates other contributed 27.7 million to the Groups than Hedef increased by 4.1% in total to earnings compared to 17.1 million in the 17.6 million.
These include our share of previous year, an increase of 45.0% on a earnings from Galenica in Switzerland and constant currency inflation adjusted basis.
ANZAG in Germany, both of which are quoted During the year, Hedef Alliance particularly companies, and our wholesale associate in benefited from liberalisation measures relating Portugal.
Adjusting for changes in associate to the transfer of out-patient prescriptions from interests, on a constant currency basis like for
