44 Alliance UniChem Plc Board of Directors Paolo Scaroni Ian Meakins Stefano Pessina Ornella Barra Chairman Chief Executive Executive Deputy Chairman Executive Director George Fairweather Steve Duncan Group Finance Director Executive Director Paolo Scaroni Stefano Pessina Ornella Barra Chairman, 59 Executive Deputy Chairman, 64 Executive Director, 52 Was appointed to the Board in 2002 becoming Was appointed to the Board in 1997, Was appointed to the Board in 1997, when Chairman in April 2005.
Paolo is Chief when the Alliance Sant group became the Alliance Sant group became part of Executive of Eni, a member of the board of part of the Group.
Stefano has operational the Group.
Ornella has responsibility for the the Business School at Columbia University in responsibility for strategic development, Groups commercial and pre-wholesaling New York and a member of the supervisory including acquisitions, having previously activities, its wholesale businesses in Italy, board of ABN AMRO Bank.
He is also a been Chief Executive for three years up Spain and the Czech Republic, and corporate member of the board of II Sole 24 Ore. until December 2004.
The Alliance Sant communications activities.
Ornella was Before this, Paolo was Chief Executive of group had pharmaceutical wholesaling previously the President of a pharmaceutical Enel and Pilkington.
Paolo has worked as a interests in a number of European countries, distribution company founded by her in 1984. consultant and in industry since 1973. having been established in Italy by Stefano in She is also a Director of Alliance UniChem 1977.
Before this, Stefano held a number of Farmacutica, an associate company and is a Ian Meakins academic posts and worked as an independent pharmacist by profession.
Chief Executive, 49 business consultant and for marketing research Was appointed to the Board upon joining the Steve Duncan firm, ACNielsen.
Stefano is an engineer Group in December 2004 as Chief Executive.
He is a non-executive Director In addition, Ian assumed direct responsibility for Was appointed to the Board in January 2003 of Galenica and Hedef Alliance Holding, the wholesale business in the UK and France having had overall responsibility for the retail both associate companies.
following Per Utnegaards departure from the division since September 2001.
In addition, Company in April 2005.
Previously Ian was George Fairweather Steve has responsibility for the Groups President, European Major Markets and Global Group Finance Director, 48 wholesale businesses in The Netherlands and Supply of Diageo, having held a number of Was appointed to the Board upon joining the Norway.
He was appointed Managing Director senior marketing and operational positions with Group in April 2002.
Before this, George held of Alliance Pharmacy formerly Moss Pharmacy Diageo since joining United Distillers in 1991. similar positions with Elementis and Dawson in 2000, having been a Director since 1991.
Prior to joining Diageo, Ian was a founding International, having previously worked for Steve joined the Group in 1974 and is a partner of the strategic management Dixons Group, Procter and Gamble and pharmacist and a member of the Royal consultancy, The Kalchas Group, having Thomson McLintock.
George is a member Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
previously worked at Bain & Company and of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Procter and Gamble.
of Scotland and a non-executive Director of Mitchells & Butlers.
45 Alliance UniChem Plc The Right Hon.
Kenneth Clarke Adrian Loader Manfred Stach Deputy Chairman and senior Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director independent non-executive Director Neil Cross Patrick Ponsolle Etienne Jornod Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Non-executive Director The Right Hon.
Kenneth Clarke Adrian Loader Manfred Stach Deputy Chairman and senior independent Independent non-executive Director, 57 Independent non-executive Director, 63 non-executive Director, 65 Was appointed to the Board in September Was appointed to the Board in December Was appointed to the Board in 1997 as 2003.
Adrian is Director of Strategy and 2003.
Manfred is head of the supervisory Chairman, a position he held until September Business Development at Royal Dutch Shell.
board of Unilever Deutschland, Chairman of 2001 when he became Deputy Chairman.
He is Chairman of the supervisory board of the supervisory board of Unilever Austria and a Kenneth is a Queens Counsel and Member Deutsche Shell and a Director of Shell Canada member of the supervisory boards of British of Parliament and has served in the UK Limited.
Previously he held senior management American Tobacco BAT Germany and Government as Chancellor of the Exchequer positions with Royal Dutch Shell in Europe, Neumann Coffee Group.
Manfred was and Health Secretary.
Kenneth is non-executive South America, and Asia Pacific.
Adrian is a President of Unilever Bestfoods Europe until Chairman of Savoy Asset Management, Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel June 2005, having previously held a number of non-executive Deputy Chairman of British and Development.
senior executive positions within Unilever in American Tobacco and a non-executive Europe, North America and Africa.
Patrick Ponsolle Director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Independent non-executive Director, 61 Etienne Jornod Trust and Independent News and Media UK.
Was appointed to the Board in 1997.
Non-executive Director, 53 Neil Cross Patrick is Vice Chairman of Morgan Stanley Was appointed to the Board in 2000.
Independent non-executive Director, 60 International and Chairman of Morgan Stanley Etienne is Chairman and Chief Executive Was appointed to the Board in 1997.
Before this, Patrick was executive of Galenica, an associate company, and is Neil is non-executive Chairman of Close Chairman of Eurotunnel.
a board member of the Swiss Society of Technology and General VCT and BMT Ltd, Chemical Industries.
a non-executive Director of Dawson Holdings, The Bayard Fund and Bernard Matthews Holdings, and is Vice President of The Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce.
Neil was previously an executive Director of 3i Group and is a Chartered Secretary.
