46 Alliance UniChem Plc Report of the Directors The Directors submit their Report and opportunity to reinvest their cash dividend Charitable and political donations audited financial statements for the in buying existing issued shares in the Charitable donations of 295,000 were made during 2005, of which 211,000 were year ended 31 December 2005.
For the Company through a dividend reinvestment plan.
Further details of this offer are given in the UK.
The Group has no affiliation to purposes of this report, Company means Alliance UniChem Plc and Group in a separate document accompanying this any political party or group in any country means the Company, its subsidiaries Annual Report.
and makes no political donations.
Directors Share capital Principal activity, business review The Directors of the Company are At 31 December 2005, there were and development Paolo Scaroni Chairman, Ian Meakins 361,726,095 ordinary shares in issue held The Company is the holding company for Chief Executive, Stefano Pessina by 8,128 shareholders on the register.
The principal activity of the Executive Deputy Chairman, George Group is to operate as wholesalers and Fairweather, Ornella Barra, Steve Duncan, Details of shares allotted during the retailers of pharmaceutical, medical and Kenneth Clarke Deputy Chairman, Neil year are given in note 34 to the financial healthcare products.
Cross, Adrian Loader, Patrick Ponsolle, statements.
Manfred Stach and Etienne Jornod.
The Chairmans introduction, and Biographical details of the Directors Two trusts exist in connection with operating and financial review contain are shown on pages 44 and 45. the discretionary 1997 Share Option details of the development of the business Scheme, the long-term incentive plan and of the Group during the year, the position Jeff Harris stepped down as Chairman long-term incentive plan for Ian Meakins, at the end of the year, events since the end of the Company and retired from the to facilitate the holding of shares in of the year and likely future developments.
Board at the conclusion of the 2005 AGM.
the Company by employees and Paolo Scaroni, who was appointed as executive Directors.
The Group carries out research and an independent non-executive Director development to support existing activities of the Company in 2002, replaced him In accordance with a policy approved by and to ensure the adoption of best practice as Chairman.
Per Utnegaard resigned the Company and the Trustees of the 1992 in business processes used throughout as a Director on 17 March 2005.
Employee Trust the Trust, the Trust the Group.
acquired 5.1 million shares in the Company George Fairweather, Ornella Barra, during the year and held 6,097,296 shares The principal subsidiaries and associates Patrick Ponsolle and Etienne Jornod will in the Company on 31 December 2005 and of the Group at 31 December 2005 retire as Directors by rotation at the 2006 5,986,513 on 21 February 2006.
Under the are listed in note 47 to the financial AGM and will seek re-election at the terms of the Trust, the dividend receivable statements.
In accordance with Company on shares held is 0.001 pence per share.
policy, it had previously been agreed that Annual General Meeting Neil Cross who has now served nine years The Alliance UniChem Employee Share The sixteenth Annual General Meeting as a non-executive Director would retire Trust did not acquire shares in the AGM will be held in the York Suite at from the Board at the conclusion of the Company during the year and held Oatlands Park Hotel, 146 Oatlands Drive, 2006 AGM.
In view of the Companys 119,946 shares in the Company on Weybridge, Surrey KT13 9HB on Tuesday proposed merger with Boots, the 31 December 2005 which it also held 25 April 2006, starting at 2:00 pm.
nomination committee has suspended on 21 February 2006. the process to identify a candidate with The notice convening the meeting is given recent and relevant financial experience As at 21 February 2006 the Company in a separate document accompanying this to succeed Neil Cross as a non-executive has been notified of the following major Annual Report and includes a commentary Director and as chairman of the audit interests in its issued ordinary share capital, on the business of the AGM, notes to help committee.
In accordance with the disclosed to it in accordance with Sections shareholders exercise their rights at the Companys Articles of Association and 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985: meeting and details of the venue.
the Combined Code on corporate Percentage governance the Code, which require of present Results and dividend non-executive Directors serving longer issued The Group profit for the year attributable than nine years to seek annual re-election, ordinary to equity shareholders amounted to Neil Cross will seek re-election at the 2006 Number of shares share capital 210.7 million 2004 187.3 million.
AGM for a period up until the conclusion Stefano Pessina 108,472,659 29.99% An interim dividend of 6.9 pence per of the 2007 AGM.
Following a rigorous Barclays 18,805,427 5.20% share was paid on 11 October 2005 to review conducted by the nomination shareholders registered at the close of committee, the Board is satisfied that Neil business on 5 August 2005, and the Cross continues to contribute effectively 108,350,000 shares of the interest Directors are recommending the and with proper commitment.
of Stefano Pessina are held by Alliance payment of a final dividend of 13.6 pence Sant Participations S. A.. Stefano Pessina per share, making a total dividend in Details of Directors service contracts and indirectly wholly owns Alliance Sant respect of the financial year of 20.5 pence a statement of their interests in the share Participations S. A. registered in per share.
capital of the Company are set out in the Luxembourg, and the directors include Board report on remuneration.
Stefano Pessina and Ornella Barra.
If approved by shareholders at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid Auditors on 10 May 2006 with an ex-dividend A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & date of 8 March 2006 to shareholders Touche LLP as auditors of the Company on the register at the close of business on and to authorise the Directors to fix 10 March 2006.
Shareholders will have the their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
47 Alliance UniChem Plc Paris delisting In virtually all circumstances, a fair Employment policies are fair, equitable and Up until 5 January 2006 the Companys presentation will be achieved by consistent with the skills and abilities of shares were listed on the Paris stock compliance with all applicable employees and the needs of the Groups exchange.
This listing was cancelled International Financial Reporting businesses.
If any employee becomes due to very low trading activity.
Directors are also required to: disabled, the objective is the continued provision of suitable employment either properly select and apply accounting Directors responsibilities statement in the same or an alternative position with policies: This statement, which should be read appropriate training if necessary.
in conjunction with the independent present information, including auditors reports, is made with a view to accounting policies, in a manner that Communication with employees takes distinguishing for shareholders the provides relevant, reliable, comparable place through regular staff briefings.
respective responsibilities of the Directors and understandable information: A works council exists to brief and consult and of the auditors in relation to the with elected employee representatives provide additional disclosures when financial statements.
Subject to compliance with the specific practical and commercial considerations, requirements in International Financial The Directors are responsible for preparing employees are consulted and involved in Reporting Standards is insufficient to the financial statements.
The Directors decisions that affect their employment enable users to understand the impact have chosen to prepare the financial or future prospects.
of particular transactions, other events statements for the Group in accordance and conditions on the entitys financial with International Financial Reporting The Group operates a number of share position and financial performance: and Standards IFRS and for the Company in option and bonus schemes to encourage accordance with United Kingdom prepare the financial statements on a executive Directors and employees to Generally Accepted Accounting Practice going concern basis unless, having contribute effectively to the creation UK GAAP.
assessed the ability of the Company of long-term value for the Companys to continue as a going concern, shareholders.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the management either intends to liquidate Directors are required to prepare financial the entity or to cease trading, or have Creditors and supplier payment policy statements for each financial year that give no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Group applies a policy of abiding by a true and fair view of the state of affairs the payment terms negotiated with each The Directors are responsible for of the Company and of the profit or loss of of its suppliers, whenever it is satisfied ensuring that the Company keeps proper the Company for that period.
In preparing that the invoiced goods or services have accounting records which disclose, the financial statements, the Directors are been ordered and have been supplied with reasonable accuracy, at any time, required to: in accordance with agreed terms and the financial position of the Company.
The Company is a holding select suitable accounting policies and The Directors are also responsible for: company and has no trade creditors.
then apply them consistently: safeguarding the assets of the Company make judgements and estimates that are and the Group: Financial instruments reasonable and prudent: The Groups treasury policies are described taking reasonable steps for the on pages 30 and 31 in the operating and state whether applicable accounting prevention and detection of fraud and financial review.
The exposure of the standards have been followed, subject to other irregularities: Group to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk any material departures disclosed and for the preparation of the report of the and cash flow risk in respect of financial explained in the financial statements: and Directors and the Board report on instruments is set out in notes 28 and prepare the financial statements on remuneration which comply with the 30 to the financial statements.
a going concern basis unless it is requirements of the Companies Act 1985: inappropriate to presume that the Group and Post balance sheet event will continue in business.
On 17 February 2006 the Group ensuring the maintenance and integrity announced that it had reached an In the case of IFRS accounts, International of the Companys corporate website.
agreement to enter the Russian Accounting Standard 1 requires that the Employment policies, communication pharmaceutical wholesale market, details financial statements present fairly for each and involvement of which are described in note 49 to the financial year the Companys financial The Groups employment policies are financial statements.
position, financial performance and cash designed to ensure that it can attract the flows.
This requires the faithful highest calibre of employee and to provide Approved by and signed on behalf of representation of the effects of equal opportunity in the selection and the Board of Directors transactions, other events and conditions advancement of a diverse workforce of in accordance with the definitions and employees regardless of race, creed, colour, Marco Pagni recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, nationality, gender, age, marital status, Company Secretary income and expenses set out in the sexual preference or disability.
28 February 2006 International Accounting Standards Boards 'Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
