20 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Wholesale Our wholesale division performed well in 2005 in relatively difficult market conditions which led to slower market growth, our underlying performance improving as the year progressed.
Our warehouse best practice programme Total Alloga revenue in 2005 since continued during the year, the central acquisition was 16.1 million.
distribution centre in South Normanton being completed at the end of the year.
We acquired two well-positioned regional wholesalers in Spain.
Generics now account for over 40% of the UK volume of prescription medicines.
Revenue totalled 8,687.3 million, an increase of Northern Europe equivalent branded product which adversely 1.8% on the previous year, operating profits Operating profit in the Northern Europe impacted service levels to our customers and increasing by 1.9% to 169.6 million.
Overall geographical area of our wholesale division our own pharmacies.
Overall, these changes operating margins were unchanged year on year totalled 92.2 million, an increase of 3.1% on and related disruption made 2005 a relatively at 1.95%.
Adjusting for acquisitions and disposals the previous year, on revenue up 0.5% to difficult year for our UK wholesale business, including Portugal which has been accounted for 2,913.1 million, four non-core businesses resulting in lower like for like operating margins as an associate in the second half of the year, on having been sold in the UK in the second half and profits.
a constant currency basis, like for like sales of 2004.
Operating margins increased by eight The warehouse best practice programme increased by 1.6%, like for like operating profits basis points to 3.17%.
Adjusting for disposals continued during the year, the central increased by 4.6% and like for like operating and the acquisition of Alloga, on a constant distribution centre in South Normanton being margins increased by six basis points.
currency basis, like for like sales increased by completed at the end of the year.
The expertise 0.9%, like for like operating profits increased Second half operating profits were 89.7 million, gained from the programme now forms part of by 3.8% and like for like operating margins an increase of 4.2% on the second half of our normal working practices across the Group.
increased by nine basis points.
Second half 2004, on revenue up 1.5% to 4,286.5 million.
The investment in best practice, together with operating profits in Northern Europe were On a constant currency basis, like for like our work with manufacturers and other 47.2 million, an increase of 0.6% on the second half operating profits increased by operating initiatives, is supporting the drive to second half of 2004 on revenue up 4.6% to 9.0% on the second half of 2004 and second improve both customer service and efficiency 1,488.6 million.
half like for like sales by 2.0%.
UK During 2005 we further strengthened our The programme established at the end of In the UK total revenue decreased by 2.7% to portfolio of wholesale businesses in line with 2004 to drive greater synergies from the UK 1,821.9 million, like for like sales decreasing our well established strategy.
This included wholesale and retail businesses, with a particular by 0.2% compared to a market which we increasing our direct ownership of Alloga in focus on manufacturer services and operations, estimate declined in value by around 1.5%.
April 2005, one of Europes leading specialist and the process of realigning our commercial The decline in the market was due to the healthcare logistics and pre-wholesaling terms, has progressed well.
This programme is implementation of the PPRS price cuts at the providers and acquiring two well-positioned already beginning to deliver benefits for our UK beginning of January 2005 which reduced the regional wholesalers in Spain, substantially businesses and will continue in 2006.
The price of branded pharmaceutical products by increasing our market position.
We also wholesale and retail buying functions for non an average of 7%, further price reductions by acquired businesses in France and Italy prescription medicines were successfully certain manufacturers and a new lower drug providing contract sales forces and other combined at the beginning of the year.
Since tariff for generics from the beginning of April services to pharmaceutical manufacturers.
the year end, a minor restructuring has been which we estimate reduced the price of carried out, principally in the UK wholesale head Allogas financial performance is included generic pharmaceutical products by an average office at Chessington where headcount has within the respective countries wholesale of 16% and branded drug patent expiries in been reduced by 14%.
This is expected to lead figures from the date it was acquired.
Total the second half of the year.
In volume terms we to greater efficiencies, functional best practice Alloga revenue in 2005 since acquisition was estimate that the market grew by around 4% and an even greater focus on our core activities.
Alloga made an operating loss which was stronger than we have seen in other during this period partly due to integration countries in 2005, generics now accounting for The continued growth of Almus, the Groups costs and operational issues in France.
over 40% of the UK volume of prescription exclusive range of generic drugs, is providing medicines.
In the early part of the year the PPRS sourcing benefits aimed at offsetting the New bulk warehouse capacity was brought on price cuts resulted in temporary disruption in impact of patent expiries.
Sales volumes almost stream in France in the fourth quarter of the year the market place, first through parallel traders doubled year on year, the Almus range in the to expand the business and replace three smaller discounting unsold stock and later by some UK comprising 146 products at 31 December facilities.
Progress is being made to further develop manufacturers being out of stock of the 2005.
Progress continues to be made towards the business within our wholesale division.
21 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Wholesale Wholesale revenue growth Wholesale depots at 31 December 2005 L A -2.7% K B C D J UK -0.2% E 2.6% The Netherlands 0.9% I 16.4% Czech Republic F 7.7 H G 10.1% Norway A. UK 11 4.3% B.
The Netherlands 4 C. Czech Republic 6 4.1% France D. Norway 1 3.0% E. France 57 F. Italy including associates 45 1.4% Italy G. Spain 33 -0.7% H. Portugal 7 I.
Turkey 99 16.1% Spain J. Germany 24 -1.9% K. Switzerland 3 L. Pre-wholesale including associates 10 Year on year total Like for like constant currency growth Total 300 Associate interest.
extending the range in the UK and launching high value products.
Operating margins and improved product mix and an increase in preAlmus in a number of other European countries, profits increased year on year, due to enhanced wholesaling.
Our current forecast for market starting with a phased launch in France in the trading activities.
growth in the Czech Republic in value terms in second quarter of 2006 and Italy in the final 2006 is around 5%.
During the year Kring, our virtual chain of quarter of 2006. pharmacies in The Netherlands, entered into Norway The new pharmacy contract in England and agreements with the two largest Dutch health In Norway revenue increased by 10.1% to Wales, which took effect from the beginning of insurers to provide health check programmes 218.9 million, sales increasing by 4.3% on a April, has created significant changes for retail for their patients.
constant currency basis compared to a market pharmacies in terms of the growing focus on which we estimate grew in value by around Our current forecast for market growth in the services they offer patients and the resulting 2.5%.
Increasing synergies from running the The Netherlands in value terms in 2006 is change in funding.
In response, our UK Norwegian retail and wholesale businesses around 6% which assumes continuing growth wholesale business developed step by step more closely resulted in higher gross margins in deliveries direct to patients in their homes guidance for independent pharmacy customers and lower costs.
These factors led to increased and the introduction, from the beginning of to follow, as well as your portfolio, a operating margins and profits.
In January 2005, 2006, of the Covenant III schedule.
Covenant III comprehensive package of retail, healthcare, we acquired the 49% we did not previously continues the Covenant II pricing regime information technology and business services own of Farmaka, the leading central dispensing introduced by The Netherlands Government in for independent retail pharmacies.
facility in Norway for unit dose dispensing 2005, and introduces additional price packs.
Since then, the facility has been Our current forecast for market growth in reductions with the aim of cutting the national relocated to larger premises and production the UK in value terms in 2006 is around 1%.
pharmaceutical spend by around a further capacity increased to meet rising demand for This reflects a combination of lower generic 55 million in 2006. these specialist packs.
Our current forecast for prices from April 2005, patent expiries due in Czech Republic market growth in Norway in value terms in 2006 and our estimate of the impact of the In the Czech Republic revenue increased by 2006 is around 4%.
surgical product pricing review scheduled for 16.4% to 212.4 million, sales increasing by implementation in the second half of 2006.
7.7% on a constant currency basis compared to In January 2006 the UK Government published a market which we estimate grew by around its Our health White Paper exploring options 7%.
Market growth was lower than we had for increasing the provision of primary care in previously expected due to action by the Ministry local community settings.
This White Paper is of Health to curtail healthcare expenditure which currently in its consultation stage: we welcome largely offset anticipated gains from the the continuing drive towards community based certification of certain ethical products.
We continue to place considerable focus on The Netherlands growing our sales and market share in the In The Netherlands revenue increased by 2.6% independent retail pharmacy sector in the to 659.9 million, sales increasing by 0.9% Czech Republic, our market share in the on a like for like constant currency basis.
hospital sector reducing due to our This compares to a market which we estimate unwillingness to supply certain hospitals grew in value by around 3.5%, market share experiencing financial constraints which impact reducing after a number of years of significant their ability to adhere to payment terms.
share gains mainly due to the loss of a multiple Operating margins and profits increased year pharmacy account, part of which was replaced on year, gross margins increasing due to an with new business, and an increase in deliveries direct to patients in their homes of specialist 22 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Wholesale 75% In July we accelerated development of services we offer manufacturers through the acquisition of a 75% interest in Dveloppement et Promotion Pharmaceutique in France.
Good progress continues to be made in establishing our virtual chain of pharmacies in Italy, bringing the total to 107 at the year end with a further 53 signed up to join shortly.
In the second quarter of 2006 we plan to launch Almus, the Groups exclusive range of generic drugs, in France.
Southern Europe our pharmacy customers in collective buying market are: a 15 - 18% reduction in the price Operating profit in the Southern Europe arrangements with tailored service offerings for of all generics and branded pharmaceuticals for geographical area of our wholesale division these groups.
We are also extending the range which a generic exists, the delisting of products, totalled 77.4 million, an increase of 0.4% on of services offered to manufacturers, such as lower reimbursement rates for certain products the previous year on revenue up 2.4% to pre-wholesale and contract logistics, transfer and larger pack sizes with lower percentage 5,821.0 million.
Operating margins reduced orders, contract sales forces, and direct to margins.
These measures are in the process of by three basis points to 1.33%.
Overall like for like operating being implemented.
As a result we are currently acquisitions and the disposal of Portugal which margin was slightly up year on year as a result forecasting that the French market will grow in has been accounted for as an associate in the of a strong margin performance in the second value terms in 2006 by around 2%.
second half of the year, on a constant currency half of the year.
Operating profit increased year In addition, in January 2006 the French basis, like for like sales increased by 2.0%, like on year as a result of the sales and margin government has implemented a new law which for like operating profit increased by 5.6% and improvement.
limits the amount of discounts that any business like for like margins increased by five basis In July we accelerated development of services can give to its customers.
Second half operating profits in we offer manufacturers through the acquisition of this general law on the pharmaceutical Southern Europe were 42.5 million, an of a 75% shareholding in Dveloppement et industry will be to cap unofficial discounts increase of 8.4% on the second half of 2004 Promotion Pharmaceutique Pharma Dep, manufacturers give to pharmacies on direct on revenue down 0.1% to 2,824.6 million, a French company specialising in the promotion sales at a maximum of 20% of the invoice net due to the disposal of our Portuguese business.
and distribution of healthcare products to price.
As the impact of these regulatory changes France pharmacists on behalf of pharmaceutical becomes clearer, we will review the services we In France revenue increased by 4.1% to manufacturers.
The total consideration was offer to ensure that we appropriately meet the 3,790.7 million.
Sales growth was 3.0% on around 8 million, including debt acquired.
changing requirements of this market.
a like for like constant currency basis which was This acquisition complements our existing Italy in line with our estimate of market growth in service offering including that of Alloga.
In Italy revenue increased by 1.4% to the wholesaling sector.
We estimate that the By the year end Pharma Dep had agreements 921.6 million, sales decreasing by 0.7% total market grew in value by around 5%, in place with 12 regional and national on a like for like constant currency basis.
the proportion of products which manufacturers pharmacy buying groups and provided This compares with a market which we sell and distribute direct to pharmacies commercial services for around 30 estimate declined by around 1.5% in value continuing to increase as in previous years.
We pharmaceutical manufacturers, utilising its due to temporary price cuts made by the estimate that direct sales now account for close sales force of 95 representatives.
government in June 2004 which were in to 20% of the French market in value terms.
operation until the end of October 2005 and In July we completed the disposal of Elvetec, To counter the increase in direct sales in France lower levels of consumption.
Despite this a small loss-making French business supplying we are realigning our commercial terms which decrease our operating margins and profits products to medical laboratories.
This was in we will implement progressively in the first half increased year on year due to a strong line with our strategy of selling businesses of 2006, and we are continuing to develop our contribution from trading activities.
which we do not consider part of our core offering and work closely with a number of activities.
Elvetecs revenue in the period up Good progress continues to be made in generic manufacturers to increase our market until its sale was 13.4 million.
establishing our virtual chain of pharmacies in share in this category.
As a result we increased Italy.
By the year end 107 pharmacies had our generic sales by over 35%, which was Since the year end the French parliament has joined, with a further 53 signed up to join double our estimate of total market growth for approved a target reduction in overall shortly.
During 2005, one depot was closed, this category.
Commencing in the second healthcare expenditure of approximately the business being successfully transferred to quarter of 2006 we plan a phased launch of 3.7 billion over a three year forward period on two existing depots in the same region, and Almus, the Groups exclusive range of generic a cumulative basis.
Measures announced which one depot was relocated to larger premises drugs.
We continue to promote participation of will impact the pharmaceutical wholesaling 23 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Wholesale In July we acquired 60% of a small business selling and distributing pharmaceutical and cosmetic products in Italy.
The integration of Farmacen and CERFC with our existing business is well underway and will deliver significant improvements in efficiency and enhanced customer service.
In May we expanded our Spanish wholesaling business, strengthening our market position through the acquisition of Farmaceutica Central, S. A. Farmacen, the sixth largest pharmaceutical wholesaler in Spain.
enabling it to stock an extended product range.
Farmacen has strong market positions in the that medicines can only be supplied to These changes are part of an ongoing Madrid and Seville regions, its sales totalling pharmacies direct by manufacturers or through programme to improve efficiency which will around 190 million in 2004.
It was acquired at licensed wholesalers who meet stringent continue in 2006.
In July we acquired 60% a cost of 32.2 million, including debt assumed quality, service and reporting requirements.
of a small business selling and distributing as part of the acquisition, of which around half is The act also prohibits product discounting and pharmaceutical and cosmetic products to payable in instalments over the next four years.
contains measures to promote the use of pharmacies and wholesalers on behalf of generics and reduce the pricing of branded In November we also acquired a 99.8% manufacturers on an exclusive agency basis pharmaceutical products automatically by 20% controlling stake in Centro Europeo fide Reparto using a contract sales force.
after they have been sold for over ten years.
Farmaceutico fide Cataluna, S. A. CERFC the Our current forecast for market growth in 20th largest pharmaceutical wholesaler in Portugal Italy in value terms in 2006 is around 2.5%.
Spain, along with a 21.4% investment in Just before the end of the half year we entered This forecast takes into account a price Centro Farmaceutico, S. A. a wholesaler in into a strategic partnership with Associao reduction of 4.4% on branded ethical Valencia.
CERFC has strong market positions in Nacional das Farmcias, Portugals national pharmaceutical products introduced in mid the Barcelona area and in the Balearic Islands, association of pharmacies, and an independent January 2006, which largely reversed the price its sales totalling around 81 million in 2004. investment company with interests in the increase at the end of October 2005 when the The total consideration was 12.4 million, Portuguese healthcare industry.
This was done to temporary price cuts came to an end.
accelerate the development of our Portuguese wholesale business.
Under the terms of the Spain The integration of Farmacen and CERFC with agreement we sold 49% of our business to the In Spain total revenue increased by 16.1% to our existing business is well underway and will association and 2% to the investment company, 917.7 million, a decrease of 1.9% on a like deliver significant improvements in efficiency resulting in a net cash inflow of 91.5 million, for like constant currency basis, like for like and enhanced customer service.
During 2005, including inter-group loan repayments and the constant currency domestic sales growing by we closed three small depots in Spain as part of deconsolidation of local bank debt.
This compares with a domestic market our ongoing efficiency programme, one depot which we estimate grew by around 5.5% in in Seville being no longer required following For the six months of the year leading up to the value, our growth being lower due to increased the acquisition of Farmacen.
transaction total revenue in Portugal was domestic competition resulting from a much 189.2 million, sales increasing by 10.5% on a Manufacturers continue to explore ways to tougher export market, an increasing like for like constant currency basis which was restrict product availability for export, including proportion of direct sales and also lower well ahead of the market which we estimate the introduction by one manufacturer of a dual growth in geographic regions where we have grew in value by around 4%.
Operating net pricing system in June.
We continue to strong market positions.
Our export sales were margins increased, mainly due to improved work closely with a number of major significantly lower than in 2004, mainly due to gross margins which, together with higher manufacturers to develop a range of specific manufacturers quotas restricting product sales, resulted in increased operating profits.
services in Spain designed to meet our availability.
Overall, our operating margins and Our remaining 49% interest in Portugal has respective objectives.
profits decreased year on year on a like for like been accounted for as an associate from the basis, mainly as a result of lower domestic gross Our current forecast for market growth in Spain date of the transaction.
Since then the business margins and fewer trading opportunities.
in value terms in 2006 is around 2.5%.
This is has continued to increase its sales at a rate well lower than in 2005 due to an expected price ahead of the market while substantially In May we expanded our Spanish wholesaling reduction in ethical products and the reducing its trade debtor days, resulting in business, strengthening our market position introduction of a new Medicine Act which is increased profitability.
through the acquisition of Farmaceutica Central, currently going through the Spanish S. A. Farmacen, the sixth largest pharmaceutical Wholesale revenue of 1.8 million in Portugal in parliament.
This comprehensive act contains wholesaler in Spain and the largest independent the second half of the year was from the Groups many measures relating to the distribution and wholesaler not under co-operative ownership.
wholly owned Portuguese Alloga business.
pricing of medicines, including a requirement
