24 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Retail Throughout 2005 our retail division continued to perform strongly despite slow market growth, resulting in a healthy increase in operating margins and like for like operating profits.
3x 450 Alliance Pharmacy has carried out over In October Alliance Pharmacy launched 9,000 Medicine Use Reviews in 2005 since a free healthy heart assessment they were introduced in April 2005.
This is programme in 86 pharmacies.
nearly three times the industry average.
More than 450 of our pharmacists in Alliance Pharmacy opened six central England and Wales have been accredited dispensing units during 2005 bringing to carry out Medicine Use Reviews.
its total to eight at the year end.
Revenues totalled 1,337.3 million, an increase unwanted medicines, promotion of healthy of 9.4% on the previous year, operating profits lifestyles, signposting to other courses of care increasing by 18.5% to 112.9 million.
and support for self care and people with Operating margins increased by 65 basis disabilities.
The principal Advanced service points to 8.44% as a result of improvements currently is Medicine Use Reviews designed to in the UK, The Netherlands and Norway.
help patients use medicines more effectively On a constant currency basis, revenue increased and improve the clinical and cost effectiveness by 8.1% and operating profits by 17.8%, of prescribed medicines.
Payment for the like for like sales increasing by 0.1%.
provision of Advanced services is contingent upon each pharmacy meeting strict quality Second half operating profits were 59.6 million, standards for both the premises and the an increase of 18.7% on the second half of pharmacist.
By the year end more than 450 of our UK pharmacists in England and Wales had been In the UK revenue increased by 8.2% to accredited to carry out Medicine Use Reviews.
939.2 million, sales growth being held back In order to achieve this, each pharmacist had to by the impact of the PPRS price cuts and the undertake a competency assessment carried new lower drug tariff for generic medicines.
out by a Higher Education Institute.
Data to the Like for like sales declined by 0.2% in value.
end of November showed that our pharmacies This compares with a market which we had on average carried out over three times the estimate grew by around 1.5%, our industry average number of Medicine Use pharmacies having a relatively high proportion Reviews per pharmacy.
Alliance Pharmacy has of sales of prescription medicines, so being carried out over 9,000 Medicine Use Reviews in more impacted by price cuts.
Adjusting for the 2005 since they were introduced in April 2005. impact of the PPRS review, our underlying like The Department of Health raised the upper for like sales growth was 3.5%.
Despite the limit for the provision of this service from the price cuts, our total National Health Service beginning of January 2006 from 200 to 250 income increased by 8.3%, our total dispensing reviews per pharmacy per annum.
This new volume increasing by 10.3%.
This compares service is in addition to those offered for some with a prescription market which we estimate time, such as supervised methadone grew in volume terms by around 4.5%.
programmes in more than 40% of our Our operating margins increased year on year pharmacies and blood pressure testing in more as a result of strong growth in income from than a third.
In October we launched a patient and manufacturer services and healthy heart assessment programme in 86 synergies arising from running our retail and pharmacies.
In addition to having their blood wholesale businesses more closely together.
pressure and body mass index measured, The new pharmacy contract in England and patients worried about whether they are at risk Wales, which started at the beginning of April, of developing heart disease can have a blood introduced a change in remuneration from sample taken to determine their cholesterol purely dispensing based fees to include level, enabling a better overall assessment of remuneration for Essential and Advanced whether they are at risk.
Essential services comprise acute dispensing, repeat dispensing, disposal of 25 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Retail Retail revenue growth Retail pharmacies at 31 December 2005 8.2% E UK D -0.2% C 9.0% B Norway 0.2% 22.2% A The Netherlands 1.9% 4.4% Italy 3.3% A. UK 954 B. Norway 120 Year on year total Like for like constant currency growth C. The Netherlands 71 D. Italy including associates 28 E. Switzerland 115 Total 1,288 Associate interest.
Specifications for the first Enhanced services, additionally provide a home delivery service stronger professional focus, to raise awareness the top tier service level under the new contract to patients less able to visit their community of the new pharmacy contract and our related in England and Wales, were published in pharmacy, serviced by a fleet of more than 180 retail healthcare offering to patients and September 2005.
Since then, we have begun home delivery vans.
We also strive to continue customers.
to see the benefit of this in terms of our to improve the level of customer service within In May we entered the Northern Ireland market professional services income.
This is monitored using an through the acquisition of Bairds Chemists, include smoking cessation and weight loss external mystery shopper programme, which the regions largest pharmacy chain with 50 clinics commissioned by Primary Care Trusts is used to target increased standards.
Bairds, which had combined based on local priorities.
The new contract for During the year we won contracts to supply unaudited sales in 2004 of 51.6 million, was Scotland is expected to be introduced in phases two prisons for the first time and successfully acquired for 81.2 million on a debt free cash from April 2006.
No date for implementation re-tendered for a contract to provide free basis.
Since acquisition Bairds sales have of a new contract in Northern Ireland has yet pharmaceutical services to 15 prisons.
been in line with our initial forecasts, profits been announced.
We also set up a new customer focused being marginally ahead, and the programme to We opened six central dispensaries during 2005 account management service for care homes, integrate the business within Alliance Pharmacy bringing our total to eight at the year end.
our market share of this sector increasing as the is on schedule for completion later in 2006.
These dispense high volumes of acute and year progressed with over 1,200 care homes During 2005 a further net 26 pharmacies repeat prescriptions in a highly efficient way now being serviced by us.
A new training were added in the UK of which four were and are typically located within wholesale programme on medicine handling for care new openings.
The total UK chain, as at depots or above retail pharmacies.
Central home staff has been recently established 31 December 2005, comprised 954 pharmacies dispensaries primarily supply care homes and following a successful pilot.
and 52 other healthcare related retail outlets.
prisons, many of which are made up in unit In March we launched our new retail brand In the first half of the year the roll out of dose dispensing packs.
One of the new and visual identity, Alliance Pharmacy.
Since advanced EPOS systems was completed other dispensaries is dedicated to supplying repeat then, 349 pharmacies in the UK have been than in recently acquired pharmacies.
The new prescriptions in an efficient way to local rebranded.
Pending the proposed merger with EPOS system has been closely followed by the pharmacies.
Boots we have put the rebranding project on installation of new dispensing systems, 43 The current changes planned by the hold but have continued with our substantial pharmacies having the new software at the Department of Health, including the refit programme, other than where our year end with roll out scheduled for completion introduction of electronic prescriptions, mean pharmacies are in relatively close proximity to in 2006.
These branch systems, together with that we see an increasing role for such central Boots stores.
Our new pharmacy design new head office systems which we are dispensaries over the coming years, thereby incorporates private consultation areas which introducing, are improving our ability to freeing up our community-based pharmacists meet the requirements of the new contract and manage product ranges, enhance margins, to spend an increasing proportion of time beyond.
During the year 83 branches were control inventories, facilitate the delivery of new providing services and advice to their patients, refitted and seven relocated, five of which were pharmacy services and enabling pharmacists in addition to dispensing acute prescriptions.
Private and staff to spend more time with their consultation areas were installed in a further patients and customers.
Prescription collection services, where we collect 207 pharmacies on a standalone basis in 2005, repeat prescriptions from doctors surgeries on the number of our pharmacies with private behalf of patients, are available from over 90% consultation areas totalling 501 at the year end.
of our pharmacies in the UK, the balance being This compares with 200 at the beginning of in communities where surgeries do not permit 2005, of which 98 have had their consultation pharmacies to collect prescriptions on behalf of areas upgraded during the year.
Over 35% of our pharmacies sale material has also been introduced with a 26 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Retail In April Alliance Apotek was voted the top pharmacy chain in Norway in a national customer satisfaction survey by the Norwegian School of Management.
Our European chain now comprises of 1,288 pharmacies.
In March we launched our new retail brand and visual identity, Alliance Pharmacy.
Since then, 349 pharmacies in the UK have been rebranded.
Over 35% of our pharmacies in the UK additionally provide a home delivery service to patients less able to visit their community pharmacy, serviced by a fleet of more than 180 home delivery vans.
Our current forecast for retail pharmacy market The Netherlands Through other associate retail businesses, the growth in value terms in the UK in 2006 is In The Netherlands revenue increased by Group operated 123 pharmacies and five other around 4%.
This is significantly higher than we 22.2% to 119.9 million, an increase of 21.0% healthcare related retail outlets at 31 December are forecasting for the wholesale market in the on a constant currency basis.
Like for like 2005, a net 16 pharmacies being added during UK as the retail pharmacy market will not be constant currency sales increased by 1.9%.
impacted by the surgical product pricing review This compares with a market which we these products typically being supplied direct estimate grew in value by around 2%, the total to patients homes and is not exposed to the number of pharmacies in The Netherlands hospital pharmaceutical market, with its increasing in 2005.
During the year we comparatively low growth rate.
acquired eight pharmacies, taking our chain size to 71 at 31 December 2005 and refitted Norway three pharmacies.
Operating margins increased In Norway revenue increased by 9.0% year on year, mainly as a result of improved to 254.5 million, an increase of 3.3% gross margins, operating profits also increasing on a constant currency basis.
Like for like due to the increased scale of the business.
constant currency sales increased by 0.2%.
Our current forecast for retail pharmacy market This compares with a market which we growth in The Netherlands in value terms in estimate grew in value by around 3%, the 2006 is around 4%.
This is lower than our market growth being much lower than in 2004 estimate of wholesale market growth as the due to lower growth in prescription volumes.
retail growth does not include direct deliveries The total number of pharmacies in Norway of medicines to patients homes.
continues to increase, newer openings taking market share from existing outlets.
During the Italy year Alliance Apotek acquired one pharmacy, In Italy revenue increased by 4.4% to opened five and relocated five, which brought 23.7 million, actual like for like sales our pharmacy chain to 120 at 31 December increasing by 3.3% on a constant currency 2005.
In addition, we refitted 14 pharmacies basis.
This compares with a market which we and acquired a further three retail outlets selling estimate declined in value by around 1.5%.
specialist surgical products, bringing the total No pharmacies were acquired during the year, number of our other healthcare related retail leaving a total of 28 at 31 December 2005, outlets to five.
including eight in associate businesses.
During the year three pharmacies were refitted, one of In April Alliance Apotek was voted the top which was in an associate business.
Operating pharmacy chain in Norway in a national profit was at the same level as in 2004, customer satisfaction survey by the Norwegian operating margins being slightly lower, despite School of Management.
Operating margins higher gross margins, due to redundancy costs and profits increased year on year as a result of following the decision to utilise the wholesale a further strengthening of our commercial management to run the business, given its activities and increasing synergies from running small size.
Our current forecast for retail our retail and wholesale businesses together.
pharmacy market growth in Italy in value Our current forecast for retail pharmacy market terms in 2006 is around 2.5%.
growth in Norway in value terms in 2006 is around 4%.
