The continued success of Hays is testimony to the hard work of the staff and management in implementing the strategic objectives of the Company.
Combined, the four elements of our strategy make Hays a world leader in the provision of specialist recruitment services.
These objectives are illustrated through the case studies that follow 1 2 3 4 DEVELOPING REPLICATING EXPANDING DRIVING SPECIALIST OUR BUSINESS OVERSEAS OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES MODEL EFFICIENCIES UNITED KINGDOM AUSTRALIA & GERMANY WORLDWIDE NEW ZEALAND At Hays, we are committed The Hays Specialist The international development of Throughout Hays we seek to to developing new business Recruitment business model Hays as a Specialist Recruitment continually improve our business activities to match the specialist is well-established.
We have business has been ongoing for operations, making them more demands of our clients and successfully replicated the some years.
Our strategy is to efficient and effective, to enhance candidates across the world.
model internationally and created grow organically and where our service to our customers.
For more information visit: haysplc.
com The success of Hays Human Resources demonstrates all that is great about Hays the ability to penetrate an emerging market rapidly due to the focus, energy and experience of superb people backed by the significant resources of the Group.
Lynne Hardman, Managing Director, Hays Human Resources BUILDING OUR BUSINESS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM: 1 DEVELOPING SPECIALIST ACTIVITIES Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 d n a l e r I & m o d g n i K d e 17 DEVELOPING NEW SPECIALIST ACTIVITIES At Hays, we are committed to developing new business activities to match the specialist demands of our clients and candidates across the world.
The successful development of Hays Human Resources is a prime example of this.
Delighted HR customers % bring new business to all 250 Increase in recruitment consultants in Hays brands.
four years to become the market leader in HR recruitment in the United Kingdom.
Creating a market leading specialist business Net fees m The growth of Hays Human Resources from a new start operation to market leader in four years encapsulates the entrepreneurial 02 1.7 spirit of Hays.
Where we identify an opportunity in the market, our people seize it and apply their specialist recruitment know-how 03 4.0 to great effect.
04 6.4 In 2001, there was no national specialist recruiter serving one of 05 10.1 the most demanding sectors HR professionals.
Existing players included local and niche boutiques as well as regional generalist recruiters.
In July 2001 we launched a new specialist activity.
Opening in eight ofces and with 20 recruitment consultants, we achieved break-even in six months.
Many of our businesses have developed using the same wellestablished business model.
By leveraging the power of the Hays brand and infrastructure, locating new teams in our 208-strong UK ofce network and investing in brand visibility, we can spearhead the drive into new markets.
By backing our people and management, we have given more responsibility and greater career opportunities to our people, and created market leading specialist businesses.
As market leader, Hays Human Resources now operates from 22 ofces with a staff of over 70 recruitment consultants, bringing in-depth HR specialist recruitment knowledge to local, regional and national clients across the United Kingdom & Ireland.
The demanding quality standards expected by HR clients and candidates generates an additional benefit: delighted HR customers can potentially bring new business to every Hays brand another reason behind our continued determination to excel in this sector.
t i n U e h t n i s e c i f f o 2 2 Hays continues to go from strength to strength in the region, and with a growing, stable economy we have a strong management team in place to take us forward.
Nigel Heap, Managing Director, Hays Australia & New Zealand BUILDING OUR BUSINESS IN AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND: 2 REPLICATING OUR BUSINESS MODEL Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19 REPLICATING OUR BUSINESS MODEL The Hays Specialist Recruitment business model is well-established.
We have successfully replicated the model internationally and created market-leading businesses, not least in Australia & New Zealand.
All of this growth % has been organic.
84 Increase in net fees generated in Australia & New Zealand since 2003.
Replicating our business model in Australia & New Zealand Net fees m The ability to replicate a successful business model in another sales territory is one of our major assets.
When that sales territory 03 34.0 happens to be 12,000 miles away in Australia & New Zealand, the model needs to be robust, yet exible enough to handle the 04 48.3 demands of the local market.
05 62.6 Our performance in the region is nothing short of spectacular, with net fees up from 34.0 million to 62.6 million, and the conversion rate from 38.0% to 44.6%.
Ofce numbers stand at 28 with 513 Conversion rate recruitment consultants, an increase of 34% over the year.
Today, it is the most successful part of the Hays Group in converting net 03 fees to operating profit.
38.0% The growth of our business in Australia & New Zealand has been 04 41.0% organic, with a strong management team identifying and taking 05 44.6% advantage of new business opportunities as the economy has grown.
The principal business streams are Accountancy & Finance, Construction & Property, Information Technology and Ofce Support.
Management have also established a new specialist activity, Resources & Mining, which serves a significant part of the Australian economy.
This activity now generates substantial net fees for the Group.
In New Zealand, where we launched in 1999, we saw strong net fee growth from our four ofces, with plans in place for further expansion.
The growth of the IT & Engineering business in Germany accelerated, despite challenging economic conditions.
During the year we successfully rolled out Accountancy & Finance and Legal recruitment.
Dieter Drr, Managing Director, Hays Germany BUILDING OUR BUSINESS IN GERMANY: 3 EXPANDING OVERSEAS Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21 EXPANDING OVERSEAS The international development of Hays as a specialist recruitment business has been ongoing for some years.
Our strategy is to grow organically and where necessary by acquisition our expansion into Germany reects the latter.
A passion for % delivering a premium 146 Increase in net fees for Continental quality service.
Expanding in Germany Continental Europe & Canada: Growing a business on an international scale either by acquisition Number of offices by country or organically presents its own unique challenges.
Hays acquisition of Ascena in 2003 has been a resounding success.
France Established in Mannheim in 1995, Ascena was a highly successful private specialist recruitment business, managed by its founding management team, who had a passion for delivering a premium Belgium quality service.
Ascena perfectly tted the company prole Hays was targeting in order to expand in Germany.
It also exemplied our careful approach to acquisitions as we worked together Netherlands for some time before deciding Ascena was indeed the right t for Hays to expand into Germany.
Canada Now fully integrated into Hays, the business has 222 staff in five ofces.
The business has recently introduced Accountancy & Germany Finance and Legal in both permanent and temporary recruitment.
Having expanded into Switzerland and Austria, and with positive changes in temporary worker legislation in Germany due to Spain take effect, Hays is well placed to take advantage of new market opportunities.
Poland Portugal Switzerland Austria Czech Republic Sweden BUILDING OUR BUSINESS WORLDWIDE: 4 DRIVING OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES The scanning of our temporaries time sheets is a first class example of one of the on-going projects enhancing our operational efficiency and customer service.
Howard Bridgwater, Finance Director, Hays United Kingdom & Ireland Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 23 DRIVING OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES Throughout Hays we seek to continually improve our business operations, making them more efficient and effective, to enhance our service to our customers.
The recently introduced time sheet scanning exemplies our approach.
Reduced administration, 2,000,000 swifter reconciliation Time sheets processed last year.
The time sheet scanning process Using technology to enhance our service quality Last year we paid approximately 2,000,000 time sheets.
This Time sheets arrive at service centre volume of business brings challenges for the staff at our service 1 centres throughout the Group.
Collecting, processing, paying and invoicing this number of timesheets correctly and on time each week can be an industry in itself.
A previously labour-intensive and paper-based burden has Time sheets processed, and bar been revolutionised with the introduction of time sheet scanning, 2 code scanned to link image to entry in the Enterprise Resource for the benefit of clients and candidates.
Planning system Time sheets are now scanned and digitally stored, automatically veried to produce and mail, or e-mail a document within 24 hours.
Time sheets passed to scanning Clients and temporary workers benefit from reduced paper-based 3 team, who image scan time sheets administration, as well as swifter reconciliation and a robust for storage, and verify document audit trail.
for clarity We have reduced the costs of handling time sheets and invoicing accuracy has substantially improved, with far fewer queries.
We Invoice generated with image are committed to driving efficiencies to continue to enhance our 4 of time sheet on reverse service quality, reduce cost and get it right first time, every time.
Image of time sheet can be called 5 up on screen if query raised
