Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 S T T N E A C T H L N U O S L N O O G 4 BUSINESS OVERVIEW OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Hays derives competitive advantage from leveraging its unique business model.
Our specialist recruitment consultants use their sector knowledge and experience, along with technology solutions, to place the right candidate in the right job with the right employer.
This enables us to satisfy the demand for qualied professionals from our clients and to command better margins for providing value-added specialist recruitment services.
EMPLOYERS CANDIDATES EMPLOYERS SPECIALIST INTEGRATED CANDIDATE EXPECTATIONS CONSULTANTS TECHNOLOGY FOCUS Employers expect a prompt Our recruitment consultants Our specialist recruitment Jobseekers demand more high quality service.
Hays are trained in the sectors in database holds over a million choice in more locations, for provides the right temporary which they operate enabling CVs, giving our clients access both temporary and permanent worker or permanent candidate them to deal condently with to thousands of candidate opportunities, than ever before.
at the right time from 326 clients and candidates across proles.
Our website typically With professional career ofces in 16 countries.
40 specialist activities from hosts over 40,000 live jobs at advice from 3,683 specialist accountancy to construction, any time, providing jobseekers recruitment consultants, Hays and education to legal.
with the latest vacancies direct delivers this service every day, by e-mail or text.
For more information visit: hays.
com C Y T S S O I L L A U I T C I E O P N S S A D A N A C & Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 E P O R D U D N E N A L A L A L E T A R N E I E Z & N I W M T E N O 5 OUR GLOBAL BUSINESS Our business model allows us to pursue opportunities in international markets.
Net fees m Net fees m Net fees m 04 40.9 04 315.5 04 48.3 05 53.3 05 354.7 05 62.6 2005 Total net fees % 2005 Total net fees % 2005 Total net fees % United Kingdom & Ireland 75.4% Continental Europe & Canada 11.3% Australia & New Zealand 13.3% 130.6m 8.5m 28.0m Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit In the United Kingdom & Ireland, our In Continental Europe our strong growth Once again we achieved outstanding largest markets, strong performances continued.
We generated good fee growth growth in Australia & New Zealand.
Each in our largest specialist activities, in every one of our operations in the specialist activity generated double-digit Accountancy & Finance, Construction & region.
Our operations in Canada, which net fee growth.
There was strong growth Property and Information Technology, were are profitable and growing, opened three in both the temporary and permanent supported with excellent growth from new ofces.
our newer specialist Human Resources, Purchasing and Sales & Marketing recruitment businesses.
