06 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Our strengths Strong marketing capabilities in the MENA region Strong brands can gain significant market share in the MENA region where, 280 Branded and for the most part, the markets focus on branded generic products.
Hikma has 51 Injectable sales and marketing representatives some of the strongest brands in the region and a long-standing reputation for market Hikma products quality products.
across a total of 13 countries We have 25 products under Our large and experienced sales force is unique in the MENA region where licence or under promotion it has established strong relationships with physicians, hospitals, pharmacies and distribution agreements and purchasing groups for hospitals.
These relationships, combined with our in the MENA region commitment to quality, explain how our products have been able to become including 17 Branded and 8 Injectable products market leaders.
Three of Hikmas top ten selling products in Jordan, for example, are ranked in the top three by sales in their respective therapeutic categories.
Our strong position in the MENA region also makes us an attractive partner for multinational pharmaceutical companies seeking access to this region as our portfolio of under licence products demonstrates.
These partnerships also help to enhance our reputation in the market as a quality producer and market leader.
A powerful combination of quality products and extensive sales and marketing capabilities Sales and marketing representatives in the MENA region Egypt 2 Lebanon 19 Tunisia 1 Jordan 97 Saudi Arabia 84 Gulf States 21 Algeria 76 Libya 6 Sudan 25 Source: IMS.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 07 08 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Our strengths A successful research and development team Our research and development team consists of 127 professionals and Our historical success in research and development scientists with expertise in areas such as pharmaceutical formulation, process is illustrated in our having optimisation, analytical chemistry and drug delivery.
Hikma has particular expertise obtained 1,039 regulatory in developing technically challenging products such as injectables, complex approvals since 1995, formulations, unstable compounds and sustained release tablets and capsules.
including 40 ANDA approvals by the FDA When identifying and developing new generic pharmaceutical products, Hikma looks for products that have a strong market potential and that are in complementary or fast growing therapeutic categories.
We also try to identify products for which we would have an advantage sourcing the active pharmaceutical ingredient API, for which we have a particular expertise in the development or manufacturing process, and for which we can expand our offering through line extensions.
In 2005, we received 98 product approvals across a range of therapeutic categories including Anti-Infective, Central Nervous System CNS, and Alimentary Tract and Metabolism.
With a strong pipeline of products pending approval in these and other therapeutic categories, we believe we are wellpositioned to continue this trend.
Hikma looks for products that have a strong market potential and that are in complementary or fast growing therapeutic categories Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 09 A significant pipeline We currently have the strongest pipeline we have ever had, with 88 pending approvals and 90 products under development.
Our pipeline focuses primarily on the Anti-Infective, Cardiovascular, and CNS therapeutic categories, and we are beginning to develop a presence in Anti-Neoplastics & Immunomodulating Agents and Dermatology.
The 13 new products pending approval in our Generic Pharmaceuticals business fall primarily in the Anti-Infective and Cardiovascular therapeutic categories.
In the MENA region, our Branded business has two new Cardiovascular products pending approval.
In our Injectable pipeline, which is our most extensive, we have 29 new products pending approval and 28 products under development.
In this segment, we see exciting opportunities in the CNS and Anti-Neoplastics & Immunomodulating Agents categories.
Pending approvals New products under development Generics Generics 21 8 13 39 Branded Branded 17 14 3 23 Injectables Injectables 50 21 29 28 Line extensions New products 10 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Our strengths Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 11 A commitment to quality manufacturing United States Our multiple manufacturing facilities provide us with the flexibility to select the Solid pharmaceuticals most appropriate manufacturing strategy for a particular product, taking into account factors such as cost, regulatory requirements and capacity.
For example, Jordan because our facilities in Jordan and Saudi Arabia are FDA approved, we have the Solid, semi-solid and liquid flexibility to produce products for the US market in the MENA region, at a lower pharmaceuticals and API cost.
In some markets, like Algeria, having a local manufacturing presence is Portugal essential for building market share as regulations can restrict the range of products Injectable pharmaceuticals that can be imported.
Our newly acquired injectable plant in Italy has provided extra capacity needed to meet demand for our injectable products in European markets.
Italy Injectable pharmaceuticals We are dedicated to maintaining the highest standards at our manufacturing facilities, as our FDA approval record attests all of our facilities are FDA Algeria approved, bar Algeria and Italy, which were added this year.
This is of particular Solid, semi-solid and liquid pharmaceuticals importance in our Injectable Pharmaceuticals business, where the manufacturing process is more technically challenging than for solid or liquid products and where Saudi Arabia JPI production is subject to very strict quality and anti-contamination controls.
We are Solid, semi-solid and liquid making considerable investment in these facilities, dedicating $20 million of the pharmaceuticals IPO proceeds to the construction of a new cephalosporin plant in Portugal and $8 million for the expansion of the existing lyophilised injectable plant in Italy.
We have the flexibility to select the most appropriate manufacturing strategy, taking into account cost, regulatory requirements and capacity 12 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Our strengths API sourcing strength Our dedicated API sourcing team is responsible for identifying and securing API and other raw materials for the Group.
Hikma has relationships with approximately 84 suppliers of API including relationships spanning more than ten years with 26 of its suppliers.
We believe that we are the main customer for 20 of our suppliers.
We source several APIs from suppliers in Asia that have a lower cost base and therefore offer lower API prices than their Western competitors.
We also have the capability to manufacture a limited amount of the API required for some of our finished products.
This capability is currently being utilised to manufacture five APIs that the Group believes would be either difficult or expensive to source from third parties.
Going forward, we will look to manufacture a growing proportion of the API that we use in our products in order to maximise the cost advantages gained by producing API for captive use and to increase both the volume and the breadth of our API production.
As of 31 December 2005, Hikma had seven APIs under development.
We are focused on developing strong relationships with a broad range of API suppliers Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 13 A commitment to our people Since the Company was founded in 1978, a key priority has been investment in employee training and development.
New employee training, on the job training, job rotation, coaching and mentoring and succession planning are all part of our training and development programmes.
We also believe strongly in continuing education and sponsor a number of employees annually to pursue higher education.
Developing our people is an integral part of our appraisal system, through which senior managers are encouraged to identify future managers and to focus on building their leadership skills.
We are committed to promoting from within, as evidenced by the fact that most of the members of our senior management team have worked for the Company for many years, developing their skills and experience in a variety of different roles throughout the Group.
By focusing on our people, we now benefit from qualified and satisfied employees and through their dedication to Hikma we have achieved enormous success.
We attribute our success to our qualified and satisfied employees
