28 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Board of Directors 1 5 2 6 3 4 1 Samih Darwazah 3 Ali Al-Husry 5 Breffni Byrne CEO and Chairman, 75 Non-Executive Director, 48 Independent Non-Executive Director, 60 Samih Darwazah, a qualified pharmacist, Ali Al-Husry has been a director of Breffni Byrne was appointed to the worked for Eli Lilly from 1964 to Hikma Pharma Limited and other Board in October 2005 and currently 1976, before establishing Hikma companies within the Hikma group since holds the position of Chairman of the Pharmaceuticals Ltd. in 1978.
He is also serving as Chairman Audit Committee.
He is also a member 1995 and 1996 he served as Minister of and Chief Executive Officer of Export & of the Remuneration Committee.
Energy and Mineral Resources in Jordan.
He is also a As a Chartered Accountant with over He also founded the Jordan Trade director of The Association of Banks 30 years of experience in public practice, Association and was a member of the in Jordan, the Jordanian Insurance he has extensive experience in financial Advisory Economic Council to His Commission and several other reporting, corporate governance and Majesty the King of Jordan.
He brings great financial general financial and commercial a masters degree from the St. Louis experience to the Board as well as an matters.
Breffni is Chairman of NCB College of Pharmacy, Missouri.
in-depth knowledge of the MENA Stockbrokers and a director of Irish Life region.
Ali has a degree in Mechanical and Permanent plc, Coillte Teoranta 2 Mazen Darwazah Engineering from the University of the Irish state forestry company, Vice-Chairman, 47 Southern California and an M. B.
A. Adsteam Europe Limited and from INSEAD, France.
Mazen Darwazah joined Hikma in 1985 as a medical representative and has held 4 Michael Ashton 6 Sir David Rowe-Ham several positions, including Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director, 60 Senior independent and CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Non-Executive Director, 70 Limited Jordan, Chairman of Trust Michael Ashton was appointed to the Pharma Limited and Pharma Ixir Co. Ltd. Board in October 2005 and currently Sir David Rowe-Ham was appointed to He is a member of the Nomination holds the position of Chairman of the the Board in October 2005 and currently Committee.
He is a director of Jordan Remuneration Committee.
He is also holds the position of Chairman of the International Insurance Company, Export a member of the Audit Committee Nomination Committee.
He is also a & Finance Bank and of several other and the Nomination Committee.
member of the Audit Committee and organisations.
From 2001 to 2003 Michael is a non-executive director of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir David, he was the president of the Jordanian SkyePharma PLC.
also a Chartered Accountant, brings to Association of Manufacturers of Hikma a wide experience in financial Pharmaceuticals and Medical Appliances, matters, corporate governance, public and has served as a member of the affairs and the development of listed Jordanian Higher Education Counsel companies.
He is Chairman of Olayan from 2003 to 2005.
Mazen holds a Europe Ltd. BNP Paribas South Asia degree from Beirut University, Lebanon.
Investment Co. Limited and Coral Products PLC.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 29 Senior management 6 3 7 1 4 2 5 1 Bassam Kanaan 3 Taghreed Al-Shunnar 6 Henry Knowles Chief Financial Officer General Manager of Branded General Counsel and Company Pharmaceuticals Secretary Bassam joined Hikma in 2001 and was previously the CFO of PADICO, a public Taghreed joined the Company in Henry joined the Company in shareholding company.
He is a board 1988 after graduating from the September 2005 in anticipation of the member of Zara Investments Co. in University of Jordan with a degree Companys listing on the London Stock Jordan and served as board member in Pharmacy.
He is admitted as a solicitor of several large corporations including made Marketing and Planning Director in England and Wales and worked PALTEL and CEGCO in Jordan.
of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited for the previous ten years at the He qualified as a CPA in 1989 with and five years later appointed as the international law firm, Ashurst, where Deloitte & Touche in Los Angeles where Executive Vice President.
he specialised in Corporate Law, gaining he worked as Audit Manager.
He also a wide knowledge of corporate and qualified as a CFA in 2001.
Bassam holds 4 Majda Labadi commercial issues in both domestic an Executive M. B.
A. from Northwestern General Manager of Injectable and international fields.
A. from Claremont Pharmaceuticals an M. A. in Social and Political Science McKenna College in the United States.
Majda joined the Company in 1985 as a purchasing manager at 2 Nabil Rizk 7 Susan Ringdal Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited and CEO of Generic Pharmaceuticals and Investor Relations Director held several positions there culminating Head of Group R&D and API Sourcing in her current appointment in March Susan joined the Company in November Nabil joined the Company in 1991 from 2001.
Majda holds a masters degree in 2005, having previously worked for the Pioneer Pharmaceuticals, Inc. a division Health Economics and a B.
A. from the pharmaceutical distribution and retail of Dow Chemical, where he worked as American University of Beirut.
pharmacy group Alliance UniChem Plc Vice President of Operations.
From 1976 as Investor Relations Manager.
to 1983 he served in various capacities 5 Gabriel Kalisse She also has experience as an equity with Hudson Pharmaceuticals, a division General Manager of Generic analyst at Morgan Stanley in London.
of Cadence Corporation including as Pharmaceuticals Susan holds a B.
A. in History from Manager of Quality Control and Quality Cornell University and an M. B.
A from Gabriel took up the position of General Assurance and Laboratory Supervisor London Business School.
Manager of the Generic Pharmaceuticals Research & Development.
Prior to this, he a masters degree in Chemistry from the held the position of Chief Information New Jersey Institute of Technology Officer for the Group.
in Applied Chemistry from the Company in 1989 and during Cairo University.
19962001 served as the Group Chief Financial Officer and from 2001 to 2004 as the General Manager of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited Jordan.
