30 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Report of the Directors The Directors are pleased to present their report and audited The Executive Directors served the Group throughout the year, financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005. but were appointed to the Company on its incorporation on For the purposes of this report, Company means Hikma 8 September 2005.
Pharmaceuticals PLC and Group means the Company and Michael Ashton, Breffni Byrne and Sir David Rowe-Ham joined its subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
the Board as Non-Executive Directors on 14 October 2005.
Ali Al-Husry also stepped up from the Board of Hikma Pharma Principal activity Limited to the Board of the Company on 14 October 2005.
The principal activities of the Group are the development, manufacture and marketing of a broad range of generic and Details of Directors share options are provided in the Board in-licensed pharmaceutical products in solid, semi-solid, liquid report on remuneration on pages 37 to 42. and injectable final dosage forms.
Hikmas operations are conducted through three businesses: Generic Pharmaceuticals, Creditor payment policy Branded Pharmaceuticals and Injectable Pharmaceuticals.
The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is The majority of Hikmas operations are in the United States, to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the the MENA region and Europe.
terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and abide by the terms of The Groups net sales, gross profit and operating profit are payment.
Trade creditors of the Company at 31 December shown by business segment in Note 3 to the consolidated 2005 were equivalent to 77 days purchases, as compared to financial statements.
58 days at 31 December 2004, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Business review and future development A review of the development of the Groups business during Charitable and political contributions the year, its position at the year end, future developments and During the year the Group made charitable donations of business risks are given in the Chairman and Chief Executives approximately $253,500, principally to local charities serving review and the Business and financial review.
the communities in which the Group operates.
In addition, the Group contributed approximately $210,000 in medicines to Results and dividends the Disaster Resource Network of the World Economic Forum The Groups profit for the year attributable to shareholders for Tsunami relief efforts.
The Board is recommending a pro rata final dividend of 0.89 cents per share approximately Hikma does not make political donations.
0.5 pence equivalent to approximately 5.34 cents on a full year basis.
The proposed final dividend will be paid on 30 May Share capital 2006 to shareholders on the register on 28 April 2006, subject In addition to the 51,311,193 Ordinary Shares issued as part of to approval at the Annual General Meeting.
the share capital restructuring on the IPO, a further 260,456 Ordinary Shares were issued as a result of the exercise of Directors and their interests the over-allotment option.
As at 31 December 2005, the The names of the Directors as at the date of this report, Company had 693 ordinary shareholders and 166,798,407 together with details of their backgrounds and abilities, are set ordinary shares in issue.
The 49,998 non-voting Redeemable out in the Directors biographies on page 28.
Details of the Preference Shares of 1 each in the capital of the Company independence of Non-Executive Directors are set out in the that were issued in conjunction with the incorporation of the Board report on corporate governance on pages 32 to 34.
Company have now been redeemed.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 31 Substantial shareholdings Since the date of the Companys IPO, the Company has not received any notifications pursuant to sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 Disclosure of interest in shares.
At the time of the IPO, the following interest was established: Percentage Name of holder Number held Darhold Limited 52,649,972 31.6% Auditors and AGM In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the date when this report was approved: so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the London Underwriting Centre, 3 Minster Court, Mincing Lane, London EC3R 7DD on Thursday 25 May 2006, starting at 11.00 a. m. The Notice convening the meeting is given in a separate document accompanying this document, and includes a commentary on the business of the AGM, and notes to help shareholders exercise their rights at the meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf Henry Knowles Company Secretary
