32 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Board report on corporate governance Combined Code The Board believes that notwithstanding the Combined Codes The Board is responsible for and committed to meeting the guidance that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive standards of good corporate governance set out in the should not be combined, at this important time in the Groups Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the development and its transition from private to public company, Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined the knowledge of the Groups business and the experience Code.
This report, the Audit Committee report set out on in guiding it to its current position brought to the Board by pages 35 and 36 and the Board report on remuneration set Mr Darwazah justifies his holding both positions.
out on pages 37 to 42 describe how the Board applied the Each of Michael Ashton, Breffni Byrne, and Sir David Combined Code during the year under review.
The Combined Rowe-Ham are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Code became effective for the Group on 1 November 2005 The fourth Non-Executive Director, Ali Al-Husry, who brings as a result of its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Prior to great financial experience to the Board as well as an in-depth the IPO, the Group commissioned an independent review of knowledge of the MENA region which is significant to the its corporate governance which formed the basis for a Groups business, is not treated as being independent as a strengthening of procedures in this area in anticipation of its result of his close links to the Darwazah family through obligations as a listed company.
Darhold Limited, the Companys largest shareholder.
The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require The Non-Executive Directors who have diverse business UK-listed companies to report on their application of the backgrounds, skills and experience bring independent principles of good governance and the extent of their judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code.
resources, key appointments, standards of conduct and other This statement provides details on how the Group has applied matters presented.
Since its flotation, the Company has these principles.
complied with the Combined Code requirement that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise The Board independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Group is led and controlled by the Board of Directors.
Its role is to determine long-term strategy: to monitor the As set out in the Prospectus, it is the intention of the Board achievement of business objectives: to ensure the Group has to recruit a further independent Non-Executive Director to adequate available resources: to promote good corporate complement the skills of the existing Directors.
governance: and to ensure that the Group meets its The senior independent Director is Sir David Rowe-Ham.
responsibilities to shareholders, employers, customers and other stakeholders.
There is a formal schedule of matters Board procedures and support reserved to the Board for consideration and decision.
Board procedures provide for timely, regular and necessary This includes approval of strategic plans, approval of financial management information to be provided to Directors to statements, the annual budget, material investment decisions, enable them to fulfil their duties, with full Board papers acquisitions and divestments, and review of the effectiveness circulated in advance of all Board and Committee meetings.
of the Groups system of internal control.
The Company Secretary is charged with ensuring good The Board has delegated responsibility for the management information flows within the Board and its Committees, so of the Group, through the Chief Executive, to executive that adequate information is provided to the Board before management.
The Directors are able to obtain independent professional Composition of the board advice at the Companys expense in the performance of The Group has ensured that a majority of the Board comprises their duties as Directors.
In addition, all Directors have access Non-Executive Directors.
The Board currently comprises of to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is the Chairman, who is also the Chief Executive, the Executive responsible for ensuring that good board procedures are Vice Chairman and four Non-Executive Directors.
The names followed and that good corporate governance and compliance of the Directors and their biographical details are set out on are implemented throughout the Group.
The Chief Executive and the Executive Vice Chairman and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved were appointed to the Board on the incorporation of the for the Board.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors joined the board on 14 October 2005.
As set out in the prospectus published by the Company in conjunction with the IPO the Prospectus, the Company combines the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, both these roles being held by Samih Darwazah, the founder of the Group.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 33 Board meetings Dialogue with shareholders Since incorporation of the Company on 8 September 2005 Communication with shareholders is a high priority and in and during the period under review, the Board met on four addition to presentations at the time of the release of the occasions, with one of those meetings held since the IPO.
annual and interim results, a regular dialogue with institutions The Company Secretary attended all Board Meetings and is planned.
A table showing attendance at these The Chief Financial Officer and other senior corporate meetings is set out below.
executives have made a number of structured presentations to Meeting investors between the IPO and the year-end.
record Board Audit Remuneration Nomination The principal ongoing communication with shareholders will Number of be through the publication of the Companys Annual Report meetings 4 1 1 and Accounts and Interim Results, together with the Samih Darwazah 4 opportunity to question the Board and Committees at the Mazen Darwazah 4 Annual General Meeting.
The Company maintains a website Ali Al Husry 3 www.
com containing financial and other information which, following the required publicity blackout period after Michael Ashton 3 1 1 the IPO, is updated regularly.
Additionally, the Company Breffni Byrne 3 1 1 intends to present a balanced view of the Groups Sir David performance and prospects through the release of appropriate Rowe-Ham 3 1 1 press announcements.
The Non-Executive Directors have attended all meetings since their appointment.
The Board will be kept apprised of the views of shareholders The Board maintains a close dialogue between Board meetings, and the market in general through the feedback from the ensuring that, amongst other things, the Non-Executive meeting programme and results presentations.
Analysts Directors are kept up to date with major developments in reports are also circulated to the Board members.
The senior the Groups business.
independent Director has undertaken to be available to shareholders if they have a concern that cannot be Board performance evaluation appropriately addressed through the Chairman Chief All Directors will be subject to election by shareholders at the Executive.
first Annual General Meeting, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
The Non-Executive Board Committees Directors have been appointed for an initial term of three In accordance with the principles of good corporate years, which can be renewed and extended for not more governance and in compliance with the Combined Code, than two further three-year terms.
at the time of the IPO the Board established three committees the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and The Chairman believes that the Non-Executive Directors bring Remuneration Committee.
The Group also has an Executive a balance of skill and experience to the Board, and in the short Committee comprising the Executive Directors and senior time since the IPO have shown themselves to discharge their corporate management.
roles effectively and with commitment to the strategic aims of the Group.
Biographies of the Non-Executive Directors are set Each of the three Combined Code committees has terms of out on page 28.
As the Directors were only appointed late in reference, which were adopted at the time of the IPO and 2005, formal evaluation of the performance of the Board, the will be reviewed at least yearly.
Copies are published on the Chairman, the Committee Chairmen and individual Directors corporate website at www.
Their Chairmen give was not undertaken during the period under review.
reports of the committees business to the Board.
Nomination Committee Executive Directors service arrangements The Nomination Committee consists of two independent The Chief Executive and the Executive Vice Chairman each Non-Executive Directors Sir David Rowe-Ham Committee have letters of appointment with the Company.
In addition Chairman and Michael Ashton and the Executive they hold their executive positions with the Group under Vice Chairman, Mazen Darwazah.
As required by the applicable Jordanian labour regulations.
The executive Combined Code, the majority of the members of the employment arrangements are for an indefinite term and, Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors and an in accordance with Jordanian labour law, are terminable by independent Non-Executive Director holds the Chairmanship either party on one months notice.
Further details are given of the committee.
in the Board report on remuneration.
34 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Board report on corporate governance continued The Nomination Committee is responsible for succession Internal Control planning and for ensuring that all appointments to the Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of are made on objective criteria.
In accordance with its terms of internal control and risk management.
It is also responsible for reference, the committee is required to take into account the monitoring the effectiveness of these systems on an ongoing skills, knowledge and experience of the Board in making its basis.
The system of internal control provides reasonable but decisions and is able to use external search firms or open not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
advertising to compile shortlists of candidates for the Board.
The key elements are as follows: It is also charged with reviewing the appropriateness of the size, structure and composition of the Board.
an organisation structure with clear operating and reporting procedures, authorisation limits, segregation of duties and Because the IPO did not occur until the beginning of delegated authority: November 2005, the Nomination Committee did not meet in the period under review.
annual budgets and long-term plans for the Group that identify risks and opportunities which are reviewed and Remuneration Committee approved by the Board: The Remuneration Committee consists of the Companys three independent Non-Executive Directors Michael Ashton a comprehensive system of internal financial reporting which Committee Chairman, Breffni Byrne and Sir David includes regular comparison of financial results and key Rowe-Ham and consequently complies with the Combined performance indicators against budget: Code membership requirements.
a clearly defined process for controlling capital expenditure The committee met once between the IPO and the year end including appropriate authorisation levels, which is approved with full attendance, and intends to meet at least twice a by the Board on an ongoing basis: and year in the future.
The committee is responsible for setting and written policies on procedures for all material reviewing executive remuneration and that of the Company functional areas.
Secretary and is able to take external advice from consultants when required.
A full report on the role of the Remuneration During 2005 in anticipation of its obligations as a listed Committee is set out in the Board report on remuneration company, the Group commissioned Ernst & Young to on pages 37 to 42. undertake a top-level risk assessment review, followed by a review of financial and operating controls at the principal Audit Committee subsidiaries.
Their findings have been reviewed by the Audit The Audit Committee consists of the Companys three Committee and the results communicated to the Board.
independent Non-Executive Directors Breffni Byrne Committee Chairman, Michael Ashton and Sir David Following on from the above projects, the Board on the Rowe-Ham and consequently complies with the Combined recommendation of the Audit Committee has now appointed Code membership requirements.
Ernst & Young to manage and execute the Groups internal audit function on a group-wide basis for a period of three The committee met once between the IPO and the year end years.
This will involve a risk-driven approach to internal audit with full attendance, and intends to meet at least three times which will be overseen by the Audit Committee with ongoing a year in the future.
A full report of the role of the Audit reviews of risk identification, internal controls and systems in all Committee and the details of how it carried out its duties major business areas with regular reporting of findings to the is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 35 and 36.
Ernst & Young will have direct access to the Executive Committee Audit Committee and the Board Chairman.
The Group also has an Executive Committee, made up of The Board believes that with these arrangements now in the Executive Directors and other senior management of place, the Group has addressed the requirements of Internal the Group, which oversees the day to day operation of the Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Groups major manufacturing subsidiaries, implements the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board also confirms that a review decisions of the Board, and makes recommendations for the of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls Boards approval.
was conducted during the year.
