Directors report The Directors submit their report and audited financial details on pages 30 and 31.
Since the year end the Company statements for the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2005, which has announced that Brian McLaughlin will retire as an were approved on behalf of the Board on 27 June 2005.
Executive Director and employee of the Company on 31 December 2005 but will remain on the Board of Directors as a Non-Executive Director.
In addition Mr Steve Knott will be Review of the Group appointed a Director of the Company with effect from 1 August The principal activities of the Group are the retailing of 2005.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the pre-recorded music, DVD and VHS video and electronic Company, Steve Knott will offer himself for re-election at the games under the HMV brand and the retailing of books forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Companys Articles principally under the Waterstones brand.
The Group has of Association require one third of the Directors to retire by operations in nine countries, with the principal markets being rotation at each Annual General Meeting and, in any event, those of the UK, Japan and Canada.
The Chief Executives each Director must offer himself or herself for re-election Statement, Operating Review and Financial Review on pages at least once every three years.
Accordingly Lesley Knox, 16 to 29 contain details of the principal operations of the Mark McCafferty and Brian McLaughlin will offer themselves Group during the year and likely future developments.
for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Lesley Knox and Mark McCafferty will serve as Non-Executive Results and dividends Directors of the Company and Brian McLaughlin will serve as The consolidated profit after deducting taxation amounted to an Executive Director until 31 December 2005 and thereafter 96.4m 2004: 82.2m.
The Board of Directors recommends a as a Non-Executive Director.
final dividend of 5.1p per Ordinary Share.
This together with The Directors interests in the shares of the Company, the interim dividend of 1.7p, already declared and paid, makes together with their remuneration where applicable and a total for the year of 6.8p per Ordinary Share 2004: 5.8p further details of their service agreements are detailed in the per Ordinary Share.
Subject to approval at the forthcoming Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 42.
Annual General Meeting the final dividend will be paid on No Director, at any time during the period under review, 7 October 2005 to those shareholders whose names are on the had a material interest in any contracts with the Company or register of members on 9 September 2005.
The retained profit any of its subsidiary undertakings, other than the Executive for the period under review of 69.0m 2004: 58.8m has Directors who had such an interest through their service been transferred to reserves.
agreements with the Company, details of which are summarised on page 42.
Directors None of the Directors nor their families at any time during The present Directors of the Company who all served the period under review, or subsequently, were interested in throughout the year are listed together with their biographical any shares of the Companys subsidiary undertakings.
Principal shareholders As at 27 June 2005 the Company had been advised of the following holdings representing 3% or more in its issued Ordinary Shares: Number of Percentage Ordinary of issued Shares share capital Barclays PLC 56,369,142 13.95 F&C Asset Management plc 21,739,913 5.38 Aviva plc 21,730,015 5.38 Standard Life Investments 18,782,678 4.65 Prudential plc 16,771,912 4.15 HSBC Asset Management Europe Ltd 15,543,101 3.85 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 14,435,696 3.57 Policy on payment of creditors a work environment free of discrimination on the grounds The Group does not impose standard payment terms on its of gender, nationality, ethnic or racial origin, non-job related suppliers but agrees specific terms with each and ensures that disability, sexual orientation or marital status.
each supplier is made aware of such terms.
It is the Groups The Group gives full consideration to applications from policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the terms that disabled persons where a disabled person can adequately they have agreed.
The Company is a holding company and fulfil the requirements of the job.
Where existing employees therefore has no trade creditors.
become disabled, it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and Employee policies promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
The Group is a decentralised organisation with the aim of In order to promote employee involvement in the Group, employing and developing the best people, putting them in regular meetings are held between local management and the right positions with a significant level of delegated employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.
authority and supporting them with the infrastructure and The Company encourages staff involvement in the technology required to perform at the highest levels and at Groups performance via a combination of employee bonus the lowest costs with the quickest response time.
The Group has established a Share Responsibility for employment matters therefore rests Incentive Plan, details of which are set out on page 36, in primarily with each business operation under the general which nearly all the Groups employees are entitled to guidance of central policy and procedural guidelines.
participate provided they meet certain service conditions.
The Group companies are committed to the maintenance of 45 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Directors report continued Share capital Auditors At the Annual General Meeting held in September 2004, Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue shareholders authorised the Company to purchase up to a in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as maximum of 20.2 million of its own Ordinary Shares, auditors and authorising the Directors to fix their remuneration representing 5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In January 2005 the Directors announced that they intended to commence a share buyback programme.
Accordingly the Annual General Meeting Company purchased in the market, and cancelled, 2 million The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at of its Ordinary Shares of 1p for an aggregate consideration of 2.30 pm on 28 September 2005 at the Berystede Hotel, 4.9m including expenses, which represented some 0.49% Sunninghill, Ascot, Berkshire, SL5 9JH.
The special business to of the issued ordinary share capital as at 30 April 2005. be proposed at that meeting will be the renewal of the As at 27 June 2005 the latest practicable date for inclusion Directors authority to allot new Ordinary Shares and to in this report, the Company had an unexpired authority to disapply pre-emption rights in certain circumstances: the repurchase further shares up to a maximum of 18.2 million renewal of the Directors authority to buy back the Companys Ordinary Shares of 1p.
shares in the market: and, to avoid an inadvertent breach of Details of the Companys share capital, together with the the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, the number of shares issued or cancelled during the period under renewal of the Groups authority to make political donations.
review, can be found in note 23 on page 69.
Since the end of The Notice of Meeting and details of the special business the period under review the Company has increased its issued to be proposed can be found in the accompanying letter share capital by a further 3,224 Ordinary shares, which were to shareholders.
issued pursuant to the exercise of options under the By order of the Board Companys share option schemes.
Elaine Marriner Company Secretary Charitable donations 27 June 2005 The Group made charitable donations of 121,000 in the Shelley House period under review 2004: 25,000.
It is Group policy not to 2-4 York Road make donations to political parties and therefore no political Maidenhead donations were made during the period.
The Group is also Berkshire SL6 1SR involved in charitable fundraising, details of which can be found on pages 43 and 44.
46 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005
