Board of directors CHAIRMAN IAN PEACOCK CHAIRMAN Ian joined the Board in January 2000, having previously held senior management positions at Kleinwort Benson Group and BZW.
He is Chairman of Mothercare and Deputy Chairman of Lombard Risk Management.
He was a special adviser to the Bank of England from 1998 to 2000 and was a non-executive director of Norwich and Peterborough Building Society from 1997 to 2005.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MATTHEW INGLE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Matthew, previously managing director of the Magnet trade operation, joined MFI in 1995 to set up the successful Howden Joinery business.
He was elected to the Board of MFI in 1998 and became Chief executive officer in October 2005.
MARK ROBSON CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Mark was appointed to the Board in April 2005 as Chief financial officer.
Prior to joining the Company he had been group finance director of Delta since 1999 and was extensively involved in the restructuring of that group.
Prior to this he spent 13 years with ICI in various senior financial roles, having qualified as a chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse.
BOB WILSON KITCHENS CATEGORY DIRECTOR Bob has been with Hygena since 1977, a member of its board since 1982 and became managing director in 1993.
He was appointed to the Group Board in 1998, and has been largely responsible for directing the manufacturing investment programme.
He will be retiring as an executive director in April 2006.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TONY fide NUNZIO DEPUTY CHAIRMAN Tony joined the Board in September 2000 and also serves as Deputy Chairman since February 2005 and as Chairman of its Audit Committee and Senior independent director.
Tony is executive chairman of Royal Vendex, a leading Dutch retailer, and was previously President and Chief executive officer of Asda Stores.
Leading up to the takeover by Wal-Mart, Tony was Group finance director of Asda Group, his career with the company beginning in 1994 after a spell as finance director of Allied Maples.
Prior to this he was Planning director for Central Europe at PepsiCo in the early 1990s after having been Group financial controller for LOral UK.
Paul has extensive international business experience, and was formerly Chairman of Inchcape Pacific and a former member of the Hong Kong Legislative Council.
Paul was recently appointed Chairman of The Link Management, which manages most of the estate shopping malls and car park facilities owned by the Hong Kong Government.
Paul is currently also a senior adviser of Deutsche Bank in Asia Pacific.
Born in China, he was raised in Hong Kong and received his higher education in the USA with an MBA from the Wharton Business School at the University of Pennsylvania.
LESLEY KNOX NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Lesley was appointed non-executive director in May 2001 and also serves as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Lesley was a founder director of British Linen Advisers, a specialist corporate finance adviser focusing on growth companies.
She was previously Head of Institutional Asset Management and then Group director at Kleinwort Benson.
She joined the Corporate Finance Division of Kleinwort Benson in 1981 and has advised many domestic and international clients on strategic issues.
She is also Chairman of the Alliance Trusts and a non-executive director of HMV Group and Hays.
IAN SMITH NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Ian was appointed non-executive director in September 2001.
He was appointed Chief executive officer of the General Healthcare Group in September 2004 and was previously CEO, Europe for Exel, Group commercial director of Ocean Group before its merger with NFC to form Exel and prior to that, managing director of Monitor Company Europe, a strategy consulting firm.
Ian began his business career with Royal Dutch Shell Group of companies, working with Shell UK Oil in various roles including marketing director of Shell Oman and then setting up and managing the Shell joint venture in Jordan.
Ian received an MA from Oxford University and received an MBA with high distinction from Harvard Business School.
PETER WALLIS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Peter is Senior Partner in the respected SRU strategy and market research consultancy.
His speciality is advice to CEOs on strategic direction.
