board of directors board of directors non-executive directors Age 63: non-executive Chairman: joined the IMI Board in May 2005.
He has extensive international experience in industry including previous positions as Chief Executive of Virginia Power in the USA and BNFL.
His current positions include the chairmanship of both Taylor Woodrow plc and the Board of Governors of Manchester University.
Norman B M Askew Chairman Lance Browne Terry M Gateley Kevin S Beeston Anita Frew CBE Age 56: non-executive: joined Age 52: non-executive: joined Age 43: non-executive: joined Age 48: non-executive: joined the the IMI Board in January 2005. the IMI Board in 2003.
He began the IMI Board in March 2005.
She is Mr Browne is non-executive his career as a chartered He has been Executive senior non-executive director of Chairman of Standard Chartered accountant and was in private Chairman of Serco Group plc Victrex plc and a non-executive Bank, China, where he was Chief practice until moving into since May 2004.
He is a director of Aberdeen Asset Executive between 1996 and investment business and member of the CBIs Presidents Management PLC, Northumbrian 2001.
He has held a range of management in 1999.
He is a Committee, Deputy Chairman Water Ltd and Securities Trust of senior positions in banking and member of the Industrial of the CBIs Public Services Scotland plc.
He has Advisory Board of Alchemy Strategy Board, Director of the executive director of Abbott lived in China for over 20 years Partners LLP and his current Board of Companions of the Mead Vickers PLC, Director and is an Honorary Citizen of directorships include Open and Chartered Management of Corporate Development at Shanghai.
He has also received a Direct Limited and Kestrel Institute CMI and a Director of WPP Group Plc and Head of UK CBE for his work in China.
Ipswich Town Football Club plc.
Equity Investment at Scottish Provident in Edinburgh.
executive directors Martin J Lamb Trevor J Slack David C Nicholas Wayne R Whitney Chief Executive Finance Director Executive Director Executive Director Age 46: joined IMI in 1986: Age 59: joined IMI in 1976: Age 56: joined the IMI Board in Age 56: joined IMI in 1987, and appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in 1997.
He is responsible for was appointed to the Board in 1996 and as Chief Executive Mr Slack has broad experience of Fluid Controls, which 2004.
He is responsible for in January 2001.
Mr Lamb operational and financial comprises Fluid Power, Indoor Retail Dispense, which has extensive experience of management and accounting Climate and Severe Service.
comprises Beverage Dispense engineering and managed matters.
As Finance Director he His recent past directorships and Merchandising Systems.
several major businesses is also responsible for the include Tyco Flow Control Appointed President, Cannon within the Group before his company secretarial, legal, Europe.
He has extensive Equipment in September 2001 present appointment.
Noninvestor relations, human experience in managing and President, Retail Dispense executive director of resources, risk management and engineering businesses.
30 Board of directors Executive directors left to right Trevor Slack, David Nicholas, Wayne Whitney and Martin Lamb.
