directors report directors report The years results Group.
A relevant selection of corporate policies are available on our The Group consolidated income statement is shown on page 48. website www.
Further information on corporate social Group profit before tax, intangible amortisation and exceptional responsibility matters is set out below and on pages 26 to 29. items amounted to 175.5 million 2004: 161.1 million and profit Employment policies before taxation amounted to 169.9 million 2004: 122.2 million.
The Group continues to support employee involvement at all levels Earnings applicable to shareholders of IMI plc amounted to 13.5 in the organisation.
A formal joint consultative process is operated in million 2004: 67.5 million.
all except the smallest units where it is strongly encouraged on an Dividends informal basis.
During the year consultative arrangements, including The directors recommend a final dividend at the rate of 10.85p per formal committees and team briefings, were used to consider and share on the ordinary share capital payable on 26 May 2006 to discuss employees views, to develop understanding of business aims, shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 April 2006. to increase awareness of financial and economic factors affecting Together with the interim dividend of 6.65p per share paid on performance, and to improve effectiveness.
The Group has a 21 October 2005, this final dividend brings the total distribution for European Works Council which meets at least once a year to the year to 17.5p per share 2004: 16.5p per share.
exchange views on pan-European issues facing the Group.
Principal activities The Annual Report is available to all employees.
The Company During 2005 the Groups businesses were organised under the operates an All Employee Share Ownership Plan covering all UK following main classes: Fluid Controls and Retail Dispense.
Subsidiary employees of certain operations, under which an annual bonus companies operating within these classes of business are listed on worth up to 3,000 can be awarded to employees in shares and pages 94 and 95.
The turnover, profit and capital employed employees can invest their own money to acquire additional shares attributable to each of these classes of business are shown in note 3 in a tax efficient manner.
A savings-related share option scheme, on pages 57 to 59.
The former Building Products businesses, which which is available to the majority of UK employees, has operated comprised the Polypipe Group, were sold on 2 September 2005. since 1984. Review of activities A number of management development initiatives are co-ordinated The activities of the Group in 2005, together with indications of likely across the Group, including the IMI Academy and a senior talent future developments, are reviewed on pages 6 to 21.
Details of management programme called Aspire.
Aspire is a merit based acquisitions and disposals are given in notes 4 and 5 on pages 59 scheme and the starting point for entry is self-nomination, with and 60.
In March 2006 IMI announced that it had agreed to acquire managers from across the Group free to put their own names the Truflo Group for 113 million enterprise value.
forward for a series of assessment and selection activities.
Those managers achieving the benchmark have been invited to join Aspire Research and development and take part in a range of tailored development activities.
The Expenditure on research and development in the year was Group encourages its operating units to train and develop 29.4 million compared with 26.6 million in 2004: of this amount employees at all levels and a wide range of business-related 5.2 million 2004: 2.8million has been capitalised.
education and training opportunities are made available.
Shareholders funds It is Group policy to promote equal opportunities in employment Shareholders funds decreased from 550.8 million at the end of 2004 consistent with the requirements of the countries in which the to 417.6 million at 31 December 2005.
The policy extends to employees and applicants for Share capital employment and requires companies in the Group to eliminate Between 21 March 2005 and 31 December 2005, the Company discrimination and communicate and promote the policy to all made market purchases of a total of 17,081,000 of its own shares employees.
Presidents of operating units have responsibility for with an aggregate market value of 72.6 million nominal value complying with the policy and each employee is required to 4,270,250 including dealing costs of 0.3 million.
During the year participate in the policy.
Every effort is made to ensure that 3,825,347 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share applications for employment from disabled persons are fully and schemes: 974,486 under the all employee share ownership and save fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal as you earn plans and 2,850,861 under executive share options.
The opportunity in training and promotion.
As a matter of longstanding Company has been notified of the following substantial interests 3% policy, where appropriate, employees who become disabled have or more in its issued share capital: been given suitable training for employment within the Group or elsewhere.
The Group also supports charities for assisting disabled Standard Life Investments 5.01% people into work.
Legal and General Investment Management 3.99% Health, safety and the environment Barclays Global Investors 3.95% It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working conditions Corporate social responsibility and to operate in a responsible manner with regard to the The Board has adopted a range of corporate policies, including a environment.
A summary of the relevant Group policies and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, which reflect the high performance is set out on page 26 and further information is standards of conduct it sets for itself and employees across the available on our website www.
32 Directors report Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as Operating units are responsible for making their suppliers aware of adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the terms of payment and agreeing such terms with their suppliers performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in for each business transaction.
It is Group policy that payments to relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant suppliers are made in accordance with these terms.
The Company is part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are not a trading entity.
references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Donations The parent company financial statements are required by law to give 401,000 was given during 2005 for community and similar purposes a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
The Group supports a In preparing each of the group and parent company financial range of selected national charities and smaller charitable statements, the directors are required to: organisations operating in communities where the Group has a select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: presence.
Our approach to charitable and other donations is explained on pages 26 to 29.
No donations to political parties were make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: made during the year.
for the group financial statements, state whether they have been Directors prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: The persons who were directors throughout the year were for the parent company financial statements, state whether Mr T M Gateley, Mr M J Lamb, Mr D C Nicholas, Mr T J Slack and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to Mr W R Whitney.
Mr J W Leng was Chairman until his retirement on any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 13 May 2005.
Mr L Browne and Mr K Beeston were appointed as company financial statements: and non-executive directors with effect from 1 January and 8 March prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 2005, respectively.
Mr N B M Askew was appointed to the Board as unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent Chairman with effect from 14 May 2005.
Ms A Frew was appointed company will continue in business.
as a non-executive director on 2 March 2006.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Under the Companys articles of association, Mr D C Nicholas and that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Mr W R Whitney retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual general position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its meeting and are both recommended for re-election.
In addition, financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They Mr Askew and Ms Frew will be standing for re-election at that have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably meeting, being the first annual general meeting since they were open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent appointed.
Biographical details appear on page 30.
Mr Askew is and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Chairman and both he and Ms Frew are non-executive directors with a letter of appointment and do not have a service contract.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Mr Nicholas and Mr Whitney are executive directors and each has a responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' Remuneration service contract terminable on one years notice.
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and has entered into an indemnity arrangement with each director in The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended in respect of the corporate and financial information included on the company's the costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and brought against a director, in their capacity as such, where not dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in covered by insurance.
Directors interests Annual general meeting The interests of the persons including the interests of their families The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham who were directors at the end of the year in the share capital of the Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham on Friday Company, and their interests in the Companys share option 12 May 2006, commencing at noon.
Notice of the meeting will be schemes, are shown on pages 45 and 46. sent to shareholders as a separate circular.
Directors responsibilities for the financial statements Auditor The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the group and parent company financial statements, in accordance the Company and to authorise the directors to determine the with applicable law and regulations.
auditors remuneration are to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the group financial statements By order of the Board in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to John OShea prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with Company Secretary UK Accounting Standards.
6 March 2006 33 IMI plc Annual Report 2005
