operating and financial review Our advanced technology CryoCool retail dispense dispensing system is customised to each outlet and brings space and energy saving benefits to the operator as well as accuracy to the quality of the drinks they serve.
Gary King, Director of Retail Sales, Cornelius Europe pioneering beverage dispense Cornelius supplies the worlds leading Factfile Beverage Dispense beverage brand owners and major retailers with products and systems that combine Key brands Cornelius, Bevcore, Northern Parts.
Sales beverage merchandising and dispensing in a Strategic focus Supplying innovative beverage cooling 267m 2004 total package.
and dispense solutions to brand owners and retailers around the world.
Cornelius solutions, based on market 278m 2005 Main markets Soft drinks and alcoholic beverage awareness and cutting edge technology, cooling, dispense and point-of-sale Operating profit encompass everything from system equipment for bars, restaurants and retail 24.9m 2004 development and equipment specification outlets.
to operational management and technical 27.1m 2005 field support.
Our unique solutions deliver Operating margin tangible customer benefit, driving growth for the customer and maximising their profits by 9.3% 2004 Major operational USA, UK, Germany, Mexico and China.
locations 9.7% 2005 New initiatives by Bevcore, our US based online parts business, continue to set industry Employees 2,900 before intangible amortisation standards for after sales support, optimising inventory control and reducing operating costs for our customers.
Our deep relationships with customers 16 Retail Dispense We need an expert who can help us sell more refreshing cold drinks, consistently, every time, to our consumers, and help us to drive operational efficiencies.
In both these areas, Cornelius is adding real value to our business.
Tony Hughes, Managing Director, Mitchells & Butlers Restaurants Retailers Retailer Of The Year 2006 solutions across the world are based on strong local In the UK, a unique, speciallypresence in all our geographic markets.
developed automated beer During 2005 the establishment of a Ukraine dispense solution is currently being manufacturing base extended our installed into Arsenal Football Club's infrastructure to service the emerging new Emirates Stadium undergoing markets of Ukraine and Russia, while construction in North London.
Northern Parts and Service, acquired in Cornelius is a clear world wide November, strengthened our ability to leader in beverage dispense support all leading US food service chains.
Our dispensing Our operations in China already benefit solutions, point of sale displays and customers from our investment over recent outstanding service support are years in this fast growing market.
attracting customers in growing We continue to launch new products to sectors such as non-carbonated improve our customers' competitive soft drinks and coffee as well as our positions and meet the changing demands traditionally strong carbonated drinks of their consumers.
We are also driving our and beer sectors.
We will grow with expertise into major stadia and 11 out of 12 our customers, providing them with soccer venues hosting the 2006 World Cup solutions that maximise the success in Germany feature soft drinks and beer of their operations as they expand dispense systems supplied by Cornelius.
into new markets and products.
17 IMI plc Annual Report 2005 operating and financial review Building on the UK success, we have worked retail dispense with the Rimmel Global team to supply more than 30,000 retail installations in over 40 countries with versions of the display system tailored to specific retailers' needs - and all projecting the brand consistently at the point of sale.
Sandy Lloyd, Key Account Manager, Artform International driving impulse purchase Our Merchandising Systems business Factfile Merchandising Systems engineers permanent point of sale solutions that influence consumer Key brands Cannon, DCI Marketing, Artform, Display Sales Technologies.
Our investment in 188m 2004 Strategic focus Providing permanent point-of-sale consumer, retailer and distribution channel solutions and technologies that enhance 186m 2005 research across many market sectors retailer and brand owner profitability by driving impulse purchases.
Operating profit enables us to develop sophisticated Main markets Global brand owners and retail sales 22.0m 2004 bespoke products that drive tangible sales outlets.
and profits benefits for both brand owners 20.3m 2005 and retailers.
Operating margin Our capabilities continue to develop in 11.7% 2004 support of global customers, especially in Major operational USA and UK.
locations the cosmetics and consumer electronics 10.9% 2005 sectors where impulse purchase plays a Employees 1,600 particularly strong role in consumer before intangible amortisation decision making.
Our Artform and DCI businesses provide a deep understanding 18 Retail Dispense Artform has contributed to the fantastic renaissance of Rimmel London with in-store displays that capture our iconic imagery and project the brand superbly in each retail environment.
Ian Williamson, Managing Director, Coty UK of these sectors that consumer brand demanding timescales.
In bulk dispense and generally fragmented grocery stock management systems industry, our Merchandising Display Technologies and Cannon Equipment Systems businesses are bring their customers inventory control, demonstrating the advantages theft reduction and labour benefits as well as that a well co-ordinated team sales uplift.
As a result, an With retail markets becoming increasingly increasing proportion of our sophisticated and dependent on point of revenues are from longer-term sale expertise to deliver volume and profit contracts with major global improvements, we have launched Cannon customers and our proposition Retail Technologies, which will lead the is increasingly attractive to the development of profit enhancing products worlds leading brands and and services for major retailers.
We provide retail insight and the design, engineering and logistics expertise to handle major customer product programmes to 19 IMI plc Annual Report 2005 operating and financial review strategic growth drivers Accelerating our key Increasing our account focus creative abilities By assembling highly talented, We will invest in techniques in IMI to customer-focused,  customer and market insight minded teams of people in IMI, and use our acquired knowledge to adopting a carefully targeted approach heighten our engineering capabilities to the selection of our customer and customer offerings.
Our dedicated partners and by understanding the innovation unit, IMI Vision, provides a drivers of customers' businesses, we powerful resource to develop new can add long-term value for both them concepts with our five businesses.
Recognising where value can Able to draw on partners in other be added for both parties is the critical industries and academic institutions, and fundamental focus of our IMI Vision helps to bring appropriate approach across all our operations.
new value-adding technologies to our customers.
a vision of the road ahead - our key strategic growth drivers We continue our vigorous pursuit of a clear strategy that has already moved our business forward significantly in recent years.
Increasingly we are focused on growth with industry or sector leading customers in niche markets that are themselves growing.
Adding value to such customers and improving their performance is the route to sustainable profit growth.
Our strategic growth imperatives are understood by all the senior management in IMI and embedded throughout our businesses.
20 Strategic growth drivers Seizing the market Balance sheet initiative management We will expand our local resources We are increasing our efforts to secure and investment in response to the strategic acquisitions.
We will ensure fast-growing markets of Asia and these align with and support our Eastern Europe, and also recruit highly existing businesses and help develop talented people from these territories new markets further.
We are interested throughout our business.
A new only in acquisitions that meet key criteria advisory board in China is indicative of including technology, talent, market our commitment to current and future sector or key account relationships and activities there.
We support our the ability to create significant customers as they enter new markets differentiation in the market place.
We and ensure that we have the right will continue to invest in our businesses people on the ground with local where we see potential to promote knowledge wherever we identify new organic growth and use the on-market opportunities.
share buyback programme to help manage our balance sheet efficiently.
