operating and financial review fluid controls We work closely with Power Machines to provide technologies that optimise the performance and output of each power plant.
Yuri Serov Key Account Manager, CCI controlling critical processes CCI is the worlds leading expert in Factfile Severe Service providing engineered valve solutions that enhance performance and reliability in Key brands CCI Sales Strategic focus Controlling critical in-plant processes by critical plant applications.
All types of 177m 2004 providing superior custom engineered power generation, oil & gas production, severe service or critical service valve, 213m 2005 petrochemical, and pulp and paper actuation and silencer solutions.
Main markets Power generation: oil & gas production: Operating profit facilities rely on our high integrity systems combined heat & power CHP : liquefied 22.5m 2004 to control the handling of potentially natural gas LNG petrochemical and gas dangerous gases and liquids in extreme processing.
Operating margin CCIs highly experienced engineers focus 12.7% 2004 on understanding their customers Major operational USA, Switzerland, Sweden, Austria, Italy, processes and challenges and apply our 13.3% 2005 locations China, Japan and South Korea.
advanced technology and industry expertise to deliver superior, custom Employees 1,400 before intangible amortisation engineered solutions.
Together with our dedicated customer service network, 10 Fluid Controls CCIs valves and expertise in critical applications help us to ensure our facilities run efficiently and reliably, supplying the worlds power utilities Vladimir Batenko Director of Projects Power Machines Russia which delivers support for the life of the fast growing Asian plant, we reduce risk and improve efficiency, economies.
reduce maintenance and operating costs, Other emerging and help minimise downtime, enabling our markets such as clients to optimise their operating and Russia and India financial performance.
provide further Serving many of the worlds leading opportunities to add businesses in their fields, CCIs activities are value to both existing split nearly equally between the Americas, and new customers.
Europe Africa Middle East and Asia.
Our Power generation, fuel, and energy acquisition during the year of ABB KK, a process industries are growing fast leading provider of valves to the Japanese across the globe to satisfy the worlds power industry, the establishment of a new increasing need for energy.
CCIs joint venture with the Shanghai Power expertise is integral to this growth and Corporation in China and the assumption of we expect its solutions to enjoy strong full control of our operation in South Korea demand for the foreseeable future.
further strengthened our capabilities in the 11 IMI plc Annual Report 2005 operating and financial review Our 40 bar high-pressure technology fluid controls lies at the heart of the PET bottling stretch blow moulding process.
Integrating Norgren and FAS technologies is now enabling us to add further value to Krones machines.
Harald Weigand, Key Account Manager, Norgren creating competitive in motion and fluid control Our motion and fluid controls business, Factfile Fluid Power Norgren, provides sophisticated solutions which control air and other fluids in Key brands Norgren, Syron.
Sales Strategic focus Engineering advantage in motion and precision technological and engineering 439m 2004 fluid control solutions.
Main markets Industrial pneumatic applications: 492m 2005 From the ultra-fine control of medical on-board commercial vehicles: medical: packaging: printing: in-plant automotive: dosing valves to the arduous environment Operating profit semi-conductor: rail transportation.
of on-board truck suspension systems, 43.5m 2004 our immense technical expertise and 58.5m 2005 experience help our customers in their Major operational USA, UK, Germany, Switzerland, Mexico Operating margin highly demanding markets.
Although our locations and The Czech Republic.
9.9% 2004 products contribute to our customers success across a broad range of Employees 6,200 11.9% 2005 manufacturing applications, our targeted market sectors, including commercial before intangible amortisation vehicles, medical, printing and packaging, and in-plant automotive, are demonstrating strong growth.
12 Fluid Controls In the price-sensitive PET bottling machine market, Norgrens dedicated engineering capabilities have enabled us to increase productivity, reduce costs and grow our market share.
Klaus Voth, Manager R&D, Stretch blow moulding technology, Krones AG advantage Increasingly intimate relationships with our In Europe this year we launched a new customers and their markets give us a sound service, Norgren Express.
Providing understanding of their businesses, their rapid delivery of standard products needs and values, processes, and commercial from stock, this improves the servicing and regulatory environments.
We use this of our valued smaller customers and knowledge to develop design-led, innovative enables us to improve our own stock and reliable solutions that enable them to and logistics efficiency.
grow their revenues and reduce the total With operations worldwide, Norgren cost of ownership for the end user.
can manage the most demanding of Two US additions to the Group in 2005 international projects, and supports the further developed the scope of our services.
continuing growth of its customers Syron enhances our ability to provide wherever they seek competitive advantage.
integrated tooling solutions to automotive manufacturers and GT Development Corporation, acquired in November, increases our strength in pneumatic and electronic controls for the medium and heavy truck industry.
"13 IMI plc Annual Report 2005 operating and financial review fluid controls We worked closely with the architects and the consulting engineers to design the optimum indoor climate solution for more than 700,000 square metres of indoor space, catering for millions of users every year. """
Jess fide Lara, Managing Director, TA Spain perfecting indoor Our Indoor Climate business designs and Factfile Indoor Climate delivers products and services to ensure problem-free, energy efficient and cost Key brands TA, Heimeier, Commtech, FDI.
Sales Strategic focus Perfecting indoor climate through the effective heating, ventilation and air 168m 2004 provision of critical energy-efficient conditioning HVAC systems for buildings heating, ventilation and air-conditioning 172m 2005 and indoor environments.
Main markets Heating and cooling balancing systems Operating profit Driven by the twin objectives of personal for commercial buildings and 24.3m 2004 comfort and energy efficiency all our climate temperature control for residential products and services are based on close buildings.
Through a Operating margin deep understanding of their needs and 14.5% 2004 applications, our strong system design Major operational Sweden, Germany, UK and USA.
knowledge, commissioning and project 14.7% 2005 locations management skills ensure that hospitals, airports, offices, retailers, hotel chains and Employees 1,600 before intangible amortisation restaurants enjoy indoor environments that optimise the comfort of their employees and clients and the success of their operations.
14 Fluid Controls The size and scale of the new airport buildings demanded a complex indoor climate management system, but TA balancing technology made possible our goals of energy efficiency and comfort for passengers and staff alike.
Jos Manuel Blanco, Mechanical Installations Director, Madrid Airport Technical Agency climate Rising energy costs are increasing the need for We are increasingly successful with large successful energy management of buildings.
During For both new and refurbished buildings we 2005 major projects included the new analyse the relationship between heating, sports and administrative centre for ventilation, air conditioning, lighting and Real Madrid, the Royal Alexander power systems to deliver the most efficient Childrens Hospital in the United Kingdom, energy performance.
the Beijing Xihuan Plaza office and retail Following enactment of the Kyoto Protocol in project in China and the Metro subway February 2005, corporations throughout the in Taiwan.
world face a period of unprecedented Global energy issues, investment in legislation designed to focus minds on differentiated new products and the fast environmental sustainability and energy growing Eastern European, Asian and conservation.
As a major indoor climate Middle Eastern economies will drive the specialist, we are amongst the leading growth of this business as we continue to providers of solutions that satisfy these develop bespoke engineered products and requirements and help our clients to meet services that meet our customers needs.
their local and international regulatory obligations.
