AR6868 ICI Report ifc-8 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 7 Strategy ICIs strategic matrix 3 ICIs vision is to become the leader in formulation science, creating complex mixtures that deliver the effects valued by consumers and customers.
To achieve this leadership goal, and through this create superior returns for shareholders, the Group is building a portfolio of businesses that are leaders in their respective industries, bringing together consumer understanding, outstanding knowledge of customer needs and processes, and leading edge technology platforms to provide 3 4 3 a distinctive, competitive advantage for its customers.
1 1 At the last strategic review, ICIs business units were evaluated in terms of market attractiveness e. g. financial strength and sustainability and competitive position e. g. quality of products, technology and market share.
Reflecting their different strengths and weaknesses, each business was then mapped onto the two by 2 two matrix shown below.
This matrix is fundamental to the strategic development of the business.
For example, ICI intends to invest to support growth in businesses 1.
National Starch with strong positions in high-growth markets the grow aggressively segments National Starch provides encapsulating starches to protect which are more attractive in the long term.
In contrast, ICI will invest to improve cost flavours, stabilise emulsions and improve mouthfeel in beverages.
and capital effectiveness in its businesses in relatively low growth markets the It also formulates waterborne and maintain selectively segments with the aim of continued cost effectiveness and hot melt adhesives for packaging and labelling, paperboard laminating, resilient financial performance.
Examples of this approach can be found in the and folding carton and corrugated section that follows on page 8, entitled Strategic Progress in 2005. packaging assembly.
Quest ICIs strategy is to create and capture additional value from three principal sources: Quest makes drinks taste delicious by creating flavours for all tastes, Differentiated resource allocation varying from strawberry to vanilla, raspberry, apple, lime, chocolate, Investing in technology and marketing in those businesses where sustainable, orange, passion fruit, cinnamon competitive advantage can be created: and more.
Uniqema Uniqema makes ingredients used Achieving a step-change in cost and capital effectiveness for ICI overall in the in can coatings to prevent spoilage, in hot melt adhesives to hold the near term through the successful delivery of restructuring, and sustainably through cardboard package together, and changing the organisation, culture, and behaviour in ICI to consistently deliver printing inks used in packaging labelling.
ICI Paints Strategy execution ICI Paints Packaging Coatings formulates and manufactures A greater focus on strategy execution, upgrading operational capabilities and specialised internal and external enhancing rewards for short to medium-term performance delivery.
coatings for food and beverage cans.
Examples of what was achieved in 2005 can be found in the section that follows, entitled Strategic Progress in 2005, as well as in the business commentaries.
Strategic plan targets Underpinned by a set of specific strategic thrusts, the delivery of sustained performance improvement against clear financial targets should enable ICI to deliver significant improvements in shareholder return.
The targets, first set out in 2003, are outlined below.
ICIs strategic matrix Strategic plan targets Targets Paints North America Fragrances Pan-Atlantic Adhesives Flavours Sales growth Average sales revenue growth at, or Pan-Atlantic Starch Electronic materials better than, the growth in real GDP over Starch Asia the four-year period 2004 to 2007.
Adhesives Asia Paints Asia Group trading Increase by an average of 0.5% per margin expansion annum from 2003 to 2007.
Packaging coatings Paints Europe Improved return on Improve by an average of 1% per annum, Base oleochemicals Paints Latin America capital employed to around 14% in 2007.
Base surfactants Cash flow Generate positive cash flow before Maintain Grow acquisitions and divestments on a sustainable basis from 2005 onwards.
Strategic approach Only major business units shown.
Definitions of terms appear on page 157.
Strategy ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 7 Strategic stance Selective Aggressive AR6868 ICI Report ifc-8 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 8 Strategic progress in 2005 new manufacturing projects in China and Vietnam.
In addition, Overall, 2005 has been another satisfactory year with ICI making many new and innovative products were launched by the businesses further incremental progress towards its strategic plan targets, first set in 2005.
These included ImpaQ Taste Technology, a range of flavour out in 2003.
As expected, 2005 was more challenging than 2004, molecules launched by Quest to replace high levels of salt, fat and with higher raw material cost inflation and mixed trading conditions sugar in processed foods, and a new printable adhesive, launched having an adverse impact on underlying performance.
Despite this, by National Starchs Ablestik operation, for use in the latest faster, comparable sales growth of 6% compared well with estimated real more compact electronics applications.
growth in global GDP of 3.4% and with the overall trading margin Regionally, ICI maintained its good progress developing its grow broadly unchanged at 9.5% 2004 9.6%, ICI remains on track to aggressively activities in Asia.
Across all the strategic quadrants, achieve a two percentage point improvement in Group trading margin comparable sales grew 11% in the region.
ICI Paints, in particular, over the four years of the plan.
Taken together with improved capital made good progress in the key developing economies with management, this has helped the Group improve return on capital comparable growth of 17% for the year.
As a result, sales reported in employed by 0.8%, to 13.5%, and generate positive cash flow before Asia were 24% 2004 22% of the Group total.
acquisitions and divestments of 170m in 2005 2004 82m.
At the same time as investing in grow businesses ICI maintained ICIs strategy focuses on actively managing its portfolio in different its focus on restructuring activities.
Cumulative savings from the ways to create shareholder value.
Investment in grow selectively programme launched in 2003 reached 106m out of an increased and grow aggressively businesses aims to strengthen their target of 140m.
Since the start of the programme ICI has removed competitive positions and open up new market opportunities.
2,100 job positions from its businesses.
Alternatively, investment in maintain selectively and maintain aggressively operations should improve returns on capital, margin In February 2005, ICI completed the sale of the Vinamul Polymers and cash flows whilst improving market positions where possible.
Other small divestments included Zweihorn, a specialty woodcare business in Germany, 51% of ICI Indias rubber chemicals Overall, comparable sales growth for businesses which ICI intends business to a joint venture company established in partnership with to grow aggressively was over 7% in 2005, compared with sales PMC Group International of the USA, and ICIs interest in Pielcolor growth in the maintain selectively segment of 3%.
Restructuring Uruguay SA, a manufacturer of chemicals for leather stains.
In total, and other cost and capital efficiency projects contributed to margin these generated net disposal proceeds of 108m.
improvements in every quadrant except maintain aggressively where progress was held back by high raw material costs and In September, ICI acquired the redispersible powder polymers the increased manufacturing and energy costs at National Starchs business from Celanese for 15m.
This acquisition should enhance US starch operations.
the growth opportunities of National Starchs specialty polymers activities through expanding its product range, increasing its ICI continued to invest preferentially in its grow aggressively customer footprint and providing additional manufacturing capacity.
Capital expenditure was again in excess of depreciation as the businesses invested in growth opportunities.
National Starch Uniqema opened a strategically important new technical and manufacturing In February 2006, ICI announced that it was evaluating its options centre for Electronic Materials in China, and ICI Paints started with regard to Uniqema.
ICI believes that Uniqema is a market leading oleochemicals and derivatives business with a good product portfolio Source: Oxford Economic Forecasting December 2005. and a strong management team.
The restructuring programme announced in 2003 has generated significant savings, resulting in improved profitability.
The Uniqema team has identified a range of Sales International Businesses further restructuring opportunities that could further improve overall profitability, but which would require significant additional investment.
2005 In this context, and in the light of other investment opportunities available to ICI across the Group, in particular in those areas where there is the prospect of greater strategic and financial returns, 31% 29% ICI is evaluating its options, with a view to divesting the business, subject to a deal realising value for shareholders.
Up Up 4% 7% Up Up 3% 4% This chart shows the change in comparable sales 17% for the International Businesses by strategic 23% quadrant from 2004 to 2005.
Areas of the squares reflect the proportion of total International Businesses sales in the quadrant with Maintain Grow the proportion percentages shown in the outer corner of each square.
Strategic approach Strategic progress in 2005 8 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Strategic stance Selective Aggressive
