AR6868 ICI Report ifc-8 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 4 ICI Group summary ICI is one of the worlds major specialty chemicals and paints businesses with products and ingredients developed for a wide range of markets.
Regional and Industrial ICIs specialty products and paints businesses comprise National Starch, Quest, Uniqema 7% and ICI Paints.
These businesses serve diverse consumer and industrial markets through National Starch some 70 strategic business units, with an array of market leadership positions around the 32% Revenue world.
In addition, a number of Regional and Industrial businesses remain in ICIs portfolio.
by ICI Paints business 40% The businesses are supported by Group functions that provide expertise in the disciplines of information technology, procurement, human resources, operations, finance, sustainability, Quest Uniqema 10% safety, health and the environment SHE, and applied technology.
11% Our products can be found in many household items: the illustration below highlights just a few that can be found in the kitchen: 1.
National Starch National Starch formulates a wide variety of functional ingredients found in the kitchen.
For foods, these include: starch-based crisping, textural and fibre enhancements in breakfast cereals, snacks and baked goods: thickeners and stabilisers for soups, gravies and dairy products.
Adhesives for packaging from boxes and can labels to attaching 4 straws to juice boxes.
Non-food products include polymers, fragrance encapsulation and cleansing agents in dish detergents.
Structural 1 products include window glazing, adhesives used to fabricate windows: starches used in wallboard: as well as adhesives to produce and hold insulation in place in appliances 1 and buildings.
Quest Quest creates distinctive flavours for sweet and savoury foods and 1 2 beverages, including crisps, biscuits, soda and juices, tea and coffee, 3 breakfast cereals, soups, snack 2 3 bars, sauces, ice cream and yoghurt.
Quest also develops appealing fragrances for use in laundry powder, fabric softener, air fresheners and cleaning fluids.
Uniqema 2 Uniqema produces surfactants for 1 mild handwash and dishwashing 4 formulations and makes additives that improve the performance of 2 2 2 coatings used on the inside of cans.
Its products are also used in the rigid foam that provides insulation and structural strength for refrigerators, while Uniqema lubricants are a vital component of fridge cooling systems.
500 million fridge compressors now run on Uniqemas world-leading Emkarate RL technology.
ICI Paints ICI Paints is a leading supplier of can and other packaging coatings and one of the worlds top producers of paints for decorating homes.
Its high quality coatings come in a range of expressive colours, and 1 its formulations and packaging innovations aim to meet the needs of DIY and professional decorators.
ICI Group summary 4 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 AR6868 ICI Report ifc-8 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 5 Key Europe North America Latin America Asia Other National Starch National Starch markets an extensive product range to sectors 5% 1,871m revenue as diverse as food, healthcare and construction.
Four main 26% divisions are grouped around adhesives, specialty starches, 214m trading profit 27% specialty synthetic polymers and electronic and engineering Revenue materials.
Headquartered in the USA, with manufacturing and by customer 13.1% return on capital employed location customer service centres in 39 countries.
8,910 employees 6% 36% Quest Quest creates and markets flavours and fragrance 560m revenue 13% concepts and solutions for the fast moving consumer goods industries.
It makes ingredients for foods, snacks, beverages, 52m trading profit 16% personal care, fine fragrances, and home hygiene products.
Revenue 38% Headquartered in the Netherlands, with operations in by customer 10.1% return on capital employed location 31 countries.
3,450 employees 11% 22% Uniqema Uniqema provides products which deliver specific effects 3% 631m revenue that influence how customers products feel or perform.
15% The formulation of personal care ingredients, natural and 22m trading profit 3% synthetic lubricants and polymers are areas of particular Revenue expertise.
Headquartered in the Netherlands, with by customer 49% 2.3% return on capital employed location manufacturing in 11 countries.
2,630 employees 30% ICI Paints With some of the worlds top paint and decorative product 2,331m revenue 1% brands, ICI Paints aims to inspire consumers to transform their 15% surroundings with performance products and colour.
It makes 253m trading profit 9% products to prepare and care for many building materials, and 36% Revenue also provides coatings for cans and packaging.
Headquartered by customer 23.0% return on capital employed location in the UK, with manufacturing in 24 countries.
15,160 employees 39% Regional and Industrial ICI has a number of Regional and Industrial businesses that are 428m revenue 5% essentially local in scope.
Principal operations are in Pakistan 2% and Argentina and include the manufacture of pure terephthalic 13% 48m trading profit acid, polyester, sulphur-related chemicals, wine additives and Revenue soda ash.
by customer 19.7% return on capital employed location 2,140 employees 80% Trading profit is defined as operating profit before special items.
ICIs method of calculating return on capital employed is defined on page 157.
ICI Group summary ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5
