AR6868 ICI Report 20-34 13 3 06 8:54 pm Page 30 Board of Directors and Executive Management Team 11, 5 8, 1, 2 10, 4, 7 6, 9, 3 12, 14, 13 30 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Board of Directors and Executive Management Team AR6868 ICI Report 20-34 13 3 06 8:54 pm Page 31 1.
Alan Brown Chairman Chief Financial Officer Appointed a Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman on 27 June Appointed a Director and Chief Financial Officer on 14 November 2005.
2003 and Chairman with effect from 1 January 2004.
Alan Brown read law at Liverpool University and was called to the Bar Peter Ellwood joined Barclays Bank in 1961 where he held a number in 1981.
He is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Management of senior roles including Chief Executive of Barclaycard from 1985 Accountants.
He joined Unilever in 1980 and during the first seven years of his career In 1989 he joined TSB Bank as Chief Executive, Retail Banking, was worked in Birds Eye Walls in the UK.
After four years in Mergers & appointed a Director of TSB Group in 1990 and became Group Chief Acquisitions, Treasury and Investor Relations at Unilever Head Office, Executive in 1992.
Following the merger with Lloyds Bank in 1995, Alan Brown returned to Birds Eye Walls as Finance and Commercial he became Deputy Group Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc, Director in 1991. subsequently becoming Group Chief Executive in 1997 until his In 1994 he moved to Unilever Food & Beverages, Europe, as Senior retirement in 2003.
He was Chairman of Visa International from 1994 Vice President, Finance and Information Technology.
In 1997 he moved to 1999. to Asia as Executive Chairman, Unilever Taiwan and then, in 2001, Peter Ellwood was made a Commander of the Order of the British assumed the role of Executive Chairman, Unilever China and, more Empire for services to banking in 2001 and is a Fellow of the Chartered recently, of Unilever Hong Kong, as well.
He has received Honorary Doctorates from both Alan Brown has had a distinguished career as a senior finance Leicester University and the University of Central England.
He is professional and general manager within Unilever and possesses a Chairman of the UK Royal Parks Advisory Board, The Royal Parks considerable breadth of commercial and international experience, Charitable Foundation and The Work Foundation of Great Britain.
having worked extensively in Asia and Continental Europe.
He is also a Director of the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and Deputy Chairman of the Royal College of Music.
David C M Hamill appointed a Non-Executive Director of First Data Corporation, Inc. Director Appointed a Director on 8 December 2003.
He is Chairman and Chief In his business career Peter Ellwood has been a leader in driving Executive of ICI Paints.
structural change and efficiency improvement and he brings to his role as Chairman extensive business experience, energy and determination.
David Hamill joined the Company from Royal Philips Electronics where Aged 62. he was a member of the Group Management Committee.
A graduate in Production Engineering and Management from Strathclyde University, 2.
John D G McAdam David Hamill worked for Honeywell and General Instruments before Chief Executive joining Philips Semiconductors as product manager in 1986.
He held Appointed a Director on 1 March 1999 and Chief Executive on 9 April a number of senior positions within Philips Power Semiconductors and 2003.
He joined the Company in 1997 following the acquisition of the Lighting businesses, becoming President of Philips Lighting Asia Pacific Speciality Chemicals businesses from Unilever.
in 1996 and Executive Vice President of Philips Lighting and Chief John McAdam graduated from Manchester University with a first class Executive Officer of the Lamps business group two years later.
honours degree in Chemical Physics and, after completing his In May 2001 he became President and Chief Executive Officer of doctorate, was awarded a research fellowship.
In 1974 he joined Unilever as a management trainee and held a variety David Hamill has held senior management roles in Europe and Asia of managerial positions within Birds Eye Foods before joining the Board where he has gained considerable production, commercial, marketing of Unilevers flavours and fragrance business, PPF International, as and finance experience.
Whilst his experience with large retail customers Technical Director.
In 1987, he joined the Board of Quest International has specific relevance for ICI Paints, his broader business expertise, and as Senior Vice President in charge of Manufacturing, Logistics and in particular his understanding of Asian markets, is of value to the Group Procurement before returning to Birds Eye Walls, where he assumed as a whole.
Board responsibility for Manufacturing, Research and Development.
Until 7 December 2005, David Hamill was a Non-Executive Director In 1993 he was appointed Chairman of Unichema International and, of BPB plc.
Aged 48. following ICIs acquisition of the Unilever Speciality Chemical businesses in 1997, became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Quest and 5.
Charles F Knott a member of the ICI Executive Management Team.
In January 1998 Director he was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive of ICI Paints and Appointed a Director on 1 September 2004.
He is Chairman and the following year he was elected to the Board of ICI with additional Chief Executive of Quest International and has regional oversight responsibility for Research, Development and Technology and ICIs responsibilities for Group activities in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Charles Knott graduated from Newcastle University in 1976 with John McAdam is a business leader with a strong focus on results and an honours degree in Mathematics and Statistics.
He joined National extensive knowledge of ICIs operations around the world.
The Board Starch and Chemical Company in 1984 as Commercial Director of believes that the combination of knowledge, drive and leadership he is Laing-National in Manchester and subsequently served in Germany bringing to bear on the issues facing ICI is serving both the Company and the Netherlands before returning to the UK in 1990 as Managing and its shareholders well.
Director of National Starchs UK Adhesives operations.
Until September 2005, John McAdam was a Non-Executive Director of Charles Knott was appointed Divisional Vice President, Performance Severn Trent Plc.
He was appointed as Senior Independent Director of Adhesives, in the United States and in 1994 became Senior Divisional J Sainsbury plc on 1 September 2005.
In addition, he is a member of Vice President and General Manager for the US Adhesives business.
the University of Surrey Business Advisory Board and a member of the In 1995 he relocated to Singapore to lead National Starchs Asia-Pacific University of Cambridge Chemistry Advisory Board.
Aged 57. operations as Corporate Vice President.
He was appointed National Starch Chief Operating Officer in January 2001.
In March 2003 he became Chairman and Chief Executive of Quest International, and Executive Vice President and member of the Executive Management Team of ICI.
Board of Directors and Executive Management Team ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31 AR6868 ICI Report 20-34 13 3 06 8:54 pm Page 32 6.
William H Powell He is currently Master of University College, Oxford, and a NonDirector Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc.
In 1999 he served on the Appointed a Director on 2 February 2000.
He is Chairman and Chief Royal Commission on Reform of the House of Lords and in 2004 chaired Executive of National Starch and Chemical Company and has Board the UK Review of Intelligence on Weapons of Mass Destruction.
He is responsibility for Sustainability which includes Group Safety, Health also a trustee of the Rhodes Trust, a Visitor of the Ashmolean Museum and Environment matters.
and a member of the Marsh & McLennan International Advisory Board.
William Powell joined National Starch and Chemical Company in 1976, gaining extensive experience in production, planning and general 9.
In 1981, he was appointed Divisional Vice President Non-Executive Director of Manufacturing for Adhesives and Resins.
He was promoted to Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 20 September 2000.
He is Corporate Vice President of the Resins and Specialty Chemical Division Chairman of the ICI Audit Committee.
in 1984: Corporate Vice President, International in 1986: Group Vice A graduate of Kent State University and holding a doctorate from Yale President, Industrial Starch and Food Products division in 1989: and Law School, Joseph Gorman practised law for five years before, in Executive Vice President in 1997.
In 1999, he was appointed Chairman 1962, joining the legal department of TRW Inc. a multi-national, and Chief Executive Officer.
diversified company specialising in space, defense and automotive William Powell has a degree in Chemistry and a Masters degree in systems.
Chemical Engineering from Case Western Reserve University.
In addition He became Secretary of TRW in 1970 and Vice President in 1972.
He he has a Masters in Business Administration from the University of North served as Vice President and General Counsel from 1976 to 1980 when Dakota.
He is a past Chairman of the Corn Refiners Association and he was elected Executive Vice President and given responsibility for the currently an Honorary Director.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Granite Industrial & Energy business unit.
In 1985 he was appointed President Construction Incorporated and a member of the Institute of Food and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and three years later Technologists and the American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
He is became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
also a member of: the Board of Directors of the American Chemistry Council: the Executive Committee of the Society of Chemical Industry, A past Chairman of the US-Japan Business Council, he received Japans American Section: and the Board of Trustees of the State Theatre of 1994 Prime Ministers Trade Award for his contribution to promoting New Jersey.
William Powell is a US citizen.
Aged 60. improved US-Japan trade relations.
He has served on the Boards of the US-China Business Council and the Prince of Wales Business Leaders 7.
Adri Baan Forum and was a member of the Presidents Export Council.
He is a Non-Executive Director trustee of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies and also Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 25 June 2001.
He has a Masters serves the Council on Competitiveness as a co-industry vice chair and degree in Physics from the University of Amsterdam and joined Philips member of the executive committee.
Joseph Gorman is a Director of Alcoa, Inc.
The Procter & Gamble He has held a series of senior positions with Philips in Europe and North Company, National City Corporation and TMG International AB.
From 1984 to 1986 he was Vice Chairman of Philips Industrial Gorman is a US citizen.
Electronics in Eindhoven and two years later was appointed Executive Vice President, North American Philips.
He was Managing Director of 10.
Richard N Haythornthwaite Philips Business Electronics from 1993 to 1996 and Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Officer and a Member of the Group Management Committee from 1996 Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 20 February 2001.
In 1998 he was appointed Executive Vice President, Royal Chairman of the ICI Remuneration Committee.
Philips Electronics and Member of the Management Board, a position A graduate of The Queens College, Oxford with a degree in Geology which he held until 2001. and a Sloan Fellow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, In addition, he was formerly the Chairman of Integrated Production and Richard Haythornthwaite has over 25 years of international industry Test Engineering NV, and a Director of Medquist, NPM Capital, PSA experience covering a broad mix of strategic and operational roles.
Corporation Limited Port of Singapore Authority, Hesse-Noord Natie, He has extensive experience in organisational and cultural change Port of Antwerp and ASM International NV.
He is currently a Director of leadership, cost reduction programmes, results-driven performance Wolters Kluwer NV, Hagemeyer NV, International Power plc, the Trust initiatives and negotiating and executing acquisitions and divestments Office of KAS BANK NV, OCE NV, PSA Europe Limited and Chairman of worldwide.
the Supervisory Board of AFM the Authority for Financial Markets in the Netherlands.
He is also on the Board of the University of Amsterdam Richard Haythornthwaites career began with BP plc where he held a and Vice Chairman of Koninklijke Volker Wessels Stevin NV.
Adri Baan variety of positions in its European and American operations from 1978 is a Dutch national.
Aged 63. to 1995, including General Manager of the Magnus Oilfield and President of BP Venezuela.
Lord Butler of Brockwell, KG, GCB, CVO Senior Independent Director In 1995 he joined the Board of Premier Oil, where he was responsible for Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 1998.
Since 1 January corporate and commercial affairs, and two years later joined Blue Circle 2002 he has been the Boards Senior Independent Director.
Industries plc as Chief Executive of Heavy Building Materials in Europe and Asia.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive of Blue Circle in After graduating with a double first in Mods and Greats Literae 1999.
Following its acquisition of Blue Circle in 2001, he became a Humaniores from University College, Oxford, Lord Butler joined the Non-Executive Director of Lafarge S. A. standing down from that Board Treasury in 1961 where he held a succession of posts before becoming in July 2003.
From 1999 to 2003 he was a Non-Executive Director Private Secretary to the Financial Secretary in 1964 and Secretary of the of Cookson Group plc.
In addition, from 2001 until 2005, Richard Budget Committee from 1965 to 1969.
He was seconded to the Bank of Haythornthwaite was Group Chief Executive Officer of Invensys plc.
England in 1969 and subsequently acted as Private Secretary to three Prime Ministers Rt.
Harold He is currently Managing Director of Star Capital Partners and Chairman Wilson 1974-75 and Rt.
Margaret Thatcher 1982-85. of the Better Regulation Commission.
In addition, he is Chairman of the Almeida Theatre Company Limited, Trustee of NMSI and a Board In 1985 Lord Butler became second Permanent Secretary, Public Member of the British Council.
Expenditure, HM Treasury, and in 1988 he was appointed as Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service.
He retired from the Civil Service in 1998.
32 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Board of Directors and Executive Management Team AR6868 ICI Report 20-34 13 3 06 8:54 pm Page 33 11.
Baroness Noakes, DBE Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2004.
A law graduate of Bristol University, Baroness Noakes has extensive experience both in the City, as a senior partner of KPMG, from which she retired in 2000, and as an adviser to the UK Government.
She joined Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co now KPMG in 1970 and was made a partner in 1983.
Her experience was a combination of corporate and public sector work and she led KPMGs international government practice.
From 1979 to 1981 she was seconded to HM Treasury.
In a further secondment in 1988, she joined the Department of Health as Director of Finance and Corporate Information on the NHS Management Executive, the Board chaired by the NHS Chief Executive.
She was a Director of the Bank of England from 1994 to 2001, becoming the Senior NonExecutive Director in 1998.
She was a Non-Executive Director of John Laing plc from 2002 to 2004 and has also served as President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Baroness Noakes is currently the Senior Independent Director at both Carpetright plc and SThree plc.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of Hanson plc and the English National Opera and is also a trustee of the Reuters Founders Share Company.
New Directors appointed between Annual General Meetings to fill casual vacancies, or as additional Directors, retire at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and are eligible for election.
At each Annual General Meeting one third of the other Directors, or if their number is not three or a multiple of three, the nearest to one third being those longest in office since their last election or re-election, also retire and are eligible for re-election.
In addition, any Director who has been in office for three years or more since his or her last re-election shall retire at the Annual General Meeting.
He was succeeded by Alan Brown as Chief Financial Officer who was appointed on 14 November 2005.
Alan Brown retires under Article 102 of the Companys Articles of Association.
He is recommended for election to the Board.
Peter Ellwood, Richard Haythornthwaite and John McAdam retire under Article 96 of the Companys Articles of Association.
All three Directors are recommended for re-election.
In addition, Lord Butler retires in accordance with the policy set out on pages 35 and 36.
He is recommended for re-election.
All Executive Directors are employed on rolling contracts, subject to no more than one years notice.
No Director or Officer has a family relationship with any other Director or Officer.
Board of Directors and Executive Management Team ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33 AR6868 ICI Report 20-34 13 3 06 8:54 pm Page 34 Executive Management Team The Executive Management Team comprises the Executive Directors and the following: 12.
Leonard J Berlik Appointed a member of the Executive Management Team on 1 April 2000.
He is Executive Vice President, Uniqema.
He joined National Starch and Chemical Company in 1972 and, prior to his appointment with Industrial Specialties now Uniqema in 2000, served as Executive Vice President of the Adhesives Division.
He is a Non-Executive Director of NIZO food research B. V. Leonard Berlik is a US citizen.
Rolf Deusinger Appointed a member of the Executive Management Team on 1 July 2002.
He is Executive Vice President Human Resources.
He joined the Company in October 1999 as Senior Vice President Human Resources for ICI Paints.
Previously he was Head of International Human Resources for Messer Griesheim GmbH based in Germany.
He has more than 20 years of international experience in the field of Human Resources, predominantly in consumer businesses, including PepsiCo, covering the Americas, Europe and Central Asia.
Rolf Deusinger is a German national.
Andy M Ransom Appointed a member of the Executive Management Team on 1 July 2005.
He is General Counsel, Executive Vice President Mergers and Acquisitions and Company Secretary.
A graduate of the University of Southampton, Andy Ransom qualified as a solicitor in 1987 and joined ICI in the same year, specialising as a senior mergers and acquisitions lawyer in the Corporate Centre.
He was seconded to ICI Explosives in Toronto, Canada in 1996 and became Vice President and General Counsel for ICI in the Americas, based in New Jersey, USA, two years later.
In 2000 he was appointed Group Vice President Mergers and Acquisitions, before being appointed to his current role.
Officers of the Company The persons listed above together with David J Gee, Executive Vice President, Regional and Industrial businesses, are regarded as the Officers of the Company for the purposes of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Michael H C Herlihy was an Officer until his retirement on 30 June 2005, after which he was replaced by Andy M Ransom.
Key management personnel For the purposes of disclosure under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures as in note 2 relating to the Group accounts on page 64, key management personnel are considered to comprise the Directors and Officers of the Company.
34 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Board of Directors and Executive Management Team
