AR6868 ICI Report ifc-8 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 6 History and activities History ICI celebrates its 80th year in 2006.
The Company was formed in 1926 by the merger of four UK chemical companies: Brunner Mond, Nobel Industries, British Dyestuffs and 2 1 4 United Alkali.
ICI is one of a small number of companies listed continuously on the 1 2 3 3 leading UK stock index originally the FT 30, now the FTSE 100 since the 1930s.
During the course of its history, ICI has been an acknowledged leader in diverse disciplines, including fundamental science, engineering, manufacturing and human 1 2 2 resources.
The Groups major inventions have been equally diverse, ranging from the 2 plastics polythene and Perspex to beta blockers and the antimalarial treatment Paludrine.
In 1993, ICI demerged its bioscience businesses to a publicly listed company, Zeneca Group PLC now AstraZeneca PLC.
In 1997, ICI began its transformation from regional manufacturer of bulk chemicals to a global specialty chemicals and paints leader with the acquisition of Unilevers Speciality Chemicals businesses.
National Starch National Starch formulates hair Over the last decade, ICI has transformed its portfolio through a number of fixative polymers for hair sprays, acquisitions and divestments worth more than 12bn.
Divestment proceeds have gels and mousses: and conditioning, film forming and thickening polymers been used to repay debt and improve balance sheet strength.
Today, four specialty for conditioners, shampoos, skin chemicals and paints businesses form the core of ICI National Starch, Quest, lotions and sunscreens.
National Starch also makes polymers and Uniqema and ICI Paints.
starches used in mortars, tile grouts, ceramic tile settings and flooring compounds, and makes adhesives Spread and balance of activities for packaging and labelling, including personal care product packaging.
ICI is headquartered in the UK, where it also has a number of major manufacturing activities.
Outside the UK, the Groups activities are geographically diverse with 2.
Quest Quest creates fine fragrances for men growing businesses in Asia and Latin America and a significant presence in North and women as well as fragrances America.
Around one third of ICIs activities are in Europe.
Typically, ICIs International for a host of personal care products, including shampoo and hair Businesses are staffed almost entirely by local nationals and, in total, 86% of ICIs conditioner, bath foam, shower gel, 31,910 employees are located outside the UK.
spray deodorant, hand and skin moisturiser, toothpaste and hairspray.
The Group has operations in over 50 countries around the world and its customers 3.
Uniqema are spread across a diverse range of product sectors.
More than 60% of ICIs revenue Uniqema supplies mild handwash, liquid soap and shampoo ingredients, is in sectors the Group believes are relatively non-cyclical, for example, food surfactants for moisturiser, make and beverages, decorative coatings, personal and household care products, and up and sunscreen, as well as many ingredients for formulations requiring water treatment.
Other sectors with a greater degree of cyclicality include automotive, Pharmacopoeia standards for ensuring products efficacy.
industrial adhesives and construction materials, as well as semi-conductors.
ICI believes this spread and balance of activities provides a manageable exposure 4.
ICI Paints ICI Paints decorative coatings allow to higher growth markets, for example in Asia, and to emerging products and consumers to create environments technologies including food nutrition and electronics.
In fact, 50 million households, all over the world, use ICI paints every year.
ICI Paints also Overall, no one market sector dominates ICIs customer base and no one customer formulates and manufactures represents a material proportion of Group revenue.
construction adhesives, repair products, caulks and sealants.
Revenue by business Revenue by customer location Revenue by market sector 32% Europe 36% Decorative & architectural 32% National Starch 33% North America 19% Diverse industrial products 10% Quest 8% Latin America 13% Food & beverages 11% Uniqema 24% Asia 13% Personal care 40% ICI Paints 3% Other 10% Paper & packaging 7% Regional and Industrial 5% Electronics 4% Construction History and activities 6 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005
