AR6868 ICI Report 9-19 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 9 ICI Group and its businesses Group Organisation Brief description of activities ICI is organised around five operating businesses: National Starch on National Starch is one of the largest producers of specialty industrial pages 9 and 10, Quest on pages 10 and 11, Uniqema on page 12, adhesives in the world based on both natural and synthetic polymers, ICI Paints on pages 13 and 14 and Regional and Industrial on page 14. including water-borne, hot melt and pressure sensitive products.
These are supported by Group functions that provide expertise Products from the Adhesives division are used to seal cases and cartons in information technology, procurement, human resources, and to fix labels to bottles and cans.
Paper applications include laminating, manufacturing, finance, sustainability, safety, health and the bag making, paper tissue, paper tube winding and box manufacturing.
environment SHE, and applied technology, where real value can Adhesives are also used in bookbinding, disposable nappies diapers, be created for ICIs customers through the application of advanced personal sanitary products and disposable hospital supplies.
National Starchs adhesives and primers are used in the assembly A number of senior management boards leverage the combined skills of sports shoes and for assembly operations in the woodworking, and experiences of the functional teams.
The functional boards are construction, recreational vehicle and transportation industries.
also responsible for establishing functional strategies and ensuring National Starch also manufactures a wide range of specialty starches, Group-wide implementation of best practice.
focused principally on food and industrial applications.
The National In addition, the Business Development Board, chaired by a member of Starch Food Innovation business concentrates on modifying food the Executive Management Team, aims to accelerate the commercial formulations to enhance texture, appearance and flavour delivery.
exploitation of technology opportunities within ICI, and reflects the Certain products provide effects which enable end-consumer products desire to develop continuously and strengthen the links between to withstand the rigours of ultra-high temperature processing, market needs and technology capability.
microwave cooking, freeze thaw cycles and extended storage.
The nutritional content of food can be improved by National Starchs products which add health-enhancing ingredients such as dietary National Starch fibre.
National Starch helps its customers develop new food Background concepts to satisfy growing consumer needs for new, wholesome National Starch, which accounted for 32% of the Groups sales and nutritious food.
in 2005, is a leading player in specialty chemicals, with important National Starch has multiple capabilities in specialty polymers for positions in specialty industrial adhesives, specialty food starches, markets as diverse as personal care, construction, water treatment, specialty polymers and electronic materials.
It provides many specialty detergents, paper coatings and apparel.
Specialty polymers for ingredients and formulations to consumer-oriented markets that, with personal care provide the holding power in hair sprays and gels, and the exception of electronic industries, tend to be relatively non-cyclical add manageability and softness to mousses, conditioners, shampoos in nature.
They are also used to thicken and emulsify National Starch operates an international network of 147 manufacturing cosmetic and beauty products and increase the functionality of and customer service centres, located in 39 countries on six sunscreens, hand and body creams and lotions.
National Starch believes that its position in these markets Products from the Specialty Synthetic Polymers divisions Alco has been achieved through a strong combination of natural and Chemical business include dispersants, antiscalants for water synthetic polymer technology, application understanding and a high treatment and detergent builders, as well as thickeners for the carpet, degree of technical support for customers.
The divisions Elotex business National Starch is headquartered in Bridgewater, New Jersey, USA, manufactures redispersible powder polymers, which improve the with regional offices in the UK Europe and Singapore Asia.
Major adhesion, strength, insulation properties and shrink-resistance of manufacturing facilities are located in the USA, Germany, Mexico, cements, grouts, adhesives and other construction products.
Japan, Thailand, Korea, China and Brazil, with further manufacturing National Starch manufactures, markets and sells a range of electronic facilities in 25 other countries around the world.
and engineering materials, particularly adhesives, encapsulants and Strategy specialty coatings used in the assembly of semiconductor packages and National Starchs strategy focuses on delivering value through three the production of electronic, automotive, medical and aerospace devices.
main activities: Within the Electronic and Engineering Materials division, Ablestik building on strengths in areas where it has good opportunities supplies adhesives and encapsulants used for semiconductor for profitable growth: packaging and microelectronic assembly.
Products include adhesive delivering innovative new products to customers: and pastes, printable paste and films, and underfill encapsulants.
Emerson & Cuming supplies adhesives, encapsulants, and coatings used in continually improving cost efficiency, particularly in its more circuit assembly and in fabrication of electronic, electrical, and mature businesses.
Acheson supplies process lubricants Consistent with the ICI strategic matrix, National Starch allocates and application systems used in metalworking and casting.
resources preferentially to those businesses within the grow Strategic developments in 2005 aggressively segment.
These include the Electronic and Engineering National Starch made good progress in 2005 in developing its Materials business and the National Starch businesses in Asia.
It acquired the Celanese redispersible powder polymers business in Frankfurt, Germany.
The acquisition will help expand its Elotex business portfolio of emulsion powders as additives for applications such as tile adhesives and grouts, external thermal insulation composite systems and gypsum-based systems.
ICI Group and its businesses ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 9 AR6868 ICI Report 9-19 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 10 ICI Group and its businesses continued Revenue by market sector Revenue by customer location 25% Food 26% Europe 18% Personal & homecare 36% North America 17% Paper & packaging 6% Latin America 14% Electronics 27% Asia 14% Construction 5% Other 12% Diverse industrial products National Starch 2005 National Starch 2005 National Starch also announced plans to build a state-of-the-art National Starch already has a wide range of biosynthetic products customer applications and process simulation centre at its site in based on starch, , xanthan and other Kleve, Germany.
The centre will house more than 20 R&D and polysaccharides.
technical service specialists focused on adhesive technologies for the Within the Electronic and Engineering Materials division, Emerson & pressure sensitive, woodworking and building components markets.
Cumings new XE-1219 underfill adhesives technology is being used in the Also in 2005, National Starch increased production of adhesives latest generation of handheld portable music players.
The underfill helps used in transdermal medicine delivery systems at their expanded extend the products life by helping to protect it from impact damage.
manufacturing facility in Salisbury, North Carolina in the USA.
Quest The National Starch Food Innovation business entered into an agreement with Limagrain Crales Ingrdients, of France, to Background collaborate in the creation of wholesome natural ingredient solutions for Quest is a global leader in the creation, application and production of the food industry.
The collaboration combines National Starchs long flavours and fragrances for a wide variety of consumer brands.
In 2005 history of expertise in food applications with Limagrains capability in Quest accounted for 10% of the Groups sales.
The business is providing premium quality cereal ingredients.
headquartered in Naarden, the Netherlands, and has two operating divisions, Flavours and Fragrances.
Each division accounts for around The Electronic and Engineering Materials division opened a new full half of Quests revenue.
service facility in Shanghai, China in May 2005 for both Ablestik and Emerson & Cuming.
The facility will produce a wide range of electronic Major manufacturing facilities are located in the Netherlands, UK, USA, materials products and be a centre for technical and sales support to Mexico, France, Australia and Indonesia, with smaller manufacturing customers in China.
facilities in eight other countries.
Quest has its own sales distribution network in 31 countries and is represented elsewhere by sales agents.
The disposal of the Vinamul emulsion polymers business, a maintain selectively business, was completed in 2005.
Science and creativity are the key pillars of Quests research effort, putting innovation at the heart of the business.
It designs and develops A number of important new products and technologies were new flavour and fragrance ingredients, compounds and delivery developed and launched during 2005. technologies that create a distinctive, sensory impact.
This demands The Adhesives division introduced Cool 200, a 200F packaging hot a complex artistic and technical process, combining the knowledge melt developed for case and carton sealing applications.
The lowest and skill of Quests perfumers and flavourists with the expertise of its temperature general packaging hot melt on the market, Cool 200 application and research chemists.
Quest has research centres at represents a significant breakthrough in providing packaging line Ashford in the UK and Naarden, and product development teams at uptime efficiency and employee safety.
six other sites around the world.
Quest also benefits from being part of the ICI Group and the science base that is available to support The National Starch Food Innovation business introduced a new innovation.
functional flour ingredient developed under the alliance with Limagrain.
Strategy New technology introduced by the Specialty Synthetic Polymers Within the ICI strategic matrix, both the Flavours and Fragrances division includes the Personal Care business new dissolvable film businesses are positioned in the grow aggressively segment, as the technology that allows pre-measured single-unit doses of products to market segments are particularly attractive.
Quest believes that its be delivered in portable films for face cleansing, hair styling and competitive position is robust, based on four distinctive strengths: conditioning, shaving, moisturisers, acne treatment and anti-aging films.
Product launches included four dissolvable films for well-known quality of its customer relationships and consumer understanding: fast moving consumer goods customers: two in the USA, one in creative skills of its perfumers and flavourists: Europe and one in Japan.
The divisions biopolymers innovation technological advances resulting from R&D: and platform is accelerating the development of natural polymers starch, other polysaccharides, proteins or lipids and biopolymer-synthetic customer service and support provided by its marketing and hybrids, which offer significant cost-performance advantages versus application groups as well as its global network of servicing units.
synthetic polymers, with the added feature of being based on renewable raw materials.
10 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 ICI Group and its businesses AR6868 ICI Report 9-19 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 11 Revenue by market sector Revenue by customer location 46% Food 38% Europe 54% Personal & homecare 22% North America 11% Latin America 16% Asia 13% Other Quest 2005 Quest 2005 These strengths enable Quest to assist customers in making their In June, the Flavours business launched a significant flavour brands and products successful.
Within the Group strategy, Quests development platform, ImpaQ Taste Technology.
ImpaQ is the result strategy is to continue to build on these strengths while: of a long-term R&D programme to offer food and beverage producers unique solutions to reduce salt, fat and sugar content in their products focusing on growth with key customers in the markets it chooses without compromising on taste.
Continuing customer and consumer to prioritise: trials using ImpaQ in major brands are providing positive results.
During investing in consumer understanding and creativity: the second half of the year ImpaQ secured its first orders and products creating and making best use of an effective and efficient innovation were shipped to customers in Europe and Latin America.
The process: and successful Quisine flavour collection, launched in 2004, was extended with a range of vegetable and herb flavours.
ensuring excellence in service and costs by focusing on appropriate parts of the value chain and by continuous process improvement.
Flavours R&D, working with NIZO food research B. V. a prominent food research institute in Europe, was the force behind the worlds Brief description of activities first artificial throat, a new scientific instrument that will speed flavour Quests innovative flavour and fragrance products consist of compounds development and allow better understanding of the complex science of blended ingredients created by expert flavourists, perfumers and of flavour release after the human swallowing process.
Certain compounds contain molecules which have been created by Quests chemists and which add distinctive characteristics The Fragrance division celebrated the opening of its new creative to its products.
Quest also has a strong position in nature-identical centre for fine fragrances in Paris in January with a number of major flavours for sweet and culinary applications.
The centre has extensive laboratories and specially designed facilities for consumer insight In addition, Quest manufactures and sells a range of fragrance and testing.
ingredients that are the scented building blocks of fragrance formulae.
They can also contribute additional technical characteristics to the Quests BioCaptive research programme into novel fragrance finished compound such as deodorisation or insect repellence.
ingredients included an expedition to the largest freshwater wetlands in the world, the Pantanal region of central southern Brazil.
A large In both divisions finished products are manufactured through a variety of plants and flowers, completely unfamiliar to perfumery, were compounding process that, while relatively non-capital intensive, found.
Unique scents captured by this non-invasive technology have demands high degrees of precision in dosage control, ingredient been recreated in the Quest laboratories and presented to fine traceability and cleanliness.
Proprietary knowledge of formulae fragrance clients.
and processes is retained by the business and secures strong product differentiation.
Aquacoral, a BioCaptive fragrance accord developed from one of the previous expeditions, featured in Zirhs Corduroy, a fragrance for Critical to the success of the business is researching consumer men, launched in 2005. trends, developing successful molecules and ingredients and delivering the expertise of the flavourist or perfumer to the customer in the The deoperfume portfolio, which holds fragrances created to have finished product.
deodorising effects, has been extended to applications for home care products.
Quests Neutrozone malodour technology allowed a leading The Flavours division is organised around several key markets air freshener producer to launch the first air freshener that can claim and global customer accounts.
The principal markets are sweet odour elimination.
and savoury foods and beverages.
Quest maintained its good position in fine fragrances and secured Similarly, the Fragrance division is organised around product a number of the major fine fragrance brands launched in 2005, applications and key accounts.
The principal markets are fine 2 including Gaultier, Miss Dior Cherie, Tumulte from Christian Lacroix, fragrance, personal care, home care products and oral care.
and Silver Shadow from Davidoff.
Strategic developments in 2005 In June, Quest and National Starch jointly announced a US$500,000 Following the divestment of food ingredients in 2004, Quest was able contribution, spread over five years, towards funding an expansion of to focus on its Flavour and Fragrance businesses.
During 2005 Quest the Monell Chemical Senses Center in Philadelphia, USA, to create a invested in developing its growth platform in Asia, including starting an 17,000 sq ft area devoted to human chemosensory research.
investment in a new regional technical centre in Shanghai, China, and several efficiency investments in Europe and North America.
ICI Group and its businesses ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11 AR6868 ICI Report 9-19 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 12 ICI Group and its businesses continued Revenue by market sector Revenue by customer location 71% Diverse industrial products 49% Europe 22% Personal & homecare 30% North America 5% Agriculture & other 3% Latin America 2% Paper & packaging 15% Asia 3% Other Uniqema 2005 Uniqema 2005 Uniqema Strategic developments in 2005 Uniqema made good strategic progress in 2005, despite significantly Background lower glycerine prices and difficult trading conditions.
The restructuring Uniqema is a leading manufacturer of surfactants, oleochemicals and programme launched in 2003 continued to yield significant benefits related derivatives with major operations in North America and Europe.
from improved manufacturing efficiencies and reduced operating costs.
In 2005, Uniqema accounted for 11% of ICIs sales.
The business completed a plant rationalisation programme in 2005 Uniqemas headquarters and one of its major operating centres are in with the closure of a manufacturing site in New Jersey in the USA and Gouda in the Netherlands.
Other major operating centres are in Wilton the relocation of its production to a larger Uniqema site in Delaware.
in the UK, New Castle, Delaware in the USA, and Kuala Lumpur in A rationalisation of Uniqemas product range started in 2005 and Malaysia.
Uniqema has a total of 13 manufacturing sites in Europe, yielded good returns, reducing the complexity of the product portfolio.
North America and Asia Pacific.
Work was also completed on developing a new channel strategy for The business supplies a broad range of base and specialty chemicals supplying customers across Europe, with the principal benefits into a wide range of end markets and applications.
Its markets include expected in 2006. polymers, lubricants, personal care, healthcare, process intermediates, During the year Uniqema reached a significant milestone in its synthetic crop protection, oilfield, textiles, polymer additives and cleaning.
refrigeration lubricants business with the shipment of compressor Strategy lubricants for its 500 millionth refrigerator.
Selected new products were Uniqema believes its strength is in the strong market positions it holds also launched during the year, reflecting the differentiated resource in synthetic lubricants, personal care, and the European and US allocation strategy applied to the business.
This included enhancing oleochemicals sectors.
Within the ICI Group strategy, the Uniqema a range of high performance ingredients for skin care applications business is within the maintain selectively segment of the strategic where Uniqemas technology provides competitive advantage.
As such, Uniqemas strategy includes growth in selected, niche opportunities exist, because of proprietary knowledge and patented markets, but focuses on improving its cost base through operational products, Uniqema believes further value can be created within effectiveness and reducing overhead costs.
Brief description of activities In February 2006, ICI announced that it was evaluating its options Uniqema manufactures and markets a wide range of synthetic basewith regard to Uniqema.
ICI believes that Uniqema is a market leading stocks and ingredients which are formulated into engine, compressor, oleochemicals and derivatives business with a good product portfolio gear hydraulic and process oils and fluids, where high performance and a strong management team.
The restructuring programme or environmentally friendly characteristics are required.
Products announced in 2003 has generated significant savings, resulting in are frequently tailored to specific customer requirements.
The Uniqema team has identified a range of believes it is a leader in synthetic refrigeration lubricants, to which it further restructuring opportunities that could further improve overall provides worldwide technical support.
profitability, but which would require significant additional investment.
In this context, and in the light of other investment opportunities As a prominent player in the personal care market, Uniqema provides available to ICI across the Group, in particular in those areas where ingredients for skin care, hair care, oral care and toiletries.
These there is the prospect of greater strategic and financial returns, ICI is include new vegetable-based products for skin care formulations, evaluating its options, with a view to divesting the business, subject mild ingredients for cleansing formulations and functional ingredients to a deal realising value for shareholders.
for skin repair products and UV protection products.
Uniqema also supplies process intermediates based on natural fats and oils such as coconut, palm kernel and rape seed, which are split to yield fatty acids and, as a by-product, glycerine.
Further processing of fatty acids yields a range of higher added-value products such as surfactants, soaps, lubricants and polymers.
12 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 ICI Group and its businesses AR6868 ICI Report 9-19 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 13 Revenue by market sector Revenue by customer location 10% Paper & packaging 36% Europe 90% Decorative & architectural 39% North America 9% Latin America 15% Asia 1% Other ICI Paints 2005 ICI Paints 2005 ICI Paints The regional markets for decorative paint are at different stages of growth and maturity and the ICI Paints strategy reflects this.
Background ICI Paints is a leading international paint business and accounted The Asia region is one of generally high growth.
Paint markets tend to for 40% of the Groups sales in 2005.
It concentrates primarily on be fragmented, with a large number of country-specific competitors.
decorative paint 90% of ICI Paints sales in 2005 and packaging Obtaining competitive advantage across the region requires leveraging coatings for food and beverage cans.
marketing and manufacturing capabilities and transferring best practice in innovation, purchasing, marketing and channel development.
The ICI Paints global business headquarters is located in Slough, UK.
key focus of the business is to maintain accelerated, profitable growth, Major manufacturing facilities are located in the USA, UK, Brazil, with particular focus on China, India, Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam.
Argentina, Germany, the Netherlands, France, China, India and Malaysia.
Additional manufacturing facilities are in 14 other countries.
The European region has some large mature markets and a number of ICI Paints maintains its own sales distribution network in over 30 developing growth markets in Eastern and Central Europe.
The business also sells through agents and distributors.
has a leading position in the UK, with strong brands underpinned by a focus on innovation.
There is significant brand equity with Dulux, Strategy Hammerite, Cuprinol and Polycell.
The focus of the European The strategy of ICI Paints is to develop its leading market positions in business is on improvement of product range, expansion in developing the global paints and coatings industry, particularly where it benefits markets, reduction of the cost-base and the improvement of operational from strong retail brands.
ICI Paints expects to develop its strategy efficiency and profitability of the Continental European operations.
further by: The Latin American business has strong positions in Brazil, Argentina differentiated resource allocation channelling scarce resource and Uruguay where brand strength is maintained through capability in revenue expenditure, capital and people to those areas which marketing and a focus on innovation.
will generate the highest rewards: North American markets are generally mature and ICI has a significant innovation driving for new major differentiated products and presence in both trade and retail channels.
In trade markets, the services, linking marketing insights with world leading technical skills: strategy is to establish insights into end user needs that can create cost and capital effectiveness implementing key restructuring plans competitive advantages, and in securing distribution density within and improving planning operating processes to reduce costs and metropolitan areas.
In the retail business, the route to market is highly inventory while improving customer delivery reliability: and consolidated with a few major retailers controlling around 80% of distribution.
ICI Paints has a significant relationship in this market people and organisation capability development.
with The Home Depot, a leading retailer.
Key competencies, which ICI Paints employs across its businesses, ICI Paints is also a leader in internal and external coatings for food include: and beverage cans.
It manufactures and distributes a broad product marketing identifying areas of significant potential through market offering of packaging coatings with significant market positions in the understanding and exploiting these through highly professional established markets of Europe and North America and the emerging category and brand management skills: markets of Asia and Latin America.
The strategy of this business is to focus on profitable growth in South East Asia and Latin America, to research and development supporting the increased emphasis on explore opportunities for growth in non-metal packaging, in particular innovation in products, packaging and services, and targeting high with PET polyethylene terephthalate bottle coatings, and to optimise impact cost reductions through leading edge colour, polymer and the supply chain.
formulating science: Technology and innovation are also important factors in the growth operations implementing process improvements and improved of ICI Paints.
Success is enhanced by being first to the market with delivery reliability by sharing expertise and best practice across its innovative, value-adding products and services that meet market businesses: and needs.
ICI Paints benefits technologically from the colloid, polymer procurement optimising the mix of central contracts using ICIs and particle related science base and research carried out by other total purchasing power and local contracts, bringing the advantages parts of the ICI Group.
of tailored solutions and flexibility.
ICI Group and its businesses ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 AR6868 ICI Report 9-19 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 14 ICI Group and its businesses continued Revenue by customer location 5% Europe 2% North America 13% Latin America 80% Asia Regional and Industrial 2005 Brief description of activities Regional and Industrial The decorative paints business has well-established brands in paint, Background woodcare, metalcare, adhesives and fillers.
These include Dulux, Regional and Industrial comprises several businesses which are Glidden, Devoe, Valentine, Coral, Alba, Xyladecor, Hammerite, essentially local in their scope, the most significant of which are located Polycell, Polyfilla and Alabastine.
The businesses accounted for 7% of the Paint is manufactured through a mixing process that requires a high Groups sales in 2005.
In Pakistan, ICI operates through non whollydegree of control over product measurement, quality control and owned subsidiary companies, quoted on the local stock exchange.
Typically manufacturing operations are not Strategy capital intensive and are relatively responsive to changes in demand.
ICI has divested many of the Regional and Industrial businesses in Strategic developments in 2005 recent years, and further divestments will be made if they enhance ICI Paints continued to focus on strengthening its brands and value.
The strategies of most of the businesses are focused on developing innovative products and services which meet and anticipate selective areas of growth, with an emphasis on improving cost and customers needs around the world.
In 2005, the business launched many new and innovative products Brief description of activities and services to strengthen its brands across all key markets.
These ICI Pakistan Limited has interests in a number of different market included: sectors.
The more important of these are the manufacture of polyester staple fibre for the textile industry and soda ash for soaps, detergents, Cuprinol Sprayable, an award winning water-based spray system glass and paper.
Other businesses of ICI Pakistan Limited include for fence treatment: pharmaceuticals and specialty products.
UK Trade Sterishield, a revolutionary new water-based hygiene Pakistan PTA Limited, located at Port Qasim near Karachi, paint utilising a silver bactericide: manufactures pure terephthalic acid PTA for the fibre industry.
UK Trade Metalshield, giving eight-year protection for ferrous and ICI Argentina manufactures a range of products of which wine non-ferrous metals in a simple system requiring fewer coats than chemicals and sulphur related products are the most important.
The competitive systems: wine chemicals business is located near Mendoza, while the sulphur This Old House range in the USA a premium exterior paint building related products are manufactured at San Lorenzo, near Rosario.
on ICIs exterior coating formulation expertise: Hammerite  paint in Brazil: and Strategic developments in 2005 In December 2005, ICI India transferred the rubber chemicals business Dulux Supergloss 5-in-1, launched in India, offering 300 glossy, to a joint venture company in line with its strategy to divest its interests clean colours, with long-life, anti-yellowing and good coverage in bulk chemicals.
Following reviews of all manufacturing operations within Regional and ICI Paints also generated incremental benefits in 2005 from the cost Industrial, a series of continuous improvement programmes are being savings initiatives under the restructuring programme announced in implemented.
This is resulting in increases in productivity, improved 2003.
The business maintained its investment in developing its growth raw material efficiencies and reduced energy usage.
activities in Asia by starting projects to develop new facilities in China and Vietnam.
During the year ICI Paints reorganised its activities in Europe to provide a greater focus on two regional markets: the UK and Ireland, and Continental Europe.
The new structure brings together the trade and retail organisations in each region, providing opportunities to simplify manufacturing and supply chain management.
14 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 ICI Group and its businesses AR6868 ICI Report 9-19 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 15 Research and development The prime technology areas mentioned above are underpinned by The Technology Board, comprising the senior business R&D managers, strong capabilities in measurement science and in modelling, both and led by the Group Vice President of R&D, is responsible for the critical elements of ICIs strong formulation science base.
Efficient development of the Groups technology strategy and its implementation formulation is a multi-functional business process, and investment by the R&D staff employed by the Groups businesses.
In 2005, in knowledge management tools and processes is a priority.
The expenditure on R&D, excluding Technical Service, amounted to 147m competitive edge of the Group comes from the combination of 2004 146m.
This expenditure represented 2.5% of sales in 2005 these capabilities, not merely the demonstration of excellence in 2004 2.6%.
Each of the Groups businesses is responsible for its own R&D resources With the steady growth of ICIs business in China, the provision of and for driving innovation to meet the needs of its customers and technical capabilities in that region is of increasing importance.
The business R&D teams are complemented by a central applications laboratories are being developed, and it is planned to add R&D resource that aims to provide world-class capabilities that are local product development capability for growth businesses such as common to all the businesses.
The Groups distributed technology paints, adhesives and electronics.
Common infrastructure needs in the network draws on the expertise across ICI, allowing new products businesses for measurement science and for emulsion polymerisation and processes to be developed and exploited by individual businesses are being co-located in Shanghai.
As part of the capability more rapidly, and stimulating new options from the combination of the development plan six Chinese post-doctoral research employees technical capabilities of the Groups different businesses.
joined the central research facility at Wilton in the UK in 2005.
The Business Development Board aims to accelerate the commercial Sustainability exploitation of technology opportunities within ICI, and reflects the ICI operates according to the triple bottom line of sustainability: desire to develop continuously and strengthen the links between economic, social and environmental.
A Group Sustainability Policy market needs and technology capability.
In 2005, the board continued was adopted in 2002, and the sustainability strategy is an integral to focus on the exploitation of the Groups capabilities in delivery part of the Groups business strategy, setting out specific indicators systems to control the in-use release of products in the personal care, of progress across key activities in all three areas.
Since 1990, ICI flavours and fragrances markets.
The board has also been working has set out five-year Challenge programmes with objectives to with the Technology Board in managing the portfolio of projects deliver continuous improvement in these activities.
Results for each undertaken by the central technical resources, and in directing the objective are reported in full every year on ICIs corporate website Groups networks on food and on personal care.
Since 2003, the Group has had a Science Advisory Board which An Executive Director is responsible at ICI Board level for ICIs includes four leading external scientists who work with ICIs senior sustainability activities.
A sustainability board was established in 2004. research executive.
The boards remit is to help challenge and develop It is made up of senior and middle managers from across the Group the Groups expertise across the breadth of rapidly changing science who oversee the Groups sustainability programmes and is chaired by and technology needed in its businesses.
The Science Advisory Board the Group Vice President, Sustainability.
has been closely involved in developing strategy in key capability areas such as high throughput experimentation, delivery systems, nutrition, The Group has an internal recognition programme for sustainability fillers resins and sensory science.
ICIs Chief Executive gives an award each year to the top performing team or site in five categories: Safety, Health, Environment, The Groups prime technology areas of biosciences, molecular Product Stewardship and Community involvement.
ICIs Chairman sciences and materials have been established to support its goals in chooses one of these winners to receive ICIs top sustainability award selected growth markets and to help establish its position as a leader each year.
Within each of these areas is a portfolio of projects that is intended to accelerate the Groups long-term Regulation, safety, security, health and the environment technology development.
ICIs businesses are subject to the normal regulatory framework applicable to a specialty products and paints company, notably various Bioscience has key areas of knowledge and expertise which the Group health, safety and environmental rules both at national and local levels applies to the development of personal care, food and beverage in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The scope of these products.
Products to combat the rise in human obesity are an laws varies across the different businesses and jurisdictions.
The opportunity that ICI is addressing and show good potential.
various manufacturing processes require consents and licences, Molecular sciences underpin much of the Groups product including relevant emission permits.
The Group requires full compliance development, focusing in particular on high throughput R&D to explore by its businesses with all relevant Safety, Security, Health and novel molecules, formulations and processes.
In addition to growing Environment SSHE laws and regulations wherever it operates.
capabilities in the ICI businesses, a centre of excellence has been ICIs businesses also voluntarily conform to many international and established with corporate funding to apply the high throughput national codes of best practice.
experimentation methodologies in developing ICIs position in formulation science and technology.
Projects have been completed in ICI attaches great importance to safety and health, to reducing any areas such as personal care, lubricants, paint, materials development adverse environmental impact of its activities year-on-year and to and sensory attributes of food and of beverages.
developing products and services with improved environmental features.
Current projects in the materials area are directed towards increasing The main process by which the Group manages SSHE issues and the Groups ability to fabricate at the nanoscale for macroscale effects.
seeks to meet its objectives is the Responsible Care Management From such research has come the rapidly growing Dulux Diamond System RCMS.
This sets out standards along with guidelines, range, where exceptional hardness and durability is achieved at a training, auditing and procedures for reviewing and reporting highly competitive price through the control of polymer structure at the performance, all of which are essential to continuous improvement.
Fundamental research on transport properties in filled polymer systems is carried out by the central resources and underpins the growth of the Electronic and Engineering Materials business of National Starch.
ICI Group and its businesses ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15 AR6868 ICI Report 9-19 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 16 The system covers operations on site as well as security, product During 2005 the Board approved new five-year Sustainability Challenge stewardship and community relations.
During 2005, Lloyds Register objectives through to 2010.
This is the fourth of ICIs Challenge Quality Assurance Limited independently verified that RCMS complies programmes, which date back to 1990.
These objectives were defined with the American Chemistry Councils new Responsible Care in collaboration with representatives of all ICI businesses and functions, Management System 2004 and Security Code of Management as well as with external stakeholders.
Further improvement goals were Practices 2002 as well as the UK Responsible Care Codes, the set for existing activities, and the focus of sustainability objectives for certifiable international standards for environmental and occupational 2010 was broadened to include additional social elements, product health and safety management systems, ISO 14001 and innovation, and integrity and compliance milestones.
The Sustainability OHSAS18001, and the ICC International Chamber of Commerce Challenge 2010 programme objectives are also available on ICIs Business Charter for Sustainable Development.
ICI works to manage and minimise the risks associated with the soil ICI people and communities and groundwater on its sites and has developed further procedures to Social elements of sustainability encompass employee health, safety enable the ranking of priorities for management attention.
ICI is and development as well as the communities in which ICI operates engaged in research aimed at developing and implementing more cost worldwide.
The Company regrets that in 2005 an employee died in a effective environmental remediation technologies, some of which is road accident in Brazil on the way to visit a customer.
Unfortunately being undertaken in collaboration with other companies and academic there was a similar incident in 2004, which was the first employee institutes.
The raw materials which the Groups businesses use and the products ICI has achieved an 88% reduction in employee work related injury and that they produce are subject to demanding regulations concerning illness rates since 1990.
The Challenge 2005 improvement milestone product safety in all parts of the world.
These regulations, which also was to achieve a 50% reduction in the Total Reportable Case Rate cover product testing and risk assessment requirements, are subject between 2000 and 2005.
Only a 35% improvement was achieved to review and revision, as is currently happening in Europe with the overall, due primarily to manual handling issues, for example in proposed REACH Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of company warehouses.
As a result of a major training effort in 2005, Chemicals regulations.
The Group is assessing the potential impact of performance in this area has started to improve and ICI has set further these proposals on its businesses and planning to ensure compliance challenging safety and health objectives for 2010 to ensure continued when the new European Union regulations come into force.
Overall group performance remains amongst the industry leaders, and there are some ICI sites in all regions which have reached In addition, there is constant pressure from legislators, customers and or exceeded the milestone of 10 years without a lost-time injury.
the general public to reduce the environmental and health impacts of products throughout their life cycle.
To meet these requirements, ICI During 2005 ICI has been paying particular attention to the people has a product stewardship programme in place within each business.
capability requirements to meet its strategic objectives.
To complement This voluntary programme embraces, through robust business existing graduate recruitment processes, ICI has set up a China practices, product regulatory requirements, societal pressures, Academy to recruit Chinese nationals from universities in USA, UK reducing the risk of harm to people and the environment, and the and China and provide a programme of training and experience in provision of relevant information to enable correct use and disposal China and the UK over two to three years.
15 graduates joined the of products.
The technology group has recruited six post-doctoral research employees from Chinese universities to join the research Anticipating external pressures and concerns and providing speedy, facility at Wilton, UK.
innovative solutions with lower environmental and societal impact is becoming a key aspect of sustaining competitive advantage.
ICI ICI continues to monitor the gender, ethnicity and nationality diversity recognises these pressures and is responding with the introduction of its management population.
The data indicates that the 2005 of new processes, products and services that improve the efficiency management group of about 1,750 included 15% women.
Of the 820 of use of raw materials and utilities and reduce adverse effects.
located in North America there was a 10% ethnic minority: and of the 930 located outside North America there was a 51% minority nationality Processes are in place for regular reviews of environmental liabilities, defined as those born outside UK, USA or the Netherlands where our and provisions held at 31 December 2005 were in accordance with businesses are headquartered.
Since 2002, the minority nationality has the accounting policy described in the Group accounts on page 57. improved from 46%: the gender and ethnic diversity measures have ICI believes that, within the existing legislative framework and taking remained fairly constant.
account of the provisions already established, the cost of addressing currently identified environmental obligations as ICI currently views ICIs Responsible Care Management System standards require each these obligations is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on its site to engage with its local community.
At a minimum, this involves financial position or results of operations.
regular communication with community leaders to ensure that any concerns about sites impact on their neighbourhoods are addressed.
During 2005 there were nine instances of breaches of environmental Employees at many sites also volunteer time and funds, and sites or product regulations which resulted in prosecutions or fines totalling provide facilities and funds, for community initiatives.
Each was investigated and appropriate action taken.
has quantified the extent of the Groups community involvement each Sustainability developments in 2005 year.
Cash donations to community humanitarian causes, both local ICI has completed its most recent five-year Challenge programme, and international, such as the Asian tsunami, the hurricanes in the Challenge 2005.
Overall the ICI Board is pleased with the progress Americas, and the Pakistan earthquake totalled 3.07m 2004 2.08m made and the Company has met most of the objectives.
Detailed of which 2.44m 2004 1.83m was from the Company and the results are being verified by Enviros Consulting Ltd and the balance from employees fundraising activities.
Donations in kind, performance results and verification statement will be available mainly product, totalled 0.14m 2004 0.55m.
Employee volunteer on ICIs corporate website www.
A printed time on Company supported projects totalled about 27,800 hours summary will also be available.
2004 29,500 hours of which more than 15,300 were on Company time.
The total equivalent value of donations and time was 3.52m 2004 3.07m, more than 275,500 equivalent hours or about 1.1 working days per employee.
16 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 ICI Group and its businesses AR6868 ICI Report 9-19 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 17 Examples include: Health and safety of employees The health and safety of employees is a core value of ICI.
Our policy is ICI Paints in Colombo, Sri Lanka, won the 2005 ICI Chief Executive to ensure that all activities are conducted safely and that the health of Community Award for establishing and raising money for the our employees is protected.
ICI sets demanding targets and monitors ICI Paints Child Protection Trust Fund.
This is aimed at raising progress to ensure continuous progress in this area.
We require every awareness and providing protection for the estimated 20% of boys employee, and those who work on our behalf, to exercise personal and 10% of girls in Sri Lanka who are reported to be abused at responsibility in preventing harm to themselves and others.
We home, as child labourers or trafficked for prostitution or paedophilia.
communicate openly with our employees about our health and safety For example, ICI Paints donated 50 cents to the Fund for every activities and performance and provide them with training to drive litre of Dulux, Glidden and Duco paint sold during a two-month continuous improvement.
Christmas promotion and sponsored other activities during the year which generated money and media coverage highlighting the abuse Development of people problem and the Funds actions to address it: ICI is committed to providing support to help release the full potential ICI employees in Canada developed the Lambton wetlands as a of all its employees, whilst recognising that the ultimate responsibility public recreational and environmental educational site: for personal development must rest with the individual.
Quests Naarden site celebrated its 100th anniversary by opening The Company seeks to help every individual understand the personal its doors to local schools.
Some 30% of the local 10-12 year olds strengths they can leverage whilst providing the support they need to have visited the site: grow and develop further, in line with the needs of the business.
ICI Paints sponsored the organisation of Uruguays National Diversity Environmental Contest: and Our ability to become a high-performing organisation depends on our in the USA, Marie Harper of Uniqemas Atlas Point, Delaware, inclusion of people who come from diverse backgrounds and who site received the states 2005 Governors Award for organising think in different ways about creating value for our customers and mentoring activities from the site.
The individuality and creativity that every person brings to the work place is welcomed and appreciated and it is our policy Environment that everyone should be treated in a fair, open and honest manner.
ICIs environmental performance was ahead of target in the majority of areas for the five-year Challenge 2005 period, which includes the ICI will provide equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of impact of its operations on land, air and water as well as product their race, colour, creed, religion, gender, ancestry, citizenship, sexual stewardship activities.
Baseline levels and results are adjusted for preference, marital status, national origin, age, pregnancy, or any portfolio changes.
Of particular note are: 13% energy reduction per other reason prohibited by the laws of the individual countries in which tonne of production target 5%, 18% reduction in greenhouse gas it operates.
This will apply with respect to recruitment, promotion, emissions per tonne target 5% and 17% reduction in water use per compensation, transfer, retention, training, benefits, and other tonne target 10%.
Since 1990 ICI has reported reductions in energy employment actions.
The latest improvements have been achieved Respect for the individual through efficiency improvements, asset rationalisation and redesigned It is the right of all people to be treated with dignity and respect.
These three indicators remain on the priority list is committed to providing and fostering a working environment that for 2006-2010 as energy price rises and global warming issues and is free from harassment, discrimination, victimisation or bullying, and regional water scarcity become more prevalent.
where all employees are treated with dignity and respect.
Verbal or Corporate governance physical conduct that unreasonably interferes with another individuals Good corporate governance is integral to sustainable practice, and work performance, creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working ICIs corporate governance practices are reported on pages 35 to 40. environment, or adversely affects opportunities, will not be tolerated.
Allegations of bullying or harassment will be taken seriously at all levels An activity related to corporate governance is ICIs Speak Up whistleand will be dealt with in a sensitive manner.
blowing system which continues to operate in all countries where we have employees.
The system ensures anonymity for whistle-blowers, Work life balance but ICI investigates the issue reported in each call and monitors the ICI aims to create a more productive and efficient workforce that call rate in each business and region to identify trends.
will meet business requirements while supporting employees in successfully managing their personal and family commitments.
Employee and employment principles We aim to exploit the opportunities offered by new technologies to As at 31 December 2005, ICI employed 31,910 people in more than improve our ability to accommodate more flexible patterns of working, 50 countries.
where the nature of the work makes this possible.
An analysis of employee numbers by business and geographical Our success in achieving this relies on the co-operation and shared area may be found in note 5 relating to the Group accounts.
ICI has a responsibility of the Company and its employees, who are partners mixture of unionised and non-unionised operations around the world.
in the process of managing the balance of work life issues.
ICI considers its relations with its employees to be generally good.
Organisational change ICI employment principles Change is an important and inevitable feature of the world in which ICI manages its global organisations through both its International we live, and responding positively to change is vital to our success Businesses and its Regional and Industrial Businesses, each of which and growth as an organisation and as individuals.
From time to time, is responsible for determining its own employees terms and conditions this will also include changes to the structure of our businesses.
and employment policies within the framework of the following Employment Principles agreed by the ICI Executive Management Team.
ICIs commitment is to: ensure that employees are kept informed about the issues and These Employment Principles are fully consistent with the challenges facing the business: commitments given in both the ICI Sustainability Report and the ICI Code of Conduct.
ICI Group and its businesses ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 AR6868 ICI Report 9-19 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 18 be sensitive to the implications of change from the perspective Retirement benefits of our employees: and The Groups policy objective since 2000 has been to provide retirement benefits for its new employees on a defined contribution basis.
75% of be understanding and supportive of their needs and to seek to ICIs employee population works in countries which have now switched mitigate the effects of necessary business restructuring.
to defined contribution provision for new employees.
In addition a Communication and consultation further 14% of employees work in countries where the main retirement The Company is committed to effective consultation.
It believes benefit provision is via state and other mandatory arrangements.
ICI that knowledgeable and well-informed employees are critical to its also has significant defined benefit retirement liabilities for its existing success and that there should be clear channels of communication employees, principally in closed pension schemes.
In addition, postand opportunities for dialogue on issues which affect employees retirement healthcare benefits are provided, principally to employees working lives.
within the US businesses, and from 2006 these will be on a defined contribution basis for new employees.
The principal aims of communication and consultation are to: The main defined benefit schemes are in the UK the ICI UK Pension improve employees understanding of the business and its goals: Fund and ICI UK Specialty Chemicals Fund, the USA, the Netherlands, increase mutual trust and commitment: Germany, Belgium and Canada.
With the exception of the retirement benefit schemes in Germany and the post-retirement healthcare plans, highlight any concerns which might have an adverse impact on all the tax approved schemes are funded.
The funds are generally the business: and administered by fund trustees or fiduciaries under trust deeds and allow people to contribute their opinion and experience.
legislation appropriate to the relevant jurisdictions.
The ICI UK Pension Fund is by far the largest scheme and makes up 80% of the total Performance and reward Groups defined benefit pension plans: in addition to 1,228 employee Pay structures for employees at all levels should be designed to members, this fund has 59,737 pensioner members and 15,033 reinforce the link between performance and reward.
Employees will, deferred pension members.
wherever possible, be set performance objectives which support the achievement of overall team and business goals, and their individual Investment and liability decisions for the funded defined benefit reward will reflect their performance against these objectives.
schemes are based on underlying actuarial and economic circumstances with the objective of ensuring that the schemes have Reward will also recognise the prevailing business climate and the sufficient assets to meet liabilities as they fall due.
Investment strategy circumstances of the relevant local labour market.
is generally to ensure an appropriate balance between risk and reward ICI disability discrimination policy having regard to the maturity of the fund.
For example, the ICI UK The working environment of a disabled person may often contain Pension Fund has 82% invested in bonds and 18% in return seeking barriers that affect equal integration and participation within the assets such as equities.
This mix of investments takes account of the workplace.
These barriers may take the form of unadapted equipment, proportion of liabilities relating to pensioner members.
physical access, or discriminatory attitudes and behaviour.
By attempting The funds are valued regularly, with assistance from independent to create an accessible and non-discriminatory working environment, actuaries, for funding purposes and are valued at least annually the Company seeks to assist disabled people to achieve equality for accounting purposes.
Given the size of the pension liabilities, alongside their colleagues, and to make a full and positive contribution.
changes in their value or in the value of the assets in the funds due Unfair discrimination of any disabled worker or visitor is unacceptable to fluctuations in investment conditions can result in significant volatility and will not be tolerated by ICI.
Allegations of disability discrimination in funding levels and can have a material impact on the Group.
During will be taken seriously at all levels and will be dealt with in a confidential 2005, a valuation of the ICI UK Pension Fund was completed and manner.
Appropriate disciplinary action, including summary dismissal the deficit, measured for funding purposes, increased from 443m for serious offences, may be taken against any employee who at 31 March 2003 to 657m at 31 March 2005, with the majority discriminates unfairly against a disabled person.
of the increase being due to changed mortality assumptions, based on the experience of the fund and allowance for further improvement In order to ensure that people with disabilities in ICI obtain equality in longevity.
The Company has agreed to make increased top-up of opportunity alongside others, and that they are actively encouraged payments to the ICI UK Pension Fund over the next nine years, to contribute and realise their potential, ICI is undertaking the comprising annual payments of 122m for the first four years starting commitments set out by the UK Employment Service to become a in 2006 and payments of 62m for the following five years.
Disability Symbol the Symbol user and is subscribing to the initiative Positive About Disabled People, a  framework The total present value of the liabilities of the Groups post-retirement for developing good practice in relation to disabled people.
As a benefit schemes, measured in accordance with IFRS, were 9,882m at Company, ICI is committed to improving work and career opportunities 31 December 2005.
The fair value of scheme assets at the same date for all its employees, and the Symbol supports this for both current was 8,194m resulting in an overall net deficit in respect of pensions and future employees, some of whom may have a disability.
and post-retirement healthcare liabilities of 1,688m.
This deficit comprises 817m in respect of the ICI UK Pension Fund, 449m in ICIs commitments to disabled people include: a guaranteed job respect of other funded pension schemes and 422m in respect of interview for applicants with a disability who meet the minimum criteria unfunded pension schemes and post-retirement healthcare benefits.
for a vacancy: regular consultation on what can be done to ensure that they can develop and use their abilities at work: wherever possible For accounting purposes, the Group has adopted the option in IAS 19 retaining employees if they become disabled: improving employee to recognise in full each year any actuarial gains and losses.
The net knowledge, awareness and understanding of disability to make our recognised deficit at the balance sheet date is based on the assets commitments work: and measuring the Groups achievements against valued at market rates on the balance sheet date, and liabilities valued these commitments, planning ways of improving our performance using discount rates also determined from market rates.
This net deficit and communicating future initiatives to employees.
is thus subject to considerable volatility based on changes in market conditions.
The detailed assumptions are disclosed in note 25.
In the income statement the Group has chosen to present separately the net finance expense from current and past service costs which are included within operating costs.
18 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 ICI Group and its businesses AR6868 ICI Report 9-19 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 19 Legacy issues ICI Paints principal competitors have regional strengths in decorative Group legacy issues relate principally to those businesses divested coatings and include Sherwin-Williams North America, BASF Latin following ICIs acquisition of Unilevers Speciality Chemicals businesses America, Akzo Nobel Europe and Nippon Paint Asia.
Their management involves a range of activities concerned Seasonality with handling the consequences of such divestments and managing Due to the diversity of their product portfolios and broad international ICIs interests where the Group has retained certain obligations.
coverage, seasonality within National Starch, Quest, Uniqema and Most legacy issues relating directly to these divestments have been the Regional and Industrial businesses is not significant.
However, new issues may arise from time to time.
In however, is affected, with trading patterns influenced by prevailing addition, some agreements relating to divested businesses have weather conditions.
With the geographic profile of ICI Paints, this not yet been novated, although the new business owners fulfil ICIs typically results in higher levels of activity in the second and third obligations under those agreements.
Over the past few years the scale quarters of the year.
of the net contingent liabilities in this area has reduced significantly.
Sources and availability of raw materials Current activities include managing residual land and property which The raw materials used by ICIs businesses are from a variety of was not sold with the businesses and most are subject to remediation sources, principally comprising petrochemical-based raw materials, programmes with the expectation that many of these will be sold in renewable resources and a range of other materials.
of the raw materials and respective sources is provided for each business below.
ICI has established a core capability in procurement, The Group has made provision for such matters as set out in embedded within its businesses but managed across the Group by more detail in note 24 relating to the Group accounts.
ICI believes that the cost savings generated by of contingent liabilities can be found in note 32 relating to the improving its procurement capabilities have been significant and that Group accounts.
there is still scope for significant further improvement.
The prices of raw materials are subject to normal conditions of supply Other Group information and demand.
However, the prices of some raw materials are volatile Markets and distribution and are affected by cyclical movements in commodity prices and the ICI sells its products through an extensive network of subsidiaries, availability of such materials.
The primary raw materials used by National Starch are petrochemical Specialty products manufactured by National Starch, Quest and based or are derived from corn and tapioca.
A wide range of suppliers Uniqema are sold mainly by direct sales forces and distributors.
are used, and materials are generally available in most geographic Customers are primarily other manufacturers in a range of markets markets.
Specialty hybrid corns high amylase and waxy seeds are from consumer-orientated manufacturers of branded goods in the planted under contract for National Starch to help ensure supply of food, perfume and personal care sectors to those involved in these special strains.
Many of National Starchs products, especially surfactants, lubricants, papermaking and chemicals.
in the Electronic and Engineering Materials business, contain one or more proprietary raw materials, developed and manufactured Paints are sold through a range of distribution channels.
These materials are not available to National Starchs architectural paints are sold through a combination of independent competitors, therefore providing a unique position in a number trade and retail outlets, as well as the Groups own trade stores, of markets.
particularly in North America and the UK.
Can coatings are sold to packaging manufacturers but supplied directly to beverage and food Quest purchases thousands of different raw materials from sources manufacturers in Europe, the Americas and Asia, where they are used around the world.
The main natural raw materials are extracts and in the production process.
concentrates from fruits, vegetables and other flora, as well as animalbased products and essential oils.
Synthetic raw materials are mostly The Groups Regional and Industrial businesses sell into a wide organic chemicals.
range of industries including engineering, textiles, pharmaceuticals, aerospace, electronics and the extractive industries.
These products The raw materials for Uniqema include a wide range of both renewable are either marketed directly or through independent merchants, palm oil, rape-seed oil and tallows and petrochemical-based ethylene wholesalers and distributors who resell to small users.
Commodity oxide and propylene oxide raw materials.
Tallow is typically procured in products are sold through a direct sales force or through distributors, Europe, North America and Latin America, while palm oil is normally primarily to other operators in the chemical industry.
Competition Key raw materials for ICI Paints include resins, solvents and pigments Owing to the breadth and variety of the products and end markets supplied by major chemical companies.
Materials are typically available served, the Group encounters a wide range of competitors, from worldwide, and ICI Paints believes its strong global footprint provides multinational companies to many small local and independent firms.
commercial advantages in securing the supply of essential materials.
National Starch does not compete with any one competitor in all Intellectual property of its markets.
However, multinational competitors in specific markets ICI has many patents and patent applications which help to protect include H. B. Fuller, Rohm and Haas, Henkel, Air Products and its technology and numerous trademark registrations which help to Chemicals and A. E. Staley.
Similarly, Uniqema does not compete with protect its brands.
In addition, ICI derives substantial competitive any one competitor in all of its markets, but competitors in particular advantage from proprietary business knowledge relating to formulae, markets include BASF, Cognis, Croda, Degussa and Rhodia.
products, processes and technical know-how.
Quest is a leader in the development, application and production of ICI uses appropriate terms of employment and management flavours and fragrances.
Quests main competitors are multinational processes to identify and protect its intellectual property.
As necessary, flavour and fragrance houses, including International Flavors & it enters into confidentiality agreements with customers, suppliers and Fragrances IFF and Givaudan.
other third parties to protect the confidentiality of its proprietary, technical and business information.
ICI Group and its businesses ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19
