Manufacturing Overview Manufacturing sites 21 cigarette factories 7 other tobacco products factories 4 papers and tubes factories IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 27 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Operating Environment The operating environment is challenging.
We are experienced in managing the issues faced by the industry worldwide and we continue to engage constructively with governments and regulatory authorities at both national and international levels.
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES PICTORIAL HEALTH WARNINGS In a number of the markets and regions in which we operate Following the European Councils decision in 2003 the debate on the introduction of restrictions or outright bans concerning the use of pictorial health warnings on packs, on smoking in public places and in the workplace has the European Commission published an image library in intensified.
As stated previously, we support sensible May 2005.
The use of pictorial health warnings is a regulation but believe that outright bans are unnecessary and Recommendation and is not compulsory.
Our experience in Ireland confirms our view Thailand introduced pictorial health warnings in March 2005 on the impact of restrictions on smoking in public places.
and the Australian Government will require warnings from It is clear that smokers will continue to smoke: there may be March 2006.
It is our view that the use of pictorial health an initial dip in consumption but this diminishes over time.
They provide no additional information to the public about the health risks associated with smoking and are designed solely to vilify, stigmatise and shock.
FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON TOBACCO CONTROL FCTC We are not aware of any evidence to suggest that pictorial Adopted in May 2003, the World Health Organisations health warnings have had any impact on consumers Framework Convention on Tobacco Control is the first global smoking behaviour in countries where they have already tobacco treaty that seeks to regulate tobacco products in been introduced, such as Canada and Brazil.
However, a number of areas including tobacco advertising, labelling, we will comply with all legislation that requires us to display product testing and submission of ingredient information, as them on our products.
We shall continue to raise our well as product traceability.
The Convention also addresses concerns with the relevant authorities.
tobacco taxation and calls for tightened legislation to clamp down on smuggling and illicit products.
The number of The erosion of our intellectual property rights through ever ratifications required for the FCTC to take effect was more intrusive health warnings and other information that achieved in November 2004. we are required to print on packs is a cause for concern and we continue to raise this issue with governments and We support strong measures to tackle illicit trade and to regulatory bodies accordingly.
prevent youth smoking, but we believe that some areas covered by the Convention are more appropriately left to national authorities.
ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS The European Union Advertising Directive came into effect on 31 July 2005, banning the advertising of tobacco products EUROPEAN UNION TOBACCO PRODUCT DIRECTIVE in the print media, on radio broadcasts and through tobacco EUTPD related sponsorship for events such as Formula One motor The European Commission published its first report on the racing and the World Snooker Championship.
In 2003, the application of the EUTPD in July 2005.
The report does not German Government took legal action against parts of the call for immediate changes to the Directive.
Directive, arguing that the regulation of tobacco advertising should be a national responsibility.
We understand that a ruling is expected in 2006.
