Rest of the World Regional Overview Financial Highlights 2005 2004 Turnover excluding duty 1,063m 1,015m Operating Profit 209m 198m Imperial Tobacco Volumes 2005 2004 Cigarette 112.7bn 107.0bn Fine Cut Tobacco 1,800t 1,800t 1 Imperial Tobacco Cigarette Market Shares 2005 2004 Taiwan 11.4% 11.3% Australia 17.7% 17.7% Poland 15.5% 17.3% Russia 5.3% 5.2% Ukraine 18.9% 20.4% 1 Imperial Tobacco best estimates rest of The World We continued to build our presence and invest for sustainable growth in our Rest of the World region.
Volumes and profit grew as a result of some strong in-market performances.
Maxim Davidoff Paramount A strong performance from Davidoff up 27 per cent in the Launched in Poland in 2005 Maxim in Russia with volumes Middle East.
with 1.8% market share at up 30 per cent.
REGIONAL DYNAMICS This region consists of both mature and developing markets including the key growth regions of Asia, Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Many of these markets are highly regulated and we are seeing an increasing level of regulatory debate and activity across the world, in part influenced by the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control.
OUR PERFORMANCE Operating profit in this region grew by 6 per cent to 209 million with our performances across Asia, Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East more than offsetting the impact of challenging trading conditions in Central Europe and Duty Free.
In Asia, we increased our market share in Taiwan to 11.4 per cent with a good performance from Boss, benefiting from the introduction of Boss Blue in July.
In both Vietnam and Laos we grew our volumes and share, with a strong performance from Bastos.
In China, the co-operation with the Yuxi Hongta Group continued to develop with a number of collaborative workshops and the extension of the West brand distribution to Beijing.
In Australia, profits grew despite market declines.
Our cigarette share remained stable at 17.7 per cent with good performances from Peter Stuyvesant and Superkings.
In Central Europe, we continued to develop our business in the region despite increasing competitor activity in the ultra low price segment.
In Poland, we regained market share momentum following the repositioning of Route 66 and the introduction of Paramount.
Conditions remain challenging across the region and we continue to focus on balancing profit and volume, with some encouraging recent brand launches of Paramount, Golden Gate and Moon.
In Eastern Europe, our volumes grew.
Highlights include our Russian market share, up to 5.3 per cent with growth in Maxim, our improved portfolio in the Ukraine with the newly introduced Classic and in the Caucasus, volumes rose by over 70 per cent.
Following the completion of our new cigarette factory in Turkey and our subsequent brand launches into the market in April and September, early progress is encouraging.
In Africa, our profits grew with positive market share developments in Central and Western Africa, and in the Middle East, Davidoff continued to extend our regional presence with volumes up 27 per cent.
OUTLOOK There are encouraging opportunities for the Group in this region, given the broad spread of markets it encompasses.
It is through this very diversity that we are able to manage our regional performance effectively and we continue to focus on profitable volume development while investing for future growth.
