CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Building on our strengths Derek Bonham Our strategy is clear.
It is to create sustainable shareholder Chairman value by growing our business both organically and through acquisitions.
Our focus on this strategy has transformed Imperial Tobacco over the past nine years into the international company it is today.
In the past five years total shareholder return was 265 per cent and we have outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index by 245 per cent.
Contributing to that track record, in 2005 total shareholder return was 40 per cent.
EARNINGS AND DIVIDEND During the year we delivered some pleasing market and brand performances which, combined with our continuing focus on costs and effective cash management, grew With another strong financial adjusted earnings per share by 11 per cent to 112.8 pence.
Basic earnings per share was 79.0 pence 2004: 61.4 pence.
and operational performance As a result of this successful performance, the Board is in 2005, I am delighted that 1 recommending a final dividend of 39.5 pence per share, our strategy for growth has bringing the total dividend for the year to 56.0 pence, up 12 per cent on 2004 2004: 50.0 pence.
Since 2001 we continued to deliver value have grown our dividend by 18 per cent compound.
This financial performance reflected a number of operational highlights that clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of our strategy.
PERFORMANCE Our core markets of the UK and Germany delivered significant improvements in profits, against a background of market declines, an excellent achievement.
Elsewhere, we grew our cigarette shares in a number of markets across the world with some strong brand performances from Davidoff and West.
Our drive for efficiencies and further cost savings across the Group has continued.
The ongoing focus on enhancing productivity and improving operational efficiencies within our manufacturing operations has resulted in the closure of three manufacturing sites in the past year, with further rationalisation announced in September.
1 The dividend will be paid on 17 February 2006 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 January 2006.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 06 We are a highly cash generative tobacco company and OUTLOOK we have ensured that shareholders continue to benefit from Our balance, both geographically and in the breadth of the our effective cash management by initiating a rolling share products and brands we offer consumers, together with our buyback programme in February 2005.
We see this as an ingrained focus on costs, leave us well placed to continue to efficient use of cash whilst we continue to pursue value grow the business.
This, combined with our effective use of cash for value creating acquisitions, further organic investments and share buybacks, should ensure that we continue to deliver sustainable growth for our shareholders.
BOARD CHANGES The Board continues to ensure high standards of corporate I am grateful to my colleagues on the Board, our senior governance across every aspect of the business.
Each management team and to our employees worldwide for their year we conduct a review of Board membership to ensure impressive contributions and continued commitment to that an appropriate level of independent Non-Executive Imperial Tobaccos success: my sincere thanks to them all.
Directors is maintained through orderly succession, without compromising the effectiveness of the Board and mindful of the independence requirements of the Combined Code.
Simon Duffy and Sipko Huismans will step down as NonIn conclusion, I am confident Executive Directors at our AGM in January 2006 having that our strategy will continue served nine years on the Board.
In addition, David Thursfield resigned as a Non-Executive Director in October 2005, due to deliver good results, with to his increasing level of external commitments.
I would like to thank Simon and Sipko for their valuable contributions to our strong management team the business since 1996 and David for his contribution since ensuring excellence in its 2003.
At our AGM in 2006, Iain Napier, who was appointed as Joint Vice Chairman in December 2004, will take on the execution.
role of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
I have been delighted to welcome both Susan Murray and Colin Day as Non-Executive Directors during the year.
Both bring a wealth of experience to the business: Susan has held a number of high-profile marketing and management roles and Colin is an experienced international executive Derek Bonham with a strong track record in the consumer sector.
Chairman Bruce Davidson, Sales and Marketing Director, resigned from the Board in February.
Graham Blashill, formerly Regional Director Western Europe, has extended his responsibilities to cover all of the Groups global sales and marketing operations and I was delighted to welcome him to the Board as Group Sales and Marketing Director in October 2005.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 07 Company Hallmarks and what they mean to us STRONG FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BRAND EQUITY MULTI-PRODUCT ADVANTAGE PROFITABLE CORE MARKETS INTERNATIONAL REACH COST FOCUS SUCCESSFUL ACQUISITIONS IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 08 Strong Financial Performance Our growth is characterised by our consistent financial performance.
Our strong cash flows are used effectively to generate superior shareholder returns.
Brand Equity A combination of international strategic, regional and market specific brands ensures that we have strength and depth in our brand portfolio.
Multi-Product Advantage We are a multi-product tobacco company.
This allows us to respond rapidly to evolving market dynamics and to build brand and market share across product categories.
This space appears blank because we have removed the images that appear in the paper version of this publication.
This is because we currently do not feature tobacco product brand imagery on our web site.
Profitable Core Markets We have leading market positions in the UK and Germany.
These strong and profitable bases support our international development.
International Reach With sales in more than 130 countries and a top three position in over 20 markets we have a strong global footprint.
