Managing Directors Strategic Summary Specialist, research-based, high quality information is the heart of every one of our revenue streams.
Informas strategy is to assemble and develop additional advertising revenue but this is largely a portfolio of revenue streams with diverse ancillary revenue.
Informa is not a B2B publisher but complementary characteristics.
We want built around advertising income.
Advertising a combination of high quality information accounts for only 8% of our publishing sales.
businesses which will be capable of capturing growth opportunity quickly when economic Our other major revenue stream from publishing conditions permit but which will also demonstrate is books, which amounts to around a third of superior defensive qualities during periods of publishing sales.
The great majority of our books economic downturn.
are academic covering a host of topics from science, technology and medicine to social science Our three core revenue streams today are and humanities.
They tend to have a rather lower Publishing, Performance Improvement and Events.
profit margin than our subscription products Individually they display strong qualities but taken because of generally lower price points but they together these assets gives Informa particular meet a steady and annually refreshing student and strengths through the economic cycle.
Publishing Performance Improvement Looking at publishing first, this part of our portfolio Next is Performance Improvement PI which accounts for around 40% of the Groups total amounts to 22% of our sales.
It is intrinsically high operating margin durable income stream which is hedged over many business and with limited cyclical exposure.
customer sectors, both corporate and government.
Our seven PI businesses each has its own niche The reason for this is that the greatest part of the focus on one, or two, operational disciplines: publishing profit derives from our subscription among them project management, leadership, sales businesses academic journals, specialist optimisation and program management.
In each information products for the legal, insurance and case they are founded on proprietary intellectual maritime sectors and detailed data and market property built from their own primary research.
intelligence for banks and financial institutions.
The majority of these subscription products are Our PI businesses analyse and diagnose their already delivered digitally, often with added value customers performance challenges and then interrogation and analytical tools.
customise their proprietary IP to meet the specific circumstances identified.
Finally they manage and Our subscription business is very stable.
It renews deliver the training necessary to enable clients staff each year at 90% and enjoys considerable to achieve the improvement they seek.
visibility because subscribers pay up to one year in advance.
Sometimes these products attract 16 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 PI contracts are usually high value and customer to move our focus to more productive areas if relationships tend to be long lasting.
The PI group individual markets turn down.
Because event renews more than 90% of its client revenue each output can be quickly reduced, if need be, we year and 70% of its top 100 customers have been are not locked into cost.
with us for four or more years.
Our PI businesses enjoy strong relationships with most of the Fortune Events are also not capital intensive.
A small event 100 companies and they now earn 40% of their might require only 15k of marketing spend and all combined income from long running government but around 5% of the conferences we research and contracts.
launch each year become profitable contributors in their first incarnation.
The great diversity of the PI customer base means that PI is not exposed unduly to cyclical changes The Group has around 100 industry leading events in any one sector, enabling this part of the business across a range of sectors.
These Large Scale Events to enjoy stable operating margins of 15%.
tend to be very stable in attendance whatever phase of the economic cycle their industry is in.
Events Because of their relative size and the effect of Finally, Events.
This revenue stream is our fastest operational gearing these events contribute a growth capturer.
It is readily scalable and highly substantial portion of the total profits we earn from flexible.
Conferences are fast to market we can events.
Each year around one third of our total move from concept to product in as little as events are branded annuals, another third are 16 weeks and we can gear up our event output repeated iterations of previous successes and the quickly when opportunity presents in the external final portion are new targets of opportunity we market.
This might be when a technological have identified through our extensive topic innovation breaks through for example or an research effort.
important legislation change is announced.
Our conferences are content-rich, targeted at the Events are more cyclically exposed than our other specialist and typically delegate-driven.
As events revenue streams but Informas scale as the largest grow they tend to attract increasing amounts conference organiser in the world gives us of sponsorship and related exhibition income significant protection against economic downturn but the heart of our events business, just as it is for in specific markets.
Our 4,500 events a year cover publishing and performance improvement, is the more than 500 industries and sectors in 70 national communication of high value information.
Our 20 million strong customer database, which we believe is unrivalled David Gilbertson anywhere in the media business, enables us both Managing Director to maximise opportunity within sectors and also 13 March 2006 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 17
