Directors and Advisers Richard Hooper CBE Peter Rigby David Gilbertson Anthony Foye 3 Chairman 66 Chief Executive 50 Managing Director 49 Finance Director 43 Richard Hooper was appointed a After qualifying as an accountant, David Gilbertson has some 25 years Anthony Foye joined the Taylor & Non-Executive Director of Lloyds Peter Rigby joined Metal Box.
experience in the information Francis Group in 1987 as Group of London Press later renamed LLP In 1981 he moved into the media industry having held editorial and Chief Accountant and Company in 1997 and became the Senior Nonindustry joining Book Club management positions with Metal Secretary after qualifying as a Executive Director on the Informa Associates, a joint venture between Bulletin, Reuters and Reed Elsevier.
In 1994 Group plc board following the WH Smith and Doubleday.
In 1983 He joined LLP in 1987 as Editor of he was appointed Finance Director merger of LLP and IBC in 1998. he joined Stonehart Publications Lloyds List, joining the LLP board in of Taylor & Francis Group plc and Mr Hooper is currently an which was acquired by International 1992.
Mr Gilbertson was a member was instrumental in the companys independent assessor to the Business Communications later of the management buy-out team flotation on the London Stock Department of Media, Culture and renamed IBC in 1986.
After two which bought LLP from Lloyds of Exchange in May 1998.
Mr Foye Sport on Public Appointments, a years as Finance Director of IBC, London in 1995, becoming its Chief was appointed Finance Director member of the Advisory Panel of Mr Rigby was appointed Deputy Executive in 1997.
He took LLP to upon the merger of Taylor & Francis Waste Recycling Group plc and Chief Executive and later its Chief flotation on the London Stock and Informa in May 2004.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Yell Executive, leading IBCs expansion Exchange in early 1998 and became also a Non-Executive Director Group plc.
He has previously been into North America, Asia and Chief Executive of Informa Group of YouGov plc.
the Deputy Chairman of the Office Australia.
He became Chairman of plc upon its formation from the of Communications Ofcom, the Informa Group plc at the companys merger of LLP and IBC in December Chairman of the Radio Authority and inception upon the merger of IBC 1998.
Mr Gilbertson was appointed a Non-Executive Director of and LLP in 1998.
Mr Rigby was Managing Director upon the merger Superscape plc and of MAI United appointed Chief Executive upon of Informa with Taylor & Francis in News and Media plc.
Upon the the merger of Informa with Taylor May 2004.
He is also Non-Executive merger in May 2004 of Informa & Francis in May 2004.
He is also Chairman of John Brown Holdings Group plc and Taylor & Francis Non-Executive Chairman of Electric Limited.
Group plc, Mr Hooper was Word plc.
designated the Companys Senior Non-Executive Director and he was appointed its Chairman on 10 March 2005.
He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
1 Member of Audit 2 Member of Remuneration 3 Member of Nomination Committee Committee Committee 18 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Derek Mapp Sean Watson Dr Pamela Kirby John Davis 1 2 3 1 2 3 2 3 1 3 Senior Non-Executive Director 55 Non-Executive Director 57 Non-Executive Director 52 Non-Executive Director 43 Derek Mapp joined the board A solicitor and Senior Corporate Pamela Kirby is currently Chairman John Davis has been Chief Financial of Taylor & Francis Group plc as a Finance Partner at CMS Cameron of Scynexis Inc. a privately-held Officer of Yell Group plc since 2000.
He McKenna, Sean Watson has chemistry-focused drug discovery He previously held senior positions is currently Non-Executive Chairman extensive experience in all areas and development company based in within Pearson Plc, where he was of Staffline Recruitment Group plc of corporate law.
She is also a Non-Executive latterly Group Finance Director of and Executive Chairman of appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Smith & Nephew plc, the FT Group, and Emap plc, which Imagesound plc, as well as having Director of Informa Group plc Oscient Pharmaceuticals Corporation he joined in 1989, where he was a number of other private business now Informa plc.
She was Director of Corporate Finance and interests.
Mr Mapp has previously previously the Non-Executive Treasury between 1995 and 1997. been the Executive Chairman of Chairman of Oxford Immunotec Mr Davis is a Chartered Accountant, Leapfrog Day Nurseries Limited, the Limited and was the CEO of UShaving qualified at Price Waterhouse Chairman of the East Midlands based Quintiles Transnational and has a Masters in Management Development Agency and the Corporation.
Prior to joining from the Stanford Graduate School Managing Director of Tom Cobleigh Quintiles, Dr Kirby held various of Business.
Mr Mapp was appointed as a senior positions in the Non-Executive Director with effect Non-Executive Director upon the pharmaceutical industry at Astra AB from 1 October 2005. merger of Taylor & Francis and now AstraZeneca plc, British Informa in May 2004 and was Biotech plc now Vernalis plc and designated the Senior Non-Executive F. Hoffman-La Roche Limited.
He is has a PhD in Clinical Pharmacology also Chairman of the Audit from the University of London.
Kirby was appointed as a NonExecutive Director in September 2004 and from 10 March 2005 also chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Professional Advisers Auditors Registrars Stockbrokers Public Relations Principal Lawyers Registered Office Deloitte & Touche LLP Lloyds TSB Registrars Hoare Govett Limited Financial Dynamics CMS Cameron McKenna Mortimer House Chartered Accountants The Causeway 250 Bishopsgate Holborn Gate Mitre House 37-41 Mortimer Street Abbots House Worthing London EC2M 4AA 26 Southampton Buildings 160 Aldersgate Street London W1T 3JH Abbey Street West Sussex BN99 6DA London WC2A 1PB London EC1A 4DD Reading Merrill Lynch Registration Berkshire RG1 3BD International Ashurst Registered in England and Merrill Lynch Broadwalk House Wales Number 3099067 Financial Centre 5 Appold Street 2 King Edward Street London EC2A 2HA London EC1A 1HQ Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 19
