04 UNiqUely placed Uniquely placed for the future New satellites in space Broadband Global Area Network BGAN Inmarsat successfully launched two Inmarsat-4 satellites Commercially launched in December 2005 via the first on 11 March and 8 November 2005. these are the most next generation Inmarsat-4 satellite, BGAn enables powerful commercial communications satellites ever to orbit the enterprise and government users to set up a broadband office in earth.
this marked the completion of a five-year project and minutes, virtually wherever they are on the planet.
delivered via represents enhanced capacity and capability, providing broadband the worlds most sophisticated satellites, this is the first mobile data and quality voice communications.
each is 60 times more communications service providing both voice and broadband powerful than an Inmarsat-3 satellite.
the sophistication of the data simultaneously, through a single, low-cost and highly satellites allow the spotbeams to be configured from the ground to portable terminal.
almost anywhere on the earths landmass and much of the ocean areas to create capacity when needed.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 05 UNiqUely placed Uniquely placed for the future Following the successful launch of the two Inmarsat-4 I-4 next generation satellites in 2005 with their enhanced power and capacity, there is an exciting opportunity for the future development of Inmarsats services.
The foundations have now been laid offering broadband connectivity in the maritime and aeronautical markets.
Land-based users already benefit from the powerful attributes of Inmarsats latest service on the I-4s Broadband Global Area Network BGAN which establishes a new era in mobile satellite communications.
Satellite Access Station Service expansion The BGAN Satellite Access Station SAS is an innovative The successful launch of the powerful Inmarsat-4 satellites solution which provides leading-edge, third-generation 1-4, has paved the way for the development of broadband cellular services, globally via satellite.
the core of the sAs services for the aeronautical and maritime sectors.
swiftBroadband is a compatible 3G cellular system which connects to the worlds equipment is already being developed by all the major avionics telephone and Internet systems.
the Radio Access network manufacturers in support of the service that will offer much higher RAn of the sAs transmits users voice and data, via the communications speeds per channel.
FleetBroadband for the Inmarsat-4 satellites, to and from mobile and remote users maritime sector is also currently under development and both across 85% of the worlds landmass.
these new broadband services will offer simultaneous voice and data and enable applications such as sMs, email, Internet access, Vpns, transfer of data and images, videoconferencing and streaming video.
the sophistication of the 1-4s allow capacity to be dynamically allocated to respond to peaks in demand.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005
