06 UNiqUely placed Uniquely placed for delivery and experience Inmarsat partners GMDSS Safety at sea Inmarsat services are delivered via a world-class The introduction of the Global Maritime Distress and network of distribution and service providers.
the Safety System GMDSS on 1 February 1992 marked the primary tier of Inmarsat partners are land earth station most important change in maritime safety since the advent of the operators lesos, or distribution partners dps, who buy radio in 1899.
Inmarsat is the cornerstone of GMdss, which is airtime directly from Inmarsat.
they sell Inmarsat solutions directly designed to guarantee instant emergency communications for through their own sales teams, or indirectly through other specialist ships all over the world by providing the space segment necessary service providers and equipment resellers.
Many of these service for instant and reliable distress and safety satellite communications providers and equipment resellers also integrate software solutions for the maritime community.
Inmarsat offers four services that designed to exploit the unique data-focused capabilities of Inmarsats meet the stringent requirements as a GMdss provider set by mobile communications services.
We work closely with various the International Maritime organisation.
We are the only terminal manufacturers who, over many years, have developed company to support GMdss globally.
smaller and faster terminals for the different market sectors.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 07 UNiqUely placed Uniquely placed for delivery and experience For 27 years, Inmarsat has consistently led the field in mobile satellite communications services by developing, building and operating sophisticated satellites and networks.
This success is due in large part to the high calibre of Inmarsats staff and the world-class network of Inmarsat distribution partners.
Together we have specialist expertise in multiple fields, which makes a compelling proposition in the continued development of new communications technologies, pushing boundaries and redefining the standard for our industry.
Satellite Control Centre Network Operations Centre Around 32 minutes after the successful launch of Flight-1 Like the SCC, Inmarsats Network Operations Centre of the I-4 satellite, Inmarsats highly experienced satellite control NOC is located at Inmarsats head office in London.
centre scc team took over, placing the I-4 into geostationary the noc controls the dynamic allocation of spectrum and orbit at 36,000 km above the earth.
Both the I-4 satellites the power to the various services Inmarsat provides, making second was successfully launched on 8 november underwent a optimal use of its spectrum resources.
the noc also complex series of post-launch tests and manoeuvres before they oversees the operations of our distributors land earth stations were fully deployed in geostationary orbit.
during this process, and for Inmarsats own satellite access stations in Italy and the called leop launch and early orbit phase they were constantly netherlands.
Both the scc and noc are manned 24 7, 365 monitored and controlled from the scc.
the scc measures the days a year and have a backup centre to manage emergency height of all Inmarsats satellites above the earth to an accuracy and disaster recovery operations.
better than 10 metres, and the team carry out in excess of 1,000 manoeuvres across the whole satellite fleet every year.
We monitor every satellite closely the I-4 has 16,000 checks every 20 seconds!
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005
