23 UNiqUely placed Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2005 the directors have pleasure in submitting their report the company will also make a payment to the World Maritime and the audited financial statements for the year ended university of us$100,000 in 2006 as part of its support for the 31 december 2005. education of maritime specialists.
the company changed its name from Inmarsat Group Holdings the company also provides front-line satellite telecommunication limited and re-registered as a public limited company, changing services and equipment in conjunction with support offered by its its name to Inmarsat plc, on 27 May 2005. distribution partners, manufacturers and service providers in support of disaster relief management in affected areas of the the company was admitted to the official list and to trading world for example, after the hurricanes in the u. s. in late 2005. on the london stock exchange on 22 June 2005 the Ipo.
no political donations of any kind were made during the year.
Principal activities, future developments and business review Land and buildings the Group provides a broad portfolio of global mobile and there is no material difference between market value and net transportable broadband communication services and solutions book amount of land and buildings for the company or its via satellite across its main maritime, aeronautical and land subsidiary undertakings.
the principal services include safety and control communications, instant communications voice, fax and lowFinancial instruments speed data, and instant information services and high-speed details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of data solutions from remote lAn access to video conferencing.
the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are given the Group has various branch and regional offices throughout in notes 3 and 30 to the financial statements.
Post balance sheet events A review of the Groups activities and report on the business, In January 2006, the Group announced its intention to strategy and likely future developments are included in the restructure the organisation to reflect the fact that the chairman and chief executives review on pages 8 to 9 and the Inmarsat-4 programme is virtually complete.
the principal action Financial Review on pages 16 to 20. in the restructuring plan will involve a redundancy programme.
Further details are given in note 34 to the financial statements.
Results and dividends the results for the period are shown in the consolidated Income Directors and their interests statement on page 40.
A list of the directors who served during the year is shown below: the directors propose the payment of a final dividend per ordinary share of 10.95 cents us$ making a total for the year of Bjarne Aamodt 16.42 cents us$ dividend payments are made in pounds Michael Butler, chief operating officer sterling based on the exchange rate prevailing in the london sir Bryan carsberg market four business days prior to payment.
subject to approval stephen davidson at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on Admiral James ellis Jr Rtd 26 May 2006 to shareholders on the register of members at the Rick Medlock, chief Financial officer close of business on 5 May 2006. david preiss John Rennocks, deputy chairman no dividend is payable in respect of the deferred shares Andrew sukawaty, chairman and chief executive officer of 0.01 each.
Richard Wilson Graham Wrigley Research and development the Group continues to invest in new services and technology All directors were in office on 1 January 2005, except for John through its research and development programmes.
these Rennocks who was appointed on 4 January 2005 and sir Bryan include pure research into new products as well as developing carsberg, stephen davidson and Admiral James ellis Jr Rtd those services which have been demonstrated to have a who were appointed upon completion of the companys profitable business case.
london stock exchange listing on 22 June 2005. david preiss, Richard Wilson and Graham Wrigley resigned as directors with Charitable and political donations effect from 31 May 2005.
Bjarne Aamodt resigned as a director during the year, the company paid us$200,000 2004: with effect from 11 november 2005. us$100,000 to the telecommunications relief aid organisation, tlcoms sans Frontires tsF us$100,000 of the amount Biographical information on each of the directors is contained was made as an additional contribution to fund their activities on page 21 of the Annual Report.
their biographies illustrate the working in the tsunami-affected region.
directors range of experience, which ensures an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
the company has pledged to pay the following amounts to tsF: us$110,000 in 2006, us$130,000 in 2007 and us$150,000 in 2008.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 24 UNiqUely placed Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2005 the interests of the directors in the share capital of the shown in note 25 to the financial statements.
An award of shares company are disclosed in the directors Remuneration Report.
is to be made to employees in April 2006, capped at 10% of none of the directors at any time during the year ended salary.
details of this award are provided on page 37.
31 december 2005 or subsequently have had any interests in any shares of the companys subsidiaries.
the Group has a positive attitude towards the development of all its employees and does not discriminate between employees Reappointment of directors or potential employees on grounds of race, ethnic or national the companys Articles of Association require that one-third of origin, sex, age, marital status or religious beliefs.
the directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting of the company.
therefore, the following directors, none of Equal opportunities whom have been in office for more than three years, will retire the Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled and put themselves forward for reappointment at the Annual persons and to the continuing employment of staff that become General Meeting 2006. they have each confirmed that they will disabled, including considering them for other positions.
Health and safety Andrew sukawaty the Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health Michael Butler and safety for its employees, customers, visitors, contractors and anyone affected by its business activities.
Michael Butler is the the following directors, having been appointed since the last executive director identified for health and safety matters.
Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for appointment.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors the Groups policy and practice on payment of creditors is: sir Bryan carsberg stephen davidson to pay all suppliers within the time limit agreed with each at Admiral James ellis Jr Rtd the start of business with that supplier: to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of Employees payment: and the Group has ensured that employees are fully informed to pay in accordance with the contractual and other legal and involved in the business through the use of various obligations whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has communications methods including regular briefing sessions and provided goods and services in accordance with the agreed discussions with groups of employees, circulation of newsletters, terms and conditions.
company announcements, information releases and dissemination of information through normal management At 31 december 2005, the companys trade creditors channels.
In its main operating subsidiary, the company has represented 30 days equivalent of aggregate amounts invoiced a staff-forum to extend two-way communications between by suppliers during the year.
employees and management and to allow the views of employees to be taken into account in making decisions Share capital and substantial shareholdings which are likely to affect their interests.
employees are actively details of the issued share capital of the company are given in encouraged to attend internal training courses to learn about note 24 to the financial statements.
the companys products and services.
At 17 March 2006, the company had received notifications that the company encourages, through its share and share option the following were interested in 3% or more of the companys schemes, employee involvement in the companys performance.
issued ordinary share capital: details of the outstanding options granted to employees are substantial shareholdings number of ordinary shares of 0.0005 each % lansdowne partners limited partnership 38,548,871 8.44% deutsche Bank AG 23,945,226 5.24% the Goldman sachs Group Inc 22,597,046 4.95% KddI corporation 21,739,149 4.76% prudential plc 15,305,141 3.35% legal & General Investment Management limited 15,044,324 3.29% the prudential Assurance company limited 15,065,757 3.29% note: the information above is as extracted from relevant notifications under section 198 to 202 of the companies Act 1985.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 25 UNiqUely placed Significant contracts select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the majority of the space segment revenue of the Group is consistently: derived from sales to land earth station operators lesos and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable distribution partners dps.
lesos operate in accordance with and prudent: the terms and conditions of the land earth station operator state whether applicable accounting standards have been Agreement.
A new five-year agreement was approved at the followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and end of 2003 and became effective in April 2004. dps operate explained in the financial statements: and under a five-year agreement with separate arrangements for the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis distribution of some services.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
there were no contracts with the company or any of its subsidiaries in which a director had a material interest.
In addition, the directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at Directors and officers liability insurance any time the financial position of the company and the Group the Group maintains appropriate insurance to cover directors and which enable the directors to ensure that the financial and officers liability.
At the date upon which this report was statements comply with the companies Act 1985. they are also approved and for the period from the Ipo, the company has responsible for maintaining sufficient internal controls to provided an indemnity in respect of all of the companys safeguard the assets of the company and the Group and to directors.
neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
cover where the director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
the directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Auditors of the inmarsat.
uncertainty regarding legal A resolution to reappoint  llp as requirements is compounded as information published on the auditors of the company and to authorise the Board to Internet is accessible in many countries with different legal determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting the directors have confirmed that there is no relevant Your attention is drawn to the notice of Meeting enclosed with information that has not been disclosed to the companys this Annual Report, which sets out the resolutions to be auditors.
the directors have taken all steps that ought to have proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
been taken to make themselves aware of any relevant information and to establish that the companys auditors are Directors responsibilities aware of that information.
the following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors statement of auditors responsibilities set out By order of the Board on page 39, is made with a view to distinguishing between the respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
Alison Horrocks FCIS company Secretary company law requires the directors to prepare financial 17 March 2006 statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005
