21 UNiqUely placed Board of Directors as at 17 March 2006 Andrew Sukawaty, age 50 various positions in investment banking, most recently at West chairman and chief executive Officer lB panmure where he was global head of media and telecoms Mr sukawaty joined the company as chairman in december investment banking and then vice chairman of investment 2003 and was appointed chief executive officer in March 2004. banking.
From 1992 to 1998 he was finance director then chief He is non-executive chairman of Xyratex ltd. nasdaq.
He is a executive officer of telewest communications plc.
He was non-executive director of o2 plc and non-executive director of chairman of the cable communications Association from 1996 powerwave technologies Inc. nasdaq.
He holds an MA first class in mathematics and chairman of telenet communications nV, a Belgian cable tV statistics from the university of Aberdeen.
operator and is currently non-executive deputy chairman of cable partners europe.
Between 1996 and 2000, he served Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd, age 58 as chief executive officer and president of sprint pcs.
prior to independent, non-executive director serving at sprint pcs, Mr. sukawaty was chief executive officer Admiral ellis joined the Board in June 2005.
He is president of ntl limited and chief operating officer of the uK cellular and chief executive officer of the Institute of nuclear power operator one 2 one t Mobile, uK.
previously, he held various operations Inpo, with headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia.
management positions with us West and At&t.
Mr sukawaty Inpo, with the support of the commercial nuclear industry, is an holds a BBA from the university of Wisconsin and an MBA from independent, non-profit company whose mission is to support the university of Minnesota.
the highest levels of safety and reliability to promote excellence in the operation of nuclear electric generating plants.
Admiral Michael Butler, age 42 ellis retired from the u. s. navy in 2004 as commander, u. s. executive director and chief Operating Officer strategic command.
He was responsible for the global command Mr Butler joined the Board in december 2003.
He has served as and control of u. s. strategic forces to meet decisive national Managing director of Inmarsat Global limited since May 2000 security objectives.
Admiral ellis is a graduate of the u. s. naval and became chief operating officer in June 2004. prior to joining Academy and was designated a naval Aviator in 1971 and held a Inmarsat, he was the managing director of McI Worldcom variety of sea and shore assignments in the u. s. and abroad.
He International in the united Kingdom.
Between May 1994 and holds Master of science degrees in Aerospace engineering and in november 1998, he held various general management positions, Aeronautical systems.
He is a native of south carolina and also initially at MFs communications limited and subsequently McI serves as a director of the lockheed Martin corporation, level Worldcom International following Worldcoms acquisition of 3 communications and Burlington capital Group.
Between 1988 and 1994, he was employed by British telecommunications plc in senior sales roles Rick Medlock, age 45 within the international and domestic divisions.
Between January executive director and chief Financial Officer 1983 and november 1988, he held a number of business Mr Medlock joined the Board in september 2004. prior to development and marketing positions within the various business joining Inmarsat, he served as chief financial officer and company units of 3M uK plc.
He holds an Hnc in Business and Finance secretary of nds Group plc nasdaq and euronext for eight and a diploma from the chartered Institute of Marketing.
Mr Medlock previously served as chief financial officer of several private equity-backed technology companies Sir Bryan Carsberg, age 67 in the uK and the u. s. He is a Fellow of the Institute of independent, non-executive director chartered Accountants of england and Wales.
Mr Medlock holds sir Bryan joined the Board in June 2005.
He is currently chairman an MA in economics from cambridge university.
of the council of loughborough university.
He is an independent, non-executive director of RM plc and sVB John Rennocks, age 60 Holdings plc.
He was the first director General of independent, non-executive director and deputy chairman telecommunications head of oftel, the telecommunications Mr Rennocks joined the Board in January 2005.
He is an regulator that preceded ofcom from 1984 to 1992, director independent, non-executive chairman of diploma plc and nestor General of Fair trading from 1992 to 1995 and secretary Healthcare Group plc, and a non-executive director of several General of the International Accounting standards committee other companies.
He has broad experience in biotechnology, predecessor of the International Accounting standards Board support services and manufacturing.
Mr Rennocks previously from 1995 to 2001.
He was an independent, non-executive served as a director of Inmarsat Ventures plc, and as executive director of cable and Wireless communications plc from 1997 director finance for British steel plc corus Group plc, powergen to 2000 and non-executive chairman of Mll telecom ltd from plc and smith & nephew plc.
Mr. Rennocks is a Fellow of the 1999 to 2002. sir Bryan is a Fellow of the Institute of chartered Institute of chartered Accountants of england and Wales.
Accountants of england and Wales and an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries: he was knighted in January 1989.
He holds an Msc econ from the university of london london Alison Horrocks, age 43 school of economics.
company Secretary Ms Horrocks has been secretary to the Board since its inception Stephen Davidson, age 50 and also serves the boards of Inmarsats other main operating independent, non-executive director companies.
she was previously group company secretary of Mr davidson joined the Board in June 2005.
Mr davidson is International public Relations plc, a worldwide public relations chairman of spG Media plc and enteraction tV ltd and a company.
she is a Fellow of the Institute of chartered non-executive director of Williams lea Group ltd.
He has held secretaries and Administrators.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005
