8 International Power Annual Report 2005 International Power Group overview Control centre, Pelican Point, Australia A portfolio approach: a balanced International Powers portfolio in terms of geographic primary business is the spread, fuel diversity and generation of electricity.
contractual position Overall, we have interests Broad geographic spread through five core regions North America, in 28,800 MW gross of Europe, Middle East, Australia power generating capacity and Asia in 18 countries.
Our portfolio approach gives us access to multiple opportunities to Together with generating power, we use our capabilities to successfully and profitably develop closely linked businesses.
create value whilst mitigating risks These include wholesale production of fresh water through seawater desalination, production and distribution of steam, 28,800 MW gross power district heating via cogeneration, a small but growing electricity retail business, open-cast coal mining and gas transportation.
generating capacity in 18 countries A portfolio approach Successful developments in linked We add value and manage risk through a portfolio businesses: desalination, steam and management approach, which involves maintaining a balance in the portfolio in terms of geographical spread, fuel diversity district heating, electricity retail, openand contractual position.
This portfolio approach gives us cast mining and gas transportation access to multiple opportunities to create value whilst mitigating the risks associated with over exposure to any particular market, fuel or contract type.
Geographically the business is focused in five core regions Capabilities to produce electricity North America, Europe, Middle East, Australia and Asia.
through thermal, hydro, pumped Our balanced geographic presence gives us access to growth opportunities with attractive risk reward profiles whilst storage and wind technologies using protecting the overall business from a downturn in any particular market.
different fuel types: gas, oil, coal and renewable resources Group overview 9 Seawater desalination Fuel Wholesale Transmission Distribution Supply Customer supply generation Gas Retail Combined heat transportation Australia & power CHP Coal mining International Powers presence in the value chain The portfolio approach also extends through to our International Power portfolio operational capabilities.
We are able to operate a range of as at March 2006 power plant technologies namely thermal, hydro, pumped storage and wind.
These technologies produce electricity using 13% Capacity by geography different fuel types that include gas, oil, coal and renewable 27% North America sources such as wind and water.
This operational flexibility Europe allows us to capture opportunities that are most economic and best suited to the market in question.
Middle East Australia 19% As electricity is a critical service for any economy, governments Asia carefully decide whether or not they wish to liberalise this key sector.
Several governments have retained full control of the sector and others have fully liberalised both the production and 6% supply of electricity.
The skills required for investing in liberalised merchant or non-liberalised markets are very different and 35% we have both.
The  markets offer opportunities to Capacity by fuel 62% sell power to government bodies via long-term contracts that Gas offer stable and regulated returns.
Assets in the liberalised Coal or merchant markets are subject to the forces of supply and Oil demand and these markets are generally cyclical and more volatile.
Hence these markets generally offer a higher risk high Pumped storage reward environment for investments.
Hydro Wind International Power maintains a balanced presence in both 0.5% 0.5% types of markets, providing the business with a stable platform of contracted earnings and cash flow overlaid by merchant 9% 25% generation which offers greater upside potential.
3% Capabilities Capacity by contract type 21% International Powers high quality asset portfolio, together Uncontracted with the capabilities of its teams around the world, form a 35% Short-term contracted strong combination for revenue optimisation, effective risk Pumped storage management and future growth in earnings and cash flow.
Long-term contracted Through its heritage, International Power has in-depth experience in plant operations and engineering.
This experience is invaluable not only for ensuring smooth plant operations, but also to ensure we understand all operational and technical issues relating to the potential acquisition or development of 35% new power plants.
Today, the Company has skills to execute 9% power projects right from inception through to the delivery of Notes: power in the most advanced and complex traded markets of Excludes assets under construction.
All numbers are based on International Powers net share of MWs.
10 International Power Annual Report 2005 International Power has demonstrated the ability to execute acquisitions at the right time and at the right value, together with the capability to integrate newly acquired assets quickly and seamlessly.
The Companys core capabilities can be categorised into and acquisition fundings, together with re-financings of existing the following seven areas: assets.
We have done this in different parts of the world, under different circumstances and through the combined use of local and international capital.
As examples, Shuweihat S1 and Umm Greenfield Al Nar in the Middle East were both financed in a challenging development Existing asset geopolitical environment, and Saltend was the first merchant Acquisitions and construction management plant in the UK to be financed in over five years.
Non-recourse management project finance is at the core of International Powers financing strategy and capital structure this provides the most appropriate level of debt for each asset and also excellent Financing risk mitigation for the Group.
Plant operations: We have comprehensive power station Plant operation operational experience and skills.
Through-life engineering and maintenance plans, meticulously implemented, ensure maximum availability and are key for delivering value in both our merchant Long-term and long-term contracted markets.
Effective plant operations are Trading contracts enhanced by ensuring information is shared around the portfolio and key operational staff are rotated to different assets on a regular basis.
Greenfield development and construction management: Long-term contract expertise: We have strong commercial We have excellent experience of developing large capital skills to structure and negotiate long-term power and water intensive infrastructure projects from selecting the appropriate contracts in regulated markets such as Asia and the Middle East.
site to securing multiple government stakeholder approvals and Under these contracts, key cost risks such as fuel and turbine project managing the entire construction programme right maintenance are mitigated through long-term hedging and through to successful commercial operation.
Overall, the contracts provide visibility successful growth in the Middle East is the most graphic example and stability of earnings and cash generation over the long-term.
of our greenfield development expertise, where, in the last six years the Company has developed six major projects with Trading: We operate in a number of merchant markets a total value of approximately 3.8 billion.
We have developed the skills necessary to maximise our returns in these markets, with a practical focus Acquisitions: International Power has demonstrated the ability on coordinating trading and operations to ensure we optimise to execute acquisitions at the right time and at the right value, our returns by having our plant available whenever our trading together with the capability to integrate quickly and seamlessly teams see value.
For us, trading means selling the physical newly acquired assets into the portfolio.
An excellent example output generated by our plant.
Our traders operate within strict of International Powers acquisition capabilities is the successful guidelines and risk policies to ensure our traded position is acquisition of the EME international asset portfolio which was carefully monitored and managed.
This includes matching fuel completed in late 2004.
All nine assets were smoothly integrated purchases with power sales and carrying out only a very limited into the portfolio and have since met or exceeded financial amount of proprietary trading.
Where possible we will forward and operational performance targets.
sell output if we consider the return is favourable, which provides Financing: Given the very capital intensive nature of our some certainty for near-term earnings and cash flow.
We also business, the ability to fund projects is vital for success.
ensure that lessons learnt in all our markets for example the International Power has consistently proven its financing new environmental legislation in Europe relating to CO 2 capabilities through the execution of numerous greenfield allocations can be shared with the rest of the business.
Group overview 11 Asset management: All our investments have to deliver expected performance on a standalone basis first, and then as part of the regional and global portfolio.
Through regular and robust technical, commercial and financial reviews, the corporate headquarters and regional offices together monitor the performance of each asset in the portfolio.
We work to ensure that we maximise fleet efficiencies where we operate plants with similar technologies, for example through global spare parts supply agreements or by bringing certain engineering services in-house.
In addition, we have a Health, Safety and Environment Committee which co-ordinates the Groups activities and enables best practices to be adopted at all plants.
This co-ordinated approach helps us manage operational risk and extract the full portfolio benefits.
Opportunities to grow 20 EcoElctrica, Puerto Rico 16.6 16.2 15.7 15 Since 2000, the Group has nearly doubled its generating capacity 11.1 10.9 10 through successful acquisitions and 9.1 8.4 greenfield developments in our core markets 5 The demand for electricity in our markets is growing at rates ranging 0 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 from 2% to 9% International Powers net generation capacity GW North America Middle East Asia Non-recourse project debt is a Europe Australia fundamental building block, and a prudently balanced capital structure Since demerger in October 2000, the Group has grown significantly, nearly doubling our operational capacity through provides flexibility to execute growth successful acquisitions and greenfield developments in our without overstretching the core markets.
balance sheet Demand for electricity is growing in all of our markets, with growth rates ranging from 2% to 9%.
This underlying growth in demand offers us two kinds of investment opportunities We have strong commercial skills to investments to meet incremental demand and investments to structure and negotiate long-term replace existing older, less efficient capacity that is about to be retired.
Our knowledge of market and commercial conditions power contracts in regulated markets in our five core regions means that we select only the best such as Asia and the Middle East development or acquisition opportunities across our portfolio.
With non-recourse project debt as a fundamental building block, our capital structure is prudently balanced to provide us with the flexibility to carry out growth initiatives without overstretching our financial resources.
We have access to multiple financial resources including strong cash generation from our portfolio, our borrowing facilities and capacity, and our partnering capabilities to execute selected opportunities which meet our stringent investment criteria.
