46 International Power Annual Report 2005 Senior management team PETER BARLOW Peter is the head of corporate finance for International Power and is responsible for funding and bank relationships.
He is also primarily responsible for the relationship with Mitsui.
Peter joined us in 1998 and has been especially involved in corporate finance, project finance and treasury activities since that time.
PENNY CHALMERS Penny heads up our corporate services.
She is responsible for Group human resources, information technology and corporate communications.
Penny has 18 years experience in the energy sector and has been with us since 1997.
GARETH GRIFFITHS Gareth manages global trading, with responsibility for our FROM LEFT TO RIGHT STANDING: KEN OAKLEY, trading operations in the UK, US and Australia.
He has STEPHEN RAMSAY, KEN TEASDALE, GARETH GRIFFITHS.
13 years experience in the industry and was previously SITTING: PETER BARLOW, VINCE HARRIS, RANALD SPIERS, Vice President, Marketing and Trading for our US business.
Senior management team 47 VINCE HARRIS STEPHEN RAMSAY Vince is the head of our Asia region and was previously head of Stephen is our Company Secretary and General Counsel.
one of the UKs first cogeneration businesses prior to becoming He joined the Company in 1996, after 10 years as a solicitor CEO of HUBCO in Pakistan.
He is a chartered engineer and has in private practice, first working at National Wind Power and 37 years experience in the power generation industry.
then in the international legal group before becoming Company Secretary in October 2000.
SEAN NEELY RANALD SPIERS Sean heads up mergers and acquisitions at International Power.
He is a chartered accountant with 14 years experience in the Ranald is head of our Middle East region.
He has been with power sector.
He joined us in October 1998, and has a us for 13 years, having previously worked for the BP Group background in project finance and investment banking.
for 12 years across a wide spectrum of industries, including petrochemicals, detergents, oil refining, downstream gas, advanced materials and aerospace.
KEN OAKLEY Ken joined the Group as head of tax in October 2000 and has KEN TEASDALE responsibility for managing the Groups tax affairs.
After qualifying as a chartered accountant and chartered taxation adviser, he now Ken heads up operations and engineering.
He is a chartered has 12 years experience in the commercial tax sector.
electrical engineer and a chartered mechanical engineer.
He has over 38 years experience in the industry and was previously CEO of Hazelwood Power Company, our 1,635 MW coal fired power station in Victoria, Australia.
