Our profile Principal activities Overall revenue split by Divisional revenue split by market sector see left for key market sector Interserve is a services, maintenance Increasingly our customers wish to 6% 11% 10% 4% 17% and building group.
We provide buy more services from fewer 10% 9% services across the whole life of suppliers.
With our breadth of skills 3% 19% many types of buildings and and services, we are able to respond 8% infrastructure such as hospitals, to that customer need and to deliver 23% 49% schools, offices, industrial plant, a one-stop-shop, integrated service.
We Private Finance Initiative PFI 8% offer our services at each stage of projects are an excellent example of 5% the asset lifecycle: we build, we help where the customer wants to work 18% Facilities Services others build by hiring them with an organisation that can design, equipment, we maintain, we support build, operate, maintain, replace and Activities Health operations and we replace.
Our ability to Provision of outsourced support Defence 70 per cent of our services are tailor our services to meet individual services to publicand private-sector Industry delivered into the built environment client needs by harnessing expertise clients.
and 30 per cent to plant and from across the Group differentiates Central and local government infrastructure.
us and means that we can achieve The division concentrates on Infrastructure growth with existing clients by opportunities where it can deliver Commerce A common theme throughout our delivering additional services.
For benefits through integrating the Education services is that we manage complex example, in a number of cases we management and delivery of several environments to enable our clients are developing facilities management services for one customer.
Custodial police businesses to run more effectively.
FM services from our existing The core competencies that enable construction framework agreements.
Typical services us to deliver the services our mechanical and electrical customers need are: Interserves value chain shows how maintenance our services support the creation and Service integration communications management of assets throughout building fabric maintenance Direct delivery and supply chain their lives and how we add value at management energy monitoring each stage.
Our strategy is to build estates management Productivity improvement long-term relationships, and these reception can relate to any of the links in the Development of long-term working value chain, although our longest helpdesk relationships contracts are for operational and security Driving and managing change maintenance services.
cleaning catering porterage waste management Value chain Lifecycle Design New Build Refurbish Operate Key sectors stage health education Project manage Manage Key Specify Complex HR issues Architecture Procure Interface Interserve Hard FM commerce Engineer Deliver Deliver roles fabric services defence Soft FM occupancy support central and local government Lifecycle management custodial police Divisional Project Services Project Services Project Services Project Services Equipment Services Equipment Services Equipment Services Industrial Services involvement Industrial Services Industrial Services Facilities Services Geographical scope Facilities Services Facilities Services United Kingdom, South Atlantic 2 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 Split of investment commitment 1% 2% 4% 5% 6% 11% 9% 26% 2% 21% 41% 6% 42% 31% 55% 49% 23% 20% 27% 15% 4% Industrial Services Project Services Equipment Services PFI Investments Activities Activities Trading name Activities Provision of specialised, multiDesign, construction and RMD Kwikform Limited Transaction structuring and disciplined support services.
maintenance of buildings and management for Interserves infrastructure.
Industrial Services is unique in the Design, hire and sale of formwork, breadth of its activities, bringing a Focusing on framework agreements, falsework and associated access The division co-ordinates Interserves range of resources to bear in a safe, PFI projects and long-term equipment in infrastructure and identification of suitable target planned and efficient way.
maintenance contracts, Project building projects.
The divisions design projects, selection of bid partners Services has a progressive approach, and logistics expertise help its and bid management process.
It Typical services working in true partnership and customers maximise the value of their manages the Groups PFI equity forming long-term relationships with projects by reducing time and cost investments and provides electrical control and its customers and its supply chain.
and position Interserve as an integral management services to various instrumentation part of their supply chain.
At 31 industrial access Typical services December 2005 Interserve was mechanical installation Typical services involved in 23 PFI PPP Public Private building design, construction industrial cleaning Partnership contracts with two more and maintenance hire and sale of formwork, application of protective at preferred bidder stage.
The total falsework and associated road design and construction coatings and insulation investment commitment was access equipment bridge maintenance and repair power transmission approximately 49.5 million.
consultancy in its application design, construction and pipework fabrication project planning commissioning of water and Key sectors asbestos surveying and sewage treatment plants technical support remediation health custom design education Key sectors Key sectors defence health Key sectors industry central and local government education infrastructure petrochemical custodial police commerce transport pharmaceutical defence buildings food and drink Geographical scope industry utilities United Kingdom steel central and local government waterways gas infrastructure commerce infrastructure custodial police industry nuclear central and local government power generation Geographical scope defence United Kingdom, Middle East Geographical scope marine Europe, Middle East, Australasia, commerce Far East, South America Geographical scope United Kingdom Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 3
