Case studies Sixth sense for defence When the Ministry of Defence set out to find a outsourced to the private sector.
As an The central forum contains the entrance partner to create and run its new sixth form integrated support services group with long concourse hall, dining rooms and kitchen, college, it was breaking new ground in several experience of working with the MoD and with the main hall, administration, medical wing, ways.
The innovative solution developed by one of the largest portfolios of PFI contracts, student club and learning resource centre.
Interserve had the capabilities and capacity to A bright and airy teaching wing includes undertake both the construction of the college high-specification, computer-networked The MoD's Strategic Defence Review was one and its subsequent management: to laboratories, workshops and classrooms.
of the key drivers behind the Defence Training complement these skills it brought in a Review published in March 2001.
This specialist partner, TQ Education and Training, Student accommodation is flexible, identified an increased demand for to provide the educational expertise.
comprising five boarding houses and technically-trained officers in the changing integrated houses for residential house military environment and proposed the Equally unusual is the fact that performance staff.
foundation of a new Defence Sixth Form measures in the contract include an element The fourth zone consists of the parade College DSFC.
This would be purpose-built based on academic achievement: the system ground and extensive sports facilities.
with modern educational facilities and would will assess the value added to students at A replace the highly-respected Army Sixth Form level by comparing their results with a The college employs just over 30 teaching College at Welbeck Abbey that had been benchmark derived from their GCSE and 50 support staff and has a capacity of operating since 1953. performance.
340 students, delivering around 170 young men and women educated to A-level standard The new college would be quad-service, The speed and efficiency of the bidding each year.
In keeping with the technical encompassing not just the Army but also the process was testimony to the MoDs bias, the curriculum is geared to the pure Royal Navy, Royal Air Force and MoD civil commitment and to Interserves understanding and applied sciences, information technology service.
It would be built from scratch on a of the clients requirements.
The Industry Day, and mathematics.
former barracks site near Loughborough, the MoDs forum for discussing the project Leicestershire and, for such a long-term with potential suppliers, was in November Speaking at the time of the official opening, commitment, the MoD chose PFI as the most 2001, only 15 months before the preferred Armed Forces Minister Adam Ingram said, appropriate procurement route.
Following a bidder was announced, and three months later Welbeck offers its students an education rigorous selection process the Interserve the 30-year contract was signed - a record for that is unique anywhere in the United consortium, known as Minerva, was awarded an MoD  project.
Kingdom, matched by resources and the contract.
opportunities that are second to none.
Construction took just 16 months and the I congratulate the Defence Academy and Uniquely, the DSFC is the first school or college welcomed its first students in the Minerva Consortium on their constructive college in the UK being operated entirely September 2005.
The buildings are grouped partnership to provide this excellent, through a PFI: the construction, facilities into four zones with unrestricted access purpose-built college.
management and educational services are all across a wide expanse of sports fields: 14 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 15
