collectively undertook over 40 site that the change programme being Demand for infrastructure projects safety inspections in the year.
implemented in our business will delivered through Public Private Progress in our overall safety position us well to access the Partnerships remains strong in the performance was pleasing, resulting growth opportunities in markets UK and our opportunity and bidding in a further reduction in the rate of such as nuclear decommissioning, pipeline remains healthy, comprising incidence to 795 per 100,000 high voltage power transmission, over 40 projects in our chosen employees 2004: 989 per 100,000. and environmental services.
The downstream services end of 2005 our future workload was activities associated with our PFI Our performance and commitment to continuous improvement was 659 million 2004: 690 million.
project investments represent over recognised in two British Safety 60 per cent of our total future Council International Safety Awards The outlook for the UK construction workload and provide the Group and in a total of 15 safety awards market is mixed, although the with an excellent source of high from the Royal Society for the sectors on which we concentrate visibility, high quality earnings flow.
remain the focus of government investment policy.
Progress with our Our expertise in delivering framework activities is encouraging: outsourced services, maintenance Strategy and outlook however, following the completion and building activities and in The Group is well placed to make of the major contracts mentioned developing long-term relationships further progress as an infrastructure earlier, future workload in the UK with our clients remains central to and facilities management provider, for Project Services at 31 December our growth strategy.
Overall healthy delivering services at each stage of 2005 stood at 790 million 2004: trading conditions, together with the asset lifecycle.
Internationally, the excellent visibility of our future market conditions in the Middle East workload, underpin our confidence The UK facilities management remain very buoyant and we expect in achieving continued growth.
market continues to provide an to deliver further growth in this attractive breadth and quality of region.
opportunities, particularly in relation to the integrated, broadContract durations and sales leadbased offering on which we focus.
times are generally shorter in Adrian Ringrose Long-term relationships continue to Equipment Services than in other Chief Executive dominate the work-mix within parts of our business: however, 13 March 2006 Facilities Services, with over 95 per forward visibility of our workload cent of 2005 revenue being derived has improved through investments from such sources.
Our future made in our systems to track workload at the end of 2005 was opportunities and predict market 3.3 billion 2004: 3.2 billion, trends.
Our markets continue to within which our longest contracts offer favourable trading conditions extend over 30 years.
and with the recent investment in our operations we are very well The UK industrial facilities placed to take advantage of these.
management market continues to Nevertheless, we do not expect, in develop towards the model of multithe short term, to repeat the service contracts in which we exceptional level of performance specialise.
We remain convinced achieved in 2005.
