Case studies Vital support at a critical time 7 July 2005 is a date likely to be remembered building for about four weeks when the bombs support.
And as shifts ended, many who could for many years to come.
It was a day when, as went off.
have left stayed on, which was a huge help the tragedy of the London bombings unfolded, since it meant they could cover for those many people were faced with extreme Wed been through several dry runs as part of whod been unable to get to the site due to situations where their reactions could make a Londons emergency planning exercises and the travel restrictions.
The suddenly increased real difference to the lives of others.
had handled a number of smaller incidents but numbers placed an extra requirement on our Interserve staff were deeply involved in two of this was the biggest real one wed dealt with, catering staff who delivered an additional the most critical areas: at University College as well as being the first in the new building - 1,000 meals for patients, staff and on-site Hospital UCH, to which many of the and we were still moving in.
casualties were rushed: and with the weve always regarded disaster planning as a Metropolitan Police, handling the aftermath of fundamental part of our operations, and the We organised an extra 30 staff to cope with the events on the streets and below ground.
plan was already in place.
the significant increase in cleaning and laundry requirements, and our waste services The new UCH building has recently been The first we knew of the attacks was when function, meanwhile, had to deal not only completed as part of a PFI contract in which our Duty Manager received a Majax alert on with an increase in waste but also with the Interserve provides comprehensive support his duty pager.
Majax is the term used for a constraints imposed as a result of the services across the medical campus in existing major incident.
We alerted key staff through potential for further explosive devices having facilities as well as new.
At the time of the our emergency bleep procedure and they then been placed in waste bins and loading bays.
explosions Interserve and the NHS Trust were attended the new hospital for a briefing from Logistically the hospital required the ongoing undertaking a phased transfer of the various the Trusts Majax co-ordinator.
Following the delivery of sterile services - thats everything departments from the old premises to the meeting we immediately implemented our surrounding the provision of sterile new.
Maria Kitching was Interserve's general disaster plan and adjusted our response instruments and packs and their collection and manager at UCH.
continually as the nature and scale of the sterilisation once used - and the rescheduling tragedy became apparent.
of just-in-time deliveries to meet the spike in We were in the middle of a highly complex demand.
If you We deployed an extra 25 porters to deal with consider that we have over 300 staff in seven the influx of around 90 patients to A&E on the Interserve is also responsible for security at disciplines, most of whom were adapting their morning of the crisis.
They helped the new the hospital, and as the city remained on high working methods to a completely different arrivals as well as managing the discharge and alert an additional 50 security staff were environment and to the associated changes in transfer of some existing patients to the deployed to manage the establishment of medical practices - while always staying on Middlesex Hospital to make space for the checkpoints and barriers at the hospital, top of the service we were delivering - youll casualties - thats also part of the Trusts undertake searches, remove individuals begin to see the scale of the management estate and we provide the services there, too.
without security credentials and control the task.
About half the departments had moved traffic to accommodate the high number of across at that stage.
Accident and Emergency As the news spread, many of our people who code blue ambulances.
was the first and had been running in the new were not on duty came in to add their 16 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 17 Case studies Vital support at a critical time continued Meanwhile Interserve staff operating with the 12-hour shift system with them working lamps.
We also established a rolling programme Metropolitan Police Service MPS were equally alongside a similar number from our Special for the replenishment of fuel supplies to busy.
Since 1999 Interserve has delivered an Events core team.
generators - and they got through a lot of fuel.
exclusive service to the Metropolitan Police in support of all major operational activities The MPS uses various buildings around London Our key role was managing the logistics of associated with scenes of crime and major to help manage such events.
In this case it was sourcing, delivering and deploying all this incident response.
The Special Events team of also necessary to co-opt other properties and equipment, in addition to dealing with the highly trained staff works on a 24 365 basis to sites near the bomb locations, and Interserve rapid response for day-to-day emergency support all the MPSs major operational needed to set these up and run them for the work.
The nights were very busy initially and activities, whether these are planned events, duration of the alert.
They ranged from the pressure kept up for almost two weeks as such as Wimbledon and the London Marathon, command-and-control centres to bereavement the focus moved from dealing with the or in response to crimes, accidents or centres and casualty bureaux providing casualties and the bereaved to running the disasters.
information and comfort to relatives.
we had to create about 10 fully-functional The team became aware of the terrorist offices from scratch, continues Starkey.
Throughout this time Interserve worked very attacks on 7 July through the radio.
As soon as Tables, chairs, paper, pens, boards, fridges, closely with the officers and staff of the MPS.
it was clear what had happened they loaded kettles, air conditioning, fans, computers - and Malcolm OConnor, the MPSs Assistant Director two 7-tonne lorries with the kind of equipment it all needed to be assembled, wired up and of Operational Support, summed up his they knew from experience would be needed - working.
appreciation for the dedication of those tarpaulins, emergency lighting, tents, body involved, saying, Thank you to you and your bags, masks, traffic cones and much more - Then there were the incident locations staff for your help in this policing challenge.
and sent it to the location that would be cothemselves - our teams were working in Throughout the crisis Interserve remained at ordinating the MPSs operational support.
conjunction with the police officers at the its core providing vital technical support and four incident scenes within hours of the blasts, solving procurement problems.
By the early afternoon it was obvious that providing water supplies, rubble sacks, gloves, this was a major incident and wed be heavily masks, goggles, body bags, lighting towers, involved, comments Paul Starkey, Interserves generators, brushes, disinfectant, footbaths, General Manager on the MPS contract.
One tents, cutting tools and more.
We keep a lot immediate issue was organising sufficient staff of these items in stock, but the scale of this to support the police over such a wide area incident was such that we had to hire and while maintaining our cover for all the more procure a considerable amount on top of that.
normal incidents - which, of course, continue As the days progressed we found ourselves to occur regardless of whether theres been a exhausting local supplies of the more unusual major incident.
We brought in 20 additional equipment and had to look further afield.
I staff who are usually responsible for think the furthest source was a supplier in maintaining the MPSs properties and set up a Liverpool for some special-purpose head 18 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 19
