8185 Intertek AR p24 33 KM 02 03. qxp 3 3 06 11:35 am Page 24 Annual Report 2005 Directors Report The Directors of Intertek Group plc have the pleasure in presenting D Rade has been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting their Annual Report and the audited financial statements Annual and therefore offers herself for election.
WG Hauser retires by rotation Report for the year ended 31 December 2005. and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Principal activities and review of business The Groups principal activities are the testing, inspection and certification Other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the of products and commodities against a wide range of safety, regulatory, Company had a material interest in any contract with the Company quality and performance standards.
A review of the Company and or its subsidiary undertakings, other than WG Hauser who, until its subsidiaries businesses and likely future developments is given in 1 March 2005, had a consultancy agreement with the Group to the Performance Review.
This includes, where appropriate, details of provide support to assist the Group in its expansion.
The terms of the financial instruments, financial risk management, significant events Directors service contracts and the Directors interests in the shares since year end, as well as any research and development activities.
and options of the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
Dividends Directors indemnities During the year, the Group paid total dividends of 10.9p per share The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004: 9.3p, comprising the final dividend for 2004 of 7.0p per share 2004, which came into force on 6 April 2005, changes the provisions and the interim dividend for 2005 of 3.9p per share.
The Directors of section 310 of the Companies Act 1985, and gives companies now propose a final dividend of 8.1p per share 2004: 7.0p making the power to extend indemnities to Directors against liability to third a full year dividend of 12.0p per share 2004: 10.4p, an increase of parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and also to pay 15.4% over last year.
The final dividend, which is subject to shareholder Directors legal costs in advance, provided that these are reimbursed approval, will be paid on 16 June 2006, to shareholders on the Register to the Company should the individual Director be convicted or, in an at 2 June 2006. action brought by the Company, where judgment is given against the Director.
The Company currently has a Directors and Officers Share capital Insurance policy in place, which provides this cover.
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital Employment policy during the year, are shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
The Groups employment policy is to ensure that all employees are assessed solely in terms of their ability irrespective of their race, religion, Purchase of own shares colour, age, disability, gender or sexual orientation.
The Company is, until the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, generally and unconditionally authorised to buy back a In accordance with the Groups equal opportunities policy, people proportion of its own ordinary shares.
Although no such purchases with disabilities are given the same consideration as others when they have been made to date, pursuant to this authority, the Directors apply for jobs.
Depending on their skills and abilities, they enjoy the will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% of the Companys same career prospects as other employees.
Where employees become issued share capital at the Annual General Meeting to be held on disabled, every effort will be made to retain them in their current role 12 May 2006. or to explore possibilities for retraining or redeployment within the Group.
Where necessary, the Group aims to provide such employees Directors with facilities, equipment and training to assist them in doing their jobs.
The Directors of the Company who served during the year are set out below.
In addition, D Rade was appointed on 1 January 2006.
Short The Company is committed to offering its key employees the opportunity biographies are set out on pages 22 and 23. to align themselves more closely with the interests of shareholders and the Companys performance, through the ownership of the five Treves Chairman Companys shares.
The Company operates share schemes for key RC Nelson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman employees and details are contained in the Remuneration Report.
WG Hauser Chief Executive Officer R Kong Executive President China and Asia The health and safety of the Groups employees is a matter of primary and CEO Labtest concern.
Accordingly, it is the Groups policy to manage its activities W Spencer Chief Financial Officer so as to avoid any unnecessary or unacceptable risks and to have in DP Allvey Senior Independent Non-Executive Director place procedures that conform to best practice in this area.
RE Sayers Non-Executive Director until 25 November 2005 A small number of the Groups employees are members of trade D Rade Non-Executive Director unions and work councils, mostly in continental Europe.
The Group appointed 1 January 2006 communicates regularly with the union representatives and aims to maintain good labour relations with all its employees.
On 1 March 2005, WG Hauser was appointed joint Chief Executive Officer.
On 31 March 2005, RC Nelson ceased to be joint Chief Executive Officer, remaining an Executive Director until 8 April 2005 when he became Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
As reported earlier, sadly RE Sayers died on 25 November 2005.
24 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2005 8185 Intertek AR p24 33 KM 02 03. qxp 3 3 06 11:51 am Page 25 Policy and practice on payment of suppliers The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as The Group does not follow any code or standard on payment practice adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
Payment terms performance of the group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in are agreed at the commencement of business with each supplier relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant and it is the policy of the Group that payment is made accordingly, part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are subject to the terms and conditions being met.
The Company has references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give Substantial shareholdings a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent Company.
As at 1 March 2006, the Company has been notified in accordance In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial with sections 198 to 210 of the Companies Act 1985, or is otherwise statements, the Directors are required to: aware by way of its brokers, that the following were interested in 3% select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: or more of the Companys ordinary share capital: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been Number Percentage prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: of shares notified for the parent Company financial statements, state whether Insight including HBOS notifiable holding 11,822,013 7.61% applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject FMR Corp Fidelity International Ltd 10,718,970 6.90% to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Lazard Asset Management 6,881,140 4.48% Company financial statements: and Prudential PLC 6,142,025 3.96% prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Axa S. A.
5,496,347 3.54% it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Legal & General Investments 5,401,647 3.50% Company will continue in business.
Save for the above, no other person has reported or is known to The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records have an interest which is notifiable under the Companies Act 1985, that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial being an interest of 3% or more in the Companys issued ordinary position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its share capital.
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably Corporate governance open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent The Groups statement of Corporate Governance is set out on pages and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible Financial instruments for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report Information in respect of financial instruments is set out in note 26 and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law to the financial statements and also in the Performance Review.
Charitable and political donations The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of The Group made a donation of US$ 250,000 to the Tsunami Disaster the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Appeal fund in January 2005 2004: nil.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Auditors in other jurisdictions.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be Annual General Meeting proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on Friday 12 May 2006, is enclosed with this Annual Report.
The Notice details Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect the business to be conducted at the meeting.
of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and By order of the Board the Group and parent Company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
F Evans Group Company Secretary Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 6 March 2006 Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law Registered Office the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements 25 Savile Row in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and have elected to London W1S 2ES prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Registered Number: 4267576 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2005 25
