Board of directors Martin Jay Larry Farmer Chairman Non-executive director Appointed non-executive director of Invensys plc in Appointed non-executive director of Invensys plc January 2003 and Chairman in July 2003.
Non-executive director of Energysys VT Group, having served as Chief Executive for 13 Limited formerly Digital Steps Energy Limited and years.
Previously held a range of leadership positions at Digital Steps Limited.
Formerly Chief Executive of GEC and was a member of the GEC Management Board.
Mr Farmers Chairman of the Tall Ships Youth Trust.
aged 65 re-election as a non-executive director will be Chairman of Nominating Committee.
proposed to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
aged 65 Richard Haythornthwaite Member of Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Chief Executive Joined the Invensys plc Board in July 2001 and Bay Green was appointed Chief Executive in October 2001.
Non-executive director Non-executive director of Imperial Chemical Appointed non-executive director of Invensys plc Industries PLC.
Formerly Chief Executive Officer in January 2005.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered of Blue Circle Industries plc until the company was Accountants and member of the Securities Institute, acquired by Lafarge SA and non-executive director and currently a Vice Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort of Cookson Group plc and Lafarge SA.
Non-executive director of RPC Group plc, senior positions with BP and Premier Oil.
He will step Axis-Shield plc, and a trustee of Help the Hospices.
down as Chief Executive on 22 July 2005. aged 48 Mr Greens election as a non-executive director will be proposed to shareholders at the Annual General Ulf Henriksson Meeting, when he will also become the Senior Chief Operating Officer Independent Director.
aged 61 Joined Invensys plc as Chief Operating Officer in Member of Audit Committee and Nominating Committee.
May 2004 and appointed to the Board in July 2004.
Formerly Operating Vice President of the Hydraulics Jean-Claude Guez Division at Eaton Corporation.
Prior to joining Eaton Non-executive director Corporation in 2003, he held a number of senior Appointed non-executive director of Invensys plc positions, up to President of Automated Controls in January 2003.
Non-executive director of Exel plc, Systems and Services at Honeywell International Eurostar Group Ltd and Eurostar United Kingdom Ltd. Allied Signal Inc.
He will become Chief Executive Also, advisory partner with Rocket Ventures LLP, USA.
on 22 July 2005. aged 42 Formerly a Management Consulting partner at Accenture, where he spent his entire career from Adrian Hennah 1966 to 2003. aged 61 Chief Financial Officer Chairman of Remuneration Committee and member Joined Invensys plc and appointed to the Board in of Nominating Committee.
October 2002, and became Chief Financial Officer on 1 January 2003.
Non-executive director of The Andrew Macfarlane Gray Laboratory Cancer Research Trust.
Formerly held Non-executive director a number of senior positions with GlaxoSmithKline Appointed non-executive director of Invensys plc Plc, including Chief Financial Officer for Glaxo in March 2003.
Group Finance Director of Land Wellcome Inc USA.
Formerly Director of Corporate Finance and then Chief Financial Officer Hotels Division of Bass plc subsequently InterContinental Hotels Group plc.
Chairman of Audit Committee and member of Remuneration Committee.
22 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005
