inside Rail Systems user-friendly control systems for mainline and metro railways At the heart of the system are the cab mounted Processor Modules.
TBS100 is a highly flexible system of train control providing Automatic Train Protection ATP and Automatic Train Operation ATO for both new and existing mainline and metro railways.
Expanding our technology The TBS100 system allows onboard or Invensys is committed to major investment investment in China remote instruments to determine the trains and growth in China in the coming years.
correct travelling speed based on a variety The success of the Rail business in China to With the Beijing Olympics just around the of parameters, providing passengers with a date has provided the basis for substantial corner, and the Shanghai world EXPO in reliable, smooth and, most importantly, safe new investment with challenging targets for 2010, the Chinese government is investing journey.
profitable growth in the next five years.
heavily in its mainline and metro expansion programme.
TBS100 has been fitted on Beijing Urban Supported by Invensys Rail Systems Line 13 and the Tianjin Metro Company has proven track record in China, we have the Such an ambitious project, currently the chosen TBS100 for higher capacity on Line 1. resources necessary to supply China with biggest of its type in the world, requires the new technology solutions for today, best in terms of signalling and control Suppliers must also meet Government tomorrow and the long-term future of the suppliers.
localisation requirements and very short Chinese Railway.
timescales set by major and prestigious Meeting this requirement, Invensys Rail world events.
Working successfully in China Systems TBS100 Automatic Train Control for nearly 15 years, Invensys Rail Systems System leads the way in technical evolution has developed strong Chinese-partner yet is designed for flexibility and long-term relationships, transferring its technology and implementation.
proving that we will deliver on time.
14 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 Nigel Smith President, Rail Systems Rail Systems 2005 2004 We are changing our procedures, Sales m 412 442 particularly in project management, to Operating profit m 56 62 better meet our customers requirements Operating margin % 13.6 14.0 and our performance goals.
Sales by geography d a UK 39% b Europe 25% c a c North America 30% d Asia Pacific 6% b In the UK, the pattern of business with Network In the USA, the delayed Transportation Bill is now Rail has changed as they seek to reduce costs and expected to be signed into law later this year.
The transfer more of the financial risks to suppliers.
We Bill confirms federal funding for highways, railroad are changing our procedures, particularly in project and other transportation investment and provides the management, to enable us to meet both their major source of funds for railroad highway crossings, requirements and our performance goals.
As a which is our major product offering in this market consequence of the rigorous procedures now in place, and we anticipate that we will see increased activity the flow of orders from Network Rail has slowed.
In Iberia, we are participating So far we have been able to manage our cost base to in several of the new high speed line projects in deal with this reduced level of activity and anticipate Spain, incorporating the latest European Rail Traffic that the flow of orders will improve as the year Management System technology.
In the event that this does not happen, standing presence in China continues with projects we will be looking to make further savings in our cost underway on the Beijing and Tianjin subway systems.
base to maintain the business financial performance.
Orders for the year excluding the effect of the Our other major operation in the UK is the upgrade PPP contracts for the upgrade of the London and renewal of signalling and train control systems Underground which amounted to 917 million in for the Metronet consortium that is responsible for 2003 04 and 21 million in 2004 05 increased by London Undergrounds infrastructure renewal on the 6% at CER.
The order delays in the UK were more Bakerloo, Victoria and Central lines, together with the than offset by strong growth in Spain where, for subsurface Metropolitan, Circle and District lines.
example, we were part of the winning consortium for the High Speed Line from Cordoba to Malaga.
Rail Systems sales at 412 million were down 4% at CER compared to the last financial year.
This was mainly due to the early termination of a large North American logistics contract and lower sales in the UK.
This was somewhat offset by stronger sales in Spain.
Operating profit was 56 million, a decrease of 7% at CER compared to last year, while the operating margin fell 0.4% to 13.6%.
An improved sales mix, a number of favourable contract completions and an effective control of overheads were offset by higher insurance costs.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 15 Haluk Durudogan President, APV APV The success of our 50-week performance 2005 2004 Sales m 360 387 improvement programme is beginning Operating profit m 6 18 to be reflected in our performance.
Operating margin % 1.7 4.7 Sales by sector e d a Food & beverage 62% c b Dairy 12% c General industries 19% d Pharmaceuticals 3% b a e Other 4% Sales by geography d a d fd d APV is undergoing a substantial 50-week performance c cc a UK 3% c improvement programme and the success of this b Europe 46% e approach is now beginning to be reflected in its c North America 17% a a a performance.
The management structure has been ba d South America 4% b b b b flattened with the elimination of several tiers of d e Asia Pacific 23% f Africa & Middle East 7% executives and its former country based managers.
c New project tendering procedures are in place to minimise the risks associated with longer term contracts and the sales force has been reorganised to increase sales of aftermarket products into APVs large global installed base.
The depth of the restructuring being undertaken is significant but the business is Sales at 360 million were 4% lower at CER, primarily dealing with this well with the continued support of due to lower project sales in EMEA as a result of a its customers.
slow-down in capital spending in this consolidating market.
However, the aftermarket business in EMEA Orders for the year were flat at CER: this was mainly has shown good growth over the last 12 months and due to turning away from some higher risk project strength in industrial markets has driven strong orders, which offset growth in Asia Pacific, Latin growth in the heat exchangers business.
Asia Pacific America and strength in the heat transfer business.
is also growing with continued investment in local APV teams.
Operating profit at 6 million fell considerably 2004: 18 million compared to the prior year.
The fall was mainly due to lower project volume and lower margins in EMEA.
In addition, the current year includes a 4 million adverse adjustment relating to prior years.
However, the 50-week performance improvement programme has started to deliver and led to a marked improvement in performance in the second half of the year by reducing overheads and continuing to increase the focus on aftermarket sales across all regions.
16 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 Helping the amber nectar flow Transforming the heart of CUBs flagship This plant also saw the value in using valves brewery in Melbourne from a mainly with an intelligent interface, which reduce Carlton and United Beverages CUB, part manual operation to an automated one, installation costs and considerably of the Fosters Group, the premium global whilst keeping the amber nectar flowing, shortened the time for commissioning.
multi-beverage company, has made was a demanding task.
APV, working closely substantial gains by increasing the level with CUB in both the design and of automation at its largest facility in implementation phases, ensured that this Melbourne, Australia.
was completed with minimum disruption.
APV played a major part in the The outcome is a plant with increased transformation, integrating APVs latest productivity, lower losses, improved quality valve technology with innovative process and reduced running costs.
design concepts to achieve the project requirements.
After the completion of the Melbourne plant APV worked closely with Fosters to help it double the capacity of its plant south of Brisbane.
The new plant, with state-of-the-art brewing and processing facilities, will supply the full range of CUBs products to the Eastern seaboard of Australia.
Valves with an intelligent interface APVs double seat valve manifolds are used to direct the flow of drink or food products around process plants where the requirement is for an absolutely hygienic environment.
The valves give continuous inside APV feedback on their status including information on number of operations, time transforming the performance of operation and maintenance requirements.
of food, beverage and dairy plants around the world Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 17
