inside Controls providing electronic controllers for the worldwide vehicle refrigeration market At the heart of Thermo Kings products is our Vehicle Power Refrigeration System VPRS.
The VPRS includes a base-board that regulates both the intelligence and the power control system to manage the refrigerated loads.
This combined with an in-cab keyboard interface represents a real innovation for the mobile refrigeration market.
Thermo King, part of the Ingersoll-Rand It took more than one year to analyse and The long-term relationship between Eliwell group, is the world leader in providing implement the system, but now Invensys and Thermo King started in 1999 when climate control solutions for global Controls provides 15,000 complete systems Eliwell began manufacturing electronic transportation industries.
a year to equip and control refrigeration equipment for Thermo Kings internal systems on board Thermo King small trucks production.
Now Invensys Controls serves As a result of a long-term relationship and lorries.
seven different Thermo King plants around with Eliwell, part of Invensys Controls, the world and is their sole supplier for the Thermo King contracted Invensys to The VPRS forms part of Thermo Kings VPRS product range.
develop a new electronic controller strategy of standardising as many microprocessor for the automotive market: components as possible across their the Vehicle Power Refrigeration System.
Thanks to new flash technology, an add-on expansion board and standard automotive connectivity protocol, the can-BUS, the VPRS is fully scalable and flexible for the future.
10 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 John Duerden President, Controls Controls 2005 2004 As a result of the merger, we have Sales m 921 1,023 reduced our overheads and are now Operating profit m 89 127 focussing on sales efficiency, supply Operating margin % 9.7 12.4 chain and factory efficiency.
Sales by sector f e a Appliance 40% b Residential property 19% a c General industries 12% d d Discrete manufacturing 12% e Commercial property 16% c f Other 1% b Sales by geography e dd a d d Controls was formed on 1 October 2004 with the cd c aUK 10% cc merger of the former Appliance and Climate Controls b Europe 28% businesses, recognising the considerable overlap of c North America 51% b a a a brands, customers and manufacturing facilities.
Whilst a d South America 4% bb b b the process of merger integration has progressed well e Asia Pacific 7% c with some 300 indirect and overhead positions eliminated, it has been accompanied by some significant operational issues in North America that have affected its performance during the second half of the year.
In particular, poorly executed manufacturing Alongside the merger, Controls is investing in its process changes arose at certain manufacturing technology roadmap intended to maintain its position plants, particularly the large facility in Mexicali.
as a technological leader in the supply of components A symptom of these changes was the recall of a large and, increasingly, systems to its global customer base.
number of gas valves, for which we have made a It is also building relationships with a broader range provision of 30 million to cover the cost.
Additional of original equipment manufacturers, especially in strain on these manufacturing plants arose as they Asia, recognising the changing competitive were required to increase output significantly to environment particularly in the white goods sector.
supply products for both the recall and existing customers.
This created additional costs, supply chain Orders for the year closed at 900 million, down 5% problems and an order backlog with several at CER mainly due to the weakness in North America customers.
These issues have received urgent including the exit from North American contracting management attention and the actions taken have businesses.
now largely diffused the immediate issues.
Production levels are now adequate to meet the recall and the Sales for the year of 921 million 2004: 1,023 million order backlog has been reduced.
Our operational were 5% lower at CER compared to last year.
The fall attention is now on completing the integration of in sales was due to the exit of North American the two businesses and obtaining the merger benefits contracting businesses, the loss of specific contracts identified at the start of the process.
and global price reductions for reversing valves.
Operating profit for the year fell 26% at CER to 89 million, with an operating margin of 9.7%, mainly due to a reduction in sales volume, operational performance issues at the Mexicali plant and higher insurance costs.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 11
