Peter Tompkins President, Eurotherm Eurotherm 2005 2004 We are working on addressing an Sales m 122 122 imbalance in our supply chain by Operating profit m 17 17 increasingly concentrating on Operating margin % 13.9 13.9 Asia Pacific.
Sales by sector d c b a General industries 90% b Pharmaceuticals 3% c Utilities & power 3% d Other 4% a Sales by geography d dd df Eurotherm has been a steady performer in a c c a UK 15% ec c recent years with good operating margins and cash b Europe 43% generation and we intend to use this platform to d c North America 20% a a a grow sales, particularly in the fast growing economies a d South America 1% bb b b of Asia.
The business is also addressing an imbalance e Asia Pacific 20% c b f Africa & Middle East 1% in its supply chain which has created transaction exchange exposures with manufacturing currently concentrated in western economies.
Orders for the year increased by 5% at CER driven by growth in Asia Pacific, North America and systems orders in EMEA.
Operating profit was stable at 17 million with an operating margin of 13.9%.
The margin improved Sales for the year at 122 million were 4% higher through pricing initiatives and better supply chain at CER compared with last year, driven by the same management, despite adverse transactional currency factors underpinning orders.
impacts due to increased sales volume in Asia Pacific and North America.
Eurotherm currently distributes around 15 million of product manufactured by its former electric motor Drives business which was sold in 2002.
This agreement is now subject to renegotiation.
In the event that this arrangement ceases, we aim to minimise the impact on operating performance due to the loss of revenue.
Businesses for sale Businesses for sale relate to Lambda and Baker.
As reported in August this year, the sales processes for both businesses are underway and it is anticipated For the year as a whole, sales of these businesses rose that both will be completed during this calendar year.
at CER and operating profit was significantly higher, driven by the benefits from restructuring activities.
Although there remains some volatility in earnings on a quarter on quarter basis, overall there has been a substantial improvement in performance.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 19
