Michael Caliel President, Process Systems Process Systems 2005 2004 Orders from our seven key global Sales m 709 746 accounts increased by 54% in the last Operating profit m 47 35 quarter of the year and by 39% for the Operating margin % 6.6 4.7 year as a whole.
Sales by sector f a Oil & gas upstream 35% b Oil & gas downstream 4% a e c Utilities & power 19% d Petrochemicals 9% e General industries 24% b d f Other 9% c Sales by geography d df a d d Process Systems is reaching the end of its 70-week c c c e a UK 12% c performance improvement programme that, together b Europe 23% d with a three-year investment programme, has c North America 44% b a a a a addressed all aspects of its business but in particular d South America 4% b b b b the strengthening of its leadership team, the e Asia Pacific 13% f Africa & Middle East 4% reorganisation of the way it interfaces with its c major customers, the enhancement of its technology portfolio and the reduction in the complexity of its overhead structure.
These actions have restored its position as a leader in the global market for process automation.
Sales at IMServ were down 26% at CER compared This success in updating its technology is demonstrated to last year, primarily reflecting the disposal of the by the significant increases in orders from its seven FieldTech operations during the prior year.
key global accounts, up by 54% in the fourth quarter of the year and by 39% for the year as a whole.
This Operating profit at 47 million, up 49% at CER, endorsement of our technology by these major improved considerably and resulted in an operating customers, which currently account for 16% of its margin of 6.6%, compared to a margin of 4.7% last orders, provides confidence that Process Systems has year.
Much of the improvement came from higher the capability to grow its overall market share and product sales across all regions and an improvement achieve an operating performance at least in line with in the sales mix with continued strength in the its peer group.
solutions business, Asia Pacific and Latin America.
The 70-week performance improvement programme Excluding IMServ, orders for the year were up 5% at continued to deliver, with the costs of the programme CER, primarily driven by strong order intake in Asia now starting to fall from the fourth quarter onwards Pacific, Latin America, the solutions business and the and are expected to end by the second quarter of measurement and instrumentation business, only next year: external consulting costs amounted to partially offset by declines in North America and 10 million for the year.
Major orders included several large power projects in China as well as orders from Formosa Petrochemical Corporation, Exxon Mobil, Tesoro Petroleum and Reliance.
Sales, excluding IMServ, for the year were up 4% at CER.
The increase was mainly due to higher sales in EMEA, Asia Pacific and Latin America as well as an improvement in the solutions business, which offset declines in North America.
12 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 Invensys is a world leader in automation Invensys had previously successfully Invensys Foxboro and Triconex systems technology for the LNG industry.
implemented the process control systems, are helping to ensure efficient and safe safety systems, and many additional systems operations at this, one of the worlds largest When the Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas for Ras Laffan LNG Trains 1 and 2, and had LNG liquefaction facilities: enabling the Ras Company II RasGas-II in Qatar needed also been awarded the Expansion Project Laffan LNG complex to achieve a total automation services for its LNG Train 5 for LNG Train 3, Train 4, and associated capacity of over 20 million tons per annum Production and Utilities units, Invensys was projects.
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company The Invensys LNG Business and Technology Limited was established in 1993 to produce Centre leverages a network of satellite LNG and related products from a centres located in Singapore, Houston, designated area within the North Field of Montreal, and elsewhere.
These centres Qatar, the largest offshore non-associated focus on developing, deploying, and natural gas field in the world.
supporting business and technology solutions for liquefaction, marine, and regasification.
Additional resources are drawn as needed from Invensys other sales, support, and technical centres around the world, thus enabling Invensys to deliver consistently high-quality solutions and responsive support to LNG customers anywhere in the world.
Gas turbines power The latest US$8 million the compressors for automation contract at Ras the refrigeration Laffan includes Foxborocycles in LNG trains.
brand I A Series process control systems, Triconex TMR The compressor raises the Safety Instrumented Systems pressure of the refrigerant gas and Fire and Gas Protection usually propane, a propane Systems, plus associated butane mix or nitrogen, then project engineering services.
it is cooled and allowed to flash into the cryogenic exchanger the flashing takes heat away from the product gas, cooling it until it liquefies at -160 degrees.
inside Process Systems ensuring the safe and efficient operation of LNG plants anywhere in the world Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 13
