The Port of Dover is the largest This has been done with the implementation In handling around 15 million passengers international ferry port and one of Eurotherms sophisticated large scale and five million vehicles annually, of the busiest roll on roll off ports monitoring and data storage system.
The engineering staff at Dover realised some in the world.
electronic system, based on a number of years ago that to meet legal health and Eurotherm 5000B data recorders, monitors safety obligations would require a At its 330 hectare Eastern and Western water temperatures.
While real-time significant investment in monitoring and Dock sites, the Port of Dover must monitor temperature values can be monitored control technology.
its 1,000 taps and shower fittings, as well as on line, the collected data can be stored hot water storage tanks, for potentially in a tamper proof format for up to six Apart from challenges of scale, the overall lethal Legionella bacteria to meet strict years, far exceeding the requirements of distance across both Eastern and Western legal obligations.
current UK and international health and parts of the docks exceeds 2km, there are safety guidelines.
around 150 separate small scale water heating and storage systems on the site, which have been installed over time in passenger facilities, customs and police offices, port operation areas and other buildings.
The challenge was to engineer an easily managed localised monitoring solution with central monitoring, secure data transfer and verifiable long term archiving of data.
Colin Dobson, Building Manager for the Port of Dover, believes that this type of remote monitoring system will become an industry standard for Legionella protection in the future.
Sensing points throughout a system provide data to the Eurotherm 5000B recorders and controllers.
Temperature values are continuously monitored in real time.
inside Eurotherm flexible, secure acquisition of data across extended systems 18 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005
