Oil and Gas Overview Our services to clients in the oil and gas sector divide into three key areas: our global oil and gas services business, mining and pipelines.
AMEC provides a broad range of services to the oil and gas industry worldwide, creating and supporting oil and gas assets.
We offer consultancy and design services, project management, commissioning, and asset support for our clients production facilities, particularly offshore platforms.
In the mining sector, our activities include our market leading oil sands operations in Canada, Advanced computer together with engineering and modelling is one project management services of our strengths in oil and gas for clients producing minerals services and metals.
A global market leader in oil and gas services 6 AMEC plc annual report 2005 Our global oil and gas services content is also a key differentiator cost reimbursable contracts with business has a leading market for AMEC.
Through local performance related upside.
position in developing complex partnerships, supply chain Demand for our oil and gas facilities and in maintaining management and training services is linked to the level and extending the life of services, we can offer a unique of spending on new production hydrocarbon facilities.
solution to evolving frontier facilities, together with extending markets.
For these reasons, We work for a broad range the life and increasing production barriers to entry in this market of clients, including major from existing infrastructure.
With are high and AMEC is one of international oil and gas companies oil and gas expected to remain the a few major players in the field.
dominant source of global energy In addition, we are working for Although the roots of the business supply for the foreseeable future, an increasing number of national originated over 30 years ago in the we expect to see continued growth oil companies in key areas such UK North Sea, we have successfully in demand for hydrocarbons, which as the Middle East and the former pursued a strategy of international will require further investment Soviet Union.
growth in recent years, working in new facilities, especially as our closely with long-term clients in clients move into more challenging Oil and gas engineering work is the development and operational operating environments.
highly specialised, requiring a deep support of their facilities around understanding of both the industry the world.
As a result, over and its requirements, together 50 per cent of our revenues today with the ability to manage the local are generated outside of the UK.
environment in which oil and gas extraction takes place.
Health Our exit from lump-sum upstream and safety and environmental fabrication activities has reduced concerns, as well as excellent risk and improved the quality of programme or project earnings, with the substantial management, are critical to the majority of our oil and gas revenues success of major oil and gas now coming from services activities, projects.
The assurance of local often in the form of long-term AMEC plc annual report 2005 7 Oil and Gas continued We provide oil and gas services to clients in locations from the UK North Sea to Australia to work with newer customers like Global services Talisman and Nexen in the UK, Our oil and gas global services Woodside Petroleum in Australia business offers value adding and the Kuwait Oil Company.
We services to both major players see real potential to support both and the new breed of smaller smaller independent and national independents operating out oil companies, as they expand.
Now with an international reach far beyond Broad portfolio of contracts its origins, it operates in six key Our upstream work includes regions: the Americas, Europe contracts for the design, project and Africa, Russia and the CIS, management and commissioning the Middle East, Asia Pacific of major offshore oil facilities, the and China.
The acquisition of the provision of brownfield services, Houston-based company Paragon the hook-up and commissioning during 2005 gave us a strong new of platforms, project and base and access to key customers programme management and in the Gulf of Mexico region operations support and and beyond.
Strong client relationships Downstream, we provide a range of We have worked with a number of engineering, project management, major international oil companies, operations and maintenance such as BP, Exxon, Shell and Total, services for refining, petrochemicals for several decades.
More recently, and gas processing facilities.
we have successfully expanded We have recently secured a number 8 AMEC plc annual report 2005 Long-term growth opportunities of important contracts for new contracts must be delivered with Companies providing services gas infrastructure in the UK, minimum downtime, to maintain during the exploration phase of the which will be a key part in the the existing supply, and so the oil and gas value chain are already expansion of the national gas seeing the benefit from increased rewards for success can be high.
Because we With over 250 fields with provide services to the production brownfield potential in the North and support phases of the value Sea alone, we see this line of work Long-term growth chain, these benefits should flow as particularly promising.
During opportunities through to our business in turn.
2005, we have been working on the Oil and gas remains a strong design of the Britannia Satellites market, as producers strive to brownfield development for increase their proven reserves and ConocoPhillips, which should accelerate their development.
Our become operational in 2006. expertise in complex projects and often hostile environments, together At the same time, new markets with our thorough approach to are now opening up as national oil environmental and local content companies, which historically held issues position us to help our monopolies, increasingly outsource clients achieve these goals.
Our industry knowledge, A key area for growth is in combined with leadership in brownfield developments where training and working with local new facilities are developed workforces is a real advantage alongside existing ones to extend in these markets, where these their operating lives.
Brownfield factors are often a requirement.
AMEC plc annual report 2005 9 Oil and Gas continued Pipelines We are a leader in the international pipeline industry, working on some of the most challenging projects in climates ranging from tropical rainforests to frozen tundra.
Our services range from planning and regulatory permitting through to consulting and design, financial planning, engineering, procurement, construction management, commissioning, operation and maintenance.
In 2005, we completed our section of the BTC oil pipeline in Georgia, and, in 2006, will be working in Yemen on 350km of gas pipeline together with ancillary structures.
Our pipelines business has worked There are a number of international on projects including Chad-Cameroon: pipeline projects scheduled beyond BTC, Georgia: and 2006 which are expected to provide OZ2, Algeria significant opportunities for this area of our activities.
10 AMEC plc annual report 2005 Market leading expertise in challenging operating environments Our clients in the mining sector Based in Calgary, our oil sands Mining include DeBeers, who awarded business is the market leader in In the mining sector, our activities us contracts during 2005 to provide engineering services in the surface include our market leading oil detailed engineering, procurement mining sector.
We have built our sands operations in Canada, and construction management position through knowledge and together with engineering and services for their first two diamond experience with leading edge project management services mines in Canada: Snap Lake extraction technologies.
for clients producing minerals and Victor.
At todays oil prices, oil sands extraction produces good returns Canadian oil sands Minerals and metals on capital investment and has led Oil sands are deposits of bitumen Here, we provide consulting to unprecedented demand for our that can be extracted either through services, design and manage the services.
And we expect growth surface mining or in-situ techniques.
construction of mines for clients in capital expenditure to continue, With estimated reserves of around producing base metals, gold, with clients planning significant 177 billion barrels, the Canadian diamonds, potash and uranium, new projects.
oil sands in Alberta are the largest predominantly in North America.
source of oil outside of the High commodity prices have Middle East.
produced strong demand for our services and future prospects are good.
