Engineering and Technical Services Nuclear AMEC has many decades of experience in the nuclear sector, and, having acquired the UK nuclear services business NNC during 2005, is now the UKs largest private sector supplier of engineering solutions and safety consultancy services to the nuclear sector.
We provide services throughout the life of nuclear assets, with our focus being on the three key areas of conceptual design and design development for new build, operations support for existing assets and decommissioning and waste management.
We also provide specialist research and consultancy services to both public and private sector clients.
We are the UKs largest private sector supplier of engineering services to the nuclear sector One of the most exciting opportunities we see today 12 AMEC plc annual report 2005 physical and chemical integrity associated waste.
The budget Clients over tens of thousands of years.
for this work will initially be AMECs nuclear business has GeoMelt is being used by the 2 billion a year with a total operated in the UK for some US Department of Energy to treat of around 60 billion over the next decades and also works in nuclear waste and could be used 40 years or so.
The NDAs stated the Americas, South Africa, in the clean-up of nuclear facilities intention of opening the market to Eastern Europe and the former around the world.
private sector competitors presents Soviet Union.
In the UK, we work for British Working in partnership with UKAEA Long-term opportunities Nuclear Group BNG, formerly and the US company CH2M HILL, Worldwide, the clean-up of nuclear BNFL British Energy, the United we will compete vigorously for the waste and the decommissioning Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority new contracts and believe we are of nuclear facilities represents UKAEA and AWE Aldermaston, well placed to take a substantial a major opportunity for AMEC.
while in the Americas, the US share of the market.
Over the next 40 years, more Department of Energy is a key than 440 nuclear power plants Our project management skills client.
AMEC has an established across the world will require and track record in the industry track record in Canada, where it decommissioning.
Beyond that, put us in a strong position to target has been awarded a major contract there are likely to be new build major new opportunities on both with Bruce Power, worth up to opportunities as concerns about sides of the Atlantic.
Cdn$510 million 245 million, fossil fuel emissions prompt to manage the restart of reactors countries around the world one and two, at Bruce A Power to revisit nuclear power as Station in Ontario.
an energy source for the future.
In the US, we have a proprietary waste vitrification technology, Restructuring of the GeoMelt, which uses an electric UK industry current to convert waste into a safe The UK nuclear industry offers real and durable glass-like material potential, as the newly-created that is ten times stronger than Nuclear Decommissioning Authority concrete, resistant to weathering or NDA, starts to decommission and is expected to maintain its and clean up UK sites and AMEC plc annual report 2005 13 Engineering and Technical Services continued We provide total life of asset support to clients in the power and process industries The UK power utilities market UK power utilities should offer good growth In power, we design, deliver and opportunities as infrastructure support infrastructure assets for is renewed and upgraded to cater gas and electricity utilities across for increasing demand.
National the UK, where we are a leading Grid is planning to invest over supplier to National Grid.
400 million over the next five years on the gas transmission In gas distribution, our activities network, whilst total spend on include design and installation, the electric transmission network renewal and extension together is expected to be between 1.4 with maintenance and repair and 2.1 billion.
Over the last five years, we have carried out substantial network renewal work in North UK building and London, East Anglia, South Wales, facilities services the South West and the West We work for selected private Midlands and are currently sector clients with specialised renewing gas mains along the M1 requirements for highly engineered corridor between Sheffield and facilities, including BAA plc Leicester.
During 2005 we provided In the electricity sector, we are engineering services and support refurbishing overhead power at all seven BAA airports in the transmission lines as part of the UK under long-term frameworks, upgrade and improvement of the together with a separate, major national grid to meet increased contract for work at Heathrows demand from generators Terminal 5. and consumers.
14 AMEC plc annual report 2005 Recovery in US industrial markets is expected to continue Another of our clients with exacting Capital investment in new plant, standards is the McLaren Group, which drives our revenue in this parent company of Team McLaren market sector, fell sharply in 2001.
Mercedes, for whom we helped Since then, our business in the deliver their technology centre US saw a much-reduced flow of and are providing long-term asset orders, until 2005, when we saw support services as building a good recovery.
upturn in our markets has been slow to arrive, but we are now finally seeing orders, after at North American least four years of poor demand.
process industry We should now be well-placed Our North American industrial to profit from the upturn, as we business designs and delivers substantially restructured our plant for process industries such US cost base in response to the as forest products, pharmaceuticals, downturn, improving our efficiency food and cement.
Now that the market shows signs of a broaderWe have a leading market position based recovery, this leaner in the North American market for structure gives us a good foundation forest products, where we provide from which to deliver growth.
total life of asset support for pulp and paper making facilities for clients including Bowater.
Meanwhile, in the food and beverage and cement sectors clients for our engineering services include Kraft, General Mills and TXI.
AMEC plc annual report 2005 15 Engineering and Technical Services continued Environmental Our environmental business provides a range of specialist services such as environmental assessments, materials testing, specialist water, geo-technical and clean-up services for public and private sector clients across a wide range of end markets, particularly in the natural resources and power and process sectors.
We have a highly qualified workforce of 2,500 consultants and engineers and operate from over 100 offices across the Americas and internationally.
Our experience in advising on the restoration and protection Our specialist environmental of sensitive environments has services include noise enabled us to establish strong pollution testing relationships with customers for whom corporate responsibility and sustainability are a priority.
16 AMEC plc annual report 2005 Higher commodity prices and tighter regulation are driving growth are also in demand, such as that sustainable site or project Security for fide Beers new Victor diamond management.
AMEC offers services in crisis mine in Northern Ontario during situations, such as the aftermath Increased federal spending will 2005.
In the oil sands region of accidents, natural disasters, also drive demand.
In particular, of Northern Alberta, we provide war, or terrorist incidents.
Our the US Department of Defence environmental and geotechnical experience includes clean-up after Base Realignment and Closure consulting, including mining 9 11 at the World Trade Center, initiative is expected to lead to services at Syncrude and rebuilding the Pentagon, our work US$20 billion of additional spending.
in Iraq and we were recently As a leading supplier to the US asked to lead the recovery at Partly due to increasing demand Department of Defence, AMEC Buncefield, the oil depot in the for natural resources, our clients is well placed to compete for UK which was destroyed by a are expanding internationally.
Our reputation In 2005, we conducted significant for rapid mobilisation in these In addition to these opportunities environmental assessments for situations is increasing.
for organic growth, the market for our mining and energy clients environmental services is large in Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Romania, and fragmented, offering scope Bulgaria and Libya, and expect Natural resources for growth through consolidation.
We see good opportunities in Canadas mining and energy sectors.
Many significant new Opportunities for pipeline projects, such as the long-term growth proposed 1,150 kilometre pipeline Higher commodity prices are from Edmonton, Alberta to Kitimat, producing good growth British Columbia, require our opportunities.
Companies are specialised regulatory and increasingly seeking advice on stakeholder knowledge.
Mining environmental, regulatory and environmental assessments legal matters, green design, AMEC plc annual report 2005 17
