Project Solutions UK infrastructure AMEC has a long history in the UK infrastructure market, originally as a civil engineer builder and mechanical contractor and today as an investor, developer, designer, project manager and provider of a range of specialist support services.
We offer a package of services, from equity investment, to designing, delivering and maintaining over the long term hospitals, schools, transport infrastructure and commercial and government buildings.
Public and private sector clients The UK Government is a key customer, for whom we work across Our rail projects business provides specialised the defence, education, transport engineering in signalling, electrification and and health markets.
Our work in communications the defence sector includes design and delivery of the new submarine berthing facility at Her Majestys Naval Base Clyde, together with property management services at approximately 400 Ministry of Defence establishments across Scotland under a seven-year joint venture contract.
18 AMEC plc annual report 2005 Focused on UK infrastructure delivery and support In education, healthcare and We also have one of the leading Close long-term relationships with transport, we invest in, deliver rail projects businesses in the our clients in the private sector and provide support services to UK, which provides specialised are a key determinant of activity our clients, often on a PPP basis.
levels and growth in the business.
engineering in signalling, During 2005, construction was We will continue to differentiate electrification and communications, successfully completed on the our services in our chosen markets together with project management first phase of the new University through integrated engineering and delivery services.
This business College London Hospital and the design and management skills, has worked on projects including Docklands Light Railway extension coupled with innovations in the new high speed Channel to London City Airport, and both systems and modularisation.
Tunnel line between Folkestone these projects have now moved and Swanley, Kent: the West Anglia Our focus will continue to be into the operational phase.
Route Modernisation and West on large, complex projects, for Coast Mainline.
It also provides We have particular strength both public and private sector asset support services on the in delivering large and complex clients, that require a high level London Underground.
infrastructure projects such as of technical skill.
hospitals and urban regeneration Future prospects projects, where our integrated We have long standing and approach and project management successful relationships with the skills add value for our clients.
UK Government and other public We have a strong record as sector agencies and see significant a developer of mixed use urban opportunities arising from their redevelopment schemes, usually commitment to sustained spending working in partnership with on infrastructure, whether through the public sector, and a growing traditional contracting, long-term reputation as a developer framework contracts, developmentof renewable energy projects, type projects or PPP.
especially in the wind sector.
AMEC plc annual report 2005 19 Project Solutions continued We provided design, equity finance and construction management services on the recently opened first phase of University College London Hospital We apply strict selection criteria PPP investments to the work we do in PPP and AMEC has been in the UK Public focus on projects where there Private Partnerships PPP is the opportunity for us to invest, market since the introduction deliver and maintain in other of the Private Finance Initiative words, where we can secure and has a specialist team of multiple income streams.
professionals engaged in the complete PPP delivery structure, from front end bidding to long-term management of the investment.
Delivering in partnership 20 AMEC plc annual report 2005 and for the project management, Our portfolio Growth operation and investment in We have a portfolio of 11 PPP In the UK, PPP remains a major the Incheon Bridge project projects focused in the transport, government procurement route for in South Korea.
healthcare and education sectors capital projects, with hospitals and seven in operation and four in the schools representing key growth We are preferred bidder on South delivery phase: areas.
The NHS is planning to Lanarkshire Schools, the largest continue its multi billion pound PPP schools project undertaken to Operational capital investment programme date in the UK, and on Colchester A1 M Peterborough with a substantial part of this to Hospital, both of which are due to Alconbury be delivered via PPP.
Significant to reach financial close in the A419 417 Swindon to Gloucester opportunities are also expected in first half of 2006.
We are also Cumberland Infirmary education, where the government shortlisted for two more hospital University College London is aiming to improve all secondary projects, Fife in Scotland and Hospital school buildings in England under St Lukes in Middlesbrough and Inland Revenue Newcastle Estate the Building Schools for the Future two further school projects, East Ayrshire Wastewater Treatment programme within 10-15 years.
Dunbartonshire in Scotland and Docklands Light Railway City the Knowsley Building Schools Airport extension for the Future project.
In construction Docklands Light Railway With our total equity investments Woolwich Arsenal extension in PPP projects currently valued A13 Thames gateway at 109 million significantly A1 M Darrington to Dishforth in excess of the book value of Incheon Bridge, South Korea 66 million investment in During 2005, contracts were South Lanarkshire Schools and entered into for the design, Colchester Hospital imminent and construction, operation and further investment opportunities investment in the next extension expected, we see this area of the to the Docklands Light Railway business generating substantial through to Woolwich Arsenal, value in the future.
AMEC plc annual report 2005 21 Project Solutions continued Property developments We offer property development services from land assembly, remediation and planning through to financing and project management, and have particular expertise in mixed use urban regeneration projects including retail, commercial, residential and leisure.
We take developments through the planning, funding and regulatory hurdles they face in the early stages, and have built strong relationships working in partnership with both public and private sector landowners.
We have two particularly important joint ventures in the regeneration area ISIS Waterside Regeneration, St Pauls Square, with British Waterways and Morley Liverpool, is an English Cities Fund Fund Management, to redevelop development where AMEC is both a British Waterways large portfolio partner and the of surplus land, and English Cities development manager Fund, with English Partnerships and Legal & General, to regenerate inner city locations.
Elsewhere, our portfolio includes the following schemes, which are currently in development: Business Parks at Cheadle Royal and Lingley Mere Distribution facilities in Glasgow and Wakefield Europort Mixed use facilities in Durham and Manchester 22 AMEC plc annual report 2005 An exciting and growing portfolio of developments Our future developments, which data, handle the planning process, The UK wind energy market is we would generally expect to raise finance, design, build and being driven by government policy take forward on a pre-let pre-sold manage the wind farm through to to achieve overall renewable basis, include mixed use schemes operation or sale to a third party.
energy targets of 10 per cent of at Chatham Place, Reading, electricity generation by 2010 Our onshore portfolio of around 1.25m sq.
ft. and Lewisham and 15 per cent by 2015.
While 1,400MW including third party Gateway 1.1m sq.
ft. and a progress is being made towards shares includes the following sites 1.6m sq.
ft. industrial development achieving these targets, projects of 50MW or more: on the Lord Halifax Estate in Leeds.
still face delays caused by planning, environmental Kyle Forest, East Ayrshire We have also been selected as jointand electricity transmission Dumfries and Galloway 285MW venture developer of the North capacity issues.
Lewis, Western Isles Shore, Stockton-on-Tees mixed use in Joint Venture with regeneration scheme and are The relative shortage of new British Energy 700MW shortlisted on a number of others.
capacity in the market, coupled Clashindarroch, with investors keen to participate Aberdeenshire Moray 100MW The strength of the current portfolio in the sector for both economic Ray, Northumberland 60MW and the focus on sustainable mixed and environmental reasons, gives Aultmore, Moray 60MW use development means that we are AMEC the confidence to continue Edinbane, Isle of Skye 50MW well placed to generate a substantial to build its position in what we earnings stream for the future.
anticipate will be a very valuable In the offshore sector, we are market for us over the next leading the development of Wind energy few years.
a 75MW development near AMEC is a leading player in the Aberdeen, and are providing UK wind farm development development and environmental market, both onshore and offshore.
services to Centrica on projects Our business model is to identify with a potential output exceeding sites, gather and interpret wind 1,000MW.
