The directors have pleasure in presenting the annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Report of the directors Business review Information on the businesses of AMEC, their development during the year and on the future outlook is contained on pages 1 to 55.
An analysis of AMECs activities is given in note 2 on pages 75 and 76.
The profit on ordinary activities after taxation, which amounted to 3.7 million 2004: 51.7 million, is shown in the consolidated income statement on page 67.
These are the groups first accounts prepared under adopted IFRS and IFRS 1, First time adoption of International Reporting Standards, has been applied.
The directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005 of 7.5 pence per share.
This has not been included within creditors as it was not approved before the year end.
This final dividend will be payable on 3 July 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 May 2006.
Dividends paid during the year comprise a final dividend of 7.2 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004, together with an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005 of 4.0 pence per share.
During the year AMEC successfully completed two major strategic acquisitions in its oil and gas and nuclear businesses.
In January 2005, AMEC acquired Paragon Engineering Services Inc, a US oil and gas engineering services business, for 22 million.
This provides AMEC with a major presence in Houston, the home of many of the worlds major oil and gas companies.
In July 2005, AMEC acquired NNC Holdings Ltd, the UKs leading private sector nuclear services business, for 40 million.
This acquisition strengthens AMECs position in supporting the operations, maintenance and decommissioning of civil nuclear infrastructure in the UK and Canada and will allow the exploitation of new business opportunities in other countries.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the company as at 31 December 2005 and movements during the year are set out in note 23 on page 91.
Authority was granted to the directors at the 2002 annual general meeting to allot up to 49,790,640 of ordinary share capital, of which up to 7,204,249 could be allotted for cash other than by way of a rights issue.
This authority extends until 8 May 2007.
The directors have no present intention of issuing any shares other than in respect of the exercise of share options.
No issue will be made which will effectively alter the control of the company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Resolution 10 will be proposed at the annual general meeting to grant authority to the directors to make market purchases of up to 10 per cent of the companys shares within prescribed limits.
No such purchases were made in 2005 or up to the date of this report pursuant to the authority granted at last years annual general meeting.
The directors will only exercise such authority to purchase shares if circumstances arise in which they consider purchases would be of benefit to the company.
No purchase would be made unless the directors are of the view that it would result in an increase in earnings per share.
The directors will also take into account the companys cash resources, the effect on gearing and other possible investment opportunities before exercising this authority.
56 AMEC plc annual report 2005 Substantial interests As at the date of this report, individual indemnities have been Pursuant to Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, notifications provided to the directors, under which the company has agreed to have been received by the company of shareholdings of 3 per cent indemnify the directors to the extent permitted by law in respect of or more of the issued share capital as at 15 March 2006 and these all liabilities to third parties arising out of, or in connection with, the are as follows: execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the company, any of its associated companies or any other company Number Per cent that the director serves as a director at the request of the company.
These indemnities are Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions as Toscafund Limited 28,714,088 8.63 defined in Section 309A-B of the Companies Act 1985 and copies are FMR Corporation available for inspection at the registered office of the company during Fidelity International Ltd 19,524,183 5.87 business hours on any weekday except public holidays.
ZAM Europe, L. P. 13,446,002 4.04 Employees Aviva plc Morley Fund In 2005, AMEC employed on average 44,710 people worldwide.
Management Ltd 13,430,142 4.03 Details are given in note 6 on page 78.
Zurich Financial Services 11,708,999 3.52 The development of employees, to ensure that AMEC has the Legal & General necessary skills and behaviours to deliver its strategic business Investment Management Ltd 11,160,201 3.35 objectives and to provide for management succession, is given high Barclays PLC 10,126,442 3.04 priority.
In addition, recognising the importance for the future of bringing young people into the group, all businesses have well Deutsche Bank AG 10,081,704 3.03 established programmes for recruiting and developing graduates and other trainees.
Where relevant, the percentage shareholdings have been adjusted from that notified to the company to reflect the increased share Respect for cultural diversity and equal opportunities are included capital resulting from the placing of 30,164,357 shares announced among AMECs Guiding Principles which are incorporated into on 20 January 2005. management policies and processes worldwide.
AMECs policy is to recruit from the widest labour market, determining the careers of all employees solely on merit and making judgements about employees Directors free from the effects of bias and prejudice.
Details of the directors of the company at the date of this report are set out on pages 28 and 29.
It is AMECs policy to consider for employment suitably qualified Mr C A Riva resigned from the board on 11 April 2005. disabled people and to assist them in overcoming handicaps at work.
AMEC recognises that special arrangements are necessary, in view of the nature of its main activities, to ensure that disabled employees Mr J A Monville, Ms E P Airey, Mr J A Dallas and Mr J-P Jacamon are properly trained for the tasks they perform.
AMEC endeavours retire in accordance with article 85 of the articles of association to retrain any employee who develops a disability during employment, of the company and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
None of the aforementioned has an employment contract with the company.
Internal communication is a priority for AMEC, as employees carry forward AMECs knowledge, brand and reputation.
AMEC provides The beneficial interests in the share capital of the company of the numerous direct or electronic opportunities for employees to raise directors holding office as at 31 December 2005 were as follows: issues and discuss matters of concern with management.
As at As at 31 December 31 December Employees share knowledge and are kept informed of developments 2005 2004 within AMEC through various means, including its intranet AMECnet, Number Number internal publications, best practice groups, news bulletins and announcements.
A global conference of senior managers is held J M Green-Armytage 10,000 10,000 each year to discuss developing issues.
Sir Peter Mason 105,827 90,669 The company operates an Inland Revenue approved savings related J D Early 53,347 53,347 share option scheme open to all eligible UK employees.
Shareholders J A Monville 19,809 19,809 approval was given at the 2002 annual general meeting to make the scheme available to overseas employees and the first launch of the E P Airey 18,120 18,120 scheme took place in North America and certain European countries J A Dallas 2,000 2,000 during 2005, in addition to the UK.
M O Hesse 16,414 16,414 Annual general meeting S J Siddall 26,144 24,307 Resolution 11 will be proposed at the annual general meeting to J-P Jacamon 10,000 10,000 amend the memorandum and articles of association of the company which relate to the indemnity provided to the directors of the company P J Byrom and to increase the aggregate annual amount which may be paid to T W Faithfull 5,000 the directors by way of ordinary remuneration.
Except for interests under share option schemes and the Resolution 12 will be proposed at the annual general meeting Performance Share Plan, details of which are contained in the to further amend the articles of association which relate to the directors remuneration report on pages 61 to 66, no director as at companys borrowing powers.
31 December 2005 had any other interests, beneficial or otherwise, in the share capital of the company or any of its subsidiaries.
There Further explanatory notes to the above two resolutions and were no changes in the directors interests in the share capital the proposed amendments to the memorandum and articles can of the company between 31 December 2005 and 15 March 2006. be found in the circular which accompanies this annual report and accounts.
No director was materially interested in any contract of significance to AMECs businesses.
The annual general meeting will be held on 17 May 2006.
AMEC plc annual report 2005 57 Dialogue with institutional shareholders Report of the directors Mr J M Green-Armytage, chairman, wrote to all major shareholders in April 2005 informing them that he and the senior independent continued director, Ms E P Airey, were available for meetings or telephone calls with them if required.
He also advised that Messrs Byrom and Faithfull, as new independent non-executive directors, would also be available for an introductory meeting with them.
The chairman attends preliminary and interim results presentations.
Ms Airey is available to attend, if requested, one-on-one meetings with major shareholders.
The chairman had a number of such meetings with three major shareholders during 2005.
No meetings were requested with Ms Airey or Messrs Byrom and Faithfull.
An in-depth annual perception study of investors views, prepared by an independent third party, is presented to all board members, who also receive unexpurgated feedback reports following shareholder meetings or events together with all material brokers research notes on the company.
Corporate governance The board The board is responsible to shareholders for the management For the majority of 2005, the board comprised the non-executive of the company and for the protection of its assets.
As such, it is chairman, four executive directors and six independent non-executive ultimately responsible for implementing AMECs systems of internal directors.
Mr P J Byrom and Mr T W Faithfull were appointed to the control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are board in February 2005 as independent non-executive directors and designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure Mr C A Riva resigned as an executive director in April 2005. to achieve business objectives and consequently can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misThe company does not combine the role of chairman and chief statement or loss.
In 2005 changes were made to the management executive.
The chairman is responsible for the running of the board, of the UK Construction business following both internal and external with the chief executive being responsible for running the group reviews which indicated that certain established control processes and implementing board strategy and policy.
This ensures a clear were not being followed.
division of responsibilities at the head of the company, so that no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The independent Combined Code compliance non-executive directors review the relationship between the chairman AMEC complied with the Combined Code July 2003 revision and chief executive each year to ensure that the relationship is throughout 2005 except as follows: working effectively.
The revised code requires there to be a balance of executive and The non-executive directors are all considered to be independent non-executive directors and in particular independent non-executive by the board.
They are not employed by the company in any capacity, directors such that no individual or small group of individuals nor have they been in the past.
Ms E P Airey has acted as the boards can dominate the boards decision taking.
There was an imbalance senior independent director since 21 January 2004. of executive and non-executive directors on the board, with five executives and four non-executives, from 1 January 2005 until The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that board 10 February 2005 when two further independent non-executive procedures are followed and all directors have access to his advice directors were appointed to the board.
The board does not consider and services.
that this imbalance impaired its effectiveness in any way.
One of the executive directors resigned from the board in April 2005.
The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval, covering areas such as company strategy, the appointment With respect to acquisitions made during the year, due diligence of key executives, approval of accounts, approval of the business work was performed prior to acquisition and subsequently the plan, budget and financial policies, review of operating results, companies have been adopting AMECs key policies and procedures risk management strategy, ensuring the effectiveness of governance outlined in the AMEC Management and Policy Framework.
Internal practices, succession planning and significant capital expenditure.
controls are reviewed by management and by internal audit as part The board is supplied in a timely manner with information which of the normal audit process.
enables it to discharge its duties.
The company has interests in a number of joint ventures, associates An external review of the effectiveness of the board and its and joint arrangements.
Controls within these entities may not be committees was carried out during the year by Spencer Stuart by reviewed as part of AMECs formal corporate governance process way of interviews with individual directors.
Findings were considered because of the joint management responsibilities but are reviewed by the board as part of its review of both collective and individual as part of the normal internal audit process.
No material changes were identified as being necessary as a result of this exercise.
The independent Management and Policy Framework non-executive directors also met privately both with and without AMECs businesses are managed on a decentralised basis.
Whilst the chairman present and also with both the chairman and chief the board has retained reserve powers, the day-to-day management executive together to consider management performance and has been passed to the business leaders within defined authority succession issues.
A formal process exists for the directors to take limits.
The management philosophy is to empower the business independent professional advice and receive appropriate training leaders to take the actions necessary to deliver the companys in the course of their duties, at the companys expense, organised operational business objectives within the AMEC Management by the company secretary.
and Policy Framework, which establishes the standards AMEC employees and contracting staff are expected to meet.
58 AMEC plc annual report 2005 Board committees The committee also regularly reviews board succession planning, Under AMECs Management and Policy Framework, the board has in conjunction with reports from the chief executive and corporate formally delegated specific responsibilities to various committees, human resources director on senior management succession all of which have written terms of reference.
planning, so as to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills is maintained both within AMEC and on the board.
The remit of each committee is set out below.
The quorum is generally three directors.
Full details of the constitution and remit Remuneration committee Sets, and reviews as necessary, of the audit, nominations and remuneration committees can be the overall contractual and remuneration framework for the chairman, found under corporate governance on www.
the executive directors and the company secretary, including pension rights and annual bonus incentives.
The committees chaired by non-executive directors are as follows: It considers and determines such other matters relating to the Audit committee Reviews the integrity, including the material engagement of the chief executive and other executive directors financial reporting judgements, of the companys accounts, including including matters relating to the enforcement of their service the annual and interim results, related report and accounts and contracts and payments on termination as the chairman and Stock Exchange announcements and any other formal announcements chief executive respectively refer to the committee.
in connection with the companys financial performance, and recommends their approval to the board.
It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new chairman or executive director.
It also reviews the companys internal financial controls and, in conjunction with the risk review committee, the internal control It reviews the salaries of executive directors annually and the and risk management systems.
chairman biennially, or more frequently as is deemed necessary by the committee chairman.
It agrees the performance targets The committee has unrestricted access to company documents of executive directors and the levels of bonus to be paid to them and meets with the internal and external auditors, and any other under the annual bonus incentive scheme.
member of staff, without the executive directors being present, as required.
The head of internal audit formally reports to the It determines and agrees with the chief executive the remuneration committee chairman.
policy and structure, including annual bonus, for corporate functional executives and operational executives immediately below board level.
It reviews the head of internal audits regular reports and, during 2005, commissioned an independent review of the internal audit It approves performance targets, participation and level of awards function by .
No material changes were for any executive share-based incentive scheme.
identified as being necessary as a result of this exercise.
The following table is a record of the directors attendance at board The committee considers the appointment, re-appointment, removal, and principal board committee meetings during the year ended remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor and 31 December 2005. makes recommendations to the board.
It discusses the scope and AMEC plc Audit Nominations Remuneration planning of the external audit and reviews the outcome of the board committee committee committee external audit and any formal communications from the external Number of meetings 13 5 5 7 auditors, including internal control reports.
J M Green-Armytage 12 5 The committee also formally reviews and monitors the external Sir Peter Mason 12 4 auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional J D Early 11 and regulatory requirements and makes recommendations J A Monville 11 to the board.
During 2005 a review, co-ordinated on behalf of the E P Airey 11 5 3 5 committee by the head of internal audit, was carried out.
The audit committee has also monitored the implementation of the policy on J A Dallas 10 4 3 5 the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, M O Hesse 7 3 3 5 which was reconfirmed in 2005.
This policy follows the guidelines set out by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and S J Siddall 13 Wales ICAEW and clearly defines what work can and cannot be J-P Jacamon 11 5 5 5 performed by any group companys statutory auditor.
It also sets P J Byrom out the necessary approval process for those non-audit services from February 2005 11 3 3 6 that are acceptable.
T W Faithfull All non-statutory audit or non-compliance tax services provided from February 2005 11 3 3 4 by the auditor are reported to the audit committee.
During 2005, C A Riva to April 2005 3 the fees paid to the companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates, for non-audit work were 1.3 million 2004: 0.8 million, Charities committee Makes commitments and donations which comprised 0.7 million primarily relating to taxation and in support of charitable, educational and cultural causes.
0.6 million for other work 2004: 0.6 million and 0.2 million.
Compliance and ethics committee Considers and approves the In addition to the above amounts, fees of 0.2 million 2004: codes of business conduct and related compliance arrangements 0.2 million were paid to KPMG Audit Plc in connection with and takes responsibility for management of investigations due diligence undertaken on acquisitions.
Nominations committee Makes recommendations to the board Share transaction committee Provides clearance or denies concerning the appointment or termination of a director or the permission to relevant employees to deal in AMEC plc shares.
company secretary and, in the case of a non-executive director and the chairman, the extension of an existing appointment.
AMEC plc annual report 2005 59 Risk management within AMEC is coordinated via the risk Report of the directors management forum, which meets at least twice yearly.
The forum consists of risk managers sponsors for the businesses and heads continued of corporate functions and has the remit to report to the risk review committee of the board at least annually.
It also reviews progress made in embedding risk management throughout the company, dissemination of best practice and communication of lessons learned.
The risk management and internal control processes are complemented by an annual control risk self-assessment exercise carried out by the principal businesses.
This covers major risks, particularly safety, health and environment, legal, commercial and contractual, financial, information technology and human resources.
The results are reviewed by the board, through both the audit committee and the executive directors, and as part of the ongoing internal audit process.
The risk management processes were in place for the whole The committees chaired by executive directors are as follows: of 2005, and up to the date of approval of the accounts, and satisfy the requirements of the Turnbull guidance.
Banking committee Reviews and approves facilities for borrowing, guarantees, bonds, indemnities and employee bridging loans and Going concern also interest rate and foreign exchange hedging strategies within The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the company authority limits set by the board.
and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate Corporate transactions committee Considers acquisitions and to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
disposals of businesses and provides guidelines in respect of such transactions within authority limits set by the board.
Creditor payment policy Businesses are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions under Pensions and retirement benefits committee Reviews proposals which transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is group relating to new arrangements, amendments, discontinuance, funding policy that payments to suppliers are generally made in accordance or any other matters relating to pension and retirement benefits.
with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier complies with all of its obligations in this regard.
Risk review committee Approves the AMEC plc risk register, the AMEC plc risk transfer policy and proposals to enter into contractual The company had 30 days purchases outstanding as at 31 December commitments that fall outside the delegated authority limits of the 2005 based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during executive directors.
Risk management processes Donations The board, through the committees described above and at its regular Donations to United Kingdom charities amounted to 108,000 for the meetings, has a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and year ended 31 December 2005. managing significant risks faced by the company, including strategy, major projects to be undertaken, significant acquisitions and Auditors disposals, as well as entry to and exit from different markets.
Where A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting for appropriate, business decisions are reached following a structured the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company.
and documented review of potential opportunities and threats, taking steps designed to manage or mitigate any residual risk exposure.
By order of the board AMEC uses a seven-step Total Risk Management process and has P J Holland incorporated it into the AMEC Management and Policy Framework.
Secretary The process involves the identification of risks at the gross and net 15 March 2006 level by each business and each corporate function.
The risks are recorded in separate risk registers for each business unit and each Note function to enable the net positions to be pro-actively managed.
The There were no other changes in either the directors interests or in highest risks based on probability and impact are then consolidated the substantial interests in the share capital of the company between into an overall risk register for AMEC plc, which is reviewed in detail 15 March 2006 and 30 March 2006. by the board on an ongoing basis.
The risk management process accommodates mergers, acquisitions and disposals as well as entry to and exit from different markets.
