Reshaping for growth During 2005, AMEC embarked on major strategic changes designed to enable us to deliver increasing value to investors.
We have decided to reshape the group, selling our European business AMEC SPIE, and to separate the remaining group into two.
In this section of the report, we explain the rationale for this change and what we believe it will achieve.
Sir Peter Mason KBE Chief executive Restructuring will result in two separate entities with greater operational and financial flexibility 4 AMEC plc annual report 2005 There is a good appetite for this This strategy will achieve focus in Why change?
type of business and we have the fast-growing natural resources Over the last decade, we already received many expressions and energy markets on the successfully transformed AMEC of interest from trade and private one hand, and a UK focused from a largely UK building equity buyers.
We expect to realise investments and construction business into an international, an attractive profit on the sale, portfolio on the other.
By 2004, AMEC allowing us to strengthen the it is the right route to release had developed three distinct core AMEC balance sheet.
the considerable value in the businesses: in global oil and gas, AMEC group.
engineering services, and projects, such as PPP.
By 2005, these Restructuring into two The next section of this report, businesses were noticeably distinct businesses the layout of which follows our diverging.
Their different Following the sale of AMEC SPIE, segmental analysis, gives you management and investment we will restructure our remaining more detail on our activities needs meant we could no longer businesses into two separate excluding AMEC SPIE and covers optimise their potential within entities: the prospects for each of our the group and early in the year, major markets, after which follows Energy and Process we started the work that evolved a review of our performance An international business into the strategy we announced in 2005. serving companies in the in November and which we natural resources, power and are pursuing today.
process sectors and including AMECs Oil and Gas, Mining, Proposed sale of Nuclear, Industrial and AMEC SPIE Environmental businesses.
The first phase of this strategy will UK Infrastructure be the sale of AMEC SPIE.
This has A UK business, serving public been an excellent investment for and private sector organisations AMEC, but it needs substantial in the UK infrastructure market resources to thrive in the and including AMECs consolidating European market.
Construction, Mechanical and We see opportunities for higher Electrical, PPP, Property growth in our core energy and Developments, Wind and UK process markets, together with Rail businesses.
continuing opportunities to invest in our portfolio of equity investments.
