10 ITV plc 2005 annual report Weve grown our successful family of channels.
Weve also created a new look and a distinctive personality for each of them.
In a multichannel world strong brands become ever more important as they provide a useful shorthand for viewers to nd the kind of programming they want to watch.
ITV1, ITV2 and ITV3 are all in Freeviews top 5 commercial channels.
11 ITV1 Key programming Despite the ever expanding range of channels available, ITVs agship Coronation Street channel, ITV1, continues to be the UKs most popular channel in peak The Bill Bad Lads Army time with almost four times the audience of its nearest commercial Champions League rival Channel 4 in multichannel homes.
Every week 44 million people, Emmerdale or 80% of the nation, watch ITV1.
ITV1 enjoyed numerous successes Im A CelebrityGet Me Out Of Here!
The X Factor in 2005, with several major television events standing out.
ITV1 is Who Wants To Be A Millionaire still able to bring together mass audiences in a highly-fragmented TV Tonight with Trevor McDonald market, and provide television to talk about in every genre.
Vincent Heartbeat Emotional moments we all share 12 ITV plc 2005 annual report ITV2 Key programming ITV2 had a very good 2005 and comfortably outperformed its biggest Footballers Wives Extra Time commercial rival, Sky One.
ITV2 is aimed at a younger, mainly female The Xtra Factor Jordan and Peter: Marriage and Mayhem audience and has a popular mix of drama, comedy, movies, events, Im A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here Now!
original commissions and brand extensions of popular ITV1 shows American Idol such as The X Factor, Im A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!
ITV2 is now the biggest non-terrestrial station for adults, and in an average week 2.8 million more adults watch ITV2 than Sky One.
Must-have TV PANTONE REF PROCESS COATED fide 303-1 C C 35 M 0 Y 100 K10 13 ITV3 Key programming ITV3 was launched in November 2004 and is now the second most Agatha Christies Poirot popular non-terrestrial commercial channel on Freeview, after ITV2.
Midsomer Murders Inspector Morse In 2005, ITV3 overtook its closest commercial rival, UKTV Gold.
A Touch of Frost ITV3 is aimed at an upmarket audience and shows some of ITVs Prime Suspect most popular dramas, many of which have only been broadcast once Foyles War Jeeves and Wooster before, including Inspector Morse, Midsomer Murders, A Touch of Henry VIII Frost, Prime Suspect and Foyles War.
It also plays ITV classics including Maigret, Jeeves and Wooster and Henry VIII: acquired US series and high quality lms.
Quality drama that draws you in 14 ITV plc 2005 annual report ITV4 Key programming ITV4 launched on 1 November 2005 and was the most successful Champions League Live digital channel launch ever attracting more than 1.2 million viewers New Kojak The Big Fight Live at its peak.
ITV4 is an entertainment channel predominantly aimed Clint Eastwood Season at young men.
It showcases big new series from the US, such as UEFA Cup Live New Kojak, Vengeance Unlimited, Trafc and Invasion Iowa: quality comedy: great lms and is the home of must-see sporting events such as Champions League Football and World Championship boxing.
In its first two months it became the 11th most watched non-terrestrial channel ahead of More4.
Pure entertainment 15 CITV Key programming ITV will launch CITV in March 2006, the first dedicated commercial Pocoyo childrens channel on Freeview and the latest addition to ITVs successful My Parents are Aliens Bratz family of channels.
Launching exclusively on Freeview and cable, it will Animal Spies air every day between 6am and 6pm.
The channel is targeted towards Uncle Dad two distinct age groups, our pre-school audience and 49 year olds.
Louie All the CITV favourites will be there from pre-school programme Pocoyo to the award-winning My Parents are Aliens.
The CITV channel will also premiere a whole host of brand new shows exclusive to CITV.
With a high volume of UK acquired and commissioned shows, the CITV channel will be packed full of quality entertainment for children.
TV for toddlers to pre-teens
