34 ITV plc 2005 annual report Directors report Principal activities of the Group and review of the year A review of the results and activities of the business is included in the financial r f eview on pages 25 to 29 profit after tax was 226 million 2004: 143 million.
Principal transactions and post balance sheet events On 27 April 2005 the Group acquired the UK digital terrestrial television multiplex operator SDN Limited from United Business Media plc and S4C Digital Media Limited.
The total cost of the acquisition was 136 million.
In September 2005 the Group announced the intention to provide lump sum funding of 325 million to the Groups dened benefit pension scheme to reduce the deficit in those schemes.
118 million was contributed in December 2005 and 207 million was contributed in January and February 2006.
Further details are included in the Financial Review on pages 28 and 29.
On 6 December 2005 the Group acquired community website Friends Reunited from the founders and employees of the Friends Reunited business.
The Group acquired the holding company of the Friends Reunited group for an initial consideration of 120 million satisfied by a mixture of cash from existing facilities and the issue of notes and ITV plc ordinary shares plus deferred consideration of between nil and 55 million.
Further details are set out in note 28 of these financial statements.
Post balance sheet events are described in note 34 of these financial statements.
Convertible shares At the time of the merger creating ITV the former Carlton shareholders were issued with ITV convertible shares.
These were intended to provide those shareholders with an additional 2% in aggregate of the combined Group in the event of strong growth in advertising revenue for free to air television, to which Carlton had been more highly operationally geared than Granada.
Two triggers were set out in the terms of issue as measures of such growth.
One of those triggers was that the share price of ITV plc should exceed 140 pence for 60 of the last 90 dealing days in 2005.
That trigger was not achieved and the convertible shares were therefore of no further value.
They have been converted into deferred shares and will shortly be cancelled without any payment.
Dividends A final dividend on the ordinary shares is proposed for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 1.8 pence per share payable on 3 July 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on Friday 21 April 2006.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from Wednesday 19 April 2006.
The total dividends paid and proposed for the year ended 31 December 2005 are therefore as follows: 2005 2004 Interim dividend 1.32p 1.10p Final dividend 1.80p 1.30p Total 3.12p 2.40p The Dividend Reinvestment Plan is being offered to the holders of ordinary shares in respect of the final dividend and further information about the Plan is given on page 90.
Substantial shareholdings As at 8 March 2006 the Company had received notications from the following institutions of interests of themselves and their clients in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company numbers of shares and percentage interests are as at the notication dates.
Shares % FMR Corporation and Fidelity International Limited 575,200,415 14.00 Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 290,187,578 7.10 Legal & General Group plc 140,677,287 3.45 Barclays PLC 123,340,774 3.01 A prole of shareholdings is set out on page 90.
Directors The following were directors of the Company during the year: Appointed Resigned Sir Peter Burt Chairman Sir George Russell Deputy Chairman and senior independent director Charles Allen David Chance 13 February 2006 James Crosby John McGrath Sir Robert Phillis 7 February 2005 Sir Brian Pitman Baroness Usha Prashar 7 February 2005 Henry Staunton Mike Clasper and John Cresswell were appointed as directors on 3 January 2006 and 16 January 2006 respectively and will retire from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible will offer themselves for election.
Sir Peter Burt, Sir Brian Pitman and Sir George Russell retire from the Board, and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mike Clasper, Sir Peter Burt, Sir Brian Pitman and Sir George Russell do not have service agreements with the Company.
The service agreement of John Cresswell is terminable upon one years notice.
Further information on service contracts is set out in the Remuneration report on page 85.
Henry Staunton will step down from the Board on 31 March 2006.
Further information is set out in the Remuneration report on page 85.
No director had any interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings except as disclosed in these financial statements.
35 Directors interests Shareholdings in the share capital of ITV plc beneficially owned by directors and their family interests are set out below.
Details of directors interests over ordinary shares under company share schemes are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 81 to 89.
1 January 2005 or 31 December 2005 appointment date if later ITV ITV ITV ITV Ordinary Convertible Ordinary Convertible Sir Peter Burt 30,000 30,000 Sir George Russell 4,100 4,017 Charles Allen 3,872,156 3,572,958 David Chance 16,609 16,609 James Crosby 23,058 23,058 John McGrath 9,760 923 9,760 923 Sir Robert Phillis 10,000 Sir Brian Pitman 2,097 198 2,097 198 Baroness Usha Prashar Henry Staunton 2,557,785 2,282,784 Between the end of the financial year and 8 March 2006 there were no changes in directors interests except for the following: a. beneficial acquisition by Sir George Russell of 45 ITV ordinary shares under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan b. reinvestment of dividends within an ISA by Charles Allen of 13 ITV ordinary shares and by Henry Staunton of 15 ITV ordinary shares c. cancellation of the ITV convertible shares on 1 January 2006.
Going concern The directors are satisfied that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Properties Note 12 to the accounts gives details of the valuations of the Groups operational properties as at the balance sheet date.
Donations The Group made contributions to charities and equivalent organisations amounting to 19.3 million 2004: 22.3 million.
It is ITVs policy not to make cash contributions to any political party.
However, the Political Parties, Election and Referendums Act 2000 the Act requires companies to obtain shareholder approval for any donations to political organisations or political expenditure in excess of an aggregate of 5,000.
Within the normal activities of the Groups national and regional news gathering operations there are occasions when the Group may provide some hospitality at functions where politicians are present.
The Group, as part of its normal industry activities, is also keen to maintain contact with all political parties to ensure that they are aware of the key issues affecting its business.
Under the Act the denition of political expenditure and donations to political organisations is extremely wide and may be construed as covering such areas of the Groups normal activities.
Shareholder authority for such expenditure was given at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2005 and a similar resolution will be proposed at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
During the year the Group made the following payments totalling 31,406 2004: 24,850 to cover the cost of hosting receptions at the Autumn party conferences: Labour Party 17,710: Conservative Party 7,557: Liberal Democrat Party 6,139.
Employment policies The Groups programme making, commercial, management, technical and administrative talent are key to its success.
The Groups Diversity Policy aims to ensure equality of opportunity during the entire career cycle of an individual irrespective of sex, marital status, race, origin, nationality, religion, religious belief, disability, age, gender, sexual orientation, or gender reassignment.
It also covers arrangements for the continued employment of and appropriate training for employees who become disabled whilst working for the Group.
The policy includes a range of measures such as training in recruitment and selection, portrayal monitoring and entry level bursaries, traineeships and foundation schemes that are led by both the diversity and learning and development strategies.
The Group consistently reports on-screen portrayal performance for both News and Network productions with new technology launched in 2005 to improve the process.
The work-place prole is also monitored and reported on extensively from recruitment through to an individuals development and remuneration.
The inauguration of 25 Diversity champions enables the various diversity action groups that exist throughout the business to align diversity strategy with participants being representative of most business areas and diverse in their make-up.
The Company is chairing the Cultural Diversity Network for 2005 and 2006 and is an active participant in the major diversity forums whose focus is the employment and development of minority groups Opportunity Now, the Employers Forum on Disability, the Broadcasters Disability Network and the Cultural Diversity Network.
Communication and consultation with employees is a high priority and the Group has a framework for consultation and information under which Communication Groups on each site have joint responsibility for maintaining a regular dialogue on all issues concerning the employees and the business.
Where there is support from employees, there is a regular dialogue with recognised Trades Unions.
During a year of intensive change, our communication with employees has been crucially important.
We have increased our support to managers with a series of management briengs from the leadership team at key points of change throughout the year together with monthly written briengs and action points for all employees.
Every effort was made to inform and update employees on change first, before this was reported externally a considerable feat in a media organisation.
There was extensive collaboration between the Marketing, Communications and HR teams, in order to engage employees in the development of our new on-air and employer brand, including the dening of our mission and values.
Much of this work was brought to life for employees with our new intranet which was also developed in consultation with them.
Working with our elected employee representatives, we also introduced a new cycle of top-down and bottom-up communication between the leadership team and employees.
Evaluation has already indicated the positive impact these initiatives have had, collectively, on morale, engagement and alignment with ITV's vision of the future.
36 ITV plc 2005 annual report Directors report Learning and development opportunities are vital to attract and retain the best talent and television's reliance on ever-changing technology also requires that we keep our employees well-trained.
Training is offered across a wide range of activities from technical and managerial to programme making.
We also maintain the philosophy that internal development is encouraged and monitored.
A new team was assembled in 2005 to co-ordinate our training strategy across the business, improving all skill levels and emphasising leadership development throughout the organisation.
All employees receive an annual career development review that focuses on progress during the year and identies any development needs.
Managers and employees can then refer to the Development Guide on the intranet.
The Development Guide is a one-stop interactive source for information about all the training available to employees which was completely overhauled during the year.
The result has been better communication and a higher uptake of training opportunities.
Training includes both off-the-job courses, such as technical and programme courses in camera operations, presentation skills for journalists, script writing and copyright law: and on-the-job training such as coaching and mentoring.
Our own internal training courses include Researching for TV, ITV Production, Technology Seminars and DV Camera Training.
In 2005, we launched the 'Creating Strong Leaders Programme' offering a development programme for all our leaders across the Group from the Management Board to our First Level Leaders.
In total, 385 managers have attended one of the three management development programmes.
The aim is for all managers to undergo this training within three years.
Online inductions were available on the new Development Guide from January 2006.
The Company chairs and is represented at board level on Skillset, which is the industry Sector Skills Council and contributes substantially both to its core funding and the freelance training fund it manages.
This means that we are fully represented to ensure we are part of both designing and helping to implement the training strategy for the Broadcasting industry at large.
It is vital for the Group to offer the right reward and incentivisation in order to attract and retain the best talent.
Since 2004, the Group has been offering new employees a consistent, competitive and attractive range of benets.
The Groups incentive programmes are structured to give our employees a stake in the future success of the Group.
As well as a SAYE scheme which is open to all staff and enables them to save for shares in the Company, the Group runs a bonus scheme which ensures that those with the brightest and best ideas are encouraged.
The Prime Mover Scheme allows the originators of programme formats that have the potential for international and UK exploitation to have a substantial stake in the success of those formats.
In 2005, the Group also introduced an all-employee annual bonus scheme which will allow employees to receive a bonus when the Group is successful.
The health and safety of employees, contractors and visitors is considered as a priority.
There are well established health and safety policies and procedures in place throughout the business and these are supported by an effective training programme.
Financial instruments Note 25 to the accounts gives details of the Groups financial risk management policies and related exposures.
Creditor payment policy The Companys policy, in relation to all its suppliers, is to settle the terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction, ensure awareness of the terms and to abide by those terms provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Company does not follow any code or standard on payment practice.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the Company as at 31 December 2005 was nil days 2004: nil days.
Share capital Full details of the movements in the authorised and issued share capital of the Company during the year are set out in note iv to the ITV plc Company financial statements on page 74.
The Company has the authority to purchase up to 409 million of its ordinary shares.
The authority remains valid until the 2006 Annual General Meeting or, 25 August 2006 if earlier.
A resolution will be put to shareholders to renew the authority at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
As explained in the Chairmans statement, the Company intends to return 300 million to shareholders during 2006 by way of market purchase of shares.
The Group has a number of discretionary trusts funded by loans to acquire shares for the potential benefit of employees of the Group.
Details of shares held by the trusts at 31 December 2005 are set out in note 29 to the accounts.
During the period shares have been released from these trusts in respect of share award schemes for employees.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday 10 May 2006 at 11.00 am in the Whittle Room at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
Notice is sent to shareholders separately with this report together with an explanation of special business to be considered at the meeting.
Auditor A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board James Tibbitts Company Secretary The London Television Centre Upper Ground London SE1 9LT 8 March 2006
