DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND ADVISERS Tim Martin Chairman, aged 50 Registered Office Tim founded the business in 1979, having previously studied law at Wetherspoon House Nottingham University and qualified as a barrister.
He became Central Park chairman in 1983.
Reeds Crescent Watford WD24 4QL John Hutson Chief Executive Officer, aged 40 John joined the company in 1991 and was appointed to the board in Company Number 1996.
He is a graduate of Exeter University and previously worked with Allied Domecq.
1709784 Jim Clarke Finance Director and Company Secretary, aged 45 Registrars Jim joined the company and was appointed to the board in 1998, Computershare Investor Services plc having previously worked for David Lloyd Leisure a division of PO Box 82 Whitbread plc and HP Bulmer Holdings plc.
He is a graduate of The Pavilions Stirling University and qualified as a chartered accountant in 1984.
Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Suzanne Baker Commercial Director, aged 42 Suzanne joined the company in 1992 and was appointed to the board Registered Auditors in 1997.
She has previously worked for Grand Metropolitan plc.
 LLP John Herring Senior Non-Executive Director, aged 47 Solicitors John was appointed to the board in 1997 and is chairman of the audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination Macfarlanes committee.
He is a non-executive director of Kensington Group plc and EAT plc and is a former director of Kleinwort Benson Securities Ltd. Bankers Brian Jervis Non-Executive Director, aged 70 Allied Irish Banks plc Bank of Scotland Brian was appointed to the board in 1991 and is a member of the Bayerische Landesbank audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination Lloyds TSB Bank plc committee.
A chartered secretary, Brian is a former director of National Australia Bank Ltd John Govett and Co Ltd. Scotiabank Europe plc The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Elizabeth McMeikan Non-Executive Director, aged 43 Financial Advisers Liz was appointed to the board in 2005 and is a member of the audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Limited committee.
Liz is a graduate of Cambridge University.
She is the founding director of S. G. Property Investments Ltd, a director of St Rhadegund Properties Ltd, an independent member of the Stockbrokers Insolvency Service Steering Board of the DTI and a Civil Service commissioner.
Liz previously worked for Tesco plc for 12 years in Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Securities Limited a wide variety of commercial and operational roles, both in the UK and overseas.
