Directors report for the year ended 24 July 2005 The directors present their report and audited accounts for the year ended The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and 24 July 2005. applied consistently and are also consistent with those used in the previous accounting year.
They also confirm that reasonable and prudent judgements Principal activities and business review and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the The principal activities of the company are the development and management year ended 24 July 2005 and that applicable accounting standards have of public houses.
Details of progress and future developments are given on been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which Results and dividends disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the The profit on ordinary activities for the year after exceptional items, after company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply taxation, was 24,304,000. with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the On 25 November 2005, the company proposes to pay a final dividend for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
year ended 24 July 2005 of 2.82 pence per share to shareholders on the share register as at the close of business on 28 October 2005.
Together with The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the the interim dividend of 1.46p per share paid on 27 May 2005, this brings the companys web site www.
The work carried out by the total dividend for the year to 4.28p per share.
auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes which may have occurred to Profit retained for the financial year amounted to 16,752,000 and will be the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
It is stated clearly on the web site that information published on the Internet is accessible in many countries and that legislation in the United Kingdom, Return of capital governing the preparation and dissemination of financial information, may At the annual general meeting of the company, held on 11 November 2004, differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the company was given authority to make market purchases of up to 28,374,610 of its own shares.
During the year to 24 July 2005, a total of Going concern 16,455,000 shares has been purchased at an average cost of 262p per share.
The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of the companys As at 24 July 2005, the authority given to the company at the last annual financial resources, through a review of the companys budget and general meeting remained outstanding in relation to 11,919,610 shares.
medium-term financial plan, which includes capital expenditure plans and As a result of the share buyback programme, the company expects earnings cash flow forecasts, and have satisfied themselves that the company will per share to be enhanced, in both the current and future years.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
This is based on reviewing the detailed profit and cash flow plans for the relevant period.
Directors For this reason, they continue to adopt the going-concern basis in preparing The directors listed on page 8 served throughout the financial year, with the companys financial statements.
the exception of Mrs McMeikan who was appointed during the year.
Mr Lowrie resigned as a director of the company on 23 March 2005.
Auditors Mr Jervis retires by rotation at this years annual general meeting and has The companys auditors,  LLP, have indicated their intimated that he will not seek re-election.
Mr Hutson and Mr Clarke willingness to continue in office, and a resolution that they be reappointed also retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Mrs McMeikan will also offer herself for re-election, in accordance with the companys articles of association.
Details of the terms under which the Employment policies directors, who were in office during the year, serve and their remuneration, Only through the skill and commitment of the companys employees will its together with their interests in the shares of the company, are given in the objectives be met.
All staff are encouraged to make a real commitment to directors remuneration report on pages 11 to 14. the companys success and to progress to more senior roles as they, themselves, develop.
No director has any material interest in any contractual agreement, subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is or may be significant to A heavy emphasis is placed on training programmes for all levels of staff: the company.
this highlights the importance placed by the company on providing service to its customers.
Insurance against the liabilities of directors and officers of the company was in place throughout the year, in respect of their duties as directors and In selecting, training and promoting staff, the company has to take account officers of the company.
of the physically demanding nature of much of its work.
The company is committed to equality of opportunity and to the elimination of discrimination Companys shareholders in employment.
The company aims to create and maintain a working Details of the companys shareholders, including those beneficial interests environment, terms and conditions of employment and personnel and notified to the company as accounting for over 3% of the issued share management practices which ensure that no individual receives less capital, are given on page 36. favourable treatment on the grounds of his or her race, religion, nationality, ethnic origin, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation or marital status.
Statement of directors responsibilities Employees who become disabled will be retained, where possible, and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for retrained, where necessary.
each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
The company has established a range of policies, covering issues such as The directors are required to prepare the financial statements on a diversity, employees well-being and equal opportunities, aimed at ensuring going-concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company that all employees are treated fairly and consistently.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 9 DIRECTORS REPORT Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are well informed about Accordingly, resolution 9, set out in the notice of annual general meeting, will the companys progress, through the use of regular newsletters, monthly be proposed as an ordinary resolution to authorise the directors pursuant to videos and briefings at staff meetings, at which employees views are section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot ordinary shares in the capital discussed and taken into account.
of the company, up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,150,000, being approximately 33% of the nominal value of the ordinary shares currently in All staff participate in incentive bonus schemes related to profitability issue.
The company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
The and or service standards.
authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the date of the passing of the resolution or the Policy on payment of suppliers conclusion of the annual general meeting held to approve the report and The company agrees on terms and conditions with all suppliers before accounts for the year ending 30 July 2006. business takes place and has a policy of paying agreed invoices in accordance with the terms of payment.
Trade creditors at the year end The directors will exercise such authority to allot shares only when satisfied represented 46 2004: 44 days purchases.
that it is in the interests of the company to do so.
They have no present intention, however, of exercising the authority, except in connection with the Political and charitable contributions issue of shares under the companys share option schemes.
Contributions made by the company during the year, for charitable purposes, were 27,537 2004: 61,438.
No political contributions were made.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights The provisions of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 which confer on Business at the annual general meeting shareholders rights of pre-emption in respect of the allotment of equity On pages 37 and 38 is a notice convening the annual general meeting of securities which are, or are to be, paid up in cash, other than by way of the company for 10 November 2005, at which shareholders will be asked, allotment to employees under an employees share scheme apply to the as items of special business, to approve plans for a new deferred bonus authorised, but unissued, ordinary shares of the company to the extent that scheme, to give power to the directors to allot shares, to give power to the they are not disapplied, pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985. directors to disapply the pre-emption requirements of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 and to give power to the directors to make market The existing disapplication of these statutory pre-emption rights will expire at purchases of ordinary shares in the capital of the company, subject to certain the end of the annual general meeting convened by the notice of annual conditions.
The notice also sets out details of the ordinary business to be general meeting.
Accordingly, resolution 10, as set out in the notice of annual conducted at the annual general meeting.
general meeting, will be proposed as a special resolution to permit directors to allot shares without the application of these statutory pre-emption rights, Approval of the directors remuneration report first, in relation to rights issues and, secondly, in relation to the issue of Resolution 2 in the notice of annual general meeting, which will be proposed ordinary shares in the capital of the company for cash up to a maximum as an ordinary resolution, asks shareholders to approve the directors aggregate nominal amount of 172,000 representing approximately 5% of remuneration report, set out on pages 11 to 14. the nominal value of the ordinary shares of the company currently in issue.
Re-election of Mr Hutson, Mr Clarke and Mrs McMeikan as directors The authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will expire on The companys Articles of Association require one-third of the directors to the earlier of 15 months from the date of passing of the resolution or the retire from office at each annual general meeting.
In addition, any director conclusion of the annual general meeting held to approve the report and who has, at the annual general meeting, been in office for more than three accounts for the year ending 30 July 2006. years since his or her last appointment or re-appointment should also retire and may offer him or herself for re-election.
Repurchase of ordinary shares In common with many other listed companies, the company proposes, once Brief biographical details of each of the directors standing for re-election again, to seek an authority from shareholders to permit the company to may be found on page 8.
The re-election resolutions are set out as purchase its own shares for cancellation.
Accordingly, resolution 11 will be resolutions 4 to 6 in the notice of annual general meeting.
proposed as a special resolution to authorise the company to make market purchases of up to just under 15% of the companys current issued ordinary Re-appointment of  LLP as auditors share capital, at prices not less than the nominal value of an ordinary share Resolution 7, set out in the notice of annual general meeting, proposes that and not exceeding 105% of the average of the middle-market quotations for  LLP should be reappointed as the companys the five business days before each purchase exclusive of expenses.
The auditors and authorises the directors to determine their remuneration.
authority will last until the earlier of 30 April 2006 or the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company.
The directors envisage that Proposed new Deferred Bonus Scheme purchases would be made only after considering the effects on earnings per A summary of the new Deferred Bonus Scheme is included in Appendix 1 to share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
the notice of annual general meeting.
Further details on the scheme are set out on pages 11 to 14 in the directors remuneration report.
As at 2 September 2005, there were outstanding options over 6,462,055 ordinary shares, representing 3.7% of the companys issued ordinary share Authority to allot capital.
If the authority under resolution 11 were to be exercised in full, The general authority previously given to the directors to allot relevant this percentage would increase to 4.4%.
securities will expire at the end of the annual general meeting, convened for 10 November 2005.
By order of the board Jim Clarke Company Secretary 2 September 2005 10 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
