Directors report For the 53 weeks ended 30 January 2005 The Directors of JJB Sports plc the Group present their Annual report on Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
This will require an opening balance the affairs of the Group, together with Financial statements and the sheet as at 25 January 2004 to be prepared under IFRS, together with a Auditors report for the 53 weeks ended 30 January 2005. full profit and loss account, balance sheet and cash flow statement for the 53 weeks ended 30 January 2005 for comparative purposes.
It is intended Principal activities and business review to restate these figures at the time of the announcement of the IFRS results The principal activity of the Group continues to be the retailing of sportswear for the 26 weeks to 31 July 2005. and sports equipment.
The Group also includes a separate Leisure Division, which operates health clubs and indoor soccer centres.
A review of Work has already begun to identify the areas that will be most affected by operations for the accounting period is set out in the Chairmans statement, the introduction of IFRS.
Areas being reviewed include changes to the basis the Chief Executives statement and the Financial review on pages 2 to 13. of accounting for leases, share based payments, goodwill and dividends.
As there is still some work to be done in order to finalise the scope of IFRS Subsidiaries and to review the completeness of the areas to be affected, it is possible The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of that other areas may arise which may impact upon the Groups results in the Group in the accounting period are listed in note 14 in the Notes to the the preparation of its first full set of IFRS Financial statements which will financial statements on page 45. be for the 52 weeks ended 29 January 2006.
Results and dividends Declarable interests The Group profit for the accounting period after taxation is 33,199,000 As at the 18 of May 2005 the following notifications had been received from before provision for dividends, paid and proposed, of 23,080,000. holders of material interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued Retained profits for the accounting period of 10,119,000 have been share capital: Number of 5p Percentage transferred to reserves.
ordinary shares of share capital Morley Fund Management Limited 13,148,015 5.7 The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.0 pence net per ordinary Harris Associates L. P. 9,319,500 4.0 share 2004 7.0 pence which when added to the interim dividend of 3.0 The Capital Group Companies Inc. 7,196,818 3.1 pence 2004 3.0 pence gives a total dividend for the accounting period West Coast Capital 3,480,193 1.5 of 10.0 pence net per ordinary share 2004 10.0 pence.
If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on Under section 208 5 of the Companies Act, West Coast Capital is deemed 18 July 2005 to shareholders on the share register at the close of business to have an additional interest in a further 13,062,061 ordinary shares, on 10 June 2005. representing 5.7 per cent of the issued share capital, which are capable of being redelivered under a stock loan agreement.
West Coast Capital does Directors not have voting rights over these shares.
The current members of the Board of Directors are listed on page 18 of this Annual report.
All Directors served throughout the accounting period.
The total interests of the Directors, as detailed in the Remuneration report on page 31 together with those of their immediate families and family trusts, The Articles of Association require one third of Directors to retire by rotation amounted to 89,644,388 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, representing at every Annual General Meeting, in addition to the re-confirmation of 38.8 per cent of the Companys share capital as at 18 May 2005.
Directors appointed during the year.
David Beever, Barry Dunn and David Greenwood are the Directors due to retire by rotation and resolutions will be Share buy-back authority proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for their re-election.
Authority was given by the shareholders for the Company to purchase up to 5 per cent of its issued share capital at the time of the Annual General Full details of the cost of the service contracts, remuneration and incentive Meeting AGM on 9 July 2004: this authority will expire at the time of the packages provided for the Directors and their interests in the share capital 2005 AGM in July 2005.
After the Tender Offer in February 2004 where of the Company are given in the separate Remuneration report in this 7.25 million ordinary shares were acquired and cancelled at a cost of 20.8 Annual report on pages 28 to 31. million, no further share buy-backs have been undertaken by the Company.
Remuneration report JJB will seek a renewal of the authority to purchase up to 5 per cent of its The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require that the issued share capital at the 2005 AGM, which will then be in place for the remuneration report must be tabled for a shareholder vote, at each Annual following 12 months.
Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed for the approval by the shareholders of the Remuneration report.
Close company status The Company is not a close company within the provisions of the Income International Financial Reporting and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Financial statements for the 52 weeks ending 29 January 2006 and all subsequent periods will be prepared in accordance with International 19 Directors report continued Charitable and political contributions Employee training Charitable donations of 65,000 2004 - 9,500 were made by the The Group believes in encouraging employees to maximise their potential Group during the accounting period.
Included in this figure is 50,000 and so provides training which ensures that they are able to perform their donated to the Tsunami Appeal Fund and 15,000 donated to the Variety duties to the best of their abilities.
A number of retail employees annually undertake National Vocational Qualifications in customer service through the Groups principal training The Group again participated in the Macmillan Cancer Relief football badge providers, Performance through People.
During the 53 weeks ended 30 campaign.
JJB is pleased to report that, for the 53 weeks ended 30 January 2005, a significant proportion of employees on this course January 2005, total donations of approximately 82,000 were raised from achieved qualifications of various levels under the scheme.
In addition, staff purchases of football badges by its customers and staff.
The total now working within the health clubs sign up to a Training Pathway Programme raised through the Groups stores since the beginning of this campaign in and undertake various NVQ qualifications, relevant to their position.
The January 1999 is approximately 1.1 million.
Group hopes that this scheme, along with other in-house initiatives, will The Group also continues to support the Variety Club Childrens Charity help to further improve customer service levels at its operating units.
appeal with its charity golf day which in 2004 raised a total of 90,000 to Driver training is provided to fork lift truck drivers, in order to improve enable a further 6 Sunshine coaches to be purchased by the charity.
safety in the Distribution centre.
Additionally, many employees with support from the Group, have taken part The Group financially supports those employees wishing to obtain in various charitable fund-raising activities during the year.
relevant professional qualifications whilst in the employment of the Group.
Professional staff are also encouraged to attend training courses and No contributions were made to political parties.
seminars as and when necessary, in order that they keep up to date with developments relevant to their work and areas of expertise.
Career Supplier payment policy progression is available to employees across the Group.
The Groups policy for the payment of suppliers is to agree terms of payment with suppliers at the time that orders are placed.
Payment is then Employee consultation made in accordance with the agreed terms.
Trade creditor days of the The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees Group at 30 January 2005 were 23 days, based on the ratio of trade in matters affecting them as employees.
JJB has continued the practice of creditors at the end of the accounting period to the amounts paid during the keeping employees informed on such matters and on the various factors accounting period to trade creditors.
affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through regular meetings involving Directors, managers and supervisory staff to convey Auditors information about the business as well as via notice boards and the intranet.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors to the Company and a resolution for their re-appointment as The GMB Union are accepted by the Company to negotiate collective auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will bargaining on behalf of hourly paid staff within the Distribution centre.
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Employment issues The Annual General Meeting AGM of shareholders will be held at 12 noon The Group employs approximately 11,500 people throughout the United on Wednesday 6 July 2005 at the JJB Stadium, Loire Drive, Wigan, Kingdom and overseas and is proud of its record as a responsible and Lancashire, WN5 0UH.
The Notice of the Meeting is included in a separate valued employer.
circular issued to shareholders with this Annual report and Financial statements.
Certain Special Business is to be proposed at the AGM, details JJB Sports plc is an equal opportunities employer, and as such the following of which are set out in the Notice of the Meeting.
key values are respected throughout JJBs operations: All employees should be treated fairly and equally and the workplace Included in this Special Business is a resolution to grant authority to enable the should be free from discrimination, harassment and intimidation: Company to purchase in the market, up to 5 per cent of its issued share capital: the Board intend that this authority will only be exercised if it is considered by Recruitment, retention and progression of employees is based solely on the Directors to be in the best interests of the shareholders generally and if to personal ability and competency for the work in question: and do so would be likely to result in an increase in earnings per share.
Disabled persons should enjoy equal opportunities within the workplace.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled during the course of their By order of the Board J. D. Greenwood - Company Secretary employment, the Group will make every effort to provide an opportunity Martland Park, Challenge Way for them to remain with the Group.
