In the North Sea, we have been active on a number of contract with ExxonMobil to provide operations and Energy Supporting Energy tiebacks, integrity enhancement, upgrade and longmaintenance support to their offshore Zafiro field.
"We are working as one of the were also awarded a contract by Amerada Hess to engineering, modifications and maintenance providers provide operations and maintenance support to their ""Shortly after establishing our presence in Equatorial Guinea... we announced plans for to BPs North Sea assets and, during the year, we existing Ceibe FPSO and their development of the the Phase 2A and 2B expansion projects."
These significant projects are progressing Okume complex, comprising two tension leg platforms supported a number of turnarounds on facilities and upgrade projects on the Schiehallion and Magnus and four fixed platforms.
Elsewhere in the region, DSI well...
The ability to fast track these projects was made possible by the cooperation of the provided commissioning services to Shell's Bonga assets.
We are continuing to support Shells assets in Government of Equatorial Guinea and the commitment of Marathon and its partners to the Northern North Sea as a one third partner in the facility.
"Sigma 3 joint venture, where there was significant focus move ahead quickly. """
In Asia Pacific, our contract with Brunei Shell Petroleum, on engineering work associated with Shells integrity through the SKS Wood joint venture, is progressing well upgrade project.
Separately, we are Shells main with significant construction and shutdown activity in support contractor for their onshore gas plants at St the second year of this long term contract In Fergus and Mossmorran and completed significant Indonesia, we were awarded a project services support upgrade projects during the year.
contract for the BP Tangguh LNG development and continue to provide offshore operations and Several other significant projects were completed for key maintenance support to their West Java assets.
We North Sea clients, including a major upgrade of the gas have also been awarded maintenance contracts with handling and power generation facilities on the Forties Premier Oil and Star Energy for their offshore assets in Field for Apache, topsides modifications on the Alwyn Indonesia.
and Dunbar platforms for the Forvie high pressure, high temperature gas condensate field development for Total We have continued to invest in developing our and modifications to the Amerada Hess operated Triton presence in new markets that we believe will be FPSO Floating Production Storage and Offloading important to the division going forward.
This includes vessel to accommodate the PetroCanada Pict field the investment in JBEC in Russia, together with development.
We have further expanded our North Sea additional contract awards in Kazakhstan and Vietnam.
activities with an important new contract to support ExxonMobil at their Fife Ethylene Plant and an addition to the Talisman contract for operations & maintenance support to the Bleoholm FPSO.
In the Americas, we provide production operations and maintenance support services for a large number of manned and unmanned platforms in the shallow water Gulf of Mexico for a wide range of operators, including Apache, Pogo, ERT, El Paso and Dominion, and are Supporting Marathon in expanding into deepwater with the award of a contract from BHP Billiton for pre-operations support for the Equatorial Guinea Neptune project.
In addition, DSI, our commissioning Production Facilities Case Study services provider, has been active throughout the year Client benefit: on a range of projects, including the BP Atlantis and Client: Marathon EG Production Limited Marathon Track record in supporting start-up operations around the Thunder Horse developments.
In Brazil, we secured a world Value: $30 million per annum notable new contract to operate and maintain Sevan Track record in training and developing of local workforces Marines SSP 300 FPSO for the Petrobras Piranema Duration: Six years field.
This is anticipated to commence operation in late Fact box 2006 and we are currently providing pre-operations Location: Alba field, Equatorial Guinea This project adds to Wood Groups resume of support services during the construction phase of the operations and maintenance support projects Activity: Operations and maintenance support services for project.
We increased our presence in the region with performed in Equatorial Guinea, including an FPSO, our first offshore operations and maintenance contract offshore & onshore facilities.
Supporting the construction a fixed platform, and an onshore gas facilities in Mexico, managing the Akal GC gas compression phase of Equatorial Guineas first LNG plant.
complex on behalf of a joint venture between Duke Provision of 170 operations and maintenance support Energy and Marubeni.
personnel, HSE professionals, start-up operators and other Terms used: In West Africa, we have expanded our presence in commissioning personnel Condensate: A term used to describe light liquid hydrocarbons Equatorial Guinea.
We are continuing to provide separated from crude oil after production and sold separately.
operations support to Marathons Alba offshore Technical details: The Alba field, which began producing in Dry Gas: Gas produced from a well that produces little or no production and onshore gas processing and export 1991, is estimated to contain gross producible resources of condensate or liquid.
facilities, along with training and development support at least 5 trillion cubic feet of dry gas and 300 million barrels Liquified Natural Gas LNG : Natural gas liquified either by to ExxonMobil and Amerada Hess.
We added a new refrigeration or by pressure.
16 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 17 Well Support WS Global Operations All three Well Support businesses performed strongly, strengthening their US market positions and winning market share internationally.
m Countries in which WS operate All three Well Support businesses performed strongly, We continued to focus on technology enhancement of our Well Support provides solutions, products and services to enhance production rates and efficiency strengthening their US market positions and winning products and services and international expansion to market share internationally provide continuing growth over the next several years, see from oil & gas reservoirs.
It is among the market leaders internationally in artificial lift using electric submersible pumps ESPs and in 2005 2004 Change surface wellheads and valves to control reservoir 1 pressure.
It also has a strong market share in the Revenues $645.7m $513.9m 26% BROADENING EXTENDING SERVICES provision of electric wireline and slickline services in the INTERNATIONAL 1 EBITA $58.5m $41.2m 42% REACH Gulf of Mexico and parts of South America.
1 EBITA margin 9.1% 8.0% 1.1% points The increased turnover, together with cost reduction EXPANDED ESP - EXPANSION OF and efficiency improvement initiatives contributed to the MANUFACTURING CAPABILITIES IN CHINA & CANADA : RUSSIA, GROWTH positive margin trend.
WELL NEW LOGGING IN EGYPT TOOLS, NEW ESP SUPPORT PRODUCTS PC - MEXICO & MIDDLE EAST BREAKTHROUGHS 1 Revenue includes $37.5m 2004: $22.0m and EBITA includes $5.0m 2004: $1.0m for Protech.
EBITA margin excluding Protech would have been 8.8% 2004: 8.2% Figure 2 18 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 19
