Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report a year of strong growth across our three divisions.
Energy demand is growing round the world.
Oil & gas prices are strong and our clients have stepped up their expenditure to bring new developments onstream and enhance recovery from mature assets.
Introduction Markets In the power industry, supply and demand in the US is Following the acquisition of Deepwater Specialists Inc moving towards balance in some states, leading to DSI, Engineering & Production Facilities acquired Offshore I am pleased to report a year of strong growth across Energy demand is growing round the world.
Oil & gas somewhat higher gas turbine utilisation.
This, along with Design Limited ODL to enhance our range of our three divisions.
prices are strong and our clients have stepped up their the increasing demand for power elsewhere in the world, commissioning services, pre-operations and start up expenditure to bring new developments onstream and Key headline financials are: will lead to an increase in demand for aftermarket services support for new developments coming onstream.
In Well enhance recovery from mature assets.
for industrial gas turbines over the next several years.
Support, Pressure Control continued to develop their 2005 2004 Change manufacturing and assembly capabilities in China to deliver We expect a further healthy increase in client expenditures There will continue to be a significant debate on energy increased capacity and product cost improvements and, in Revenues $2,761.9m $2,288.1m 21% in 2006 with the following continuing trends: policy across the world.
Nuclear and coal will undoubtedly 1 Russia, we are expanding our ESP revenues.
In Gas EBITA $149.1m $117.4m 27% the major international operators looking at larger new get more attention, but we expect that gas, which is by far Turbine Services, we have successfully added to our 2 EBITA margin 5.4% 5.1% 0.3% points developments, many of which are offshore, and often in the most environmentally friendly fossil fuel, enhanced by number of long term contracts and enhanced our range of 3 harsh environments: ROCE 16.6% 14.6% 2.0% points the increased volumes of LNG Liquified Natural Gas, will re-engineered parts.
4 Adjusted diluted EPS 16.6c 12.9c 29% the National Oil Companies developing their significant continue to be a growing energy source.
This will provide We are extending our international reach with operations now domestic reserves and looking at international expansion: Dividend per 4.0 c 3.6 c 11% opportunities for both our oil & gas servicing activities and in over 40 countries.
In Engineering & Production Facilities, and ordinary share our position as the leading independent in the industrial gas we enhanced our capability to serve clients around the world the larger independents, many North America based, turbine aftermarket.
5 from new Mustang offices in London and Perth, Australia.
accelerating their international development, particularly in Additionally our investment in John Brown E&C Limited the Eastern Hemisphere.
Strategic development JBEC in Russia is helping us gain an important foothold in During 2005, we have continued to pursue our strategy of that market and we have extended our presence in All of these should give rise to strong demand for our oil & broadening and enhancing our capabilities, while extending Equatorial Guinea.
In Well Support we successfully started gas infrastructure design, and production support and our international reach.
enhancement services in the coming year.
up our ESP contract with ExxonMobil in Chad.
1 3 EBITA represents operating profit of $148.0m 2004: $85.6m, before adjusting for impairment and restructuring charges of $6.0m 2004: $26.2m, profit on disposal of subsidiaries of ROCE is Return on Capital Employed and is calculated as Group EBITA, before discontinuing activities, divided by average equity plus average net debt 8 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 9 4 $9.7m 2004: Nil and amortisation of $4.8m 2004: $5.6m.
This financial term is provided as it is a key unit of measurement used by the Group in the management of its business Shares held by the Groups employee share ownership trusts are excluded from the number of shares in calculating earnings per ordinary share.
Adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary 2 EBITA margin is EBITA divided by revenues share is based on the diluted number of shares, taking account of employee share schemes where the effect of these is dilutive.
5 Mustang is a Wood Group subsidiary and a global leader in the Engineering market offshore Brazil.
In West Africa, we are now supporting a we are increasing our expenditure on the technology and number of independents as they start up new production spare parts related to new turbine types.
Elsewhere, we have won several new The power sector market is now more stable and the contracts including rotating equipment operations & anticipated benefits from our programme of cost reductions maintenance activities in Mexico, Vietnam and Indonesia.
and efficiency improvements are being delivered.
We are During the year, also developing and enhancing our differentiation in higher we significantly tech Heavy Industrial Turbines, in the reverse engineering of WELL SUPPORT spare parts and in lower cost component repair.
As a result, increased our we are increasing the portion of our business under long term contract.
investment in our most 2005 2004 Change valued resource 1 Revenues $645.7m $513.9m 26% People 1 - our people.
EBITA $58.5m $41.2m 42% During the year, we significantly increased our investment in 1 EBITA margin 9.1% 8.0% 1.1% points our most valued resource - our people.
We have stepped up our development and training programmes to enhance the strength and depth of our next generation of business leaders, All three businesses in Well Support performed strongly.
we have increased our intake of graduates, and our very We maintained our significant US market positions while active programme of hiring, training and developing our furthering our international business development.
The people around the world has led to a significant increase in increased turnover, together with cost reduction and our overall number of employees.
efficiency improvement initiatives, contributed to the positive We warmly welcome Mark Papworth to our Board.
new Chief Executive for Gas Turbine Services and he is ESP performed well in both the US and Canada and we have already making a positive contribution.
Allister Langlands has recently won a multi-year extension on a major contract in returned to his role as Deputy Chief Executive and is leading Argentina.
In Chad, our ExxonMobil contract started up several important Group initiatives.
Ewan Brown, who has successfully and in Russia we are continuing to grow our been a trusted and wise counsel to the Board over many market share.
Pressure Control has maintained its strong years, has decided not to stand for re-election at the next number two position in the US market and is growing its Annual General Meeting and I thank him most warmly on international presence.
The investment in manufacturing, behalf of all my Board colleagues for his outstanding test and assembly capabilities in China is delivering product contribution to the Groups success.
We intend to appoint two cost improvements and additional manufacturing capacity to additional non executive directors in the course of this year.
Logging Services enjoyed a good year And finally, the Board's warmest thanks again go to all our in the US and, in Argentina we consolidated our position as employees for their commitment to safe working, quality and the leader in cased hole electric wireline services.
In the customer care, their skills, and their interest and involvement in fourth quarter we sold our permanent monitoring activities for In the second half of 2005, we raised approximately $90m of through sales in the North Sea led to a slight fall in margins the ongoing successful development of the Group.
approximately $31.4m including working capital adjustment.
new equity to strengthen our balance sheet and increase our for the year.
This business had performed well but was non-core and will flexibility to pursue our growth strategy.
The steps to better achieve its potential as part of a well completion Engineering was engaged in supporting a broad spread of Continuing growth broaden our service offering and extend our international products specialist.
In upstream, we worked on a large reach will include acquisitions, capital expenditure on new We see a continuing strong oil & gas services market and number of new developments and upgrade projects around facilities and investment in projects with our customers.
a somewhat improved power market for our services.
These include Tahiti, Blind Faith and Shenzi in the GAS TURBINE SERVICES This, along with the ongoing extension of our range of Gulf of Mexico, East Area Gas, Tombua Landana and Elon in services and geographical reach, will stand us in good Divisional highlights offshore Nigeria, Angola and Equatorial Guinea respectively, stead and, overall, we believe we are positioned for Mangala in India, Gorgon & Jansz in Australia and Valhall in 2005 2004 Change ENGINEERING & PRODUCTION FACILITIES strong growth into 2006.
In our downstream activities, we completed the Revenues $607.8m$537.9m 13% engineering on a number of refinery capacity upgrades and 2005 2004 Change clean fuel modification projects for a broad range of clients in EBITA $32.7m $23.5m 39% North and South America.
Revenues $1,472.3m $1,199.6m 23% EBITA margin 5.4% 4.4% 1.0% points Production Facilities has been active on a number of EBITA $88.2m$73.9m 19% tiebacks, integrity enhancement, upgrade and long-term EBITA margin 6.0% 6.2% 0.2% points Our cost reduction and efficiency improvement programmes support projects in the North Sea market where there and a more stable US power market have contributed to the continues to be significant focus on extending field life and improved financial performance in the year, and the positive enhancing production.
In the Americas, we have won new In 2005, the healthy oil & gas market and growth in margin trend.
contracts in the Gulf of Mexico, Venezuela and Colombia, as exploration and production spending contributed to a strong financial performance.
The ongoing business development well as a contract to operate and maintain a floating Our oil & gas aftermarket activities, which represent about Sir Ian Wood 35% of revenues, are continuing to make good progress and Chairman and Chief Executive programme, and increased level of zero margin passproduction storage and offloading vessel FPSO system 1 Revenue includes $37.5m 2004: $22.0m and EBITA includes $5.0m 2004: $1.0m for 10 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 11 Protech.
EBITA margin excluding Protech would have been 8.8% 2004: 8.2%
