Engineering & Production Facilities E&PF Global Operations With a broad spread of international clients, Engineering had a strong year in both upstream and downstream.
Whilst continuing to be busy in the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico, Production Facilities continued to successfully increase its range of services and extend its international presence.
m Countries in which E&PF operate In 2005, the healthy oil & gas market and growth in Engineering & Production Facilities provides a exploration and production spending contributed to broad range of services from concept selection a strong financial performance.
The ongoing through engineering design, project BROADENING EXTENDING international business development programme, management, construction management, SERVICES INTERNATIONAL REACH and increased level of zero margin pass-through PROJECT & facilities modifications and operations & CONSTRUCTION MOSCOW, LONDON, sales in the North Sea led to a slight fall in margins maintenance support to oil & gas companies MANAGEMENT UK AND PERTH, for the year.
MIDSTREAM TECHNOLOGY In order to continue to develop and grow the ENGINEERING division we have been broadening and enhancing 2005 2004 Change BROADENING PRODUCTION EXTENDING our capabilities and extending our international SERVICES INTERNATIONAL FACILITIES Revenues $1,472.3m $1,199.6m 23% REACH reach, see figure 1.
PRE-OPERATIONS EQUATORIAL GUINEA, EBITA $88.2m$73.9m 19% SUPPORT AND START-UP BRAZIL, RUSSIA, SUPPORT, TRAINING INDONESIA, MEXICO, EBITA margin 6.0% 6.2% 0.2% points SERVICES KAZAKHSTAN Figure 1 12 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 13 Engineering We offer a broad range of engineering and project management services in oil & gas production, transportation and processing facilities.
We have particular expertise in: Services Areas of expertise Upstream Deepwater and lightweight topsides, onshore processing facilities and subsea engineering Engineering, Midstream Offshore and onshore pipelines engineering, compression and LNG Liquified Natural Gas technologies project management, Downstream Clean fuel modifications, refinery upgrades and pharmaceuticals construction management Automation services, including proprietary software Automation Mangala project in India and JP Kenny, our pipeline With a broad spread of international clients, Engineering engineering specialist, continues to grow and is providing had a strong year in both upstream and downstream.
subsea engineering expertise for the Gorgon & Jansz 2005 was a strong year for our upstream activities.
In Norway we have begun work on the were busy for a diverse range of clients on upgrade FEED Front End Engineering Design for the Valhall projects and new developments around the world.
MSi the Groups specialist flow Gulf of Mexico we provided engineering services on a assurance and software provider has won a number of range of fast-track upgrade projects, as well as a number Energy Supporting Energy important contracts including notable successes in of new developments, including Chevrons Tahiti and Blind Kazakhstan and Trinidad.
"Faith, along with deepwater development projects for BHP ""We are building a platform to take Valhall through to 2050."
"Our South American operations have provided In the midstream area our technology is gaining increasing support to our US activities, were active on a range of acceptance and generating a number of enquiries that we make today and in the months ahead are fundamental for delivering a field upgrade projects and continued to provide engineering hope will lead to growing revenues in 2006. expertise on a number of important projects, for example centre that will be safe and cost effective for the next 40 years. """
In downstream we have been active in North America, ConocoPhillips Coro Coro in Venezuela.
In Africa, we are Venezuela and Mexico on clean fuel modification work, providing detailed engineering on ExxonMobils East Area including a number of low sulphur diesel modifications, Gas development offshore Nigeria and on Amerada Hesss Okume Complex developments offshore Equatorial and refinery upgrades to take advantage of the more Guinea.
We have recently begun a contract on Cairns favourable market conditions being enjoyed by our clients.
Production Facilities Supporting BP in Norway We offer a broad range of life of field production facilities support services to our clients around the world.
Engineering Case Study Life of Field Incorporate lessons learned and adapt these into a Wood Group, Mustang Engineering and J P Kenny, repeatable, consistent process adapted to suit the specific Exploration Development Production Enhanced Recovery Abandonment together with Stavanger-based partner needs of Valhall 1 Pre-operation support Client: BP on behalf of Valhall licensees Extend field life through to 2050 Commissioning Value: $multi million Location: North Sea, Norway Start-up support Operations and maintenance Fact box 2 Duration: FEED services over 6 months Brownfield engineering Mustang Engineering a Wood Group company Facility modifications Activity: FEED services covering design, procurement and specialises in design, engineering, procurement, project Production enhancement project management services with an option to extend for management and construction management of Life extension the full project duration and to include construction upstream, midstream and downstream developments.
J P Kenny a Wood Group company is one of the Technical details: The redevelopment will consist of a new world's leading independent pipeline and subsea integrated process and living quarters platform, bridgeengineering organisations.
consulting services, along with pre-operations and start-up Whilst continuing to be busy in the North Sea and linked to the existing complex and will become operational support.
Since acquisition, ODL has performed well and the Gulf of Mexico, Production Facilities continued to in 2009. extended its activity into new territories, including Norway, successfully increase its range of services and extend 1 Valhall licencees: BP Norge AS 28.09%, Amerada Hess Norge AS with a new contract for the Marathon operated Alvheim its international presence.
Client benefit: 28.09%, Norske Shell AS 28.09% and Total E&P Norge AS 15.72% development.
2 Adopt the many best practices identified from Clair FEED: Front End Engineering Design To broaden our service offering across the life of field we acquired ODL during the year, a provider of technical and 14 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 15
