Corporate Governance Newly appointed directors undertake an induction in relation to key areas of Board accountability.
Topics Statement of Compliance Board of Directors process designed to develop their knowledge and covered included group strategy, succession, Board The Board is committed to maintaining high standards Composition and responsibilities understanding of the companys business.
This includes and Committee composition, Board induction, training of corporate governance.
The revised Combined Code briefing sessions during regular board meetings, visits and risk management.
The non-executive directors also At 31 December 2005 the Board comprised twelve on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 the to Group operating sites and discussion of relevant conducted an evaluation of the Chairmans directors, made up of six executive and six nonCode applies for the period covered by this report.
performance taking into account the views of the executive directors which the Board considers provides Subject to the two exceptions referred to below, the executive directors.
The non-executive directors are available to directors consider that the company has complied with Christopher Masters is the senior independent director.
shareholders attending the companys AGM.
Directors the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended are advised on their appointment of their legal and On 16 January 2006, Mark Papworth, the new Chief 31 December 2005: Executive of Wood Group Gas Turbine Services, was other duties and obligations as directors of a listed A.
2.1 The Code provides that the roles of appointed to the Board as an additional executive company.
Committees of the Board Chairman Chief Executive should not be director.
He will stand for election at the forthcoming Non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to exercised by the same individual.
Mr Ewan Brown has indicated his intention to attend meetings with major shareholders.
committees - the Audit Committee, the Remuneration the period covered by this report Sir Ian Wood retire from the Board and will do so immediately prior to Committee and the Nominations Committee.
A summary continued to hold the combined role of the next AGM.
The Nominations Committee search for There is a procedure for any director to take of the work of the Audit Committee and the Nominations Chairman Chief Executive.
The Nominations additional non-executive directors is well underway with independent professional advice at the companys Committee and the Board have kept this matter Committee is set out below whilst the report of the the assistance of external consultants and additional expense and all directors have access to the services under regular review.
The non-executive Remuneration Committee is included in the Directors appointments will be announced when this process has of the Company Secretary who is responsible for directors believe that the combined role is in the Remuneration Report on page 45. been completed.
ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
best interests of the Company and that Sir Ians The committees terms of reference are available on the After careful consideration, the Board considers all of its interests are very closely aligned with those of the In 2005 the Board satisfactorily completed a formal companys website.
non-executive directors to be independent in character Companys other shareholders as a result of his evaluation of its own performance and of its committees and judgement and that there are no relationships or substantial shareholding in the Company.
When Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and individual directors.
This will be repeated annually circumstances, which are likely to affect, or could the Nominations Committee and the Board and its committees is summarised below: using detailed questionnaires completed by all directors appear to affect, their judgement.
considers it appropriate management succession plans will be implemented.
Brief biographies of the directors appear on pages 36 and 37.
All directors must submit themselves for A.
3.1 The Code requires the Board to identify each election at the AGM following their appointment and, Audit Remuneration Nominations non-executive director it considers to be thereafter, for re-election at least once every three independent.
In the case of Mr Ewan Brown the Board Committee Committee Committee years.
Code requires that an explanation be given to Number of meetings held in 2005 4 3 3 1 shareholders of his continuing independence Discharge of its responsibilities since he has more than 9 years service on the Executive directors Board.
The Board meets four times a year for two days and Sir Ian Wood 4 1 additionally as required.
It has a schedule of matters The Board continues to believe that Mr Brown is A G Langlands 4 specifically reserved for its consideration and approval.
independent in character and judgement and that It is responsible for the approval of Group strategy, the W R Brooks 3 there are no relationships or circumstances which annual budget, significant acquisitions, major financing are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his A G Semple 4 decisions and the overall system of internal control.
Mr Brown is not dependent on the T M Noble 4 Divisional and company management, including the company for his primary source of income and executive directors, are responsible for the L J Thomas 4 does not participate in any of the companys implementation of Board decisions in these areas and bonus, option or pension schemes.
The Board Non-executive directors all other aspects of managing the business.
considers that Mr Browns experience, E Brown 4 3 1 outstanding service and long-term perspective on The Board receives appropriate and timely information the Groups activities and strategy have been from management to enable it to perform its duties, Dr C Masters 4 3 1 valuable assets contributing to the Boards including monthly reports on financial and operating R Monti 3 2 1 deliberations.
J C Morgan 4331 After a long period of excellent service and Directors are also briefed on investor perceptions of the D J Ogren 4 3 1 contributions to the Board, Mr Brown has decided company.
The training needs of directors are not to offer himself for re-election at this years periodically discussed at Board meetings and briefings N H Smith 4 1 Annual General Meeting AGM.
arranged on issues related to corporate governance.
40 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 41 Audit Committee Nominations Committee Committee composition and responsibilities Discharge of its responsibilities Committee composition and responsibilities organisational structure for the control and monitoring of its businesses, including defined lines of responsibility The Audit Committee comprises three independent nonAttendance at Committee meetings is at the invitation of The Nominations Committee consists of Sir Ian Wood and delegation of authority.
The Group has issued executive directors, Dr. Christopher Masters the Chairman of the Committee.
However the Group Chairman and all of the independent non-executive Group Policies, including an Ethics Policy, to define the Chairman, Ewan Brown and John Morgan: and, of Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of directors.
The Committee meets at least once a year to standards of business conduct.
Advice lines have been these, Ewan Brown has recent and relevant financial Internal Audit and the external auditors will generally be review the Board structure, size and composition, make introduced to enable staff to raise ethical concerns in experience.
The Committee meets at least three times a invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Head of recommendations to the Board with regard to any confidence.
These numbers have been made widely year, and has written Terms of Reference setting out its Internal Audit and the external auditors have the right of changes, to identify and nominate candidates for the known via internal communications with employees.
These include: direct access to the Chairman of the Committee at all approval of the Board, to fill Board vacancies and to times and meet the Committee without management ensure that succession plans are in place.
Risk management - Each Business Unit management to monitor the integrity of the companys financial present on at least an annual basis.
team is responsible for the process of identification and statements and its interim and preliminary Discharge of its responsibilities evaluation of significant operational, financial and announcements The Committee met three times in 2005.
At its meetings The Committee met once during 2005.
The appointment compliance risks, and for the design and operation of the Committee reviewed the Annual Report for 2004, the to review the companys internal financial controls of Mark Papworth on 16 January 2006 is described on companys 2005 interim announcement, and the effective internal controls.
The Board receives regular to monitor and review the effectiveness of the page 40. updates from management on the key risks and the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls.
companys internal audit function These reviews included: related controls.
The Board formally reviews the Groups Relations with Shareholders exposure to key business risks twice a year.
to review the terms of engagement and discussion with management and the external The Group values its dialogue with its institutional independence of the external auditors to assess the auditors of significant issues regarding financial Information and communication - The Group has a shareholders and is committed to maintaining a high audit process and the effectiveness of the external risks, accounting principles, practices and comprehensive system for reporting performance to the standard in its investor relations programme.
Throughout auditors, and to recommend their appointment, rejudgements Board.
This includes monthly reports and the year there were two major investor roadshows, a half appointment or removal to the Board comprehensive quarterly reports.
The comprehensive consideration with the external auditors of the day tech-in on the Group's activities and a number of to monitor the policy on the engagement of the quarterly reports include a detailed financial review significant matters arising from the annual external other meetings.
The Annual General Meeting is also used external auditors to supply non-audit services against budgets and revised forecasts, which are audit as an opportunity to answer shareholders' questions.
In prepared at least twice a year.
The executive directors to report to the Board, identifying any matters in addition the senior independent director is available to review of reports prepared by the internal audit also receive detailed monthly financial reports.
In respect of which it considers that action or other meet with major shareholders.
function together with managements response and addition, each Business Unit performs a quarterly improvement is needed and making the actions they have taken update involving discussions with senior managers and recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Internal Control focus on complex or unusual transactions and certain of the executive directors: including the The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system judgmental areas.
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The The external auditors provide an annual confirmation of system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the Monitoring of the internal control systems - The their independence from the Group and details of any Board has agreed certain reporting procedures to risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only relationships between them and the Group that could provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against monitor key risk areas on an ongoing basis, including impact their objectivity and independence.
This material mis-statement or loss.
health and safety, legal and financial matters.
The Audit confirmation is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Committee has been delegated the responsibility to The Board has established an ongoing process for review the effectiveness of the internal financial control identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Non-audit services provided by external auditors systems implemented by management.
It is assisted by risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for The Committee approves fees in respect of non-audit the internal auditors and, where appropriate, the the year under review and up to the date of approval of services provided by the external auditors in external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee this Annual Report.
The process is regularly reviewed accordance with the Groups policy on the engagement regularly reports to the Board on their discussions.
A by the Board and accords with the Turnbull working of external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The quarterly self certification by each company is also party report: Internal Control - Guidance for Directors policy provides guidance to the Committee in used to monitor the quality of the internal financial on the Combined Code.
The Group, for the purposes safeguarding the external auditors independence and controls.
of applying the Turnbull Committee Guidance referred objectivity in relation to the provision of non-audit to above, comprises John Wood Group PLC, its services.
Going Concern subsidiaries and joint ventures.
The non-audit services provided in 2005 consisted Having made appropriate enquiries, the directors The procedures which the directors have established to mainly of tax services, the cost of which is reported in consider that adequate resources exist for the Group to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control note 3 to the financial statements.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable on an annual basis include the following: future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Control environment - The Group has a clear 42 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 43 Directors Remuneration Report Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of The directors confirm that they have complied with the The Chairman Chief Executive does not participate in Part I Unaudited information the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration above requirements in preparing the financial the Groups LTIS, LTRP or share option schemes.
Report and the financial statements This report has been prepared by the Remuneration This report also sets out the Groups policy on executive Committee and has been approved by the Board.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The directors are responsible for keeping proper directors remuneration for 2006 and, so far as Report and the group financial statements in accounting records that disclose with reasonable practicable, for future years, subject to changes in the The Remuneration Committee accordance with applicable law and International accuracy at any time the financial position of the Groups business environment and in remuneration The Remuneration Committee advises the Board on Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by company and the Group and enable them to ensure practices.
executive remuneration and sets the remuneration that the Group financial statements comply with the the European Union, and for preparing the parent packages of each of the executive directors.
The Basic Salary company financial statements and the Directors Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Committee has written terms of reference and is and the parent company financial statements and the Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law In determining the basic salaries of the executive comprised solely of independent non-executive Directors Remuneration Report comply with the and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United directors, the Committee seeks to set total remuneration directors.
During the year, the members were John C Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
at competitive levels while ensuring that performance Morgan Chairman, Roberto Monti and D John Ogren.
safeguarding the assets of the company and the group The Remuneration Committee charter is publicly related pay makes up a significant part of the total The directors are responsible for preparing financial and hence for taking reasonable steps for the package.
available on the Groups website.
statements for each financial year which give a true and prevention and detection of fraud and other fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the irregularities.
Annual Cash Bonus European Union, of the state of affairs of the Group and Chairman Chief Executive, attended meetings, except The directors are responsible for the maintenance and Annual cash bonuses are based on a combination of i of the profit or loss of the group and a true and fair when his own remuneration was being discussed, to integrity of the corporate and financial information the executive directors performance against annually view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally provide advice on setting remuneration for other included on the companys website.
Legislation in the agreed personal objectives aimed at achievement of Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of affairs of executive directors.
In addition, the Groups Head of United Kingdom governing the preparation and the Groups business related goals, including goals in the company for that period.
In preparing those Human Resources provided advice to the Committee dissemination of financial statements may differ from relation to the achievement of HSE performance targets and MM&K Limited, a firm of remuneration consultants, financial statements, the directors are required to: legislation in other jurisdictions.
and ii the Groups financial performance, measured provided advice in relation to the establishment of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply against annually established financial budgets, Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS.
them consistently: comprising both an EBITA and a return on capital employed measure.
The Committee fixed the maximum Remuneration Policy make judgements and estimates that are reasonable bonus potential for executive directors for 2005 at 50% and prudent: The Committee gives full consideration to the relevant of basic salary.
Actual bonuses for the year are provisions of the Combined Code and the Directors state whether the group financial statements comply disclosed in the table set out in Part II and reflect the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 in formulating with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and Remuneration Committees assessment of each remuneration policy.
The Committees policy is with regard to the parent company financial directors achievement of his objectives.
For 2005 designed to ensure executive directors are fairly statements whether applicable accounting standards performance, the overall bonus range was 38% to 47%.
rewarded for their individual contributions to the Group have been followed, subject to any material Bonus payments are not part of pensionable earnings and that their rewards are in keeping with the overall departures disclosed and explained in the financial for service after 5 April 2002. statements.
compensation goals and structures which apply across the Group.
Remuneration packages are designed to be Annual Deferred Bonus competitive with those offered by a range of companies A deferred bonus scheme was introduced in 2005.
This within the same business sectors and geographic areas scheme matches the annual cash bonus but defers the as the Group.
In 2005, a new LTIS, designed to attract, payment of the additional amount for two years and is retain and incentivise international executives with the subject to forfeiture in certain circumstances.
In a year necessary skills and expertise to deliver shareholder where the Group's profit increase is less than a target value, was approved by shareholders at the Annual level set by the Remuneration Committee, only half of General Meeting AGM.
Further details of the LTIS are the deferred bonus will be awarded.
given in the discussion on share schemes.
Remuneration packages comprise performance related Share Options LTRP and non-performance related elements.
During 2005, share options and LTRP awards were granted to the executive directors who joined the Board The current total remuneration package for each during 2004, prior to the introduction of the LTIS, as executive director comprises a basic salary, benefits-indisclosed in the table set out in Part II.
kind, annual cash bonus, annual deferred bonus and participation in the Groups pension arrangements and Pensions LTIS.
In addition, the two executive directors who joined All UK based executive directors are members of the the Board during 2004 participated in the Groups Long John Wood Group PLC Retirement Benefit Scheme Term Retention Plan LTRP and share option schemes.
44 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 45 JWG RBS which is a defined benefit pension scheme.
Share Option Schemes, Long Term Retention Plan Grants of options are considered on an annual basis by the LTRP and the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS Remuneration Committee and grants to any individual are The benefits and terms for the UK Executive Directors generally phased rather than awarded in blocks.
In the are shown in the following table: Share Option Schemes absence of exceptional circumstances, the Share Option Scheme rules set one times annual salary as a maximum The Group adopted the John Wood Group PLC No 1 2002 individual award level.
Executive Share Option Scheme and the John Wood Group Executive Employee Life Accrual Death in PLC No 2 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme the 2 Director Retirement Age Membership Contributions assurance Rate Service Benefits Long Term Retention Plan Share Option Schemes after approval by the Sir Ian Wood 65 JWG RBS Pre June Non Contributory 4x basic salary Total 2 3rds promise 2 3rds of expected shareholders on the listing of the Group in June 2002.
The The principle behind the LTRP Schemes is effectively that a 1989 member accruing uniformly pension at normal John Wood Group PLC No 1 2003 Long Term Retention notional overall bonus pool will be calculated annually retirement date based Plan and the John Wood Group PLC No 2 2003 Long based on growth in the Groups adjusted earnings per Term Retention Plan the LTRP Schemes and the share in the prior year.
The Remuneration Committees on final salary at date proposed parameters of their operation were approved by intention, based on current conditions, is that there will be of death shareholders at the 2003 AGM.
The Long Term Incentive no bonus pool if the prior year adjusted EPS growth is A G Langlands 60 JWG RBS Post June Non Contributory 4x basic salary 1 42nd 2 3rds of expected Scheme LTIS and the proposed parameters of its under a threshold of RPI plus 3% per annum.
The 1989 member pension at normal operation were approved by shareholders at the 2005 maximum bonus pool would be 5% of EBTA earnings retirement date based AGM.
before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items, which would be awarded if the adjusted EPS growth meets or on final salary at date Prior to listing on the London Stock Exchange the Group exceeds RPI plus 10% per annum.
In setting limits the of death operated two approved Executive share option schemes, Remuneration Committee is of the view that they should be the John Wood Group PLC 1994 Approved Executive Share T M Noble 63 JWG RBS Post June 7.5% of 4x basic salary 1 53rds 1 2 of expected pension challenging but achievable.
Option Scheme and the John Wood Group PLC 2000 1989 member pensionable salary at normal retirement Approved Executive Share Option Scheme and two To increase the retention value and to align with shareholder limited to 15% of date based on final unapproved Executive share option schemes, the John interests the annual awards from this notional bonus pool pension cap salary at date of death Wood Group PLC 1996 Unapproved Executive Share will be made wholly in shares under the LTRP Schemes, L J Thomas 65 JWG RBS Post June 7.5% of 4x basic salary 1 60ths 1 2 of expected pension Option Scheme and the John Wood Group PLC 2000 which then vest 4 years later if the executive continues to Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme the Former be employed by the Group.
1989 Member pensionable salary at normal retirement Share Option Schemes.
The options granted under the subject to pension cap date based on final The level of share award from the notional bonus pool to an Former Share Option Schemes vest on the basis of periods salary at date of death individual will be calculated based on the market value of of continuous employment with the Group and do not have the shares at the time of grant.
The method of granting additional performance conditions attached which have to these share awards will be by way of par value options, be satisfied prior to vesting.
The Board has resolved that which will be exercisable between the fourth and fifth Notes A G Semple participates in the Wood Group 401k Plan.
no further options will be granted under the Former Share anniversary of grant.
In the absence of exceptional He is provided with a pension arrangement of a defined Option Schemes.
circumstances, the LTRP Scheme rules set one times 1 Benefits provided to A G Langlands and T M Noble benefit nature, after allowance for the value of the 401k Options granted under the Share Option Schemes are annual salary as a maximum individual award from the in excess of the pension cap are provided by way of plan, providing an equivalent level of benefits to that exercisable between four and ten years from the grant date notional bonus pool, although it is the Remuneration an unfunded, unapproved arrangement.
provided to executive directors in the John Wood Group and options granted to executive directors are subject to Committees intention that individual awards would not PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme.
If he dies in 2 Death in service benefits entitle the surviving spouse the achievement of performance criteria.
Options granted to normally be more than 50% of annual salary.
pensionable service, his surviving spouse or or dependants to a pension based on a percentage employees are not subject to performance criteria.
This is to dependants are entitled to a pension of half of the of that which would have been received at normal ensure that the Groups option package is competitive in all Long Term Incentive Scheme Outline pension that would have been received at normal retirement date based on final pensionable salary at locations where it has operations, in particular in the USA retirement date based on the final pensionable salary at In line with the policy of ensuring remuneration is the date of death.
where the Groups competitors do not normally impose the date of death.
competitive with that offered by a range of companies performance criteria on the vesting of options.
within the same business sectors and geographic areas as 3 Pension increases are set at 3% per annum on W R Brooks participates in the Wood Group 401k Plan The current performance condition for Board members in the Group, the Remuneration Committee introduced a LTIS service to 5th April 1997 and a minimum of 3% and and in the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan.
the Share Option Schemes is that annualised earnings per for executive directors and other key senior executives in maximum of 5% on service from 6th April 1997 to 2005.
It is the intention that executive directors and other share growth over the measurement period must be an 30th June 2005.
Service from 1st July 2005 A G Semple and W R Brooks are provided with life average of 3% per annum greater than the percentage key senior executives will not receive further grants from the increases at a fixed rate of 3% per annum.
insurance cover of approximately four times salary.
increase, if any, in the Retail Price Index, over that period.
existing share option and LTRP schemes.
The measurement period is a period of four consecutive US based executive directors are entitled to participate Participation in the LTIS has been limited to those executive financial years, starting from the financial year commencing in the Wood Group 401k plan which is a defined directors and other key senior executives who, in the opinion immediately before the date of grant.
In addition they are entitled to of the Remuneration Committee, can materially influence the participate in a Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation The operation of the Share Option Schemes is subject to achievement of the Groups long term business goals.
plan which provides a company contribution based Initially, the executive directors excluding the Chairman and ongoing review by the Remuneration Committee with regard upon the level of employee deferrals.
to eligibility, level of allocation and frequency of issue, Chief Executive and about 30 key senior executives have taking into account the practice of comparable companies.
been chosen by the Remuneration Committee to participate.
46 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 47
