D W Morgan 10 11 H M P Miles OBE J N Sheldrick MA, MSc, FCMA, FCT Chairman, age 69: joined Johnson Matthey as a non-executive Group Finance Director, age 55: joined Johnson Matthey as director in March 1990: appointed Chairman in June 1998.
Executive Director, Finance in September 1990 and assumed Currently Chairman of Schroders plc and a non-executive director current job title in September 1995.
Held additional responsibility of BP plc and other companies.
Previously Chairman of Cathay for Pharmaceutical Materials Division from July 1999 until July 2004.
Pacific Airways, Swire Group Hong Kong, a director of HSBC, Previously Group Treasurer of The BOC Group plc and a nonJohn Swire & Sons Limited and ING Baring Holdings Limited, executive director of API Group Plc.
Currently a non-executive and a Vice President of the China Britain Business Council.
N A P Carson BSc C D Mackay MBA, MA Chief Executive, age 48: joined Johnson Matthey in 1980: appointed Age 65: appointed a non-executive director in January 1999.
Division Director, Catalytic Systems in 1997 after having held Currently Chairman of TDG plc and a member of the board of senior management positions in the Precious Metals Division as INSEAD.
Previously Chairman of the Eurotunnel Group and Group well as Catalytic Systems in both the UK and the US.
Appointed Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman of Inchcape plc.
Has also to the board as Managing Director, Catalysts & Chemicals in served on a number of boards including those of HSBC Holdings plc, August 1999 and additionally assumed board level responsibility British Airways plc, Gucci Group NV and Thistle Hotels plc.
A, M, N for Precious Metals Division in August 2002.
Appointed Chief Executive in July 2004.
Previously a non-executive director of M B Dearden MA Avon Rubber plc.
Age 62: appointed a non-executive director in April 1999.
Currently Chairman of Minova International Limited and a nonexecutive director of The Weir Group Plc and Travis Perkins plc.
Previously Chief Executive of Castrol International and a main board director of Burmah Castrol plc.
