filters CSFs : new catalyst technology for hydrogen production Total exceptional items amounted to 51.9 million.
Most and gas to liquids GTL and new products for Pharmaceutical of this charge related to the loss on disposal of Pigments & Materials.
We believe the group is particularly well positioned Dispersions and the restructuring of underperforming assets.
We for organic growth over the next few years.
In the longer term expect that this process will ultimately generate 50 million of fuel cell components remain an exciting market opportunity.
additional cash which we are using to buy back shares.
Our funding policy is to maintain a strong balance sheet Taking into account exceptional costs and goodwill with conservative gearing and use cash generated to invest in amortisation, profit before tax on a statutory basis fell by organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions.
Where cash generated 47.0 million to 131.0 million and earnings per share were exceeds our investment requirements we will return the 15.4 pence lower at 40.6 pence.
money to shareholders either in the form of share buy-backs The board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend or special dividends.
of 19.0 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 27.7 pence, an increase of 5%, which is in line with the growth in earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Review of Results 2004 05 Johnson Matthey made good progress in 2004 05 with profit Outlook before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation up 4% despite adverse exchange translation.
Earnings per share before The outlook for the next few years is very encouraging.
We exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased by 5%.
expect the group to achieve good top line growth from the On a constant currency basis both Catalysts and Precious introduction of new products and also generate cash.
Metal Products Divisions achieved 6% growth in operating The groups profits were higher in the first half of 2004 05 profit.
Pharmaceutical Materials was 2% down as a result of the than in the second half, partly as a result of exchange translation.
expiry of the carboplatin patent while Colours & Coatings In 2005 06 we expect this trend to be reversed, with most of continued its good recovery with profits 17% up.
the growth coming in the second half of the year.
Cash generation was good with a net 16.1 million used The much publicised problems in the US car industry are to buy back shares and net borrowings reduced by 24.9 million.
likely to have some impact on Johnson Mattheys results in the The group is well positioned to benefit from organic growth first half of 2005 06.
We expect car production to be down over the next few years and we have also taken action to in the US in our first half which will reduce demand for improve the returns on underperforming assets.
However, both Europe and Asia are Total sales grew by 3% to 4,639 million.
At constant now bigger car producing regions than the US and Johnson exchange rates sales grew by 7% with most of the increase Mattheys businesses in those regions are continuing to see coming from more buoyant trading conditions for platinum good demand which should more than offset the shortfall in group metals and higher average prices.
Sales excluding the the US.
In the first half of 2005 06 we expect profits in our value of precious metals fell by 2% to 1,200 million.
This fall Pharmaceutical Materials Division will be down on the partly reflected the impact of exchange translation but also equivalent period in 2004 05 when we were still benefiting lower pass through costs for autocatalyst substrates.
from the carboplatin patent, which expired in October 2004.
Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill Despite these factors the underlying growth trend is amortisation rose by 1% to 208.1 million.
HDD legislation in Europe will begin to have an translation reduced profits by 8.0 million compared with impact in October 2005 and we expect to see demand for 2003 04 mainly because of the fall in the value of the US dollar aftertreatment devices from original equipment manufacturers which averaged $1.85 compared with $1.69 for the last start to grow in the second half of the year.
We also expect financial year.
Translated at last years exchange rates, operating sales of catalysed soot filters for light duty diesel vehicles to profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation grow during the year.
Pharmaceutical Materials should benefit increased by 5%.
from new product launches in early 2006.
Interest was 3.0 million lower than last year as a result Earnings per share will also benefit from the share of lower average borrowings and more favourable average buy-backs we have undertaken using the proceeds generated interest rates, particularly for platinum.
The return on retirement by our programme to improve the returns on underperforming benefits assets and liabilities improved by 3.2 million reflecting assets.
We expect to purchase an additional 25 million of the increased funding surplus at 31st March 2004. shares in the first half of 2005 06.
We have completed our Profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill review of underperforming assets and do not expect any amortisation increased by 4% to 204.0 million.
Earnings per further exceptional rationalisation costs in 2005 06. share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation rose by 5% to 67.1 pence benefiting from a more favourable Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5 average tax rate.
