significant decrease in the availability of energy or raw materials excellence in catalysis and precious metals technology.
In addition could affect the groups results.
Johnson Matthey coordinates its we have major research centres at Royston and Billingham in the global purchasing activities to obtain the best possible prices and UK located close to some of our major businesses.
Worldwide uses hedging and other contractual means where appropriate to we have technical centres in many countries including the US, minimise this risk and to benefit where possible.
Japan, Sweden, the Netherlands and Italy.
Johnson Mattheys R&D activities are described in more detail on pages 13 to 15. Credit Risk Within certain divisions, the group derives a significant proportion Patents and Know-how of its revenue from sales to major customers.
Sales to individual customers are frequently high if the value of precious metals is Many of the inventions and intellectual property developed included in the price.
The failure of any such company to honour as a result of our investment in R&D are patented, and we its debts could materially impact the groups results.
maintain a large number of families of patents to support our Johnson Matthey derives significant benefit from trading businesses.
Equally important is know-how where the group with its large customers and manages the risk at many levels.
has an extensive knowledge base, particularly in the areas of Each business and division has a credit committee that regularly catalysis and precious metals, which can be used to develop monitors its exposure.
The Audit Committee receives a report new products and services to meet customer needs.
every six months that details all significant credit limits, amounts due and amounts significantly overdue within the group and the Commercial Relationships relevant actions being taken.
As at 31st March 2005, no single Many of our businesses provide products and services to outstanding balance exceeded 1% of the groups market other companies and we have developed close working capitalisation.
relationships with many of our customers and work in collaboration with them to develop new products.
We also have a long standing relationship with Anglo Platinum, the worlds largest platinum miner, which has lasted for many Resources decades.
Through this relationship Johnson Matthey and Anglo Platinum have developed new markets for platinum group Johnson Matthey has significant resources to support its core metals which have supported the expansion of the platinum businesses.
These have been built up over many years and industry over many years.
provide barriers to entry to new competitors in the key markets which the group serves.
Johnson Matthey continues to invest in Manufacturing Technology all the areas listed below to maintain its leading market positions.
Over the last decade the group has invested heavily in new Employees manufacturing capacity and technology.
Capital expenditure has run at a high multiple of depreciation see pages 18 and 19.
Johnson Mattheys most important resource is its people.
We As a result of this investment the group has developed an have a highly qualified workforce with many of our employees infrastructure of modern facilities located close to our major having trained in science and technology.
We employ a high markets around the world.
proportion of PhDs not only in our research centres but also in many different management positions throughout the company.
Market Position and Reputation Johnson Matthey has a low staff turnover see pages 29 and 30, with many employees staying with the company for their Johnson Matthey is generally ranked number one or two in whole careers.
We place great emphasis on recruitment and the major markets in which it operates.
The group is a world training and our policies in these areas are set out on page 29. leader in catalysis and precious metals which provides a strong basis for future development.
The company started in 1817 Research & Development and has a worldwide reputation in the precious metals industry for technical expertise and integrity.
Our semi-annual publication One of the groups strategies is to differentiate ourselves by Platinum is acknowledged to be the most comprehensive using our world class technology.
We invest significantly in source of information on the platinum industry.
We also research and development to develop new products and publish the Platinum Metals Review, a leading journal of manufacturing processes.
We have a group technology centre scientific research on the platinum group metals.
located at Sonning Common in the UK which is focused on longer term research and has a worldwide reputation for Annual Report and Accounts 2005 23
