Other Senior Management D W Morgan MA, ACA Catalysts Pharmaceutical Materials Executive Director, Group Corporate Development, age 47: joined S M Christley Division Finance Director, F K Sheffy Division Director Johnson Matthey in 1988 as a Division Finance Director.
Appointed Environmental Catalysts and Technologies an executive director in August 1999.
Responsible for the groups A J Caruso Division Finance Director corporate development activities and legal and secretarial affairs.
In A M Myers President, J B Fowler Vice President and addition, assumed board level responsibility for Colours & Coatings Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, General Manager, Division and the companys central research activities in August North America West Deptford 2002.
Currently a member of the International Advisory Board of P C Framp Managing Director, D S Mercer Managing Director, Conduit Ventures Limited.
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, Macfarlan Smith Europe S A Zahr General Manager, I C Strachan J F Walker Managing Director, Pharma Services Age 62: appointed a non-executive director in January 2002.
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, Currently Chairman of Instinet Group Inc. and a non-executive Asia director of Reuters Group plc, Transocean Inc. Xstrata plc and Colours & Coatings Rolls Royce Group plc.
Previously Deputy Chairman of Invensys D W Prest Director, Heavy Duty Diesel, Plc, Chief Executive of BTR plc and Deputy Chief Executive of Environmental Catalysts and Technologies V Ros Managing Director, Rio Tinto plc.
A, M, N Ceramics N P H Garner Division Finance Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies S J OToole Finance Director, A M Thomson MA, CA M T Durney Vice President and General Ceramics Age 58: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Manager, J J W Murkens Managing Director, Currently Finance Director of Smiths Group plc.
He was previously Process Catalysts and Technologies, North Colour Technologies Finance Director of the Rugby Group PLC and a non-executive America and Asia director of Laporte PLC.
Prior to that he had held a succession R M Kilburn Vice President, of senior financial positions with Courtaulds, Raychem Ltd. and Corporate Polymers, Chemical Catalysts and Edible Oils Rockwell International.
A, M, N G J Coates Group Treasurer G P Otterman Managing Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies, Europe R J W Walvis S Farrant Company Secretary and Age 58: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Senior Legal Adviser B C Singelais Director, Currently a non-executive director of Balfour Beatty plc, an Research Chemicals I D Godwin Group Corporate Adviser to Amerada Hess Corporation Inc. and Chairman of the Communications Manager N Whitley Vice President, Supervisory Board of Allianz Nederland Group NV.
He was Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Gas previously Chairman, Global Corporate Centre, Shell International V E Gough Group Reporting Controller Limited and prior to that held a series of senior management S P Murphy Director of Business T Hassan Group Business Development positions within the Royal Dutch Shell Group.
A, M, N Development, Director Process Catalysts and Technologies I B C Huddart Group Taxation Manager P N Hawker BSc, PhD J C Frost Director, B A Murrer Director, Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies, age 52: Fuel Cells Technology Centre joined Johnson Matthey in 1985 as Research & Development Manager and was subsequently Managing Director, Autocatalysts I F Stephenson Director, Europe and Division Director, Environmental Catalysts and Precious Metal Products Group Systems, Environment, Health and Technologies.
Appointed Executive Director, Environmental Safety and Human Resources W F Sandford Division Director Catalysts and Technologies in August 2003 and to his current B M OConnell Division Finance Director position in July 2004.
M Bedford Director, Precious Metals Marketing L C Pentz BS ChE, MBA Executive Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, age 50: M C F Steel Market Research and Planning joined Johnson Matthey in 1984: appointed Division Director, Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies in 2001 after having held a series Precious Metals Marketing of senior management positions within Catalysts Division in the US.
C C Howlett General Manager, Appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies Noble Metals, UK in August 2003 and to his current position in July 2004.
J D Malanga General Manager, Noble Metals, North America Committees of the Board J D McKelvie Vice President, Gold and Silver, North America A Audit Committee M Management Development and Remuneration Committee H Yap Managing Director, N Nomination Committee Precious Metal Products, Hong Kong Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35
