Board of Directors R G Parry P E B Cawdron Lord Gordon of Strathblane, CBE Non-Executive Chairman 52 Non-Executive 62 Non-Executive 69 Joined the Board in 1997.
Non-Executive Chairman of Clear Chairman of Audit Committee.
Former Chairman of Scottish Radio International Limited, Future plc, Mobile Member of Remuneration and Holdings plc.
of Active Capital Trust plc.
Former Group Strategy Development Chairman of the Scottish Tourist Board rparry@johnstonpress.
co. uk Director of Grand Metropolitan PLC.
and a member of the Scottish Chairman of GCap Media plc and Development Agency.
M A King Non-Executive Director of a number of jgordon@johnstonpress.
co. uk Non-Executive 45 listed companies, including Compass Joined the Board in 2003.
Group plc, Punch Taverns Plc and L F Hinton Member of the Remuneration and Audit Capita Group plc.
Former Managing Director, pcawdron@johnstonpress.
Country Operations Europe, at Yahoo!
Executive Chairman of News UK Ltd, with extensive experience in the S J Waugh International Ltd.
Member of the News media sector.
Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive 48 Corporation Executive Committee.
Capita Group plc, IMD plc and Princes Joined the Board in 2003.
Director of the Press Association in Trust Trading Board.
Britain and Chairman of the Newspaper mking@johnstonpress.
co. uk Member of Audit Committee.
and Magazine Publishing Industrys Group Chief Executive of AWD plc.
Director of ISBA, Life Fellow of Marketing lhinton@johnstonpress.
co. uk Society and Institute of Direct Marketing.
co. uk 26 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 T J Bowdler, BSc, MBA S R Paterson, MA, CA D Cammiade Chief Executive Officer 58 Chief Financial Officer 48 Chief Operating Officer 45 Joined the Board in 1994.
Former Managing Director of Cape Chartered Accountant.
Joined the Group in 1992 through Architectural & Building Products Ltd, Former Finance Director of Aggreko plc.
its acquisition of TR Beckett Ltd. a division of Cape plc.
Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of Mirago plc.
Appointed Managing Director of West Director of Associated British Ports spaterson@johnstonpress.
co. uk Sussex County Times Ltd in 1994 Holdings plc, The Miller Group Ltd and and held various Divisional Managing The Press Association Ltd. Chairman of H C M Johnston Director roles until appointed Director the Press Standards Board of Finance.
Former President of the Newspaper Joined the Board in 1971. dcammiade@johnstonpress.
Former Managing Director Johnston tbowdler@johnstonpress.
co. uk Falkirk Ltd. P R Cooper, ACA hjohnston@johnstonpress.
co. uk Company Secretary 49 F P M Johnston, CBE Appointed Company Secretary in 1996.
Former Finance Director of Yorkshire Former Managing Director and Weekly Newspaper Group Limited.
co. uk Non-Executive Director of the Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust plc and Lloyds TSB Scotland plc.
Former President of the Newspaper Society.
co. uk Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 27
