Corporate Governance continued during the year.
The guidelines include may, in confidence, raise concerns about and the effectiveness of the audit process.
policies on: possible improprieties in matters of These are fully explored and discussed financial reporting or other areas.
and the Committee is satisfied that the Finance objectivity and independence of the Cash treasury controls The Committee meets once during the external audit is safeguarded.
Any material Trading year with the Companys external auditors fees are discussed with the Audit Customer service to discuss and agree the audit programme Committee before being committed.
Commercial and competition for the forthcoming year, together with any Technology proposed non-audit work.
The planning The Committee oversaw the appointment Property management meeting in 2005 considered in detail the of Deloitte & Touche LLP in 2002 and have Human resources including pension audit implications of the implementation of a primary responsibility for the administration, disability and health International Financial Reporting appointment, re-appointment and removal and safety Standards and also the new international of auditors.
Environmental issues and energy auditing standards.
management Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders Legal and regulatory compliance The two other meetings follow the interim The Board encourages and seeks to build Business continuity.
financial review and the year-end audit.
a mutual understanding of objectives They cover a comprehensive report from between the Company and its institutional Throughout the year, the Board considers the external auditors on their work and shareholders.
As part of this process, the the means by which it monitors internal their conclusions.
The Committee focuses Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial controls.
It is satisfied with its process for in particular on the areas of financial Officer make twice yearly presentations to monitoring internal controls and that this judgement by the Group.
It also reviews institutional shareholders and meet with process complies with the the summary of the Groups key business shareholders to discuss any issues of recommendations of the Internal Control risks and discusses any revisions.
The concern and to obtain feedback.
In Guidance for Directors in the Combined Committee is actively involved in the addition, they communicate regularly Code and the Revised Turnbull Guidance ongoing review of internal controls by the throughout the year with those effective 1 January 2006. main Board.
During the course of its review of the In addition, these two meetings consider a The Chairman and the Senior Independent system of internal control, the Board has report on the work of the Internal Financial Director personally contact the leading not identified, nor been advised of, any Control Committee.
Its work is described shareholders in the Company on a yearly failings or weaknesses which it has in the Internal Control section and, given basis to address any concerns and discuss determined to be significant.
Therefore, the detail and comfort included in the any issues.
The full Board receives a report a confirmation in respect of necessary report, the Committee regard this on any discussion with shareholders and actions, as envisaged by the Revised approach as an effective way to review the the written feedback that follows the half Turnbull Guidance, has not been financial controls in the business rather yearly presentations is circulated to the considered appropriate.
than establish an internal audit function.
Brokers reports and analysts briefings are included in the Board papers The Directors at the Board meeting on The Audit Committee meetings to sent to the directors every month.
27 January 2006 reviewed the need for an consider the financial results of the Group internal audit department and concluded are attended by the Chief Financial Officer The Board receive a quarterly update on that they did not believe it necessary for and the Company Secretary, who acts as the shareholder register with a summary of the Group to maintain such a department, Secretary to the Committee, with minutes the main movements in shareholdings given the very effective role played by the being circulated to all Board members.
IFCC and the current independent review The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and and monitoring procedures in operation.
Chief Operating Officer are also invited to Members of the Board have met with attend if required to do so by the institutional shareholders during the year Audit Committee Committee.
Towards the close of both to consider Corporate Governance The Audit Committee is chaired meetings, all Executives leave in order matters.
All the Non-Executive Directors by Mr P E B Cawdron, a chartered for the Committee to have a private are prepared to meet with shareholders to accountant, and also includes discussion with the auditors.
Where understand more fully their views.
Mrs M A King and Mr S J Waugh.
All are appropriate the Chairman also has a independent Non-Executive Directors.
private meeting with the audit partner Annual General Meeting during the course of the year to discuss The Board seeks to encourage The Committee has written terms of any relevant issues.
shareholders to attend its Annual General reference that outline its authority and Meeting.
Directors are present to answer duties.
This is displayed on the At the meeting to review the Annual any questions from shareholders.
It uses Companys website in the Investor Report and Accounts, the Committee the Annual General Meeting to Relations section.
The terms include a formally considers the non-audit services communicate with private investors and review of the arrangements by which staff provided by the Groups external auditors encourages their participation.
36 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
