indd Proof: 10 Operator: Dave Date: 31 03 06 Server: Studio l Set-up: Tracy Annual Report & Accounts 2005 2 Kazakhmys PLC Kazakhmys Mining to refining We are a vertically integrated business from mining to refining, producing copper cathode and value added fabricated copper products as well as zinc, gold and silver.
We mine all the ore we process, produce substantially all the copper concentrate we process and generate sufficient electricity to meet our own requirements.
In addition to our captive power, we also manufacture in-house many other raw materials used in our production processes, including chemical reagents used in the smelting and refining processes.
Coal mining Power plants Mining The Group has two coal Our principal power plant is Our mining activities are mines located at Borly: located at Karaganda and focused on extracting copper runs on coal from the Borly but gold, silver and zinc are Borlynskoe, a surface strip mines.
also valuable by-products coal mine produced in the process.
Kuu-Chekinskoe, an open It supplies electricity to the pit mine.
Zhezkazgan and Balkhash We operate both underground Complexes through the national and open pit mines and the These mines produce enough grid on a credit system, enabling mineral reserves and resources coal to supply the heat and us to use our own power of these mines are sufficient to power plants at Karaganda, effectively whilst paying only support projected production for Zhezkazgan and Balkhash as the cost of transmission.
In 2005, the Group produced Our mines employ a variety of In 2005, the two coal mines 6,441 GWh of electricity, the extraction methods including: T produced 7.0 M of coal, of majority of which was used which approximately 90% was internally.
Conventional shovel and truck used by the Group, and the Shrinkage stoping mining remainder was sold externally.
The coal-fired power and Trackless equipment using Coal is transported to our power heating plants at the caving plants using our own rail Zhezkazgan and Balkhash Hydraulic excavator and truck transport system.
electricity provided by the Karaganda plant and also produce hot water for local heating.
2 3 7 The Group has two coal We own a total of 17 mines: We own three power mines with combined 12 underground plants that supply reserves of 50 years and five open pit electricity to the rest of the Group Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Kazakhmys PLC 3 Concentrating Transportation Smelting and refining Fabricating Concentrating is the means Most of Kazakhmys raw This process refines the This is the last stage in the of processing the mined materials and production are copper concentrate and the process that produces semiore to produce copper transported by Group-owned finished copper products.
Group does this in two stages: concentrate.
Such products are used for Smelting uses electric smelting The process comprises two We own and maintain various applications, notably in furnaces Zhezkazgan and stages: approximately 950 km of our the construction, automotive, autogenous bath smelting own railways, which are linked aviation and general engineering furnaces Balkhash Crushing and grinding to Kazakhstans main national industries, which are then sold The Group also has an electrothe ore rail trunk lines.
refinery where anodes are Separating copper suspended in solution to concentrate from barren Mined ore is transported by We have fabricating facilities at produce copper cathode by rock by flotation.
rail from the mines to the our operations in Kazakhstan and electrolysis in the second concentrators and then to also at MKM, our German stage of the process.
Copper concentrate is then the smelters for the next subsidiary, which sources its pumped or sent by rail to stage of processing.
copper requirements from the smelters for further Gold and silver slimes, and zinc outside the Group.
Copper and zinc products from concentrate are all by-products the Zhezkazgan and Balkhash Main copper products include: of this stage of the process.
We have concentrator facilities Complexes are transported by rail These are then refined using at Zhezkazgan, Balkhash primarily to Alashankou in China Wires other Group facilities.
or to the ports of Novorossiysk or Sheets St. Petersburg in Russia.
Strips Our smelters and copper Tubes refineries treat most of our Bars.
copper concentrate as well as concentrate from third parties.
Ktpa Ktpa 9 28 475 490 We have nine The Group owns 128 Our processing capacity for The combined capacity concentrators locomotives with copper cathode is 475 Ktpa of the Group is 490 Ktpa 1,424 wagons with 440 Ktpa at MKM and 50 Ktpa at Kazakhmys LLC
