indd Proof: 10 Operator: Dave Date: 31 03 06 Server: Studio l Set-up: Tracy Annual Report & Accounts 2005 2 Kazakhmys PLC Kazakhmys Overview We are the largest producer of copper in Kazakhstan, operating open pit and underground mines as well as smelting and refining complexes across the country at our sites in Zhezkazgan, Balkhash and the East Region.
Our power plants and coal mines provide the total energy needs for these operations.
Group structure Kazakhmys PLC 98.7% 1.3% Kazakhmys LLC Minorities Kazakhmys mining MKM Germany operations Zhezkazgan Complex Balkhash Complex East Region Karaganda Borly Zhezkazgan Complex Balkhash Complex East Region An integrated copper cathode An integrated copper cathode One of our principal mining areas production facility incorporating production facility incorporating mining, is located in the eastern region of mining, mineral processing, smelting mineral processing, smelting and Kazakhstan, in the vicinity and refining operations.
The principal products produced at the The principal products produced at The principal products produced Zhezkazgan Complex are copper cathode Balkhash Complex are copper cathode, at the East Region are copper and and copper rod.
The Zhezkazgan Complex includes the The concentrate processed at the Balkhash The East Region includes the following following principal operations: Complex comes from two principal mining principal operations: areas: the mines in the vicinity of Balkhash Open pit ore mining operations and those in the East Region in the vicinity Open pit ore mining operations at collectively called the North mine of Ust-Kamenogorsk.
Nikolaevskoe and Abyz Underground ore mining operations the The East Region underground ore mining South, Stepnoy, East, West and Annensky The Balkhash Complex includes the operations Artemyevskoe, Orlovskoe, mines following principal operations: Belousovskoe, Irtyshskoe and Mineral processing facilities the  mines Zhezkazgan No.
2 and Satpaev O pen pit ore mining operations at Five concentrators Orlovskoe, concentrators, which produce copper Kounrad and Nurkazgan Belousovskoe, Irtyshskoe, concentrate from the mined ore The Balkhash underground ore mining Nikolaevskoe and Karagaily.
A smelting refining operation that and concentrating operations the produces copper cathode and silver Shatyrkul and Sayak I and III mines in slimes that is sent to Balkhash for The copper smelting refining operation recovery The zinc hydrometallurgical plant A continuous-casting copper rod plant.
The Complexs energy requirements are provided by the Groups power plants located in Zhezkazgan and Karaganda.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Kazakhmys PLC 3 The Group aims to achieve growth as a natural resources Group company and to enhance overall value for its shareholders.
The Group will pursue this strategy by: strategy continuing to optimise performance of existing assets through improved efficiency, appropriate output expansion and focus on maintaining low costs: completing existing growth and expansion projects, extensions to existing mines, a new acid plant at Balkhash and several other long-term growth projects within Kazakhstan: leveraging its competitive position by seeking further growth opportunities in natural resources within Kazakhstan and elsewhere in the region: applying strong cash flows and financial flexibility to enable the Group to make opportunistic acquisitions: and improving the Groups international visibility to broaden its access to international capital markets as a public company.
Group statistics Group reserves as at 3 December 2005 Copper Zinc Gold Silver Complex Region Proved and probable reserves kt % % g t g t Zhezkazgan Complex 465,907 0.95 13.65 Balkhash Complex 2,180,550 0.46 0.09 1.72 East Region 121,775 2.83 3.84 0.96 53.48 Total 2,768,232 0.65 0.17 0.11 6.00 Source: IMC Karaganda Borly MKM The Borly mines produce coal to supply The Karaganda power plant is located Our copper products fabrications the Groups Karaganda power plant.
approximately 50 kilometres to the company in Germany produces and Coal is transported to the plants by rail, south-west of Karaganda.
sells copper and copper alloy semiusing a 30 kilometre spur owned by finished products worldwide.
the Group, which runs from the Borly The power plant is a coal-fired facility mines to join the national rail system.
of the standard Soviet design.
Coal is MKMs main products include wires, Approximately 90% of the extracted sheets, plates, strips, tubes and bars delivered to the site by rail from the Borly coal was used by the Groups heat and mines.
Electricity is then fed to the Kazakh for customers in the construction, power plants and the remainder was automotive, aviation and general national grid through which it is supplied sold externally.
to the Groups copper refining operations engineering industries.
at Balkhash and Zhezkazgan, as well as to The Groups Borly operations include: outside customers.
MKM currently satisfies its copper requirements from copper producers C oal mines Borlynskoe and outside the Group and from traders who Kuu-Chekinskoe have trading arrangements with the Group.
A rail transport division based in Nurinsk A road haulage division based in Prishakhtinsk.
T M % 7.0 90 of coal was mined last year of coal was used to power copper mines
