indd Proof: 10 Operator: Dave Date: 31 03 06 Server: Studio l Set-up: Tracy Annual Report & Accounts 2005 40 Kazakhmys PLC Board of Directors The Company recognises the importance of independent advice combined with sector expertise at the highest level in our organisation and our Board membership reflects this.
Executive Directors right to left vladimir Kim yong Keu Cha Oleg novachuk 2 Non-executive Directors right to left David Munro James Rutland Lord Renwick of Clifton, kcmg vladimir ni not pictured 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Kazakhmys PLC 4 Board of Directors James Rutland 61 Gafura Ibraeva 46 non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer of Kazakhmys LLC Vladimir Kim 45 Mr Rutland has held a number of positions Mrs Ibraeva was appointed Head of the Executive Chairman in Investors in Industry plc and represented Planning Economics Department of Mr Kim joined the Group in 1995, when that company on the board of several small Kazakhmys LLC in 1994 and became Deputy he was appointed Managing Director oil companies.
In 1985 he joined James Managing Director of Economy and Finance and Chief Executive Officer of JSC Capels corporate finance group and moved in October 1995.
She was appointed Chief Zhezkazgantsvetmet.
He was elected to head up Hongkong Banks resource Financial Officer in 2004.
She graduated Chairman of the board of directors in lending group in London.
From 1993 to 2001 from the Almaty Institute of national December 2000.
Mr Kim graduated from he served as Finance Director of Energy Economy in 1981, specialising in production the Alma-Ata Architectural Institute in 1982 Africa Limited.
He now acts as a consultant.
He attended the College of Law, London and was admitted as a solicitor in 1967.
Askar Dussembaev 44 Yong Keu Cha 49 Mr Rutland acts as Chairman of the Audit vice Chairman of Kazakhmys LLC Chief Executive Committee of the Company and is Mr Dussembaev joined Kazakhmys LLC Mr Cha has served on the board of the senior independent Director.
in 1984 and was appointed Director for directors of Kazakhmys LLC since 2000.
He He was formerly an Executive Managing Lord Renwick of Clifton, kcmg 68 served subsequently as an Executive Director of Samsung Corporation, as well non-executive Director Director of JSC Zhezkazgantsvetmet, and as President of Samsung Kazakhstan and Lord Renwick served as British Ambassador as an Executive Director of Kazakhmys LLC, General Manager of Samsung Deutschland.
to the United States and to South Africa with responsibility for investment, capital He holds a bachelors degree in business and is vice Chairman, Investment construction, and the administration of management from Seo Kang University in Banking of JPMorgan Europe and vice the board of directors.
He served as vice Chairman of Kazakhmys LLC also serves on the boards of Compagnie on investment and construction issues.
Mr Oleg Novachuk 35 Financire Richemont, Fluor Corporation Dussembaev graduated from Karaganda Finance Director and SABMiller plc.
Lord Renwick acts as Polytechnic Institute in 1984 and the Mr novachuk joined the Group in 2001 and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Eurasian Institute of Marketing in 1997. was appointed Finance Director in 2005.
novachuk was formerly vice President of Vladimir Malyshev 58 Financial Projects for Kazakhmys LLC and Head of Administration of Kazakhmys LLC the Financial Adviser to the President of Senior Management Mr Malyshev joined Kazakhmys LLC in Kazakhmys LLC.
Mr novachuk was formerly 1967 as a miner and served in various Chairman of the board of directors of JSC Ruslan Yun 52 roles.
In 1993 he was appointed vice Kazprombank.
He graduated with honours Chief Executive Officer of Kazakhmys LLC President of Kazakhmys LLC then Executive from Kazakh State University with a masters Mr yun started his career at Kazakhmys LLC Director and General Director of Balkhash degree in applied mathematics.
in 1975 as a miner and served in various Complex.
In 2001 he was appointed Deputy technical, managerial and executive roles Chairman of Kazakhmys LLC.
Mr Malyshev Vladimir Ni 73 until he became Chief Executive Officer in qualified in technical sciences, having non-executive Director november 2001.
Mr yun gained a Doctorate graduated from Karaganda Polytechnic Mr ni has been Chairman of the board of of Technical Sciences from the Karaganda Institute, Almaty Institute of Political directors of Kazakhmys LLC since February Polytechnic Institute in 1975 specialising in Science and Moscow Academy of Labour 2006, and was previously vice Chairman.
Technology and Integrated Mechanisation and Social Relations.
He is also a director of TOO HOZU of Underground Development of Minerals.
He graduated from the Kazakh Mining Metallurgical Institute.
Mr ni is a Alexandr Yun 50 mining engineer by profession.
vice Chairman of Kazakhmys LLC Mr yun was appointed Chief Engineer and David Munro 51 director of the South Zhezkazgan Mine in non-executive Director 1997 and served as Managing Director-First Mr Munro was formerly responsible for Deputy General Manager between 2000 Billitons global aluminium and base metals and 2004 becoming director of Zhezkazgan businesses prior to its 2001 merger with Complex in 2004.
Mr yun graduated from BHP.
His last position in the new BHPBilliton the Karaganda Polytechnic Institute in was as Chief Development Officer, 1977 as a mining engineer, specialising in responsible for strategy and acquisitions.
Technology and Integrated Mechanisation In January 2004 he became Chief Executive of Underground Development of Minerals of RMC Group plc, an international and from Irkuts Institute of national construction materials company, holding Economy Russia in 1992 specialising this position until RMCs acquisition by in mining business administration and Mexicos Cemex in 2005.
Mr Munro is a technical sciences.
mining engineer by profession and also holds an MBA.
Mr Munro acts as Chairman of the HSE Committee of the Company.
