Notes to the Financial Statements Kingston continued Financial instruments The Group uses certificates of deposit and fixed deposits for the investment of short term surplus cash.
Interest on these instruments is calculated based on the instruments yield at which it was purchased, and is taken to profit over the life of the instrument.
Financial assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost plus accrued interest.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
The accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The exchange difference arising on the retranslation of opening net assets is taken directly to reserves.
All other translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in foreign enterprises, which are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference on the net investment in these enterprises.
Leasing and hire purchase commitments Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, and hire purchase, are capitalised in the balance sheet and are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements of the rental obligations are charged in the profit and loss account over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Bank loans and issue costs Bank loans are stated at the amount of proceeds after deduction of issue costs which are amortised over the period of the loan.
Pensions During the year the Company operated two primary pension schemes covering the pension arrangements of eligible employees.
One of these schemes operates on the defined contribution money purchase principle and for this scheme the pension cost charged represents the contributions payable.
The other scheme provides members with defined benefits based on final pensionable salary.
The overall long term costs of providing pensions for employees who are members of this scheme are charged against profits evenly over the expected working lives of the members.
The contributions are assessed in accordance with the advice of a qualified actuary based on actuarial valuations normally conducted every three years.
The relevant benefits promises are funded in advance and the assets of the schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Employee share schemes The cost of award of shares, or share options, to employees is recognised as an operating expense over the period of the employees performance which relates to the award.
The cost of award is calculated based on the difference between the share or option exercise price and the market value of the shares at the date of grant of the award.
In the case of the Companys performance related schemes, the cost is based on actual performance to date relative to the performance targets dictated under the rules of the relevant scheme.
Where the Company purchases shares to settle a particular award of share options the cost is limited to the price of the shares purchased.
To the extent an amount greater than the pro-rated purchase price of such shares has been expensed prior to the date of the purchase then the excess expense is credited to the profit and loss account in the period of the purchase.
INTER BUSINESS BALANCES The Balance Sheet statements for the Businesses include balances relating to the charges from the Wholesale business to the Retail business, based on the Days Sales Outstanding DSO with Other Licenced Operators OLOs in 2004 2005.
Charges by the Wholesale Business to the Retail Business and Other Licenced Operators OLOs are made on the basis of achieving a targeted rate of return on Mean Capital Employed of 13%.
CORPORATE CENTRE COSTS Included in the operating costs of the Businesses are 3,794k of KCH Corporate costs.
