Report of the Regulatory Auditors Kingston continued Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Statement of Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board except as noted below.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Regulatory Accounts.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Regulatory Accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Regulatory Accounts are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
However, as the nature form and content of Regulatory Accounts are determined by Ofcom, we did not evaluate the overall adequacy of the presentation of the information, which would have been required if we were to express an audit opinion under Auditing Standards.
Many of the Companys revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are not directly identifiable with individual businesses, and the preparation of the Regulatory Accounts requires a significant number of apportionments.
The principal methods and bases of apportionment are described in the Description of Cost Accounting System and the Regulatory Accounts should be read in connection herewith.
As explained on page 58 in the Basis of preparation, in selecting appropriate attribution models employed in the production of the Regulatory Accounts, the Company has had to make certain estimates and exercise its judgement, having regard to the Description of Cost Accounting System, including cost causality and objectivity, in order to comply with the requirements of the Description of Cost Accounting System.
KCH has informed Ofcom that attribution methods and non-financial data sources will be subject to ongoing review and, where deemed appropriate, improvement.
We have not considered the appropriateness of the methods of attribution adopted in preparing the Regulatory Accounts.
Our opinion on the Regulatory Accounts is separate from our opinion on the statutory accounts of the Company on which we reported on 23 May 2005, which are prepared for a different purpose.
Our audit report in relation to the statutory accounts of the Company our Statutory audit was made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Statutory audit work was undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in a Statutory auditors report and for no other purpose.
In these circumstances, to the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume any responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Statutory audit work, for our Statutory audit report, or for the opinion we have formed in respect of that Statutory audit.
Opinion In our opinion the Regulatory Accounts which have been prepared in accordance with the Description of Cost Accounting Systems dated 29 July 2005, fairly present in accordance with the Description of Cost Accounting Systems dated 29 July 2005 and the accounting policies set out on page 58, the results and capital employed by each of the businesses.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 1 City Square Leeds Page 5
