Notes to the Financial Statements Kingston continued Intangible assets research and development Research expenditure is written off as incurred.
Development expenditure is also written off, except where the Directors are satisfied as to the technical, commercial and financial viability of individual projects.
In such cases, the identifiable expenditure is deferred and amortised over the period during which the Group is expected to benefit.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are recorded at current cost.
Depreciation is provided so as to write off the current cost of assets to residual values on a straight-line basis over the assets useful estimated lives as follows: - Freehold buildings 40 years - Leasehold buildings and improvements period of lease - Exchange equipment 10 years - External plant 10 to 20 years - Vehicles, other apparatus and equipment 3 to 10 years - Depreciation of network infrastructure and related equipment is provided for from the date the network comes into operation.
Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Government grants European Regional Development Fund grants are credited to a separate account from which transfers to the profit and loss account are made over the estimated useful life of the asset concerned.
Grants received giving immediate financial support or reimbursing costs previously charged to profit are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which they become receivable.
Stocks Stocks, stores and work-in-progress are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Costs include, where appropriate, direct overhead expenses.
Long-term contracts Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts, which are included in debtors, are stated at the net sales value of the work done less amounts received as progress payments on account.
Excess progress payments are included in creditors as payments on account.
Cumulative costs incurred net of amounts transferred to cost of sales, less provision for contingencies and anticipated future losses on contracts, are included as work-in-progress balances in stock.
Taxation The taxation charge is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date, with the following exceptions: Provision is made for gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets only where, at the balance sheet date, there is commitment to dispose of the replacement assets.
Provision is made for the tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable points from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
