Report of the Regulatory Auditors Kingston Independent Accountants report to the Office of Communications Ofcom and Kingston Communications HULL PLC KCH We have audited the Regulatory Accounts of Kingston Communications HULL PLC the Company on pages 6 to 71 which comprise the current cost profit and loss account for each business and the statement of current cost mean capital employed for each business and the related notes to the Regulatory Accounts.
This report is made, on terms that have been agreed, solely to the Company and Ofcom in order to meet the requirements set out in the Final statement and notification entitled The regulatory financial reporting obligations on BT and Kingston Communications dated 22 July 2004 the Obligations.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company and Ofcom those matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, in order a to assist the Company to meet is obligations under the Obligations to procure such a report and b to facilitate the carrying out by Ofcom of its regulatory functions, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Ofcom, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of preparation The Regulatory Accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Obligations and the Description of Cost Accounting Systems dated 29 July 2005 as agreed with Ofcom and the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
The Regulatory Accounts are separate from the statutory financial statements of the Company and have not been prepared under the basis of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
Financial information other than that prepared on the basis of UK GAAP does not necessarily represent a true and fair view of the financial performance or financial position of a company as shown in financial statements prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Respective responsibilities of Ofcom, the Directors and Auditors The nature, form and content of Regulatory Accounts are determined by Ofcom.
It is not appropriate for us to assess whether the nature of the information being reported upon is suitable or appropriate for Ofcoms purposes.
Accordingly we make no such assessment.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Regulatory Accounts in accordance with the Obligations are set out in the statements of the directors responsibilities on page 3.
Our responsibility is to audit the Regulatory Accounts in accordance with relevant United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practice Board, except as stated in the Basis of audit opinion, below and having regard to the guidance contained in Audit 05 03 Reporting to Regulators of Regulated Entities.
We report our opinion as to whether the Regulatory Accounts present fairly, in accordance with the Description of Cost Accounting Systems and the accounting polices set out on page 58, the results and capital employed by the businesses.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We read the other information contained within the Regulatory Accounts, including any supplementary schedules on which we do not express an audit opinion, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the Regulatory Accounts.
