Notes to the Financial Statements Kingston including accounting policies 1.
STATUTORY ACCOUNTS These Financial Statements, which are not statutory accounts within the meaning of the Companies Act 1985, have been prepared on the basis described in the Description of Cost Accounting System dated 29 July 2005.
The statutory financial statements for KCH and KC for the year ended 31st March 2005 have been prepared, on which the auditors made unqualified reports.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Summarised below are the principal accounting policies which have been consistently applied throughout the current and prior financial year.
Basis of preparation The current cost financial statements on pages 6 to 71 are prepared under the financial capital maintenance concept and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
The current cost statements for each of the businesses are prepared under this basis, although an adjustment for inflation to ordinary shareholders funds is not attributed to each of the individual businesses.
Current cost profit is derived firstly by arriving at historical cost profit loss in each of the businesses.
Then an adjustment is done for current cost depreciation, to result in current cost retained profit loss.
Finally, unrealised holding gains losses and realised holding gains losses are calculated to result in holding gains losses on fixed assets.
This calculation is added onto current cost retained profit loss, to result in amount retained.
In the current cost balance sheet, each Businesss assets are restated at their value to the Business, using their net current replacement cost.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its undertakings made up to 31 March 2005.
The results of new subsidiary undertakings are included from the dates of the acquisition.
Where a company has ceased to be a subsidiary undertaking during the year, its results are included to the date of cessation.
Turnover Group turnover, which excludes value added tax, comprises the value of services provided and equipment sales by Group undertakings, excluding those between them.
The Group enters into contractual arrangements that include various components, which operate independently of each other.
Turnover is recognized in respect of the Groups right to consideration for each individual component where a reliable fair value can be attributed to these components.
Turnover from calls is recognised in the Group profit and loss account at the time the call is made over the Groups network.
Turnover from rentals is recognised evenly over the rental period.
Turnover from sales is recognised at the point of sale.
Turnover from production of directories is recognised at the point when the directory is published.
Turnover arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the service is provided to the customer.
Intangible assets goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration paid for investments in subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings or businesses over the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities as at the date of their acquisition.
Prior to 1 April 1998 goodwill was written off direct to reserves in accordance with accounting standards then in force.
From 1 April 1998, goodwill arising on acquisition is capitalised and amortised over the Directors estimate of its useful economic life.
Provision is made for any impairment.
The Directors have estimated the useful economic life of goodwill arising in respect of acquisitions since 1 April 1998 to be between 5 and 20 years, being the period over which the value of the underlying business will exceed the value of the underlying assets.
Goodwill previously written off against reserves will remain deducted within shareholders funds.
However, if a subsidiary, associate or business is subsequently sold or closed, any goodwill arising on acquisition that was previously written off directly to reserves or that has not been amortised through the profit and loss account is taken into account in determining the profit or loss on sale or closure.
