Our business AQUARION Turnover 92.2m KEYLAND DEVELOPMENTS Turnover 14.6m UK SERVICE OPERATIONS Turnover 59.3m YORKSHIRE WATER Turnover 640.1m YORKSHIRE WATER AQUARION UK SERVICE OPERATIONS Yorkshire Water is Keldas principal UK subsidiary, Aquarion is one of the ten largest investor owned Kelda Water Services providing water and waste water services to more water companies in the US and the largest privately Kelda Water Services manages the groups than 4.7m people and 140,000 businesses.
owned utility in New England.
non-regulated water and waste water contract operations in the UK.
It is now the second Every day the company supplies more than It serves 211,000 homes and businesses, the biggest player in the UK contract operations 1.3 billion litres of water to homes and businesses equivalent of approximately 677,000 people, in market, with operations in England, Scotland in Yorkshire.
Through the efficient operation of its 52 communities in the states of Connecticut, and Wales.
extensive waste water network and treatment New York, Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
facilities, it also ensures that the regions domestic Aquarion Services provides water and waste water Loop and industrial waste is returned safely to the operation and maintenance services through a Loop specialises in cost effective customer environment.
number of contracts and partnerships with relationship management.
The companys main municipal authorities.
The company was voted the UKs Utility contract is to provide customer service support of the Year in December 2004 at the Utility to Yorkshire Water.
Industry Achievement Awards, against competition from the gas, water, electricity Safe Move and telecommunications industries.
Safe Move is a non-regulated business which provides search information to solicitors and In January 2005, the company also became conveyancers including information covering the only water and waste water company in drainage and water services.
the country to receive band A ratings from the industrys economic regulator, Ofwat, in each of KEYLAND DEVELOPMENTS the four available categories for financial efficiency, KeyLand Developments is responsible for namely, operating and capital cost efficiency in managing, developing and disposing of the both clean and waste water activities.
groups surplus property assets, either on its own or in partnership with outside organisations.
KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 07
