Looking forward YORKSHIRE WATER In the social sphere, the new powers of Strategic AQUARION In the UK, the recent conclusion of the industry Health Authorities SHAs to consult populations The Connecticut rate case determination also price review has removed a degree of regulatory on the implementation of fluoridation schemes ends a period of regulatory uncertainty for uncertainty in the water industry with a clear following the Water Act 2003 is likely to create Aquarion, allowing the company the opportunity identification of the investment needed to support public debate if pursued.
to drive efficiencies and improve the rate of return environmental improvements for the period on its asset base, leveraging off Yorkshire Waters The Water Act also brings into play a number 2005-2010. expertise in the process.
of changes in the regulatory sphere, with the Further significant investment may be required, reconstitution of Ofwat, a new Director General The regulatory regime is complex in the US, as it however, post 2010 as part of the implementation and the formation of UK Water Councils to replace involves a number of different regional regulatory of the Water Framework Directive, the most the existing WaterVoice consumer groups.
substantial piece of EC water legislation to date.
As Aquarion is an all-metered water business, the It requires all inland and coastal waters to reach UK SERVICE OPERATIONS companys turnover is significantly influenced by good status by 2015.
It will do this by establishing Kelda Water Services will continue to focus on summer rainfall, with large quantities of water a river basin district structure within which developing long term, low risk, secure income used to sprinkle dry lawns in its Connecticut demanding environmental objectives will be set, streams with potential for increased activity in suburbs.
Too little rain and drought orders are including ecological targets for surface waters.
Too much and water consumption falls.
It is too early to say what the impact will be KWS has recently been shortlisted for a water The short term outlook in the US also continues to for Yorkshire Water or for customers bills post PFI in Northern Ireland as a 45% shareholder in be characterised by an unfavourable dollar-sterling 2010, though it is expected that this would be Dalriada Water.
Three other consortiums have exchange rate which has resulted in a flat significant if the Humber estuary is designated also been shortlisted.
profit turnover profile in recent years.
KEYLAND Rising energy costs are also a significant factor KeyLand will continue to concentrate primarily upon which affect operational costs and bills, with the development of the Kelda landbank, which is Yorkshire Waters energy bill expected to rise over the main resource available to it, and in particular the next five years.
The company has entered into the surplus property assets of Yorkshire Water.
a new contract which allows it to purchase energy at the best prevailing prices.
The company is also actively pursuing energy efficiency and exploring new renewable energy sources including wind turbines at treatment works.
KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19
