Directors report The directors present their report for the year to ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 March 2005.
There were no significant acquisitions or disposals There are group policies for the Environment, during the year.
Health and Safety, Human Resources, and a RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Code of Ethics.
The profit attributable to shareholders for the year DIRECTORS The internal control processes described on pages was 174.2m.
After dividends totalling 107.7m, The following directors held office throughout the 37 and 38 take account of social, environmental 66.5m was transferred to the groups reserves.
year: John Napier, Chairman: Kevin Whiteman, and ethical risks.
In addition, the board receives Chief Executive: Martin Towers, Group Finance The directors recommend a final dividend of information as part of the normal reporting Director: Christopher Fisher, Ken Jackson, Derek 20.66p per share to be paid on 26 August 2005 to process to identify and assess such significant risks Roberts, David Salkeld and Richard Schmidt, non those shareholders on the register at the close of where they are relevant to the nature of the executive directors.
Each director continues to hold business on 5 August 2005.
An interim dividend of companys business.
Further details are included office at the date of this report.
Derek Roberts and 8.34p per share was paid on 25 February 2005. in the following sections of this report and in the Ken Jackson will retire as directors following the corporate social responsibility section of the report The total dividend for the year will amount to 2005 annual general meeting.
Ed Anderson and on pages 20 to 31.
Kate Avery were appointed as non executive directors with effect from 1 June 2005.
Directors EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYMENT POLICIES PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES appointed by the board are required to retire at The group strives to create a positive working The directors report should be read in conjunction the first AGM following their appointment and seek environment for all colleagues and places great with the operating and financial review, which election by shareholders.
Ed Anderson and Kate emphasis on open two-way communications.
It includes information about group businesses, the Avery will therefore be seeking election by values involvement at all levels, recognising that financial performance during the year and likely shareholders at the AGM on 27 July 2005.
Their everyone in the business is a potential source of developments.
election is recommended by the board.
Internal consultation and The principal activities of the group are the supply In accordance with article 105 of the companys communication processes provide the key to this of clean water and the treatment and disposal of articles of association, John Napier and Kevin involvement, and play a large part in achieving our waste water.
Yorkshire Water Services Limited Whiteman will retire at the forthcoming annual vision to be a great place to work.
Yorkshire Water, the groups regulated utility general meeting and will offer themselves for reThe company promotes inclusion and freedom of business in the UK, is responsible for both water and election, which is recommended by the board in association, principally through its diversity strategy waste water services.
Aquarion Company, the accordance with article 109.
Details of the terms of and through collective bargaining arrangements groups US subsidiary, includes the US regulated Mr Napiers appointment as chairman, and of Mr with UNISON and GMB, the recognised trade water supply businesses in the states of Whitemans service agreement appear on page 40. unions.
In those parts of the group where union Connecticut, New York, Massachusetts and New Details of the terms of the directors service representation is low, wider franchise is achieved Hampshire and the non-regulated water and waste agreements and letters of appointment appear in through involving workforce representatives in water contract operations business.
The groups the remuneration report on page 40.
Additional joint forums or works council type arrangements.
other businesses are the UK non-regulated water information relating to directors who served during and waste water services businesses and KeyLand The companys communications strategy is the year, including remuneration and interests in Developments Limited, a company which primarily based on a face-to-face first approach and all the companys shares is contained on pages 39 develops surplus property assets of Yorkshire Water.
messages are delivered through two way to 43.
The details of directors interests in the channels, including regular talk back sessions companys shares form part of this report.
The company magazine, Connections is distributed throughout the business and aims to provide business news through the eyes of the companys people.
The magazine has won 17 CiB Communicators in Business Awards since 1998.
Regular employee satisfaction surveys are undertaken across the group, using a variety of survey tools including telephone based, on-line and paper based surveys.
A Total Reward approach is taken to salary and benefits, which are designed to be competitive.
The group sharesave scheme has a high level of KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33 Directors report continued participation at all levels in the business, and the The company has recently commenced a central vigilance.
Yorkshire Water has been awarded a company has recently implemented a five year review of the processes in place within subsidiary National Safety Award from the British Safety Pay for Performance deal, to coincide with the businesses to identify and monitor health and Council and a Gold Award for Occupational Safety regulatory review period.
The new pay and safety risks.
All subsidiaries must have in place from the Royal Society for the Prevention of performance management arrangements will health and safety policies and procedures as Accidents for their health and safety performance provide further opportunity for all colleagues to appropriate, and provide such information, during 2004-05. share in the success of the business.
instruction, training and supervision where required.
In addition, many of the businesses ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY The groups equality and diversity policy, Open to currently provide occupational health, safety and The environmental policy of the company all, covers gender, marital status, parental status, welfare advisory services for their employees.
recognises that a sustainable water and waste sexual orientation, race, colour, ethnic or national water business is dependent on environmentally origin, disability, age, religion or belief, and trade Specific health and safety goals are also set by sustainable operations.
It is, therefore, committed union membership.
Progress in promoting individual businesses.
These goals differ depending to integrating environmental best practice and diversity was recognised by Race for Opportunity, on the business and include a combination of continuous improvement in environmental which ranked Yorkshire Water Best New Entrant numbers of accidents, working time lost as a result performance through the efficient, effective and and Best in Sector in its 2004 benchmarking of accidents, training delivery, internal safety audits proper conduct of its business.
Yorkshire Water was also awarded Age and health promotion and surveillance Positive Champion status in 2004 by the programmes.
Environmental performance is reported through Department of Work and Pensions, and won the the companys web based environment and Senior management awareness and active Age Positive England award 2004 in recognition community report which is regularly updated and involvement in health and safety is fundamental to of recruitment and development programmes independently verified.
This can be viewed at company success.
Kelda Water Services, as a new across a wide age spectrum.
Kelda subsidiary, is organising IOSH Safety for Senior commitment to positive action towards applicants Executives training for their managers during 2005.
The company contributes actively to the with disabilities has been recognised with communities which it serves.
This includes Consultation with all employees via area and successful renewal of the double tick encouragement of employee participation in functional health and safety forum groups and accreditation from the UK employment service.
community based schemes, as well as direct safety committees is actively encouraged.
Where The group provides a wide range of development financial support.
possible, the intent is for local health and safety opportunities, including in-house and accredited issues to be discussed and resolved with line Kelda encourages and supports colleagues in programmes to help employees develop the management.
In Yorkshire Water there are 77 volunteering, charitable giving and community necessary skills, knowledge, values and experience appointed Health and Safety Champions who work involvement.
One in five employees is active in a to realise their performance potential.
alongside the Trade Union Safety Representatives wide range of company supported community and line management.
This ensures that health activities.
These include a Community HEALTH AND SAFETY and safety issues are regularly discussed within Ambassadors scheme, a Speakers Panel, support The company is committed to achieving high each team in the Water and Waste business units.
to local education ranging from Right to Read in health and safety standards throughout its junior schools through to coaching at senior By the nature of accidents, there can be no businesses.
The management of health and safety schools, and mentoring university students from guarantee that they will never occur.
However, the issues operates in the context of the health and diverse ethnic backgrounds.
measures taken by the company are intended to safety policy adopted by the board and the system place emphasis on prevention and continuing of internal control.
34 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS PAYMENT TERMS TO SUPPLIERS Charitable contributions totalling 0.5m 2004: The companys normal terms are to make 0.5m were made during the year.
payment in accordance with suppliers terms of trade or within 30 days from the receipt of services No political donations were made.
or invoices subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Kelda Group plc is a holding company RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT and, at 31 March 2005, had no trade creditors During the year 3.6m 2004: 3.6m was outstanding.
The payment terms of individual committed to research and development including operating subsidiaries are disclosed in their 2.7m 2004: 2.7m on fixed assets.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS At the forthcoming annual general meeting, the As at 24 May 2005 the company had been notified company will be seeking authority to purchase up to of the following interests amounting to 3% or more 10% of its ordinary shares.
Authority was previously of the companys issued ordinary share capital: granted at the annual general meeting in 2004 in respect of 10% of the companys issued ordinary Prudential plc 4.85% share capital but expires at the close of the Prudential Assurance Company Ltd 4.76% forthcoming annual general meeting.
The company Zurich Financial Services and its Group 3.03% anticipates that it will conduct a limited share buyback programme which could involve the Legal & General Group Plc Companies 3.0% purchase of 5% of its equity over the next two years.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AUDITOR The notice convening the companys 2005 annual A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the general meeting at the Leeds Marriott Hotel on companys auditor and to authorise the directors 27 July 2005 at 11am is set out in a separate to determine their remuneration will be proposed document issued to shareholders.
at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Details of the group policy designed to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external auditor are included in the Corporate Governance section of this report on pages 36 and 37.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD REGISTERED OFFICE: REGISTERED IN ENGLAND PHILIP HUDSON WESTERN HOUSE NO.
2366627 GROUP COMPANY HALIFAX ROAD SECRETARY BRADFORD BD6 2SZ 25 MAY 2005 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35
