Operating and Financial Review continued WATER BOTTLES were given away to customers to celebrate the fact that Yorkshires tap water is the best it 40,000 has ever been.
A safe, reliable supply of water is essential to everyday life.
Were proud of our product and the role we play in protecting and promoting public health.
MARK JONES, Water Quality Manager How were performing: Yorkshire Water Yorkshire Water has had an excellent year, once again out-performing many of its regulatory targets.
We are now firmly focused on getting ahead of the challenges of the next five years.
Regulated capital investment for the year was 349.2m 2004: 302.3m.
The Regulated turnover increased by 5.9% to 640.1m investment continues to be directed at the upgrading of the regions clean and 2004: 604.4m as a result of the second year of price waste water infrastructure.
Over AMP3 Yorkshire Water delivered 13% capital increases allowed in the interim price determination cost out-performance.
which took place in April 2003.
In January 2005, Ofwat announced that Yorkshire Water had become the first water and sewerage company ever to achieve A ratings in each of the four Operating profit before exceptionals increased by 12.7% to 284.6m 2004: available categories for relative efficiency, namely operating and capital cost 252.5m.
This performance reflects continuous improvement from the efficiency in both water and waste water.
business which has delivered 120m of operating cost out-performance for the 2000-05 period.
Exceptional items of 5.8m relate to business reorganisation Ofwats Unit Costs and Efficiency Report 2003 04 compared all 22 water and costs required to deliver further measured initiatives on cost reduction.
sewerage companies on the basis of how efficiently they ran their business 10 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE INDICATOR tests taken during the previous year reached the required standards.
99.89% DUE TO THE RECENT INTRODUCTION of new technology, ways of working and extended operating hours, overall customer satisfaction levels have risen to 349.2m more than 90%.
Our aim is to provide a good customer experience at every point OF CAPITAL INVESTMENT was invested last year in of contact with customers, be it on the upgrading the regions infrastructure.
doorstep or on the telephone.
and how efficiently they spent money on the maintenance of pipes, sewers The quality of Yorkshires tap water reached an all-time high, with 99.89% and treatment works.
The report acknowledged Yorkshire Waters industry of the Overall Performance Indicator tests taken during the previous year leading performance which the regulator said had been taken into reaching the required standards.
consideration during the recent price review, ensuring increases in customers Throughout the year the company continued its ongoing programme of work bills could be kept to a minimum.
to upgrade the regions 31,217kms of underground water mains, with major The outcome of Ofwats recent price review was announced in December renewal schemes underway in towns and cities including Bradford, 2004 and has been accepted by the company.
The Final Determination was very similar to Yorkshire Waters business plan ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE submission, with customers bills set to rise by an average of 3.9% per year Progress has been made over the past 12 months to improve the condition of above inflation over the period 2005-2010.
This will result in average household Sites of Special Scientific Interest SSSIs on Yorkshire Water land.
23% are now bills rising by 45 to 288 excluding inflation over the next five years.
in favourable condition compared to 10% in 2003.
The increases will help finance a 1.6 billion at 2005 06 prices programme In September 2004, Yorkshire Water and the Ramblers Association staged a of investment to further improve drinking water and river water quality and joint celebration to mark the official introduction of new access rights for to significantly reduce the number of incidents of sewer flooding.
walkers in the South Pennines.
CUSTOMER SERVICE Under the terms of the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000, walkers were Yorkshire Water was named Utility Company of the Year at the Utility Industry given the right to roam across large areas of moorland, heath and down in the Achievement Awards 2004, against competition from some of the biggest area for the first time.
names in the water, gas, electricity and telecommunications industries.
Kelda once again achieved Premier League status in Business in the The company continued to improve its overall levels of operational and Environments Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement 2004. customer service during 2004 and recorded its highest ever points score in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment.
We were ranked fourth in the industry.
KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11 Operating and Financial Review continued YORKSHIRE WATER HAS ENTERED INTO A THREE YEAR PARTNERSHIP WITH THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CITIZENS ADVICE BUREAU TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO DEBT ADVISORS ACROSS THE UK.
YORKSHIRE WATER WAS RECENTLY PRAISED BY THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE HELP IT OFFERS TO PEOPLE FACING SEVERE FINANCIAL HARDSHIP.
EVERY YEAR WE MAKE AN ANNUAL DONATION OF MORE THAN 300,000 TO THE YORKSHIRE WATER COMMUNITY TRUST, AN INDEPENDENT CHARITY SET UP IN 1995 TO HELP PEOPLE WITH DEBT PROBLEMS.
Yorkshire Water continued SOCIAL IMPACT EMPLOYEES Yorkshire Water was ranked 43rd in Business in the Communitys Companies That A major review of the companys performance management process was Count report published in March 2004, a rise of 43 places on the previous year.
The report looks at corporate social responsibility CSR and benchmarks A joint proposal was developed which was put to a union ballot and accepted companies performance on a range of social, ethical and environmental by the overwhelming majority of employees in February 2005. issues.
We will continue to use our participation in the index as a means of Under the terms of the five year agreement, all employees are now improving the way we do business and staying abreast of best practice.
guaranteed an annual cost of living increase, with the potential for additional In assessing the companys approach to CSR, Business in the Community payments based on company and personal performance.
recognised the success of the companys Cool Schools campaign which has In October 2004, the company also unveiled its new vision to be clearly the seen the installation of 700 free water coolers in local primary schools across best water company in the UK and launched a series of new aspirational the region.
targets for the company to aim for over the period 2005-2010.
12 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 WAS INVESTED IN CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS to Aquarions services $54.9m over the past year.
How were performing: Aquarion Following the conclusion of the recent US rate case, our future focus will be on driving further efficiencies and improving the rate of return on Aquarions asset base.
The rate case decision is consistent with the general approach of US utility 2004 05 has been a challenging year for Aquarion.
regulators to decrease equity returns, as most of the pricing models are based Turnover for 2005 from continuing operations was on lower long term interest rates.
Utility revenues were also affected by an 92.2m 2004: 94.1m.
Although higher turnover was unusually cool and rainy summer, which resulted in lower metered water use.
achieved in US$ terms, utility revenues were affected by Aquarion Operating Services revenue growth reflects continued success the disappointing rate case decision of the Connecticut in new contract wins.
Department of Public Utility Control in October 2004 that reduced revenues in some Connecticut divisions by an aggregate $2m per annum.
KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 Operating and Financial Review continued Aquarion continued Operating profit at 30.3m 2004: 31.6m for the year was maintained in The utility has reduced operating costs through the early retirement dollar terms.
Exceptional costs of 5.4m were incurred including 3.8m of programme.
Staffing is presently 21.5% below 2003 04 levels.
early retirement costs reflecting the management drive to improve the rate of Capital spending was $54.9m for the year.
Aquarion is utilising knowledge return to the allowed 9.75%.
from Yorkshire Water, using elements of its capital delivery model.
The business is implementing a number of best practice initiatives aimed at Enhanced use of technology includes new water main upgrading techniques, enabling the utility business to achieve the maximum allowable rate of return new meters for improved water use accuracy and greater use of automation by continuing to drive capital and operational efficiencies.
In the nonto monitor water treatment processes and reduce water testing and reservoir regulated businesses, strict cost control measures, selective bidding and management expenses.
Measures are also being taken to make aggressive maximisation of technology are intended to enable future profitability growth.
water treatment and electricity cost savings.
Such growth is dependent upon continuing contract opportunities being available at rates of return which are considered to be appropriate.
14 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 EMPLOYEES from seven different private companies and local authorities have transferred to Kelda to work on the new 300 waste water contract in Wales.
Winning the contract to supply waste water services in South Wales was down to our people their professionalism, experience and real teamwork.
PHIL REES, Pensions Officer, Kelda How were performing: UK Service Operations By exploiting our expertise in providing high quality water and waste water services, over the past year we have made good progress in growing our nonregulated business.
KELDA WATER SERVICES During 2004 05 Kelda confirmed its position as a Following continued success in its core markets, Yorkshire Water Projects leading company in the UK water and waste water was renamed Kelda Water Services KWS in January 2005. operations and maintenance market.
In January 2005, KWS signed a 15 year contract to provide waste water operations and maintenance services to Welsh Water, with anticipated annual The turnover from these non-regulated businesses, including our share of turnover around 50m.
The contract involves the operation of 570 waste associates and joint ventures turnover, amounted to 59.3m having increased water plants and over 13,000km of sewer network.
Operating profit increased significantly to 6.4m 2004: subsidiary of KWS, began operations on 1 April 2005.
2.0m resulting from strong operating performance of existing businesses and the inclusion of the first full year results from the MoD Aquatrine A contract.
KWS is also a 45% shareholder in Brey Utilities which completed the first full year of a 25 year contract with the MoD in December 2004.
Turnover for Brey for the year was 32.0m 2004: 5.0m.
During the year the contract scope has KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15 Operating and Financial Review continued UK Service Operations continued LOOP was named Customer Service Contact Centre of the year at the European Call Centre Awards 2004. expanded to include additional sites and assets.
Brey provides water and waste LOOP water services to approximately 1,100 sites in Wales, the Midlands and the South Loop provides customer relationship management services primarily to West.
In addition, Delta Water Services, a wholly owned subsidiary of KWS, Yorkshire Water.
Its turnover for the year was 19.3m 2004: 19.9m, provides operational and maintenance services to over 80% of the sites as a comprising 16.3m 2004: 16.4m from within the group and 3.0m 2004: subcontractor to Brey.
Turnover for the year for Delta was 5.8m 2004: 1.5m.
The renewal of the contract with Yorkshire Water for 5 years from 1 April 2005, provides the basis for Loops underlying KWS is a 45% shareholder in Aberdeen Environmental Services AES which revenue for that period.
manages four waste water treatment plants in Aberdeenshire under a 25 year contract.
Grampian Waste Water Services, a wholly owned subsidiary of KWS, KEYLAND operates the contract for AES.
Turnover for the Scottish projects for the year Turnover including share of associates and joint ventures was ahead of last was 10.7m 2004: 10.4m.
All four of the Scottish plants are continuing to perform well, with revenues This reflects the continued high demand for prime development land.
Net above expectations due to additional flows and loads received.
assets of KeyLand were 36.8m at the end of March 2005 2004: 34.4m.
The primary source of revenue continues to be through the disposal or BUSINESS SERVICES development of brownfield sites for housing.
The second half saw income The company continues to develop non-regulated activities including Safe relating to a significant housing development site at Headingley, Leeds.
A Move which contributes an annual turnover of 3.7m.
Safe Move provides number of smaller, high margin, properties supplemented this sale.
Planning drainage and water information to solicitors and conveyancers.
delays continue to affect the timing of sales.
In addition to its primary activities, KeyLand has participated in selected joint venture developments.
These contributed turnover of 4.6m 2004: 2.8m and operating profit of 0.9m 2004: 1.0m to the results.
16 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005
