0138 02-03 Board of Directors 6 4 05 2:28 pm Page 3 John Nelson Phil Bentley Hartmut Krmer Appointed to the Board in October 2002.
Appointed to the Board in November Deputy Chairman and Senior He is Group Finance Director of Centrica 2002, having been CEO of the retail Independent Director plc and was formerly Group Treasurer clothing group, Peek & Cloppenburg, Appointed Non-Executive Deputy and Director of Risk Management of and subsequently of Groupe Redcats, Chairman in January 2002.
He is also Diageo plc from 1997 and Group the home shopping division of Pinaulta Non-Executive Director and Chairman Treasurer of Grand Metropolitan plc Printemps-Redoute.
He is also a Nondesignate of Hammerson plc and a from 1995.
He previously spent 15 years Executive Director of SIF, a quoted Non-Executive Director of BT Group plc.
He retired as Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston Europe in 2002 and was Chairman of the Audit Committee and a Member of the Nomination Committee.
formerly Vice Chairman of Lazard member of the Nomination Committee.
Brothers and Non-Executive Director of Woolwich plc.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Margaret Salmon Michael Hepher Appointed to the Board in September Appointed to the Board in September 1997.
She is Chair of the Sector Skills 1997.
He is Chairman of TeleCity plc and Development Agency, Director of the of Lane Clark and Peacock LLP, and is a University for Industry, and the Non-Executive Director of Catlin Group University for Industry Charitable Trust.
Ltd and Canada Life U. K. Ltd. His She is also a Non-Executive Director former roles include Chairman and Chief of Alliance and Leicester.
Executive of Charterhouse plc, Group Managing Director of BT Group plc and Chairman of the Social Responsibility Non-Executive Director of Diageo plc Committee and a member of the and Lloyds Bank plc.
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Terry Hartwell Ian Harding Rgis Schultz Helen Jones Tony Stanworth Group Property Director Group Communications Group Strategy, Director of Governance Group Human Group Property Director and Director Development and and Corporate Services Resources Director holds the same role at B&Q.
Responsible for investor Planning Director Responsible for Company Appointed to his current role He is a Chartered Surveyor and relations, media relations Secretarial and Legal Affairs, in 1998.
He was previously Appointed to his current role has been involved in and internal communications.
Corporate Governance matters Human Resources Director in February 2005.
He joined commercial property He has worked for Kingfisher and Group Corporate Social of B&Q for five years and Kingfisher in 2000 as Group development for over 20 years, for eight years.
She has spent prior to that, Human Financial and Business principally in the out-of-town Chartered Accountant, 18 years at Kingfisher.
Resources Director of Analysis Controller for sector.
He was appointed to spending eight years with Superdrug.
Tony is Chairman Castorama Dubois the B&Q Board in 1990.
 of the Pension Trustee Board.
He then Age 48. before joining Kingfisher.
Age 54. became Finance Director Age 40. of Castorama France in 2001.
