REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors have pleasure in Corporate governance All directors receive an induction on joining submitting their report for the the Board.
A combination of tailored Board year ended 31 December 2005.
Board and committee agenda items and other The Board currently comprises the Board activities assist the directors in The divisional and financial reviews on non-executive Chairman, four executive continually updating their skills and the pages 6 to 19 and pages 24 to 27 form directors and five independent knowledge and familiarity with the Company part of this report.
Other matters material non-executive directors.
required to fulfill their role both on the Board to the appreciation of the Groups position and on Board committees.
In addition, are contained in the Chairmans statement The Chairman has a primary responsibility external seminars, workshops and on pages 2 and 3 and the Chief Executives for the running of the Board and for presentations are made available to statement on pages 4 and 5. ensuring effective communication with directors.
The Company provides the shareholders.
The Chief Executive is Results necessary resources for developing responsible for the operations and for The results for the year are shown in the and updating directors knowledge the development of strategic plans and consolidated income statement on page 32. and capabilities.
initiatives for consideration by the Board.
Dividends The division of responsibilities between Each director participates in an appraisal The directors recommend the payment the Chairman and the Chief Executive has interview with the Chairman.
The Senior of a special dividend of 233.4p and a final been clearly established, set out in writing Independent Director, having consulted dividend of 6.6p on each of the ordinary and agreed by the Board.
Mr L P Lupo with the other directors, carries out an shares entitled thereto.
Excluding the special acts as Senior Independent Director, the appraisal interview with the Chairman.
dividend this would make a total of 10.4p per principal roles and responsibilities of which Each director completes a questionnaire share for the year.
Subject to shareholders are described elsewhere in this report.
on the effectiveness and processes of approval at an extraordinary general meeting the Board and its committees.
The results The other significant commitments of to be held on 29 March 2006, the special are considered by the Board and the the Chairman during 2005 are detailed dividend and the final dividend are expected individual committees.
in his biography on page 22. to be paid together on 25 April 2006 to Whilst all directors are expected to bring shareholders registered on 13 April 2006.
The Board schedules eight meetings each an independent judgment to bear on issues year, but arranges to meet at other times, Annual general meeting of strategy, performance, resources as appropriate.
Of the ten board meetings This years annual general meeting will be including key appointments and held in 2005, Mr LP Lupo was unable to held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference standards of conduct, the independent attend one meeting due to other business Centre on 26 May 2006 at 11.00 am.
non-executive directors were selected commitments.
In addition the Chairman and appointed for this purpose.
Directors met during the year with the non-executive The directors during the year were those directors without the executive All directors submit themselves for listed on pages 22 and 23 together directors present.
re-election at least every three years.
with Mr S F Bollenbach who resigned The independent non-executive directors The Board has a formal schedule of matters as a director on 29 December 2005. understand that the Board will not specifically reserved for its decision and automatically recommend their Biographical details of all the directors approval.
These include the approval re-election by shareholders.
are on pages 22 and 23. of the strategic and annual profit plans, key public information releases e. g. The Chairman and the independent Details regarding the directors standing for financial statements, dividends, major non-executive directors are appointed election or re-election at the 2006 annual acquisitions and disposals, material for a specified term of approximately general meeting are set out in the letter contracts, treasury and other group three years, subject to re-election.
on the meeting, which will be sent to policies.
The section Internal Control shareholders with this Annual Report.
on page 108 contains further information The Company Secretary is responsible for Details of directors service contracts, on how the Board operates.
advising the Board through the Chairman their share interests and other details of on all governance matters.
The Company seeks to ensure that the their remuneration by the Company are Board is supplied with appropriate and Board committees contained in the Directors Remuneration timely information to enable it to discharge The Board has four standing committees, Report on pages 112 to 124. its duties.
The Board requests additional all of which have written terms of reference Auditor information or variations to regular clearly setting out their authority and Ernst & Young LLP has expressed reporting as it requires.
The terms of reference of the its willingness to continue in office.
exists for directors to seek independent audit, nomination and remuneration A resolution will be proposed at the 2006 professional advice in the furtherance of committees, which are reviewed annually, annual general meeting to re-appoint it their duties, if necessary.
All directors have can be viewed on the Companys website as auditor and to authorise the directors access to the advice and services of the www.
106 Annual Report and Accounts No additional fees are paid for committee The main activities of the committee Nomination committee The members membership other than the Chairmen in 2005 were as follows: of the committee are the Chairman of of the remuneration and audit who in the Board and two or more independent with the assistance of reports received 2005 each received an additional fee non-executive directors of the Company.
from management and the external auditor, of 7,500 per annum.
The current members of the committee the critical review of the significant financial are Sir Ian Robinson Chairman appointed Audit committee The members of reporting issues in connection with the as a member and Chairman on 1 October the committee are Mr N M H Jones preparation of the Companys financial 2001, Mr L P Lupo appointed 16 May appointed as a member and Chairman on and related formal statements: 2003 and Mr N M H Jones appointed 16 May 2003, Mr I P Livingston appointed assessing the scope and effectiveness 16 May 2003.
1 June 2003 and Ms C P Wicks appointed of the systems established to identify, 1 June 2004.
All members of the committee assess, manage and monitor financial Appointments to the committee are made are independent non-executive directors.
and non-financial risks: by the Board.
monitoring the integrity of the Companys Appointments to the committee are made The committee is provided with sufficient internal financial controls.
The committee by the Board at the recommendation of resources to undertake its duties.
It has does so by reference to: a summaries the nomination committee, which consults access to the services of the Company of business risks and mitigating controls: with the Chairman of the audit committee.
Secretary who acts as secretary to the b regular reports and presentations from committee and all other employees.
The The Board has satisfied itself that the the head of key risk functions, internal committee is able to take independent members of the committee have recent audit and external audit: and c the results legal and professional advice when it and relevant financial experience.
of the system of annual self-certification believes it necessary to do so.
of compliance with key controls The committee is provided with sufficient and procedures: The committee meets as required but not resources to undertake its duties.
It has monitoring and reviewing the plans, less than twice a year.
Three meetings access to the services of the Company work and effectiveness of the internal of the committee were held in 2005.
Secretary who acts as secretary to the audit function, including any actions committee and all other employees.
The The main role and responsibilities of the taken following any significant failures committee is able to take independent committee are to: in internal controls: legal or professional advice when monitoring the Groups preparations review the structure, size and it believes it necessary to do so.
for the implementation of the new composition of the Board which includes The committee meets as required, but not international accounting standards: an objective and comprehensive evaluation less than three times a year.
Four meetings reviewing, with the external auditor, of the balance of skills, knowledge and of the audit committee were held in 2005. its terms of engagement, the findings experience of the Board and make Ms C P Wicks was unable to attend of its work, and at the end of the audit recommendations to the Board with two meetings due to other business process reviewing its effectiveness: and regard to any changes: commitments.
Although other directors, reviewing the independence and consider succession planning for the including the Group Finance Director, objectivity of the external auditor.
directors and other senior executives and attend audit committee meetings, the make recommendations to the Board: The external auditor reports to the committee also meets for private identify and nominate for the approval committee on the actions taken to discussions with the external auditor, of the Board candidates to fill Board comply with professional and regulatory who attends all of its meetings, and vacancies as and when they arise: requirements and with best practice can do so with the internal auditor.
review the leadership of the Company designed to ensure its independence.
to ensure the continued ability of the The main role and responsibilities The committee has agreed a policy on Company to compete effectively in of the committee are to: the engagement of the external auditor the marketplace: to supply non-audit services the application monitor the integrity of the financial recommend candidates for the role of which it monitors.
The policy specifies statements of the Company: of Senior Independent Director and for services that may not be provided and review the Companys internal financial membership of the audit and remuneration contains a level of cost at which committee control and risk management systems: committees, in consultation with the approval is required enabling the committee monitor and review the effectiveness of Chairmen of those committees: and to satisfy itself that auditor objectivity and the Companys internal audit function: and make recommendations to the Board independence is safeguarded.
oversee the Companys relationship concerning the re-appointment of nonwith the external auditor including Finance committee This committee executive directors at the end of their the recommendation to the Board meets as required to deal with all routine specified term of office and the re-election of its appointment and remuneration.
business which excludes matters which by shareholders of any director under the are specifically reserved to the Board or to retirement by rotation provisions.
Should the committees monitoring and another committee.
Any two directors can review activities reveal any material cause conduct the business of this committee.
The above activities were performed for concern or scope for improvement, as necessary by the committee in 2005. it will make recommendations to the Board on action needed to address the issue or make improvements.
Annual Report and Accounts 107 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued By reference to the proposed disposal of The executive directors met regularly Key policies and control procedures the hotels division, the structure, size and together and with other senior executives including treasury, compliance and composition including skills, knowledge to consider Group financial performance, information system controls are and experience of the Board was business development and Group documented in manuals having group-wide reviewed.
Three new executive directors management issues.
Operating companies also used have been appointed with effect from officers of Group subsidiaries comprised procedure manuals which integrated with completion, two from amongst senior executives with appropriate functional Group controls.
management with special knowledge and responsibilities.
Directors of key operating A system of annual self-certification experience of the Ladbrokes businesses companies met regularly to manage their of compliance with key controls and and the third, the finance director designate, respective businesses.
procedures was operated throughout was recruited externally.
In the case of the The Board established corporate the Group.
finance director a description of the role strategy and Group business objectives.
The Group had an internal audit function, and capabilities required were prepared Divisional management integrated such outsourced to Deloitte & Touche LLP, and suitable candidates were identified objectives into divisional business which reported to management on the using an external adviser.
strategies for presentation to the Board Groups worldwide operations.
To underpin the effectiveness of controls, Remuneration committee Details There was an ongoing process for it was the Groups policy to recruit and of the remuneration committee, including identifying, evaluating and managing develop management and staff of high membership, are set out in the Directors the significant risks faced by the Group.
calibre, integrity and with appropriate Remuneration Report on pages 112 to 124, Major business risks and their financial disciplines.
High standards of business which should be read in conjunction with implications were appraised by the ethics and compliance with laws, this section of this report.
responsible executives and endorsed regulations and internal policies were Internal Control by the divisional management.
This was demanded from staff at all levels.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for an integral part of the strategic planning The role of the audit committee in reviewing the system of internal control operating process.
The appropriateness of controls the effectiveness of the system of internal throughout the Group and for reviewing was considered by executives, having control is explained in the section Audit its effectiveness.
regard to cost benefit, materiality and the Committee on page 107. likelihood of risks crystallising.
Key risks No system of internal control can provide and actions to mitigate those risks were The Board also conducts an assessment absolute assurance against material considered at each regular Board meeting of the effectiveness of the internal control misstatement or loss.
The Groups system and were formally reviewed and approved system.
The assessment takes account is designed to manage rather than eliminate by the Board twice yearly.
of all significant aspects of internal control the risk of failure to achieve business Divisional budgets, containing financial including: risk assessment: the control objectives and to provide the Board and operating targets, capital expenditure environment and control activities: with reasonable assurance that potential proposals and performance indicators, information and communication: problems will normally be prevented were reviewed by the executive directors and monitoring.
or will be detected in a timely manner and supported divisional business for appropriate action.
The consolidated Group There is a regular programme of meetings The Company has had procedures profit plan was approved by the Board.
with major institutional shareholders to in place throughout the year and up to Reports on Group and divisional consider the Groups performance and 22 February 2006, the date of approval performances were regularly provided prospects.
In addition presentations are of this Annual Report, which accord with to directors and discussed at Board made twice yearly after the announcement the Internal Control Guidance for Directors meetings.
Performance against both of results, the details of which, together on the Combined Code published in budgets and objectives together with with Group financial reports and September 1999. management of business risks were announcements, can be accessed reviewed with divisional management, The Board has delegated the detailed via the Groups internet site.
as were forecasts and material sensitivities.
design of the system of internal control The Board regularly received reports from In addition to results presentations and the to the executive directors.
key executives and functional heads annual general meeting, the Chairman met The control framework and key procedures covering areas such as operations, in 2005 with a number of major institutional during 2005 were as follows: forecasts, business development, strategic investors and their representative bodies.
planning, human resources, legal and Other directors are available to meet the Hilton Group plc was the holding corporate matters.
Companys major shareholders if requested.
company of a large, multinational group.
There was a group-wide policy governing The Groups operations were separated appraisal and approval of investment into two divisions: Hotels, and Betting and expenditure and asset disposals.
Responsibilities for managing projects were reported on at each regular business risks arising at a divisional level Board meeting.
Post investment audits were defined by the Board.
were undertaken on a systematic basis and were formally reviewed by the Board twice yearly.
108 Annual Report and Accounts The Senior Independent Director is available appropriate, the Board conducts an annual It is the Companys policy to give full and to shareholders if they have concerns which CSR review and Board members regularly fair consideration to applications from contact through the usual channels of receive CSR updates.
CSR performance people with disabilities, having regard Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance is included in divisional accountability to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Director has failed to solve or for which systems and remuneration arrangements.
If an employee becomes disabled, the such contact is inappropriate.
Companys objective is the continued The risks and opportunities relating to provision of suitable employment, either The Board receives a monthly market CSR in 2005 primarily revolved around the in the same or an alternative position, report from the Companys brokers reputation of the Group and the quality of its with appropriate training being given if who also present to the Board annually.
brands operating throughout the world.
Employees with disabilities A twice-yearly presentation is made to relation to this, the processes for identifying, share in the opportunities for training, the Board reporting on the programme evaluating and managing significant risks career development and promotion.
of meetings with major institutional faced by the Groups business recognised shareholders.
Principles of ownership, the importance of safety practices and Charitable donations corporate governance and voting Ladbrokes continuing development of its During 2005, in addition to donations guidelines issued by the Companys approach to responsible gambling.
CSR made to overseas charities, group major institutional shareholders, their also impacted the performance of the companies donated 54,000 to UK representative bodies and advisory Groups employees on whom the Group charitable organisations.
organisations are circulated to and relies for the provision of high quality Supplier payment policy considered by the Board.
The Company agrees payment terms The Company corresponds regularly Performance indicators continued to be for its business transactions when goods on a range of subjects with its individual developed in accordance with group-wide and services are ordered.
It ensures shareholders who have an opportunity CSR policies.
No breaches of CSR policies that suppliers are aware of the terms to question the Board at the annual and procedures material to the Group were of payment and the relevant terms are general meeting.
identified by the Board in 2005. included in contracts where appropriate.
Subject to satisfactory performance by Compliance statement The identification and management of CSR the supplier, arrangements are adhered The Company has complied throughout issues, the CSR reporting framework and to when making payments.
2005 with the provisions set out in accuracy of any associated data has been section 1 of the Combined Code on verified by the Companys CSR adviser, At the year end, the Company had Corporate Governance which was Acona Group AS.
Employee policies Going concern Substantial share interests The Board values two-way communication The directors consider that the Group At 22 February 2006, substantial between senior management and has adequate resources to continue in shareholdings notified to the Company employees on all matters affecting the operational existence for the foreseeable pursuant to section 198 of the Companies welfare of the business.
As well as regular future and that it is therefore appropriate Act 1985 were for: Barclays PLC 4.15%, management visits to operating units, to adopt the going concern basis in Credit Suisse 3.10%, Fidelity Investments conferences and meetings, communication preparing its financial statements.
5.96%, Legal and General Investment is by video, intranet and audio programmes.
By order of the Board Management Limited 5.13%, Lloyds TSB Throughout the Group via staff councils, Bank plc 3.07% and MFS Investment employees are encouraged to be involved M J Noble Management 3.03%.
in the running of the business and opinion Secretary surveys are undertaken.
Further details in respect of the share 22 February 2006 capital are shown on pages 72 and 73, The Companys Annual Report is made note 30. available to staff and, together with regular staff magazines, provides employees Corporate social responsibility with a greater awareness of the Groups A report on corporate social responsibility performance as well as the financial CSR is on the Companys website and economic factors which affect it.
com and highlights In addition, those employees who are are given on pages 20 and 21. eligible are also encouraged to become The processes described under internal involved in the Groups performance control on page 108 applied to CSR through participation in share schemes.
as did the practices described on page Throughout the Group, the principles of 106 for assisting the directors to update equal opportunities are recognised in the their knowledge.
In addition to business formulation and development of presentations regularly made to the employment policies.
Board at which CSR was considered as Annual Report and Accounts 109
