CAPITAL STRUCTURE REVIEW Capital structure review comprising a special dividend of 233.4 pence those dividends.
This restructuring is expected The Board is pleased to announce the per Ordinary Share and a final dividend of to be completed, and the interim accounts filed, conclusion of its capital structure review for 6.6 pence per Ordinary Share in respect of the shortly and in any case before the Extraordinary the ongoing Ladbrokes plc the Company.
Payment of General Meeting is held.
Taking account of the Companys expected the final dividend will be subject to the passing capital requirements, potential investment of an ordinary resolution approving it at an Details will be set out in a circular, opportunities and other relevant factors, Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company.
containing the notice convening the necessary the Board has concluded that a target net Payment of the special dividend will also be Extraordinary General Meeting, which will debt to EBITDA range of 3.5 to 3.75 times is subject to the passing of resolutions by the posted to shareholders shortly.
The final debt level shareholders at that Extraordinary General will also be proposed at that meeting to renew following the disposal and the payment of the Meeting approving i an amendment to the the Companys authority under section 166 special dividend and the 2005 final dividend borrowing limit in, and certain other amendments of the Companies Act 1985 to make market will depend in part on whether holders of to, the Companys Articles of Association, purchases of its own shares.
the Companys 3.375 per cent Guaranteed ii the payment of the special dividend and Convertible Bonds 2010 and holders of the iii a consolidation of the Companys share The Board has given careful consideration to Companys employee share options elect capital.
Subject to the passing of the necessary the method of returning value to its shareholders.
to convert their bonds into Ordinary Shares resolutions, the final dividend and the special A number of options were considered, and or, as applicable, exercise their options dividend are both expected to be paid on after consulting leading tax counsel, the Board before the record date for those dividends.
25 April 2006. concluded that a payment of a special dividend was in the interests of all shareholders.
Subject to completion of the disposal of Payment of the final dividend and the special the Hilton International Hotels Division the dividend will be subject to the Group completing The aggregate amount of the dividends to Board intends to recommend to shareholders an internal restructuring and the Company filing be paid 240.0 pence per Ordinary Share was on the record date which is expected to interim accounts at the Companies Registry calculated taking into account, amongst other be 13 April 2006 the payment of dividends showing reserves arising from that restructuring, things, the 3.298 billion net cash consideration totalling 240.0 pence per Ordinary Share sufficient to enable the Company lawfully to pay for the sale of the Hilton International Hotels 240.0 pence The Board intends to recommend to shareholders the payment of dividends totalling 240.0 pence per Existing Ordinary Share.
28 Annual Report and Accounts Division, the 397.2 million proceeds from on 22 February 2006, being the latest As all shareholdings in the Company will the sale of the 16 hotels to The Managed practicable date prior to the date of this be consolidated, shareholders percentage Hotels Unit Trust, transaction costs, additional announcement before the proposed final holdings in the issued share capital of the borrowings consistent with the desired gearing dividend of 6.6 pence per share.
Company will save in respect of fractional level referred to above and the contribution entitlements remain unchanged.
Similarly, which the Company is required to make to the At the record date for the proposed special although the nominal value of each Ordinary Hilton Group Pension Plan at completion under dividend the Company will undertake a share Share will change, the new Ordinary Shares the terms of the agreement for the sale of the consolidation, the effect of which will be to will have the same rights, including voting and Hilton International Hotels Division under which reduce the number of Ordinary Shares in issue dividend rights, as the Existing Ordinary Shares.
it agreed to contribute 50 per cent of the deficit by an amount approximately equal to the calculated on the more prudent of the IAS 19 special dividend as a proportion of the current basis as at the date of completion or the aggregate price of the Ordinary Shares.
trustee funding basis as at 1 July, 2005.
This contribution is not expected materially The Board believes it is appropriate to to exceed 55.5 million.
consolidate the Companys share capital as this will allow comparability of the Companys share Assuming full conversion of the Companys price and dividend per share before and after 3.375 per cent Guaranteed Convertible Bonds the payment of the special dividend.
The share 2010 and the exercise of all outstanding consolidation is also intended to maintain the employee share options, the special dividend position of participants under the Groups of 233.4 pence per Existing Ordinary Share share option schemes who will, after the will amount to approximately 4,227 million in consolidation, retain options with substantially aggregate, representing approximately 62 per the same economic value as they had cent of the Companys market capitalisation immediately before it.
based on the closing mid-market price of 382.75 pence per Existing Ordinary Share 4.2bn Cash return to shareholders of up to 4.2 billion.
Annual Report and Accounts 29 CAPITAL STRUCTURE REVIEW Hilton Group Finance Jersey Subject to the passing of the relevant Limited 300,000,000 3.375 per cent.
resolutions and in the case of the dividend Guaranteed Convertible Bonds due 2010 adjustment the payment of the final dividend The Exchange Price of the Convertible Bonds and special dividend, the Exchange Price of the which determines the number of Ordinary Convertible Bonds will be adjusted as regards Shares which a holder receives on exercising the share consolidation on the date on which his conversion right will be adjusted as the consolidation occurs which is expected to a result of the payment of the special dividend be 13 April 2006 and, as regards the payment and the final dividend and as a result of the of the dividends, on the date on which those share consolidation.
dividends are paid which is expected to be on 25 April 2006, but with retrospective effect The return of value comprising the special to the record date for the dividends, which dividend and the final dividend together is expected to be 13 April 2006. amount, in part, to a Capital Distribution under the terms of the Convertible Bonds the Assuming that the Company pays an interim payment of which gives rise to an adjustment.
dividend in 2006 a further adjustment will The return of value will only be treated as be made at the time of payment of that a Capital Distribution to the extent that the interim dividend.
aggregate amount of the distributions charged or provided for in the Companys accounts Further details of the calculation of the in the current financial year exceeds 120 per Exchange Price adjustment can be found in cent of the distributions charged or provided paragraph b iii of the Summary of the Articles for in the Companys accounts for the year of the Issuer relating to the Share Exchange ended on 31 December 2005.
The share Rights on page 19 of the Offering Circular consolidation will also trigger an adjustment in respect of the Convertible Bonds issued of the Exchange Price under the Convertible by the Company and Hilton Finance Jersey Bonds linked to the proportion which the Limited on 15 October 2003. nominal amount of each new Ordinary Share bears to the nominal amount of each Existing Ordinary Share.
25.04.06 The payment of the dividends is expected to be on 25 April 2006 for shareholders on the register on 13 April 2006.
