Board of Directors Nigel Keen Geoffrey Drabble Chairman.
Joined Laird in and Chairman in June 1997 as Managing Director 2000.
Chairman of the of Laird Security Systems.
Nominations Committee Appointed a director in and a member of the 2001.
Previously held senior Remuneration Committee.
management positions Chairman of Axis-Shield plc, with Black & Decker.
Oxford Instruments plc and Non-executive director of Deltex Medical Group plc.
Peter Hill Martin Rapp Chief Executive.
Joined Director in 2001 and Chief Laird in 1996 as General Executive in March 2002.
Manager of the Groups EMI Previously held senior shielding business, becoming management positions with President of APM, Inc in 1997.
Appointed Chief Executive Non-executive director of Laird Technologies, Inc in of Meggitt plc and an 2001.
Appointed a director in Independent Board Member January 2005.
Previously held of United Kingdom Trade & management positions with Investment.
Joined Laird in 1986 and appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 1994.
Previously Group Treasurer and Corporate Development Manager.
16 The Laird Group PLC John McDowall CBE Anthony Reading MBE Non-executive director.
of the Remuneration A member of the Committee and a member of Remuneration, Nominations the Nominations Committee.
Previously an executive Chairman of Techniquest director of Tomkins plc, and a member of the and earlier held senior Council of the University of management positions with Glamorgan.
Non-executive executive director of British director of George Wimpey Steel plc and Chairman of Plc, Spectris plc and e2v Avesta Shef eld AB.
Sir Geoffrey Owen Andrew Robb Non-executive director.
A member of the Appointed in September Remuneration and Audit 2004.
Senior the Audit Committee Fellow at the Institute of and a member of the Management, the London Remuneration Committee.
Previously Finance Director Formerly Editor of the of Pilkington plc and Financial Times.
P&O Steam Navigation Co. Non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Corus Group plc, Kesa Electricals plc and PayPoint plc.
Dr William Spivey Non-executive director.
A member of the Remuneration Committee.
Formerly President and CEO of Luminent, Inc. having previously held senior management positions with AT&T Corporation and Lucent Technologies.
Non-executive director of the Raytheon Company, Novellus Systems, Lyondell Chemical, ADC Telecommunications and Cascade Microtech Inc.
