P22 Report of the directors LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Report of the directors The directors present their report together with On 20 April 2005 the group confirmed that, pay creditors on the dates agreed in contract the financial statements of the company and its following the receipt of clearance from the and purchase orders.
At 31 December 2005, the subsidiaries, for the year ended 31 December European competition authorities, it had number of days of annual purchases 2005.
These will be laid before shareholders at completed the acquisition of a 60 per cent represented by year end trade creditors for the the annual general meeting AGM to be held on controlling interest in Edinfor - Sistemas group amounted to 43 days 2004: 40 days.
Informticos, S. A. a leading Portuguese IT services provider, for 81 million 55 million.
Research and development Principal activities During the year the group invested 31.1 million Throughout the year group companies, including On 19 September 2005 the group announced 2004: 41.1 million in research and branches, were in the business of providing that, subject to shareholder and other approvals, development on software products, principally information technology services, concentrating it had conditionally agreed to acquire a 32.3 per within the telecoms products business, of which on: cent interest in Unilog S. A. a leading French IT 5.6 million 2004: 3.4 million was capitalised.
the marketing, design, production, integration services provider listed on Euronext Paris the and maintenance of custom-built software Block Trade and that it intended to acquire the Financial instruments and associated hardware systems remaining 67.7 per cent of the issued share The exposure of the group to financial risks and consultancy, applications management and capital of Unilog by way of a public tender offer the risk management objectives and policies project management in the field of information the Tender Offer.
It further announced that the relating to those risks are set out on pages 62 technology total consideration of 930 million 630 million and 65. the design, development, implementation and for the acquisition would be funded through a marketing of software products and the committed term loan facility, a rights issue of up Directors reusable elements of applications software, to 375.5 million new shares and an additional The directors are listed on page 20. called systems kernels allotment of shares to partly fund the Block the outsourcing of information Trade.
On the same date, a prospectus was On 25 October 2005 Grard Philippot, the technology services.
sent to shareholders setting out the details of the President of Unilog S. A. was appointed as a proposed acquisition and containing a notice of non-executive director of the company.
On 10 Results and dividends an extraordinary general meeting EGM called to January 2006 Didier Herrmann, the Executive Consolidated revenue amounted to 1,834.1 approve the acquisition and the rights issue.
Vice President of Unilog S. A. was appointed as million, compared with 1,658.4 million for the an executive director of the company.
The profit At the EGM held on 13 October 2005 the before tax was 105.6 million compared to acquisition and the rights issue were approved The interests of the directors in the shares of the 63.7 million for the year ended 31 December by shareholders.
On 7 November 2005 the company are shown in the the remuneration 2004.
The profit attributable to equity holders company announced that it had procured committee report.
of the parent company was 66.6 million, subscription for all of the 375.5 million new compared with 24.6 million for the previous rights issue shares.
The Block Trade was As disclosed in the Prospectus sent to year.
Basic earnings per share from continuing completed on 25 October 2005 and the Tender shareholders on 19 September 2005, Grard operations were 7.4 pence 2004: 4.1 pence.
Philippot and Didier Herrmann both of whom Net debt at 31 December 2005 stood at were shareholders in Unilog S. A. received a 96.1 million 2004: 198.3 million.
Post balance sheet events combination of cash and shares in consideration On 18 January 2006 the group announced that for the acquisition by the company of their The directors are proposing a final dividend of completion of the acquisition of Unilog S. A. had interests in Unilog S. A.
3.2 pence per share 2004: 3.08 pence per taken place on 13 January 2006 and that it share which, when taken with the restated now held a 96.6 per cent controlling interest Other than as referred to above, none of the interim dividend of 2.11 pence per share 2004: in Unilog.
Additional information is set out on directors had a material interest in any contract 2.02 pence per share paid to shareholders on page 79. of significance to which the parent company or a 21 October 2005, will amount to a dividend for subsidiary was a party during the financial year.
the year of 5.31 pence, on a restated basis.
The Creditor payment policy and practice interim 2005 and prior dividends have been The Companies Act 1985 Directors Report At the forthcoming AGM Wim Dik, George restated to reflect the bonus element of the Statement of Payment Practice Regulations Loudon and Angela Knight will retire and offer rights issue that took place in November 2005.
1997 requires the company to make a statement themselves for re-election in accordance with the If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 18 of its policy and practice on the payment of Articles of Association.
In addition, Grard May 2006 to eligible shareholders on the register creditors.
The company and its subsidiaries seek Philippot and Didier Herrmann, both of whom at close of business on 21 April 2006. the best possible terms from suppliers have been appointed as directors since the last appropriate to their businesses and, in placing AGM, offer themselves for election.
Business review and future prospects orders, give consideration to quality, delivery, A review of the development of the business price and the terms of payment which will be Directors and officers insurance during the year is given on pages 8 to 11. agreed with suppliers when the details of each The company maintains insurance cover for all Further information on the acquisition of interests transaction are agreed.
The company and its directors and officers of group companies in subsidiaries and associates during the year is subsidiaries will continue to honour their against liabilities which may be incurred by them provided below.
contractual and other legal obligations and to while acting as directors and officers.
LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Report of the directors P23 As at the date of this report indemnities are in directors the unconditional and general authority proposed as resolution number 12 in the Notice force under which the company has agreed to to make one or more market purchases of the of the forthcoming AGM.
indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted companys ordinary shares for the purposes of by law and the companys Articles of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 on The proposed authority will expire at the Association, against all costs, charges, losses such terms and in such manner as the directors 2007 AGM and permits the directors, during and liabilities that they may incur in the execution shall determine, subject to maximum and this period, to issue up to an aggregate of their duties, powers, authorities and minimum prices which may be paid for each nominal amount of 5,733,997 representing five discretions as directors of the company, or any ordinary share as set out in the resolution.
per cent of the issued share capital at other company of which, at the request of the In addition: 16 March 2006 without first offering them to company, they are directors or officers.
Copies the maximum aggregate number of shares that existing shareholders.
of these indemnities are kept at the companys may be purchased pursuant to this authority registered office and are open for inspection by shall be limited to 114,679,945 shares, which Articles of Association any member of the company without charge.
is equivalent to 10 per cent of the companys Resolution number 13 in the Notice of the issued share capital as at 16 March 2006 forthcoming AGM proposes the adoption of new Substantial holdings this authority shall remain in force until the Articles of Association.
New Articles of At 16 March 2006 the company had been conclusion of the next AGM of the company Association are being proposed to take account notified that the following were interested in three but will terminate on the date falling 12 months of a number of developments in law and per cent or more of the companys share capital: from the date that this resolution is passed if practice applicable to listed companies since the the AGM has not been held by that date current Articles of Association were adopted in Name No.
of shares % the company may agree before the above 1994.
Since the directors are proposing a large The Capital Group 109,305,321 9.5 authority terminates to purchase ordinary number of changes to the Articles, it is more Companies, Inc. shares where the purchase will or may be appropriate to adopt the proposed New Articles, and its affiliates Lloyds TSB Group plc 49,049,026 4.3 executed after the authority terminates either than to amend the current Articles.
A summary including Scottish in whole or in part.
The company may of the substantive changes is contained in the Widows Investment complete such a purchase even though the circular accompanying the Notice of the Partnership Limited authority has ended.
Legal & General 38,334,884 3.3 Group plc and its subsidiaries Authority to allot securities New Share Plans Resolution number 11 in the Notice of the In preparation for the loss of the companys Employment policies forthcoming AGM proposes the renewal of the 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme and The group operates in a number of countries directors authority to allot the authorised but as Equity Partnership Plan, which will come to the and its employment practices vary to meet local yet unissued share capital of the company in end of their ten year lives during the next two conditions and requirements.
In all cases they accordance with Section 80 of the Companies years, the company is seeking shareholder are established on the basis of best practice in Act 1985.
This authority which was renewed at approval, through resolutions 14, 15 and 16 of that country.
There is no discrimination against the EGM held on 13 October 2005 expires at the AGM Notice, to introduce three new equity people with disabilities who apply to join the this years AGM.
The maximum number of based incentive arrangements for its executive group and anyone within the group with a shares subject to such an authority would be directors and senior executives.
The main terms disability is awarded the same opportunities for 378,443,821, representing approximately 33 per of the proposed new plans are summarised in promotion, training and career development as cent of the companys total issued share capital the circular.
Further details on our employment at 16 March 2006.
The directors do not have policies are included in the corporate social any present intention of exercising this authority Political donations and contributions responsibility statement on pages 24 to 26. other than in connection with the groups The companys policy is not to make any employee share schemes.
donations or contributions to political parties or Remuneration committee report organisations and no such payments were The remuneration committee report is set out on Under Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 made during the year.
Further information about pages 31 to 38. equity securities in the company may not be the companys policy is set out in the corporate allotted for cash other than in respect of an social responsibility statement on page 26.
Auditors employee share scheme without first being After due and careful consideration, the directors offered pro-rata to existing shareholders, unless Charitable donations recommend the reappointment of the prior approval of shareholders is given in a The donations made to charities during the  LLP as the companys general meeting.
year are also set out in the corporate social auditors.
 LLP has responsibility statement on page 26. expressed its willingness to continue in office The directors consider that it is in the best and therefore a resolution for their reappointment interests of the company that the relevant By order of the board will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
authority given at the AGM in 2005 and renewed at the 2005 EGM, which expires at the P Weaver FCIS Repurchase of company shares 2006 AGM, should be renewed on similar terms.
Company secretary Resolution number 10 in the Notice of the Accordingly, a special resolution to this effect is 29 March 2006 forthcoming AGM proposes granting the
