P8 Business overview LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Business overview Furthermore, the addition of Unilog and its close environment might generate new business relationships with many of the biggest names in Financial services opportunities.
We continue to export our the French financial services industry, promises expertise in Basel II and AML, helping us to build to open up a number of exciting opportunities.
Our financial services business had an strong relationships with some of the world's excellent year in 2005.
A major contributor leading financial institutions.
to its strong growth was a rise in longerterm contracts for applications The LogicaCMG difference Telecoms management, testing and outsourcing, We are a good partner for our financial services reflecting our ability to secure work of a customers, offering them a geographical reach In the midst of extraordinary industry higher strategic value to clients.
that meets their demands for global servicing.
change, our telecoms business performed We have over 30 years of domain expertise and well: the telecoms products business The best performers were the UK, the Middle we are at the forefront of delivering innovative formerly wireless networks grew its East and, most impressively, the Netherlands, financial services solutions.
orders, revenue and profitability in 2005. which recorded double-digit growth.
The telecoms solutions business also Our blended service model, which provides increased orders and secured a number The market customers with the most suitable mix of of strategic deals such as the $60 million In 2005 the financial services market was onshore, nearshore and offshore services, win at Natrindo in Asia, leaving it well dominated by two major drivers.
Firstly, financial gives us competitive advantage.
This means positioned for further revenue growth institutions had to increase or divert spending to we can deliver efficient services that provide in 2006. address the impact of major regulatory changes the optimal business outcome for our facing the insurance and banking sectors.
Testament to our excellent delivery There are substantial opportunities same time our customers moved their focus capability came from Aon who, only 12 months for companies like LogicaCMG to help from cost cutting to starting new projects to into a 10-year outsourcing deal, returned to us their customers adapt to the changes improve customer service, capture market share to extend the contract.
that are transforming the and deliver revenue growth.
Successes As most European banks come to the end of 2005 saw a string of important wins and The market their Basel II and anti-money laundering AML strategic successes for our financial The market is in a period of unprecedented programmes, they have to contend with further services business.
flux: business models, technologies and the major market reforms, such as the Single Euro key market players are all undergoing Payments Area SEPA and Markets in Financial We secured a 25 million applications significant change.
These reforms management contract with the investment have an impact on their processes, banking arm of a major European bank, beating At the same time, consumer attitudes have infrastructures and, most importantly, on their competition from European and Indian changed: broadband connections are customers.
Outside Europe many countries are companies.
Our reputation was also enhanced outstripping dial up, digital music downloads are only now starting to implement Basel II and AML by Aon awarding us global Gold Partner status.
outselling CDs and more people are abandoning and their equivalent reforms in payments and fixed lines in their homes in favour of mobile securities are yet to be finalised.
The insurance Our balanced sector approach across the group handsets.
In response, communication service sector is also braced for its own versions of allows us to transfer relevant expertise from one providers are investing heavily in reshaping these regulations.
Against this background, there sector to another.
For instance, our financial themselves as multi-access players focused on are a number of exciting opportunities for our services card experience, combined with our selling bundles of services to businesses and financial services business.
strength in biometric technology, forms a central consumers.
The trend for consolidation is part of our e-Identity offer.
continuing and, as content services drive Our strengths increased data revenues, large Internet brands, Our combination of strong technological knowThe year ahead like Google, Yahoo!
and Microsoft are diversifying how and specific banking and insurance Business transformation will continue to be our their market presence.
domain skills has given us an excellent customers focus in the year ahead, with reputation for delivering innovative solutions in companies coming to us for help in formulating a Our strengths financial services.
By coupling this expertise strategic response to the competitive and We deliver services which support our with our leading outsourcing services, regulatory environment in their efforts to improve customers three major areas of investment: LogicaCMG is able to respond effectively to performance as well as customer service.
broadband networks, broadband services and this dynamic market environment.
capital expenditure projects focused on Our managed testing approach will be a major delivering long-term cost savings.
Our consultancy capability means customers are growth area, as customers demand end-to-end increasingly coming to us to solve complex testing services.
Weve already won several In a time of great uncertainty for network business problems.
For instance, we are playing significant contracts that provide cheaper, more operators and service providers, we are a a leading role in helping our customers to effective testing, while ensuring the solution is reliable partner.
We have a powerful track prepare for the implications of SEPA and MiFID tailored for the particular business requirement.
record reflected in our work with over 300 and also to better understand how this changing LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Business overview P9 operators around the world serving over 800 strongly in the non-mobile sector.
Operational own research showed that by the middle of million consumers.
support services in the US and a $60 million, 2005, 50 per cent of UK companies were still four-year deal with Natrindo Telepon Seluler not compliant with the European Emissions As leaders in personalised messaging, content of Indonesia further expanded our Trading Scheme, which sets targets for reducing delivery and payment systems, we have geographical spread.
implemented over 100 next generation messaging systems, delivered mobile browsing The year ahead The continuing trend for mergers and to almost 200 million consumers and deployed We approach the new financial year with acquisitions across the energy and utilities over 150 payments systems globally.
With the Russian mobile market set sector is producing global energy companies LogicaCMG also implemented the worlds first to become the biggest in Europe, and with two with widely dispersed asset bases and different 3G IP-based messaging solutions and of its leading operators as our customers, we fuel mixes.
This creates an increasing demand commercial videomail deployments.
expect further success for our newly opened for real time network information and improved Moscow office.
The LogicaCMG difference We have the experience, domain knowledge and We anticipate significant wins for our products Our strengths technical skills to add value to our customers portfolio, especially Intuitive Messaging, uOne In 2005 we won significant new business in all businesses through new or existing technology.
Videomail and Video portals, SMART Customer our traditional areas of strength: Care and Intelligent Charger.
We will also IT and business process outsourcing We were first to market with the concept of the continue to pilot compelling and creative designing, building and operating central Personal Service Portal a map of services solutions like sophisticated advertising on energy market infrastructures desired by the individual user, which reflects the mobile devices linked to video providing the implementing SAP software trend of consumer demand for easily accessible innovative edge our customers require to greenhouse gas emissions systems and personalised data.
managing human resources and physical assets.
The business previously reported as wireless networks We are already successfully rolling out will henceforth be referred to as telecoms products, components of the Personal Service Portal such We have reinforced our skills base, primarily reflecting that many of its customers and prospects in a converging market are fixed line and cable operators, not as our Intelligent Charger solution.
This is a through the acquisition of Edinfor, which has just wireless companies.
payment solution that, for the first time, gives brought valuable SAP IS-U experience.
As part communication service providers a of Energias fide Portugal, Edinfor was responsible comprehensive retail offer by allowing powerful for one of the worlds largest implementations of user profiling and delivering targeted offers Energy and utilities SAPs utilities-specific solution.
Edinfor also has in real time.
strong credentials in geospatial information Following a strong order intake in 2004, systems that allow companies to map and Other pioneering work includes our music revenues from our energy and utilities monitor infrastructure such as electricity recognition solution to drive new services division improved in most countries, transmission cables and gas pipelines.
revenues for our customers, our SMART particularly in Australia, Belgium, France customer care solution to reduce customer and Germany during 2005.
Overall, The LogicaCMG difference churn and speed browsing to increase mobile revenues were up 33.6 per cent in the year Our customers choose us for our combination of internet access.
Further examples of our with the successful acquisition of Edinfor, industry experience, technical expertise and visionary work include intuitive messaging to the IT services business of Energias fide strategic vision and they rely on us to implement enable messaging regardless of device, and our Portugal EDP, accounting for 27.6 per cent the technical solutions they need to meet their uOne suite of products for voice-mail, videoof the increase.
mail and video portal applications.
With some impressive wins during 2005, a For example, through our work in mobile asset Successes strong set of propositions aligned to management and smart metering, we are Our product portfolio is deployed by leading customer needs and a series of compelling increasingly delivering solutions that transform network operators and service providers around new solutions in areas like smart metering businesses cutting costs, improving efficiency the globe including Vodafone, Cingular, America and oil & gas, the forthcoming year should and helping our customers to offer enhanced Movil, Maxis, Celcom, TIM, Orascom, Telefonica show further progress.
levels of service to consumers.
France we have delivered a mobile workforce The market system that is supporting several thousand field In the content space, we won the contract to Increasing gas and oil prices and a need to staff across Europe.
produce an end-to-end content management further invest in infrastructure and exploration, solution for Optus Australia, including search and create perennial pressure for our customers to Successes digital rights management DRM.
reduce costs and increase efficiency.
Together 2005 saw LogicaCMG win a number of major with increasing regulatory changes both industry strategic deals.
For example, in June we signed Through our voicemail solutions work and financial and the need for improved physical a 22 million seven year IT outsourcing deal with for TimeWarner and continuing regulatory and digital security, these areas present a Thames Water to support their billing and compliance work with BT, we also performed number of opportunities for LogicaCMG.
Our income services operation with Dwr Cymru P10 Business overview LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Welsh Water.
The work will be delivered from our The market Successes outsourcing centre in Wales, which already As our customers markets improve, they are In 2005 we secured an 18 million IT services Welsh Water, Thomsonfly, Ofcom and increasing their investment in innovative outsourcing contract with Metronet Rail to the British Council.
This deal was just one of solutions, such as the use of wireless transform its IT network and desktop many that saw our percentage of energy and technology, to increase efficiency of their applications for its 5,000 employees.
utilities income generated by outsourcing rise to business processes.
Our shared service centre approach has also Security is also a vital and growing paid dividends in HR and payroll management, In the Czech Republic, we were instrumental in concern for our customers and one we with wins in the UK, the Netherlands, the Czech the successful launch of the National Registry of seek to address through our biometrics and Republic and in France.
established and now operate the gas electricity In addition to these wins we have completed certificate registry for the Queensland State The increasing involvement of the private sector some impressive projects through our innovative Government in Australia, and are also supporting in public transport is stimulating demand for our use of technology.
These include: the emissions registry in Italy.
The demand from travellers for better service means transport providers are turning mobile traffic services, which provide real time Another notable success was Fords choice towards technology companies who have the traffic information based on mobile phone data of our flagship emissions solutions capabilities to help them drive up service levels condition monitoring, which uses wireless Emissions logic, which is helping them and efficiency.
For example, by helping train technology to monitor the status of fuel tanks manage their carbon emissions in 54 sites operators and airlines to keep better track of in Dutch buses and the temperature of wheels across two continents.
their assets through RFID, LogicaCMG is on Norwegian high-speed trains enabling them to operate more efficiently and facial recognition technology to identify The year ahead provide their customers with more accurate shoplifters in a shopping centre Our oil and gas business exceeded its growth travel information.
using RFID in a hospital to help monitor target in 2005.
We expect further gains this year, and schedule operations by ensuring the particularly since we have expanded our Our strengths requisite equipment and information is business with Shell, who confirmed our status as We have had a successful year and continue to available and accessible.
innovate in our core areas of expertise.
HR management and business process outsourcing The year ahead As energy prices continue to rise and regulation BPO are recognised strengths for us in the IDT We anticipate continued growth in the transport becomes tougher, companies will increasingly area.
In 2005 we secured new deals with a sector.
Developments in road pricing will play off have to implement strategies to ensure greater number of customers including Transport for our strengths in satellite based services - such energy efficiency.
As a result, we expect an London TfL, and George Wimpey.
as Galileo the European replacement for GPS, increase in demand for our new smart metering our mobile messaging systems and global services that allow real time measurement of LogicaCMGs experience in enterprise asset payment, clearing and billing capabilities.
customer energy use, leading to more accurate management has helped our customers manage billing, improved cash flow and less and optimise their manufacturing operations and The acquisition of Unilog is significant for IDT, administration, particularly account regularisation.
supply chains, improving efficiency and cutting doubling our presence in Germany and giving us unnecessary stock holding.
access to Unilogs impressive blue chip We continue to innovate, for example, with our customer base in France.
It positions us in the Instant Energy pay as you go service.
The Our work with machine-to-machine technology Consumer Packaged Goods CPG & Retail and solution, which uses SMS based technology to is helping our customers monitor the state of Pharmaceutical sector and also places us replace prepay cards for energy use, won the their assets remotely and in real time.
Using among the top three systems integrators in Social Contribution Award this year at the wireless and RFID technology, we have Europe in the Manufacturing Execution Systems British Computer Society awards.
enabled our customers to achieve reductions MES field.
of between 20 and 35 per cent in total cost of ownership of assets by managing product With the ongoing improvement in the global Industry, distribution lifecycle costs optimally.
economy, LogicaCMGs IDT customers are investing in new technology to ensure innovative and transport The LogicaCMG difference business transformation.
Sound domain The industry, distribution and transport Our reputation in IDT is based on 20 years of expertise and strong systems integration skills IDT market improved across the globe experience in the automotive, manufacturing, are one of our differentiating capabilities in the during 2005, with our transport division pharmaceutical and transport industries, with us IDT market, putting LogicaCMG in a very experiencing a significant increase in often operating at the core of our clients competitive position for 2006 and beyond.
business - in the plant, onboard trains and planes and through our contribution to air traffic Many of the technologies that have been control systems.
Public sector piloted successfully with IDT clients like radio frequency identification RFID, Through our pioneering activity in new With a high proportion of outsourcing deals biometrics and wireless have also technologies and strong track record, our and some significant contract awards, our demonstrated their value in other areas of customers look to us to help them optimise public sector business met expectations the group and will support stronger growth their processes.
despite only modest growth in public sector in 2006.
The market LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Business overview P11 Internationally, public service reform is focused with the Queensland government and Brisbane on establishing citizen-centred, efficient, and City Council for their electronic document and Global service delivery cost-effective services.
The trend is towards records management systems.
In New South encouraging standardisation and sharing across Wales, the Hunter New England Health Authority Delivering timely, cost-effective IT and government departments via shared services awarded us another contract to deliver phase business process outsourcing services and business process outsourcing.
This two of its patient delivery scheduling system.
Outsourcing is a key strategic business tool.
It transformational approach to sharing back-and enables organisations to adapt rapidly to change front-line services across government provides In the Netherlands, we secured a government and to divest themselves of non-core functions, an opportunity for us to demonstrate our electronic ordering and invoicing tender to allow while generating competitive advantage.
We are helping government six ministries to procure goods and services departments to address some of the inherent electronically and we rolled out mobile traffic LogicaCMG delivers a full range of IT challenges that arise from this trend of working services across two Dutch provinces.
outsourcing and business process solutions and together to agree best practice, processes, services through our global service delivery objectives and joint procurements.
In early 2006 we also won a contract to organisation GSD.
reengineer the HR IT system of the French Our strengths armed police, following a change in Central to GSDs success is our blended Areas of particular strength are space, justice government policy.
sourcing model which mixes onsite, onshore, and health, where we delivered a number of nearshore and offshore resources to deliver ground-breaking solutions this year.
There were also a number of project wins for services to our customers at the right cost, space and defence within the European Space quality, performance, security and risk.
To do Evidence of the long lasting value we deliver to Agencys Europe-wide Galileo programme, this, we identify and employ key capabilities at customers came when COMPASS, our including the application of Galileo in the location the most efficient cost in shared service centres.
partnership with the Crown Prosecution Service based services environment.
Additionally, we Distributed globally, these hubs of LogicaCMG for England and Wales, was awarded the were awarded the contract as part of the ATLAS staff and infrastructure serve our customers highest-rated green status in a government consortium for the UK's Ministry of Defences giving them round-the-clock service across review.
Through the COMPASS programmes MoD Defence Information Infrastructure Future multiple time zones.
Critically the blended focus on IT-enabled business change, the CPS project, where we are delivering security, sourcing model uses people, process and leads the modernisation drive in the criminal applications migration and training.
The 2.3 technology to deliver an integrated service locally justice system.
billion contract is the first tranche of a ten-year to our customers.
project that is potentially the largest and most We helped to successfully launch the IT significant IT programme in the MoDs history.
A full service infrastructure for the University College London Our global service delivery capabilities include: Hospitals NHS Trust, which enables During 2005, we delivered the critical service, unmatched skills we have teams of appointments and medical notes to be linked operations and support software which enabled highly skilled professionals specialising in every to a single computer-based patient record.
the Paradigm Secure Communications-led aspect of Information Technology Outsourcing This was a key achievement for the National Skynet 5 Private Finance Initiative programme to ITO and Business Process Outsourcing BPO Health Service.
meet the first and most challenging milestone on global coverage our fully-integrated network time.
This significantly changed the way that long of shared service centres and infrastructure In the Netherlands, our strong track record of haul communications services are delivered to means we can serve customers continuously enabling change for our government customers the UK armed services.
and dependably wherever their business is was reflected in the extension of our major long located and whenever they need us term contracts with the ministries of Defence, The year ahead certainty we use standard and robust Justice, and Traffic and Transport.
The UK public sector is likely to show methodologies, tools, processes and platforms conservative growth in IT spend in the year to ensure high productivity, managed risk, The LogicaCMG difference ahead.
However, a number of key opportunities reliability and consistency Our approach is increasingly seen as are emerging and some major contracts will go quality service our work is underpinned by a supportive of public sector objectives, out to tender including e-Borders and ID Cards.
single universal best practice governance particularly cross-agency shared services and Our prospects are supported by our pioneering model to ensure consistent quality business process outsourcing.
work on biometrics and e-identity.
domain knowledge using our broad range of commercial and public sector expertise, we Our Framework Agreement with the UKs HM Our public sector business in the Netherlands have the industry specific and sector Treasury for payroll services to 57 public sector continues to strengthen and we maintained our knowledge necessary to deliver the right agencies and similar services to police position as a top 3 IT services provider to the service to our customers across the globe authorities, including pay and pensions for the Dutch government.
Given 2006 is a pre-election dedicated account management all Metropolitan Police Authority, is noteworthy.
Our year in the Netherlands, we expect the demand relationships and delivery are managed locally framework contract with the Scottish Executive for IT solutions to intensify as the government by dedicated senior managers for systems integration is significant in expanding seeks to meet their implementation milestones.
a powerful track record our outsourcing our involvement with devolved administrations capabilities have been proven time and again, in the UK in support of these objectives.
Our successes and track record of delivery in the delivering huge benefits to our clients public sector, combined with our strengthened the right balance blended sourcing offers Successes consulting, shared service and outsourcing flexible and cost-effective services using a During 2005 we won new business in all areas capabilities, leave our public sector business well tailored mix of capabilities.
of the public sector, including local government.
placed to grow in the year ahead.
Major new contracts were signed in Australia
