Directors report independent non-executive director on 20 April 2005 and The directors have pleasure in submitting the statutory financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Peter Woicke was appointed as an independent non-executive director with effect from 1 January 2006.
Principal activities and business review Anglo American plc is the holding company of the Anglo American Sustainable development group of companies the Group.
The Group continues to be a The Report to Society 2005 will be available from the Company in April.
This report focuses on the safety, sustainable development, global leader in the mining and natural resources sectors, with significant interests in platinum group metals, gold, diamonds, health and environmental performance of the Groups managed coal, base metals, industrial minerals, paper and packaging and operations, their performance with regard to the Companys Good ferrous metals and industries.
Citizenship: Our Business Principles and the operational dimensions of their social programmes.
More detailed information about the Groups businesses, activities Payment of suppliers and financial performance can be found in the chairmans and chief executives statements, and financial review on pages 2 to 17.
Anglo American plc is a holding company and, as such, has no trade creditors.
Going concern The Groups business is a going concern as interpreted by the Guidance Businesses across the Group are responsible for agreeing the terms on Going Concern and Financial Reporting for directors of listed under which transactions with their suppliers are conducted, reflecting companies registered in the UK, published in November 1994. local and industry norms.
The Group values its suppliers and recognises the benefits to be derived from maintaining good relationships with Dividends them.
Anglo American acknowledges the importance of paying An interim dividend of 28 US cents per ordinary share was paid on invoices, especially those of small businesses, promptly.
The directors are recommending that a final dividend of 62 US cents per ordinary share, together with a special Value of land dividend of 33 US cents per ordinary share, be paid on 3 May 2006, Land is mainly carried in the financial statements at cost.
It is not subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held on 25 April 2006. practicable to estimate the market value of land and mineral rights, This would bring the total dividend in respect of 2005 to 123 US cents since these depend on product prices over the next 20 years or per ordinary share.
However, in accordance with International longer, which will vary with market conditions.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the final dividend will be accounted for in the financial statements for the year ended Post balance sheet events 31 December 2006.
With the exception of the proposed final dividend for 2005, there have been no material reportable events since 31 December 2005.
Two shareholders have waived their rights to receive dividends.
In both cases, these shareholders act as trustees nominees holding Audit information shares for use solely in relation to the Groups employee share plans.
The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant These shareholders and the value of dividends waived during the audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each year were: director has taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are Greenwood Nominees Limited $39,136,845 aware of that information.
Security Nominees Limited $43,682 Employment and other policies Share capital The Anglo American Group is managed along decentralised lines.
The Companys authorised and issued share capital as at Each key operating business is empowered to manage, within the 31 December 2005, together with details of shares allotted context of its own industry, and the different legislative and social during the year, is set out in note 29 on page 72. demands of the diverse countries in which those businesses operate, subject to the standards embodied in Anglo Americans The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2005 AGM to Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles.
purchase its own shares in the market up to a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
This authority will expire at the 2006 AGM and Within all the Groups businesses, the safe and effective performance a resolution to renew it for a further year will be proposed.
No shares of employees and the maintenance of positive employee relations are were purchased during the year.
Managers are charged with ensuring that the following key principles are upheld: Material shareholdings Details of interests of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital of the adherence to national legal standards on employment and workplace Company are shown within the shareholder information section rights at all times: of the enclosed booklet.
adoption of fair labour practices: prohibition of child labour: Directors prohibition of inhumane treatment of employees and any form of Biographical details of the directors currently serving on the Board forced labour, physical punishment or other abuse: are given on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Review.
Details of continual promotion of safe and healthy working practices: directors interests in shares and share options of any Group promotion of workplace equality and elimination of all forms of company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages unfair discrimination: 25 to 42.
Sir David Scholey and Gran Lindahl retired from the Board provision of opportunities for employees to enhance their workat the conclusion of the AGM on 20 April 2005, and Tony Lea and related skills and capabilities: Barry Davison retired from the Board on 30 December 2005. recognition of the right of our employees to freedom of David Hathorn and Simon Thompson were appointed to the Board association: and on 20 April 2005 and Ren Mdori was appointed on 1 June 2005, adoption of fair and appropriate procedures for determining terms each as executive directors.
Ralph Alexander was appointed as an and conditions of employment.
18 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 Copies of the Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles booklet are available from the Company and may be accessed on the Companys website www.
co. uk As in previous years, numerous employee communication and education presentations and workshops took place covering, amongst others, areas as diverse as talent management, sustainable development and group strategy.
The aim was to inform and consult employees on matters of concern to them and also to raise awareness of financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
In addition, a survey of employee communication was conducted and the chief executive gave presentations to staff across the Group on lessons learned from the survey and also on the Companys strategy.
The Company regularly publishes Optima available on the Companys website and AngloWorld, which contain items of news, current affairs and information relevant to Group employees.
During the year, the Company launched a new intranet portal thesource aimed at promoting knowledge-sharing across the Group and keeping employees up to date with developments in those business sectors in which the Group is active.
Charitable donations During the year, Anglo American and its subsidiaries made donations for charitable purposes or wider social investments amounting to $56.7 million 1% of pre-tax profit.
Charitable donations of $1.5 million were made in the UK, consisting of payments in respect of education, sport and youth $240,000 16% : community development $11,000 1% : health and HIV AIDS $208,000 14% : environment $296,000 20% : arts, culture and heritage $219,000 14%, housing homelessness $316,000 21% and other charitable causes $220,000 14%.
These figures were compiled with reference to the London Benchmarking Group model for defining and measuring social investment spending.
A fuller analysis of the Groups social investment activities can be found in the 2005 Report to Society.
Political donations No political donations were made during 2005.
Anglo American has an established policy of not making donations to, or incurring expenses for the benefit of, any UK political party or any other EU political organisation as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Annual general meeting The AGM will be held on 25 April 2006.
A separate booklet enclosed with this report contains the notice convening the meeting together with a description of the business to be conducted.
By order of the Board Nicholas Jordan Company Secretary 21 February 2006 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 | 19
