Our strategy in action Building our project portfolio for the next decade Anglo American will continue to invest in growth projects and to evaluate acquisition opportunities in the mining sector nglo American has one Left: Anglo Coal has two major expansions under way of the largest project in Queensland, Australia Aportfolios in the mining the Dawson and Lake Lindsay industry.
Currently it has projects projects.
Featured is the port under development amounting of Gladstone, Anglo Coal Australias major gateway to $6.7 billion in the pipeline, to the Pacific Rim countries, stretching across all business where port facilities are units and geographies, while steadily being expanded the Group is considering further to handle increasing Asian demand for metallurgical major projects with an estimated and thermal coal.
potential cost of between $10 billion and $15 billion.
Following assessment by the Investment Committee, which vets all potential projects, including appraisal of geological, engineering, safety, environmental and financial risks, proposals then go to the Executive Board and ultimately to the Anglo American plc Board for final approval.
Anglo has a long track record of professional and efficient management of big capital projects.
Skorpion, its new Namibian zinc mine with innovative mineral processing technology, is an impressive example of a major, highly complex project commissioned within budget and ramped up to full production during 2005.
The large Rosario project at Chiles Collahuasi copper mine was completed ahead of schedule and under budget.
Exceedingly fine Platinum robots The worlds biggest ISAMill an ultrafine Robolab is a technological leap forward grinding unit has improved concentrate in the daily online analysis of samples recoveries at Anglo Platinums Western from platinum mining.
At Anglo Platinums Limb Tailings Retreatment plant.
The new Modikwa mine an automated robotic mill regrinds tailings sands from old mining laboratory has helped to reduce operations, liberating very fine particles of turnaround times to two hours from residual metals.
08 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 Key projects in the pipeline Project Country Production Full Estimated volume production capex 100% basis Platinum Mototolo JV South Africa 132,000 Pt oz in concentrate pa 2007 $100m Marikana JV South Africa 145,000 Pt oz pa 2007 $18m Potgietersrust South Africa Additional 230,000 Pt oz pa 2009 $692m Gold Mponeng South Africa 4.8 M oz life of project 2007 $191m Cuiab Brazil 1.9 M oz life of project 2007 $121m Boddington Australia 1 M oz pa tbc $1.3bn Diamonds Snap Lake Canada 19 M carats over life of project 2008 $513m Victor Canada 6 M carats over life of project 2009 $791m Voorspoed South Africa 12 M in situ carats 2009 $177m South African Sea Areas South Africa 250,000 carats pa 2007 $115m Base Metals Barro Alto nickel Brazil 33,000 tpa tbc $1bn Los Bronces copper Chile Additional 175,000 tpa tbc Under review Ferrous Metals Sishen expansion South Africa 10 Mtpa additional iron ore 2009 $559m Sishen South South Africa 3 Mtpa iron ore tbc Under review Faleme Senegal 12 Mtpa iron ore tbc $950m Dawson Australia Additional 5.7 Mtpa met thermal 2007 $835m Coal Lake Lindsay Australia Additional 4.0 Mtpa metallurgical 2008 $516m Mafube South Africa Additional 5.0 Mtpa thermal 2008 $264m Anglo Platinum is set to increase a $65 million expansion project that is at the Faleme iron ore project platinum output from 2.45 million currently working up to full production.
ounces to between 2.7 million and 2.8 million ounces in 2006 and Anglo Base Metals has completed a fide Beers is spending $1.6 billion thereafter grow production by around number of capital projects in the past on expanding diamond production.
5% per annum to meet ongoing two years.
In Chile, further copper In Canada two new diamond projects, demand.
Approval is expected expansion is being contemplated at at Snap Lake and Victor, are well shortly for the $692 million both Collahuasi and Los Bronces.
In South Africa, fide Beers Potgietersrust expansion to bring on A feasibility study at Los Bronces is to re-open the Voorspoed mine an additional 230,000 ounces of to examine a possible doubling of at a cost of $177 million and has platinum production per annum.
production will be completed in allocated $115 million to the 2007.
In Brazil the feasibility study South African Sea Areas marine Anglo Coal has a substantial near for the $1 billion, 33,000 tonnes per mining project.
term approved project portfolio annum Barro Alto nickel project is spread across Australia, South Africa well advanced and Board approval is AngloGold Ashanti has several and South America, with nearly likely to be sought later this year.
Still at the 14 million tonnes of coal coming into South Africa the Namakwa Sands review stage there is the prospect production over the next three years.
$43 million expansion project, to of developing the Obuasi Deeps This includes Australian expansion increase output of rutile by 26% mine in Ghana.
projects at Grasstree $151 million and zircon by approximately 20%, and Dawson $835 million and a is under way.
Anglos resource base includes assets recently approved $516 million that are unparalleled anywhere else greenfield project at Lake Lindsay.
Kumba, the Groups iron ore producer, in the world.
Its long term project Anglo Coals metallurgical coal has a $559 million approved project portfolio will ensure that they production is set to increase by to raise production by 10 million continue to deliver growth well about 50% to around 16 million tonnes to 41 million tonnes per into the future.
tonnes a year over the next annum at Sishen, one of the biggest three years.
open pit mines in the world.
Further growth, with an initial 3 million At Cerrejn in Colombia, a $280 million tonnes per annum, is expected two phase expansion has been from the Sishen South project if approved.
South Africas Isibonelo that is given the green light.
Also mine, which supplies Sasols oil-fromunder consideration is the possibility coal operations, recently commissioned of developing iron ore production Solvent revolution Namibias Skorpion zinc mine has scored an international first by using solvent extraction technologies to process primary zinc ore.
Since going into full production in the first half of 2005 the mine and refinery complex have operated at design capacity.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 | 09 Our strategy in action continued Gaining value from cost savings and efficiencies How Anglo Americans strategy aims to increase returns on capital n 2005, like all mining groups globally, Anglo American Ifaced significant upward pressure on operating and capital costs as many parts of the supply chain to the industry operated at, or close to, capacity.
Against this, the Group achieved cost savings of $730 million in synergies, operating efficiencies and procurement.
The focus on cost savings has been a key element of the Groups activities.
Since 2003 Anglo American has achieved cumulative cost savings and efficiencies of $1.6 billion.
Benefits have materialised in different ways.
Reduced pricing from suppliers has provided much of the programmes success so far.
This has been achieved through detailed analysis of costs and cost drivers, better negotiation and a rationalisation of the supplier base.
Extending tentacles Rock acoustics SQUID Anglo Technicals super Anglo is widely acknowledged as the world conducting quantum interference device leader in hard rock seismic exploration, boosts success rates in finding certain employing advanced techniques and buried targets, like nickel sulphides.
It interpretation methods developed at least measures minute changes in the earths partly in-house.
The latest Vibroseis magnetic field, producing improved signal systems greatly extend ground penetration to noise ratios over competing systems.
capability and accuracy in determining a mines geological structure.
10 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 Value from cost savings and efficiencies $m 730 268 Procurement Operating efficiencies 554 Restructuring 182 and synergies 462 366 335 100 279 48 217 154 77 18 6 2002 2003 2004 2005 Left: Los Bronces copper mine Reducing supplier numbers brings two Purchase price accounts for only Apart from Group-wide initiatives, in Chile.
Consolidating around 20% of the overall cost Anglo business units are working have been generated since spending with fewer big suppliers of some major items of capital individually to reduce costs and Anglo American acquired a means greater economies of scale.
The balance is rooted boost productivity.
Their projects suite of high quality Chilean Rationalisation among smaller in operating costs and the Group is are diverse and include: copper assets from Exxon in late 2002. suppliers also provides a focus making more progress in the area for local community and small to of total cost of ownership.
One improving coal cutting productivity medium enterprise development in such example is in the field of heavy in South African open pits: different regions around the world.
redesigning dragline operations As the number of suppliers and For the past two years, five divisions in South Africa and Australia: contractors has fallen, there have run a co-ordinated programme has been an emphasis on closer to reduce the life costs of heavy developing more effective use collaboration working on a common open pit equipment, such as large of explosives in South African agenda with those whose specialist and ultra large trucks.
At more than mines: and knowledge can contribute most 20 Group sites around the world, to our operations.
This involves a the manufacturers concerned are improving the efficiency of tough but fair approach to extract working alongside Anglo management Mondis paper machines.
to identify and exploit ways to improve productivity.
They are More will be achieved as procurement Part of this co-operation aims to looking for opportunities not only processes continue to be integrated avoid inflationary pressures in in major equipment components across the Group.
Cross-business the supply chain, and a number such as engines, gearboxes and unit agreements, the sharing of of projects to identify waste and axles but also in the operating plans and technology and knowledge unnecessary costs are being put in environments themselves, as well of supply markets are making place with suppliers.
as in areas like fuel efficiency and for a truly aligned approach to tyre and component wear.
The achieving greater efficiency at results so far have been excellent: all levels of operations.
double digit savings are anticipated.
Hot but clean Anglo Research has developed or refined many new processes from experimental to commercial scale.
One of the latest is the Ausmelt high intensity submerged injection furnace installed in the new Anglo Platinum Converting Plant at Rustenburg which has reduced sulphur dioxide emissions by around 85%.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 | 11
