Dr Maria Silvia Bastos Marques BComm, CA SA MA PhD, MA, FGS BA, PhD 56, is chief executive and has been with the 46, was appointed to the Board on 65, was appointed a non-executive 49, joined the Board on 9 December 2003.
He was appointed to the 20 April 2005 and is a member of director on 16 July 2002 and non-executive She is a member of the S&SD Committee.
Board in 1999 and became chief executive in Exboard and the Investment Committee.
He also She is currently a partner in the corporate July 2000.
He is chairman of the Executive Simon Thompson is chairman of Anglo sits on the S&SD and Nomination finance consultancy MS & CR2 Finanas Board Exboard and a member of the Safety Base Metals, Anglo Industrial Minerals Committees.
He is a director of HSBC Corporativas Ltda.
Maria Silvia Bastos and Sustainable Development S&SD and Anglo Exploration and a director of Holdings plc and Accenture Ltd. Sir Mark Marques has held non-executive directorCommittee.
Tony Trahars other directorships AngloGold Ashanti.
He joined the Group Moody-Stuart was chairman of The Shell ships in Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Companhia include AngloGold Ashanti, Anglo Platinum in 1995.
Transport and Trading Company plc from Vale do Rio Doce and is currently a and fide Beers S. A.
1997 to 2001 and was a member of the non-executive director of Arcelor Brasil, 4.
Ren Mdori UN Secretary-Generals Advisory Council Companhia Souza Cruz SA, Po fide Acar 2.
David Hathorn Doctorate in Economics for the Global Compact from 2001 to and Embratel and a member of the advisory BComm, CA SA, CFA 48, joined the Group and was appointed to 2004.
He is being proposed for re-election board of Peugeot-Citren PSA Brasil.
She 43, was appointed to the Board on 20 April the Board on 1 June 2005, becoming finance at the AGM in April.
has indicated her intention to stand down 2005 and is a member of Exboard and the director on 1 September 2005.
Ren Mdori as a director at the AGM in April.
David Hathorn is is a member of Exboard, chairman of the chairman and CEO of the Mondi Group, a Investment Committee and a director of 7.
Bobby Godsell director of Anglo Platinum and fide Beers S. A. AngloGold Ashanti and DB Investments.
MA and has been with the Group since 1989.
He is a former finance director of The BOC 53, joined the Board on 18 March 1999.
Group plc and is a non-executive director of He is a member of the S&SD Committee Scottish and Southern Energy plc.
and has been with the Group since 1974.
He is chief executive of AngloGold Ashanti and has been chief executive of its predecessor company, AngloGold, since 1998.
He is chairman of South Africas national business organisation, BUSA, and a past president of South Africas Chamber of Mines.
Fred Phaswana BSc, PhD, FREng, FRSE, FICE, FEI Graduate in Diplomatic Sciences BA, FREng BComm, MA 60, joined the Board on 19 April 1999.
64, joined the Board on 19 March 2002.
59, joined the Board on 18 March 1999 61, joined the Board on 12 June 2002.
He is chairman of the S&SD Committee He is a member of the Audit and and was appointed as the senior independent He is chairman of the Nomination and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He is currently non-executive director in April 2003.
He is Committee and a member of the Audit Committees.
He is a non-executive a member of the supervisory boards of chairman of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration and Audit Committees.
director of BAA plc and Stena International German utility RWE, Philips NV, Munich Re and a member of the Audit and Nomination He is currently chairman of Transnet and b. v. and non-executive chairman of Expro and Vivendi Universal.
He is also a member Committees.
He is the non-executive a director of Naspers and was previously International Group plc.
Chris Fay is a former of the advisory boards of Goldman Sachs chairman of Legal & General Group Plc and BP regional president: Africa, a director chairman of Shell UK and of the British and Eli Lilly and a member of the Boards of The BOC Group plc and was formerly vice of BP Oil Benelux, an associate president governments Advisory Committee on Solvay s. a. and Agfa-Gevaert.
He was chairman of ICI PLC.
Rob Margetts is also of BP Netherlands and chairman and chief Business and the Environment.
previously President of Nyrenode chairman of the UK Natural Environment executive of BP Southern Africa.
His other University, Netherlands Business School, Research Council and a member of the UK appointments include the South African 9.
Ralph Alexander a member of the European Parliament Council for Science and Technology.
Institute of International Affairs and the MA from 1979 to 1985 and a member of the Graduate School of Business, Cape Town.
50, was appointed to the Board on European Commission from 1989 to 1999.
Nicky Oppenheimer Fred Phaswana is being proposed for 20 April 2005.
Ralph Alexander is the MA re-election at the AGM in April.
former CEO of BP Petrochemicals.
David Challen CBE 60, joined the Board on 18 March 1999.
MA, MBA He is a member of the Nomination 15.
Peter Woicke He joined BP in 1982 where his career 62, joined the Board on 9 September Committee.
He joined the Group in 1968 MBA encompassed experience in Latin America, 2002.
He is chairman of the Audit and subsequently became an executive 63, joined the Board on 1 January 2006.
Africa, China and Russia including positions Committee and a member of the director and a deputy chairman of AASA.
From 1999 to January 2005 he was as executive vice president and CEO, Remuneration Committee.
He is currently He became deputy chairman of fide Beers chief executive officer of the International Gas Power and Renewables vice chairman of Citigroup European Consolidated in 1985 and has been Finance Corporation, the largest multilateral and group vice president, Upstream, Investment Bank and a non-executive chairman of fide Beers since 1998. provider of loans and equity to the private responsible for Russia.
director of Smiths Group plc.
Previously sector in the emerging markets.
He was he was chairman of J. Henry Schroder & Co. also a managing director of the World Bank.
Limited, where he spent most of his Prior to joining the International Finance professional career.
He is currently a Corporation, Peter Woicke held numerous member of the UKs Takeover Panel.
positions over nearly 30 years with David Challen is being proposed for J. P. Morgan.
He is currently a member of re-election at the AGM in April.
the Boards of Raiffeisen International Holding and Plugpower Inc.
He is being proposed for election at the AGM in April.
