Summary directors report for the year ended 31 December 2005 Introduction Annual General Meeting The directors present their summary financial statements for the year The AGM will be held on 25 April 2006.
A separate booklet enclosed ended 31 December 2005.
The summary financial statements do not with this document contains the notice convening the meeting together constitute the statutory financial statements as they do not contain with a description of the business to be conducted.
sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company or of the Group, Corporate governance and of its policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration, Anglo American is committed to the highest standards of corporate as is provided by the full Annual Report.
governance the way in which the Company is directed and controlled and, except as set out below, the Company complied fully with the The full financial statements, directors report and report of the auditors Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code throughout the which is unqualified and contains no reservations about accounting year under review.
records or obtaining necessary information are included in a separate document entitled Annual Report 2005, which is available to As highlighted by the chairman in the 2004 Annual Review, the shareholders free of charge.
To obtain a copy of the Annual Report, for Company was briefly non-compliant with the Code from June to this and or for future years, shareholders should contact either Lloyds December 2005 in that less than half the Board, excluding the TSB Registrars or Ultra Registrars as appropriate.
Contact details for chairman, were independent non-executive directors.
The Board each are given on page 36. considers this was fully justified in ensuring continuity and a smooth handover between Tony Lea and Ren Mdori, Anglo Americans Shareholder communications new finance director.
The Company became compliant again on Shareholders on the UK register may elect to receive communications 30 December 2005 upon the retirement of Messrs Davison and Lea.
from the Company electronically and will then receive future Annual Reviews Annual Reports, Notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM Directors and all other shareholder communications via e-mail notification.
By The Board has a strong independent element and currently comprises, registering for this service shareholders will be able to vote online at in addition to the chairman, four executive and ten non-executive AGMs and access information on their shareholding including, for directors, eight of whom are independent according to the definition example, dividend payment history, sales and purchases and indicative contained in the Code.
Biographical details of the directors currently share prices.
For the Company, electronic communication represents serving on the Board are given on pages 24 and 25 of this document.
a saving in terms of both costs and environmental resources.
To encourage more shareholders to convert to e-communication, The Company is conscious of the need to maintain an appropriate mix and as a way of saying thank you, the Company will arrange for of skills and experience on the Board and to progressively refresh its a tree sapling to be planted in the UK for each converting shareholder.
In this respect, 2005 saw the appointment of three new executive directors David Hathorn, Ren Mdori and Simon To register for the service, shareholders should log on to Thompson and the appointment of Ralph Alexander as a new www.
co. uk and follow the on-screen instructions.
With effect from 1 January 2006 It will be necessary to have a Shareholder Reference Number Peter Woicke was appointed to the Board as an independent nonwhen registering, which is shown on share certificates, dividend executive director.
Tony Lea and Barry Davison retired from the Board tax vouchers and proxy cards.
on 30 December 2005 and Maria Silvia Bastos Marques has indicated her wish to retire from the Board at the AGM in April 2006.
To provide Business activities and development the necessary flexibility to continue the process of progressively Reports by the chairman and chief executive on the performance for refreshing the composition of the Board, authority will be sought at the the year and the future development of the Group are included at the AGM to amend the Companys Articles of Association to increase the beginning of this document.
maximum number of directors from 16 to 18.
Dividends Details of the remuneration policy and of the remuneration of directors An interim dividend of 28 US cents per ordinary share was paid are given in the remuneration report in the Annual Report and a on 20 September 2005.
The directors are recommending that a summary is set out on pages 29 to 32 of this document.
final dividend of 62 US cents per ordinary share, together with a special dividend of 33 US cents per ordinary share, be paid on 21 February 2006 3 May 2006, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held on 25 April 2006.
26 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005
