Environmental Statement continued Transport Movements per Tonne of Production Output The Group works hard to remove waste from its 0.0456 operations wherever possible.
The CPA KPI does not 0.0395 differentiate between waste leaving site for landfill 0.0342 and waste leaving site for recycling by third parties.
Analysis shows that out of the total Group waste stream, recycling on site and recycling off site accounted for 81.4 per cent of the Groups waste, with only 18.6 per cent going to landfill.
2003 2004 2005 Waste materials from other industries are being used where appropriate as aggregate replacement The overall transport efficiency remains high but with some innovative products resulting from the the KPI shows a slight reversal over 2004.
This is incorporation of such materials.
China clay waste, explained by the more diverse nature of the Groups steel slag waste, slate waste and slag cements are product range.
Mortar deliveries, for example, typical of the products being utilised.
require smaller vehicles carrying fewer tonnes for each journey than the more traditional precast concrete and natural stone products.
The Groups precast concrete transport operations won third Packaging place in the British Precast Concrete Federation The Group continues to explore every opportunity to Sustainability Awards in 2005.
The entry was the reduce the amount of packaging used to ensure safe only transport operation entered in the Awards.
transport and handling of its products but also to ensure minimum damage and wastage of product between manufacturing site and point of use.
Waste Reduction Suppliers of packaging products are monitored to A single waste contractor has been appointed to ensure that either the supplies are obtained from manage all waste activities with the aim of sustainable sources, in the case of pallet timber, or obtaining the maximum benefit for the recycling of wherever possible from recycled materials such as waste streams from the Group.
"approach is leading to much better control of waste, overall reduction in waste quantities and a clear The CPA KPI for packaging is ""amount of packaging segregation of waste streams which cannot be bought in tonnes to be used for the containment, recycled to ensure the correct disposal routes."
"protection, handling, delivery and presentation of goods as a percentage of production output""."
"The CPA KPI for waste reduction is ""amount of waste leaving site tonnes as a percentage of total The KPI has shown a reduction in 2005 for three main production output""."
Firstly, the Group is increasingly using Percentage of Waste including Material for Recycling suppliers who provide more efficient packaging and, leaving Site as a Percentage of Total Production Output secondly, an increase in the volume of aggregates 4.56% being despatched has improved the statistic as these 3.72% deliveries have no packaging content.
Finally, the 3.07% increase in the use of timber pallets in 2004, which was commented on in last years Annual Report, has been reversed and 2005 has seen a reduction in the use of timber pallets and the associated packaging.
2003 2004 2005 26 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 Percentage of Waste Transport Movement per Tonne Percentage of Packaging Material Bought as a Percentage of Total Production Output Land Management 0.414% During 2005 all of the Groups major construction projects were contained within existing sites or were 0.282% on brown field sites.
0.256% Wildlife Trust During 2005 the Wildlife Trust helped in the 2003 2004 2005 establishment of a Biodiversity Benchmarking Project at the site in Maltby.
This has proved Suppliers and Contractors successful, particularly, in raising staff awareness of Suppliers and contractors are monitored closely and, the wide ranging biodiversity at the site.
The Project in particular, on the environmental aspects of their has drawn members of the local community into the operations.
During the year, there has been site.
It is intended during 2006 to roll out this increasing liaison with key suppliers to ensure that programme across other sites in the Group.
their own operations cause minimal harm to the environment and to share best practice to ensure the Group benefits from the environmental experience Environmental Awareness and of its suppliers.
Training The Group continues to develop environmental awareness among its employees.
Environmental Impact of Products The Group maintains its policy of producing products intended for long life with low maintenance.
These Awards products produce a very low risk of pollution and in During the year, Marshalls received the Best Single the majority of cases can be easily recycled at the end Site Award in the British Precast Concrete Federation of their useful service, either as a primary product in Annual Sustainability Awards, for its work on water the case of most block paving or, after crushing, as a recycling and biodiversity at its Eaglescliffe site.
secondary aggregate or other form of recycled material.
Sustainability Marshalls continues to support the work being carried out by The British Precast Concrete Federation Sustainability Committee.
During 2005 the Group published its own Sustainability Document.
It is developing a Sustainability Policy based upon its IMS systems which provides a basis for decision making.
Economic activity is considered, reinforced by the targets and objectives in the ISO 9000 accreditation.
Environmental activities are considered by the targets and objectives in ISO 14001 and in addition social activities are supported by the OHSAS Health and Safety accreditation.
Octagon Alton Greenhouse Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 27 Percentage of Packaging Material Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their per share being the 2004 final dividend of 8.00 pence Report and Financial Statements for the year 2003:7.35 pence per share and the interim dividend ended 31 December 2005.
The Consolidated of 4.10 pence 2004: 3.90 pence per share in respect Group Financial Statements have been prepared of the year ended 31 December 2005 and paid on 7 under International Financial Reporting Standards December 2005.
This follows the disclosure under IFRSs.
The Parent Company Financial IFRSs.
Statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Share Capital Details of the share capital and allotments during Principal Activities and Business the year are set out in Note 20 on pages 75 and 76. Review Details of outstanding options under Employee The principal activities of the Group are the Share Schemes are set out in Note 18 on page 73. manufacture and supply of landscape, driveway and garden products from a range of materials, including Directors concrete, natural stone, iron, steel, wood, glass and Details of each of the Directors who served polyurethane.
Further details of the principal throughout the year, together with biographical activities of the Group are set out in Note 34 on page details, are set out on page 20.
Bill Husselby was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Operating and Financial Review on pages 7 to 19 Mike Davies, Richard Scholes and David Sarti will contain a review of these activities.
retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
All these Directors, being eligible, offer themselves Details of the Groups policy in relation to employees for re-election in accordance with the Companys and information on charitable and political donations Articles of Association.
are disclosed on pages 21 to 23.
Details of Directors attendance at Board and Details of the Groups policies in relation to Corporate Committee meetings and a statement on Board Governance are disclosed on pages 31 to 36.
Evaluation is set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
Group Results The Consolidated Income Statement for the year Directors Interests ended 31 December 2005 is shown on page 46.
Full details of Directors remuneration, interests in the share capital of the Company and of their Dividends share options are set out on pages 37 to 43 in the The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.40 Directors Remuneration Report.
pence 2004: 8.00 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend of 4.10 pence 2004: 3.90 Charitable and Political Donations pence per share, make a combined dividend of 12.50 Details of the charitable donations made during pence 2004: 11.90 pence per share.
Payment of the the year are set out in the Corporate Social final dividend, if approved at the Annual General Responsibility Statement on pages 21 to 23.
Meeting, will be made on 7 July 2006 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 9 June 2006.
Disposals and Acquisitions On 4 January 2005 the Group sold the entire share The dividend declared and paid in the year to 31 capital of Marshalls Clay Products Limited to December 2005 and disclosed in the Consolidated Hanson PLC.
Income Statement is 12.10 pence 2004: 11.25 pence 28 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005
