Operating and Financial Review continued Prior to the end of 2003 capital expenditure in the A significant balance sheet item is the liability for previous three years amounted, in total, to over 100 defined benefit pension obligations, in accordance million following a major programme of new product with IAS 19, which at 31 December 2005 was 65.3 innovation and the development of the Regional million 2004: 50.9 million.
This balance is made up Service Centre structure.
In the three year period to 31 of 212.2 million in respect of the present value of December 2005 the Group has re-invested 87.0 funded obligations net of 146.9 million for the fair million.
This has provided the Group with industry value of plan assets.
The net balance of 65.3 million leading manufacturing and distribution facilities.
It represents an increase of around 28 per cent in the has also provided new product manufacturing last year.
The deficit has been determined by the capability and enabled improved productivity.
Capital scheme Actuary using prudent assumptions in line expenditure has been reduced in each of the last two with current market levels.
The assumptions that years and the current level of approximately 20 have changed in the last year are a reduction in the million is likely to be a sustainable level over the AA corporate bond rate from 5.4 per cent to 4.8 per medium term.
At this level the Group will be able both cent, in line with market movements, and a to maintain its commitment to new product strengthening of the mortality rate.
These factors development and invest in new initiatives to improve have significantly outweighed the impact of positive overall manufacturing efficiency.
asset performance in the year.
An IAS 19 actuarial loss of 12.2 million before deferred taxation has been The Group has also invested 26.4 million in recorded in the Consolidated Statement of acquisitions as part of the strategy of capitalising on Recognised Income and Expenses.
Marshalls brand and unique access to Nationwide distribution channels.
The deficit is net of curtailment gains of 752,000 arising on the sale of the Clay business and the As explained earlier, the Groups cash generation closure of two works in the year.
performance against detailed cash flow targets is one of the main KPIs and in 2005 the targets that were set Financing and Risk Management by the Board were achieved.
At the time of the Return of Value of 75 million to shareholders in 2004 the The Groups Risk Committee determines the policies Directors recognised that a year end gearing and procedures that are put in place to mitigate percentage of around 60 per cent represented an exposure to risk.
A formal rolling process exists to efficient balance sheet structure.
Following the sale of identify, assess and analyse risks and those of a more Marshalls Clay Products gearing has reduced and at material nature are included in the Group Risk 31 December 2005 was 28.1 per cent.
The Group uses financial instruments to manage certain financial risks arising from its operations.
All transactions are undertaken only to The Board is committed to ensuring that the balance manage the current risk associated with the Groups sheet is efficient.
The Group has demonstrated an underlying business activities.
ability to identify, acquire, integrate and grow complementary bolt-on acquisitions which, whilst The main risks arising from the Groups financial individually small, collectively make a difference.
There instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and are an increasing number of bolt-on opportunities foreign currency risk.
The Board reviews and agrees available for Marshalls to consider and the Group is policies for managing each of these risks and these spending more time targetting these to create greater are summarised on Note 17 on pages 67 to 70 of the value for shareholders.
The Groups objective is to Financial Statements.
These policies have remained increase the flow of suitable acquisition candidates.
It is the Groups policy, and has been throughout the period under review, that no speculative trading in financial instruments shall Balance Sheet be undertaken.
Net assets at the year end were 166.3 million 2004: 131.5 million which amounted to 116.3 pence 2004: 92.7 pence per share.
