Board of Directors John Hargreaves Charles Thompson Group Chairman Non-Executive John is aged 61.
He set up his first business at the age of 19 and has Charles is aged 48.
He joined the Board in April 1991 and is over 40 years experience in retail clothing.
In 1985 he founded the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He has over 19 years Matalan business and has been responsible for its development experience of equity investment in high growth companies.
He plays an active role in the Groups strategic development.
currently an Investment Director with Inflexion PLC, a private equity firm operating in the mid market.
Charles is a non-executive director John King of the investment companies he represents.
Group Chief Executive John is aged 42.
He joined the Board in March 2003 and has more John Westwood than 20 years retail and manufacturing experience.
He joined Independent Non-Executive Matalan from Delta US where he was Chief Operating Officer, and John is aged 56.
He joined the Board in April 1998 and is Chairman of has held several positions within leading retailers.
As a senior faculty member of the Manchester Business School he lectures internationally and acts as a Phil Dutton consultant and adviser to a wide range of companies, including several Group Finance Director UK based multi-nationals.
He is a director of Cardpoint Group PLC.
He joined the Board in November 2002.
He was previously Finance Director of Asda Stores Limited and was also Geoff Brady director responsible for leading the successful conversion of Asdas Independent Non-Executive systems following its acquisition by Walmart.
He joined the Board on 4th May 2005.
He is a nonexecutive director of DaimlerChrysler Retail Limited and Biofuels Lord Harris Corporation plc.
He has over 30 years experience within the retail Independent Non-Executive sector having held executive directorships at Superdrug plc, Allied Philip is aged 62.
He joined the Board in October 2004.
He is Chairman Carpets plc and DaimlerChrysler Retail Limited.
of Carpetright plc and was previously Chairman of Harris Queensway plc and a non-executive director of Great Universal Stores plc.
Bill Shannon Independent Non-Executive Robert Shrager Bill is aged 55.
He has 30 Senior Independent Non-Executive years experience in leisure and retail brands and served as a Robert is aged 56.
He joined the Board in April 1998 and is Chairman Whitbread plc director from 1994 to 2004.
A chartered accountant, he of the Audit Committee.
He is a non-executive director of RAB is a non-executive director of Aegon UK plc where he also chairs the Capital Plc and a number of private companies.
He was, until May Audit Committee.
1998, Corporate Finance Director of Dixons Group plc.
List of Advisers Secretary and Registered Office Solicitors Bankers Phil Dutton Cobbetts Barclays Bank PLC Gillibrands Road Ship Canal House City Office Skelmersdale King Street Water Street West Lancashire WN8 9TB Manchester M2 4WB Liverpool L69 2DM Registered Auditors Clifford Chance HSBC  LLP 10 Upper Bank Street PO Box 360 101 Barbirolli Square London E14 5JJ 100 King Street Lower Mosley Street Manchester M60 2HD Financial Adviser Manchester M2 3PW Merrill Lynch International Public Relations Merrill Lynch Financial Centre Tulchan Communications 2 King Edward Street Sixth Floor London EC1A 1HQ 3 Dorset Rise London EC4Y 8EN 7
