McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Directors Report The Directors of McCarthy & Stone plc present their annual report to shareholders, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 August 2005.
The Group is engaged principally in developing, designing, constructing and selling retirement Principal activity and apartments.
Reviews of the Group's business during the year, together with comments on the review of the business future development of the Group, are set out on pages 4 to 17.
Results and dividends The Group profit before tax for the financial year amounted to 127.4m 147.8m.
The Group incurred a tax charge of 37.2m in respect of the year 44.6m.
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 14.0 pence 12.5 pence per share making 19.4 pence for the year 17.3 pence.
The ordinary dividend amounts to 20.0m 17.9m.
A profit of 70.2m 85.1m is available to be added to reserves.
The final ordinary dividend, subject to approval by shareholders, will be paid on 21 December 2005 to those on the register at 18 November 2005.
Directors and their The present Directors together with their biographical details are shown on pages 18 and 19.
All the directors, other than D A Field, held office throughout the year covered by the interests accounts.
D A Field was appointed on 1 September 2005 and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following his appointment.
K Lovelock, who has a rolling service contract with the company terminable on 2 years notice, G N Day, who has a rolling service contract with the company terminable on 1 years notice and Sir George Young, who has a letter of appointment expiring on 6 April 2008, retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
S E K Purser who has a letter of appointment expiring on 31 March 2006, having served for longer than 9 years, also offers himself for re-election.
Under the existing Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors of the Company are entitled to be indemnified by the Company against any liability incurred in connection with the proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 1985.
The Company proposes to amend the provisions of its Articles of Association relating to indemnifying Directors of the Company to reflect recent changes in the law.
A resolution to amend the Company Articles of Association will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 19 December 2005.
During the year ended 31 August 2005, the Company purchased and maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance for the benefit of the Directors of the Company and this policy of insurance remains in force.
The detail of Directors interests in Share Options are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 39.
31 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Directors Report The Ordinary Share figures as at 31 August 2005 in respect of K Lovelock, M W J Thorne, M J Jennings and H P S Phillips included holdings of 1,699 Ordinary Shares each within the Companys Share Incentive Plan the SIP.
The figure for G N Day includes 1,172 shares held in the SIP.
The figures also include Ordinary Shares held on trust for the benefit of participants within the companys Deferred Bonus Plan, as to which further details are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report, set out on pages 37 to 42.
Between 1 September 2005 and 2 November 2005 K Lovelock, M W J Thorne, M J Jennings and H P S Phillips each acquired 54 Ordinary Shares under the SIP.
G N Day and D A Field each acquired 52 Ordinary Shares under the SIP.
There have been no other changes in Directors interests during the period.
Significant shareholders The Directors have been notified of the under-mentioned material interests comprising 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this report.
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 7.71% Prudential PLC 4.00% Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 3.25% Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd 3.22% Capital Group Companies Inc. 3.14% Deutsche Bank AG 3.02% No other person has reported a holding of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital.
Statement of Directors Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group and of the profit or responsibilities in respect loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: of the accounts Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be put to the members at the Auditors Annual General Meeting.
Details of the acquisition by the Company of its own shares are set out in the Financial Purchase of own shares Review found on page 13.
Charitable and Political Details of Charitable and Political Contributions, the Groups approach to its Employment Responsibilities and the Groups policy with regard to payments to suppliers, subcontractors Contributions and consultants are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report found on pages 20 to 28.
By order of the Board 2 November 2005 T L Green LLB Secretary 32
