McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Gold award for seven years running McCarthy & Stone continues its run of industry prizes.
In 2005 we have once again won Gold in the Daily Express British Housebuilder of the Year awards, taking the top prize in the volume housebuilder category.
The company has now won major awards in the Moving home after many happy years in the old family house Housebuilder of the Year scheme for seven consecutive can be a difficult time for some of our Customers, who may years, twice taking the supreme prize of Best British also be setting up home for the first time without their Housebuilder.
It is by all acounts a remarkable achievement spouse.
We take this responsibility very seriously.
for a retirement specialist facing competition from the UKs As part of their training, our sales staff are encouraged to biggest mainstream builders.
think in terms of Mother Value, asking themselves the Importantly, these awards are the result of votes from the simple question How would my own mother like to be people who really matter the Customers themselves.
We treated in these circumstances?
The number of letters and are not surprised to be doing well: in an independent compliments we receive from happily-settled customers is a survey an astonishing 92% of our customers said they would sure sign that our staff see their job as going beyond a recommend a retirement apartment to a friend in similar commercial transaction.
Customer Care is more than a circumstances.
Customer endorsements rarely come any marketing concept it is a matter of belief.
We really do stronger, in any field of business.
This kind of reputation is not easily won.
Over the years we have developed a passion for Customer Care, starting at the Opinion Research Bureau July 2003 earliest stages of a developments life.
On the building site all our managers and construction staff are encouraged to see themselves as ambassadors for McCarthy & Stone.
A tidy and orderly site, consideration for neighbours and politeness to visitors - who may themselves be future Customers - are all part of the drive to create a good impression of McCarthy & Stone.
When built, every apartment is thoroughly inspected for defects both before and after the Customer takes up residence, leading to a trouble-free move in the vast majority of cases.
