McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Responsibility Report Increase shareholder value with sound financing Develop a customer information pack to encourage customers to reduce the environmental impacts associated Continue to proactively engage with Socially Responsible with the occupation of their homes.
Create an environment in which all contribute Be the UKs premier retirement builder and a to, and benefit from, the Groups success.
Include CR issues in the company staff induction Pilot health club membership initiative and review the programme.
feasibility of rolling this out to all developments.
Review the inclusion of CR issues in our Corporate Devise a methodology to collate information on Training Matrix.
community initiatives being undertaken across the Group.
Deliver growth through cost effective quality We recognise that there are a wide range of stakeholders that processes.
may be interested in our approach and performance Review the environmental sections of the vendor concerning Corporate Responsibility issues and that we may assessment responses, with a view to considering a not be able to satisfy all of their queries through this medium.
To this end, we will be dedicating a section of our web site Review the business benefits of formally accrediting our www.
co. uk to Corporate Responsibility sites with the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
issues setting out more detailed information and performance data on our key impact areas.
Complete the waste management review being If you do not have access to the web and would like more undertaken by Wastefile UK to identify opportunities to information, please contact the Company Secretary at the improve waste management practices.
address in the back of these Accounts and we will arrange to Be the natural choice for a happy retirement.
make available hard copies of the relevant information.
Undertake a customer engagement survey to find out how important environmental issues are to customers.
Around The Country From left to Right: Lorena Brown, Chris Tyrer, Mike French, James Poxon, Paul Trofimov, Steve Wiseman, Keith Johnson, Andrew Oliver, Steve Secker.
28 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Around The Country again delivered developments on time, on budget and to a very Western high standard.
Our forward workflow remains robust and we are The Western Region experienced difficult trading conditions in a strong position to meet all our targets for the 2005 06 year.
during the year, particularly noticeable from December 2004 The uncertainty in the housing market continues with the house through to June 2005.
These conditions curtailed sales growth price rises of the past few years behind us.
However, we have a and resulted in a disappointing total of 118 142 unit sales in strong team, well proven systems and an excellent product to the year.
However, it was encouraging to see that average sales face the challenges that lie ahead.
Michael French, Regional Managing Director In the year, we secured seven land exchanges with a good South East Region geographic split across all key areas of the Region.
This performance was supplemented by the achievement of four North London planning consents, providing sufficient forward consents to enable the Regions planned volume expansion over the next The region experienced a slowing down in the market from the two years.
first quarter of the year.
Although visitor levels were satisfactory many purchasers took longer to commit themselves and their Having taken over management of the Region on 1st September dependent properties took longer to sell.
As a consequence the 2005, my top priority is to help stimulate market interest and use of incentives increased and part exchange assisted sales improve the sales rates at our existing 11 outlets.
I am accounted for about 50% of the years sales.
The number of encouraged by the quality of the land now coming through the selling sites increased by 35%, comparable with the increase in planning system to construction and I look forward to driving unit sales, and despite the hardening market, average selling the Region forward to the achievement of its short, medium and prices increased by 15% helping to sustain good profit margins.
In response to the difficult trading conditions a more selective James Poxon, Regional Managing Director approach to the quality of land buying was adopted.
As a result Western Region we ended the year two sites behind the budget of nine.
Eight South West planning consents were achieved and four construction sites were completed in the year, in line with budget.
Despite the difficult market conditions experienced for most of the year, the Region has performed well, achieving over 400 unit We do not expect to see an improvement in trading conditions sales.
Interest in our product remained high with visitor levels in the short term therefore the use of incentives and part up 9% on the previous year, though reservations were down due exchange is likely to remain high.
In order to improve our to uncertainty in the second hand property market which Customer satisfaction rating we have planned for all six new resulted in longer periods to complete.
sites to be opened in the coming year to be totally completed before first occupation.
Planning continues to be one of the bigger challenges facing the Region, although we obtained consents on seven sites.
We Andrew Oliver, Regional Managing Director exchanged on eight sites and completed on a further seven, so North London Region the forward position is looking strong.
We achieved first Midlands occupations on twelve sites during the year and gained NHBC awards for build quality on two sites.
The Region has relied on the delivery of seven new sites for sales in the last quarter with a record 95 completions taking Having taken over the management of the Region from 1st place in August.
To achieve these sales in a more difficult September 2005, the year ahead promises to be one of many market, incentives and external part exchange introductions challenges, but with an experienced management team and were utilized but overall unit numbers were only slightly down good forward stock levels, the Region is in good shape to on last year.
This would not have been possible without our produce further growth in the coming years.
teams in Sales, Construction and Customer Services working Lorena Brown, Regional Managing Director very well together and their efforts were appreciated.
South West Region The Land Department secured eight sites during the year South East representing 381 units.
It has been a slightly more difficult year on planning consents, mainly due to the timing of land The region started the year expecting difficult market conditions, exchanges the previous year, but we are optimistic that these and with the exception of the sites on the Kent coast that approvals will materialise in in the current financial year.
performed well, we were proved right.
However, as we were prepared for these conditions, we managed to exceed our unit Overall, with more stock and new sites, the Region aims to sales target whilst maintaining a healthy average sales price.
increase its sales and profit during the next twelve months, despite a tougher market.
Land acquisitions fell slightly short of target due partly to the more demanding selection criteria applicable in the current Keith Johnson, Regional Managing Director climate.
Our design department put in another strong Midlands Region performance and managed to achieve the very challenging budget of 11 planning consents.
The construction team once 29 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Around The Country North West North East In common with much of the Country, market conditions were We have seen a distinct change in the market since last year extremely challenging throughout the year.
This had an effect with the housing market becoming much tougher.
Despite this, upon the number of unit sales and, significantly, the period as a result of a real team effort, being a newer region we have required by our purchasers to sell their own property.
continued to grow with unit sales up nearly 25% year on year.
Notwithstanding this, the Region again improved average selling Our best selling site was at Beverley where we secured 31 sales price by approximately 6% compared with last year.
whilst unit sales were lower than the previous year, the Region We have increased our stock levels securing five new land sites again achieved a strong performance in profit terms following during the year.
We have had a frustrating time with planning last years record levels.
but several sites are likely to secure planning early in the new Land acquisition and the pursuit of planning permissions financial year which will secure our future.
The region released remained extremely difficult.
Planning Authorities throughout five new sites for sales, four in the final quarter, which was a most of the Region continue to demonstrate a rigid resistance to major challenge for our construction team as we have only built, new residential development.
Whilst some authorities on average, two sites per year in the past.
recognise sheltered housing as an exceptional case, many do not We are planning to continue to grow sales in the coming year and we were therefore faced with a high number of planning albeit in recognition of the tougher market one site has been appeals and severely delayed planning decisions.
We are confident in our ability to continue to make an land availability has resulted in inflated land prices and increasing contribution to the Groups results.
Against this background, the Region has Steve Secker, Regional Managing Director still been able to secure land in new operational areas whilst North East Region also enjoying some success in overturning Housing Moratoria restrictions through the planning appeals.
We shall pursue this Assisted Living policy and remain confident of our success in further promoting Overall the Division performed reasonably well despite the more our business.
difficult market conditions that affected sales most notably in Chris Tyrer, Regional Managing Director the South East.
From four selling sites during the course of the North West Region year, unit sales and revenue were down by approximately 12% on the previous year.
Despite this slowdown, sales were Scotland completed ahead of target at Bingley and Chichester, the latter The Scottish Region maintained a reasonably strong sales performing extremely well and against the regional trend.
performance with prices increasing during the year, although Six additional sites were acquired in the year making a strong the rate of increase slowed somewhat after the half year.
Our unit contribution to forward workflow.
The Design team had an wide geographic spread throughout Scotland allowed us to exemplary year achieving a total of seven planning consents, balance our sales between the more buoyant central belt and representing a total of 406 units, a significant improvement on the slightly hardening northern market.
There were five new construction starts, Our objective, to maintain sales outlets throughout the Region, three working in conjunction with the Regions and two was met by achieving five conditional site purchases ranging undertaken by the Divisions own construction team which was from the Borders to the Highlands.
Although our planning established at the start of the year to handle the increased target of three consents was achieved the Region continues to workload.
have concerns at delays in the planning process with all A new area office was established in Bournemouth during the Councils failing to meet the required timescales.
On a more first quarter from which the team look forward to driving positive note we have so far not been required to contribute to expansion of the business in the South West.
affordable housing due to our needs based product.
The Division begins the new financial year with a reasonably The Region continues to strive for growth and maintains its strong forward position following the successful sales release of geographic coverage throughout Scotland.
The main challenges its seventh scheme at Edenbridge in Kent.
Thereafter, we will which we face are dealing with continual delays in the planning be opening a further five schemes during the year, making a process and obtaining suitable contractors to construct our total of eight schemes in sale which is double the number we developments due to the extreme skills shortage.
Steve Wiseman, Regional Managing Director Paul Trofimov, Managing Director Scottish Region Assisted Living Division 30
