Operational review Branded traffic i. e. people who click through to our website having searched for AO, rather than washing machine for example has increased and in the UK we have seen spontaneous awareness jump from c. 15% at the end of last year to c. 25% in recent months, with prompted brand awareness also making good progress.
Repeat customers are on the increase as are the number of new customers we are attracting to the brand.
However many customers still think of us as solely a MDA retailer and we will educate customers on our wider electrical offering in the year ahead.
UK Retail and Operations Our UK product range now stands at nearly 5,500 SKUs across our MDA, AV and SDA categories.
In our MDA category we continue to offer one of the broadest ranges in the market and are able to deliver most products the next day.
Sales in our AV category have increased, helped by a wider product range including premium models with cutting-edge technologies and some exclusive branded products.
We have also made some progress in our SDA category, in particular with Floorcare which is now becoming a meaningful category for the Steve Caunce Chief Operating Officer business and one supplier has gone from not wanting to supply us 18 months ago to us being their champion of quality retail.
Over the period we have also introduced Heating and Air Treatment products We are on a mission to be the best electrical retailer in Europe.
We have continued with our exploratory Our culture and values are fundamental to our business and through work in further categories and offering computing products for sale nurturing and growing them we will be able to deliver the best will be our next step.
customer experience, broaden our categories, expand into new countries, drive our operations and, ultimately, achieve our goal and create value for our shareholders.
In the year to 31 March 2016 we continued to grow our business by offering customers a better way to buy electricals and striving to be the destination brand in the category.
Our core proposition hasnt changed: we offer unbeatable prices, a huge range and great availability coupled with amazing service and weve continued to invest in the AO customer journey.
Culture & Brand Towards the end of last year we documented our five core values to ensure consistency as our international footprint increases.
As more and more people join the AO family it is critical that we do not lose sight of our values and we are delighted by our success in translating and replicating our culture in both Germany and the Netherlands.
It is this culture and these values that have helped AO become the brand that customers love in all the markets in which we operate.
The strength of our partnerships with the manufacturers continues to grow giving us a key competitive advantage.
We understand they Over the period weve spent a lot of time, effort and money in invest millions in research to develop product features to increase communicating our brand to potential customers and reinforcing it with customer benefits.
Over the year we invested in our innovative existing customers.
We have invested in TV advertising in both the UK content, offering manufacturers a great platform to showcase their and Germany and the customer-led advertisements have resonated well products and to deliver brand messages as our 3D animation and across both countries.
Weve continued and improved joint advertising feature-led reviews bring their products to life.
There are a number of campaigns with the manufacturer brands, including on the London new, exciting technologies coming to market and we can simplify and Underground and TV advertising.
consistently communicate these by animating key product features and user benefits.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 16 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information New for the 2016 financial year was the introduction of a number A core part of our strength and offering is our end-to-end service.
of initiatives such as My Account, LiveChat and a track your In November 2015 we invested in a majority equity stake in The order function to our website.
During the year we also established Recycling Group Ltd, our product recycling partner.
We would the AO Customer Lab, where we have invited members of the public expect this to become a wholly owned subsidiary in the fullness of to test the website and see how the customer journey works for time.
This investment secures a WEEE Waste Electrical & Electronic them.
This has provided real insight into the way different people Equipment processing facility for the Group and gives us control in think and shop and has helped us to tailor the website accordingly.
ensuring that waste is dealt with responsibly.
In the long term this will We are looking to build on the results of the Customer Lab and allow us to benefit from efficiencies in product recycling costs.
further refine the web journey to meet different customers needs and wants.
To give our customers further choice we are currently developing an app which, following our usual safe launch process, we expect to roll-out later in the current financial year.
All these features provide our customers with a quick and simple buying process and enhanced complementary content.
During the year we have strengthened our logistics infrastructure, by adding two further outbases to our UK operations bringing our total to 10.
These sites, one in Basildon, Essex and the other in Heywood, North Manchester will help ensure resilience in our delivery network and maintain product availability for our customers when they want it.
Our Net Promoter Score an industry measure of customer loyalty We have also made a number of changes to our fleet to drive and satisfaction remains at an exceptionally high level of over 80 efficiencies.
We added 20 new mega double-decker trailers which and our repeat purchase metrics continue their upward trend.
We give a c. 20% increase in capacity and we also added 30 new 3.5 tonne are encouraged by the growth in the volume of new customers and Hi-Cube trucks to our home delivery fleet.
These trucks are lighter look forward to the repeat business these customers will bring.
Our and have a greater space and weight capacity than our previous fleet Deliver-To-Promise rate DTP which represents the average and also help to mitigate the 7.5 tonne vehicle driver shortage issue monthly number of deliveries made successfully, on the customers which arose in the industry following changes in legislation in 2015. first chosen delivery date and with the desired or higher specification product as no extra cost remained outstanding.
These metrics To complement our offering in SDA and certain AV products, we highlight that we are continuing to offer an unbeatable customer have partnered with Collect to give our customer base even more proposition through the use of bespoke technology and end-to-end flexibility with delivery options with the ability to collect their products supply management.
This will build customer loyalty to drive our from over 5,000 locations.
We will continue to research ways to revenue and profitability.
ensure our customers buying habits are satisfied.
During the reporting period, we were awarded joint best online shop We offer our customers a number of ancillary services through and named as recommended provider for Electrical Online Retailer by AO.
com, for example customer finance options, product protection Which?
and also Customer Experience Initiative of the Year at the 2016 plans, an unpack and recycle service, product care packs and disposal Retail Week Awards.
In April 2016 we won Best Retailer at the Verdict and connection services, all of which help us maintain our superior Customer Service Awards and most recently have been shortlisted for customer offering and are accretive to revenue and profit.
Our Best Retailer in the Which?
These awards demonstrate premium installations service was brought in-house during the year the continued industry-wide recognition and that we are 100% and this area continues to grow and now includes the installation of focused on and committed to the needs and wants of our customers.
We are excited by the growth opportunities in Our customers love us and they are returning faster and buying across this area and to develop the fleet further we will be working closely categories.
Repeat customer metrics are improving as are the number with local colleges to help support our trainee programmes.
Acting as of new customers we are attracting to our brand.
an agent for Domestic & General, we offer product protection plans to customers of the Group.
In common with the other ancillary services that the Group offers to customers purchasing appliances, the sale of such product protection plans generates incremental gross profit for the Group in addition to any gross profit generated from the sale of the related appliances.
Over the year we commenced a strategic review of our opportunities in this area to understand how we can better delight our customers, to improve the product and to ensure we are working with the right partner, to give real value to our customers.
We have strengthened the management team in this area of the business and we have grown our outbound sales team, both in number and in the quality of their delivery.
Across the retail industry it was clear that Black Friday became largely an online event with some bricks and mortar retailers choosing not to participate but with many of those that did finding their stores quieter than expected.
We were extremely proud of our performance this year across all our business functions, as highlighted in Johns letter.
The strength of our systems and the dedication of our AO teams ensured that we did not let our customers down and maintained our high levels of service and offering.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Ensuring our culture strikes a chord with all our customers.
A day out on the vans That day out on the van was a pivotal moment for me, and highlighted a massive opportunity for the business.
It was back in April 2015, and our existing brand campaign just didnt seem to be cutting through.
I wanted to get a sense of how people felt about us as a business, so I met with Dave and Paul in Leeds and joined them on their delivery route, posing as a Head Office researcher.
The first thing that struck me was how much our culture shone through in all aspects of the delivery.
Nothings more important to me than retaining that culture and our values, and it was incredible to see them actually touch every part of the process.
Our customers continually tell us this but seeing it in action was brilliant.
As the drivers made their deliveries, I got to quiz the customers about AO.
I honestly couldnt believe the feedback: our customers love us but Id never realised quite how much.
I was absolutely blown away by it.
Wed been recommended to one customer by her mother, who came round during the delivery just to tell us, and her, how great we are.
It also became clear that we were still a relatively well-kept secret, and that a massive part of our success was down to recommendations.
As a brand we were still a little underground, but once a customer shopped with us they became our biggest advocate.
John has always been a strong advocate for the customer, and the whole experience reinforced just how much we need to treasure them.
No one can tell the story quite like they can, I could see that we needed to do something that focused on that.
At this point it hit me, we should be using real customers in our ads.
I drove away from the Leeds depot that day feeling absolutely inspired.
In true AO spirit, we had the new style customer recommendation TV ads made and on air within a couple of weeks.
Using real people, not actors, we invited everyone to join our million happy customers.
Almost a year later, in February 2016, I went back on the van.
We didnt feel quite as underground, but that was the only difference: the love was exactly the same.
When I asked why choose AO?, I got the feeling that we were a more obvious choice, not so much that wed been recommended.
Kids were running after the vans and singing AO Lets Go, and I knew that the culture that matters so much to me had really struck a chord with the people that matter most to us.
Steve Caunce AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 18 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Operational review continued During the year we also established a further outbase on the outskirts Europe Retail and Operations In March 2016 we were pleased to announce the successful launch of Frankfurt and expect to increase infrastructure in line with the growth in sales volumes to optimise availability for our customers of AO.
nl as we progress with our strategy to launch the AO business in further countries.
Although we have only been trading for a few and ensure our service levels are maintained.
months we are extremely encouraged by the initial acceptance of our customer offering.
We are delighted by the feedback we have received so far from our customers in our new territories.
As at 1 June 2016 we ranked Our operational progress in Germany continues materially as an excellent 9.6 on Trustpilot for both AO.
nl and repeat customer metrics are also very encouraging.
This is particularly expected as we maintain our focus on driving efficiencies, building on our achievements and continuing to develop our relationships with the pleasing given the relatively short amount of time we have been trading in these countries, especially the Netherlands.
As in our UK operations, we are investing in our brand awareness, enhancing content and web architecture in order to our NPS and DTP scores have been consistently high.
deliver the best customer journey, tailored to the German consumer.
Our range and proposition continues to evolve and during the year we As in the UK, in Europe our brand represents both our biggest weakness and our greatest opportunity.
Over the coming year we commenced selling a range of Floorcare products on AO.
Product margin remains a challenge in this market but we are encouraged by will continue to invest to raise awareness of the AO brand in both Germany and the Netherlands to encourage customers to try the progress we made in the second half of the financial year.
our market-leading proposition, convinced that once they have experienced our exceptional level of customer service they will During the year we commenced selling the AO Schutz protection policy, where we again have partnered with Domestic and General become a major advocate of AO.
to provide a market-leading protection plan which provides great benefits and real value to our customers which should contribute to margin in the long term.
Over the year we have been focusing on consolidating the German operation and in June 2015 we entered into an agreement for the lease Summary of our European regional office and distribution centre in Bergheim.
The site is owned by Pro-Logis the landlord of our facility at Crewe who are developing a 35,000 square metre warehouse space and Our operational achievements office.
The site in Bergheim will combine with our existing distribution over the reporting period centre in Bedburg and office in Heppendorf and so will enable us to service additional territories outside of Germany.
We are pleased to illustrate that we are report that construction is on track and we expect the warehouse to be continuing to make strong operational from this summer with the office following in the autumn when, following our preparations to drive efficiency, we will look to progress in achieving our accelerate volume growth.
The additional product volumes from strategic objectives.
Key to the Netherlands will also increase volumes processed in Germany, helping it leverage the fixed assets and resources and move faster this is nurturing our culture, towards a break-even position.
building our brand awareness and maintaining our marketleading customer proposition: we will be exceptional in the moments that matter and execute brilliantly, by simply caring more.
This is the architects image of our new hub at Bergheim.
Its almost finished and the picture doesnt do it justice.
It will be able to serve our German customers and others in Western Europe.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19
