12 GROCERY Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report operating review 13 About Grocery award-winning muesli and granolas Grocery comprises consumer-facing arerenowned for thequality of their businesses that manufacture and naturalingredients.
Ryvita has a strong market a variety of well-known brands reputation in healthy snacking and is both nationally and internationally.
the UK category leader in crispbreads.
Twinings Ovaltine has the broadest Allied Bakeries produces a range of geographical reach, selling premium bakery products under the Kingsmill, teas and malted beverages in more Sunblest, Allinson and Burgen brands, than 100 countries.
with flour and semolina produced bysister company, Allied Mills.
AB World Foods focuses on the Speedibake specialises in own-label creation and development of world baked goods for retail and foodservice flavours and its Pataks and Blue customers.
Silver Spoon and Billingtons Dragon branded products are are our two retail sugar brands in the soldinternationally.
Westmill Foods UK, complemented by a range of specialises in supplying UK restaurants dessert toppings and syrups under and wholesalers with high-quality theAskeys and Crusha brands.
ethnic foods including rice, spices, sauces, oils, flour and noodles under In Australia, Tip Top is one of the brands such as Rajah, Lucky Boat countrys most recognised brands, with andElephant.
an extensive range of bread and baked goods and George Weston Foods Jordans, Dorset and Ryvita operate in alsomanufactures a variety of bacon, the better-for-you cereal and savoury ham and meat products including the biscuits categories with increasing Don and KR Castlemaine brands.
Jordans has a ACHFoods includes within its range heritage of using traditional methods ofbranded products, Mazola, the inthe production of its wholegrain leading corn oil in the US, and Capullo, cereals and cereal bars.
Dorsets apremium canola oil in Mexico.
INTERNATIONALISATION RESPONDING TO OF OUR GREAT CONSUMER DEMAND Gluten-free bread that people BRITISH BRANDS want to eat.
18 15 DELIVERING THE UNLOCKING THE MAGICAL PERFECTBAKE WORLD OF TEA Speedibake designs and creates thecustomers ultimate muffin.
19 16 GLOBAL FLAVOURS A As ss so oc ci ia at te ed B d Br ri it ti is sh F h Fo oo od ds p s pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 16 6 14 GROCERY maintained its position as the UKs leading bread flour brand.
The full EVERYDAY FOOD PRODUCTS integration of Dorset Cereals with Jordans and Ryvita has now delivered ENJOYED BY PEOPLE ALL OVER theexpected savings in operations, logistics and procurement.
International expansion drove excellent growth THEWORLD forJordans and Dorset, which also increased their UK market share.
The Jordans Farmpartnership, launched Revenue Adjusted operating profit margin latelast yearin conjunction with LEAF Linking Environment and Farming andthe Wildlife Trust to improve 3,274m 9.3% sustainability and biodiversity on the farms of our oatsuppliers, has received 2015: 3,177m 2015: 9.0% widespread recognition within the industry.
Ryvitalost crispbread sales in Actual fx: 3% Constant fx: 2% avery competitive UK market although its relaunch this year and a new portion pack format has slowed the rate Adjusted operating profit Return on average capital employed ofdecline.
Revenues at AB World Foods were level 304m 24.2% with last year.
Pataks and Blue Dragon achieved growth in their important 2015: 285m 2015: 22.5% markets of Canada and the UK where both brands strengthened their market Actual fx: 7% leading positions, but Pataks faced Constant fx: 4% amore challenging competitive environment in Australia.
Westmill had agood year across most segments witha particularly strong performance innoodles where Lucky Boat achieved good growth.
Spices and microwaveable rice both delivered volume and value growth but the proliferation of low cost Adjusted operating profit increased now have widergeographic distribution basmati rice brands put pressure on by 7% with a further improvement in achieving particular success in Germany.
sales and margin of our products.
Revenues were also ahead, including the benefit of a 53rd week Revenues at Allied Bakeries were Operating profit for our grocery but were again held back by aheadthis year driven by a substantial businesses in North America was commodity price deflation.
Stratas Foods, our furtherstrengthening of relationships commodity oils joint venture, performed Twinings Ovaltine had another good with majorcustomers saw the business strongly.
At ACH, Mazola oil revenues yearled by Twinings in Australia and the winThe Grocer magazines supplier were marginally below last year despite US and a return to growth for Ovaltine ofthe year award for the second year distribution gains, as pricing remained inThailand.
Continued support for the running.
Our premium brands, Allinson under pressure from competing brand through television, digital and and Burgen, also performed well with vegetable oils which had a raw material printadvertising drove a further increase notable success for Allinson Seeded cost advantage throughout the year.
in Twinings UK value market share andSeeded Wholemeal variants.
The Mexicos results were disappointing as following the brands relaunch last year.
continued growth of Kingsmill Sandwich unfavourable exchange rate movements Twinings is the clear market leader in Thins led to investment in a second and competitor pricing pressure reduced Australia, where the breakfast range production line which came on stream volumes and margin.
Since the year wasrelaunched during the year, and inthe Stockport bakery in April, providing endwe have reached agreement to thesuccessful Tealand television a platform for further innovation.
sellACHs North American herbs and advertising campaign, which has driven spices business including the Tones, further growth in Italy, has recently Silver Spoon gained new contracts and Spice Islands and Durkee brands, the beenrolled out in France and Japan.
benefited from a relaunch this summer, licence for Weber seasonings, and a Sales ofOvaltine in Thailand increased but low retail sugar prices maintained manufacturing facility in Ankeny, Iowa.
and, with less sold on promotion, there pressure on margins.
Wider distribution The transaction has now received was also some margin improvement.
and a targeted home-baking marketing clearance from the anti-trust authorities Brand extensions drove growth in campaign drove an increase in and completion, with a cash consideration Switzerland and some of these lines Billingtons revenues, and Allinson of $365m, is expected in mid-November.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Extending national brands Unlocking the key to consumers Indian food preferences has enabled Pataks to make its leading UK brand a winner in Canada too Innovation and insight deliver success for Pataks VIKRAM VERGHESE, MARKETING MANAGER, THE AMERICAS, PATAKS M ining consumer insights has been key to Pataks growth in Canada.
When our research showed that butter chicken was the nations entry flavour into Indian foods, we focused on getting ourButter Chicken sauce right, quickly becoming market leader.
Wethen launched Spicy Butter Chicken, after sensory tests revealed a changing national palate: introduced a smaller two-portion size, when census data showed 60% of Canadians lived in one or twoperson households: and created a successful light variant, tosatisfy demand for lower fat foods.
Butter Chickens halo effect on our other popular flavours has helped our entire sauces and pastes range grow at twice the market rate.
To read more about the internationalisation of our products go to page 18 Strategic report operating review 15 As a consequence of the sale, ACH hasannounced the rationalisation of itsremaining overheads with the result CASE thatwe expect a minimal effect on its STUDY adjusted operating profit in the new financial year.
RESPONDING TO Adjusted operating profit and margin both increased at George Weston Foods inAustralia.
The Don KRC meat business CONSUMER DEMAND generated a profit with a return to more In 2012, supermarket sales of gluten-free bread in Australia were normal bought-in raw material prices, valued at $32m, and Tip Top had no presence.
By 2016, the market good volume growth and production hasmore than doubled to $71m, with Tip Top approaching market efficiencies.
Continuous improvement leadership under the Burgen brand and a new range recently atthe Castlemaine factory remains launched.
This outstanding growth and future opportunity highlights amanagement priority with further TipTops commitment to insight-led innovation and driving opportunities identified.
Tip Top relaunch was well received by customers and the trade, and bread and In the past, gluten-free bread was typically chosen by those breakfast bakery both performed well.
withcoeliac disease some 1.5% of the population.
By 2010, The brand is committed to innovative a Health & Wellness trend was evolving with concerned consumers new product development with Caf avoiding ingredients thought to be unhealthy.
With gluten widely Brioche style fruit bread launched in believed to beresponsible for that bloated feeling, gluten-free Australia during the year and Tip Top productswere setfor a period of strong growth.
Extra Protein distributed across Australiaand New Zealand.
With no gluten-free manufacturing capability in Australia, Tip Top tested the market by sourcing product from New Zealand.
Through strong collaboration between the operations teams, a manufacturing solution and frozen supply chain was quickly established.
Sensory testing proved the New Zealand product to be more popular than theAustralian market leader in both taste and texture.
With its health and premium quality credentials, Burgen was selected as the brand to launch our new offering and, in April 2013, it became thefirst mainstream bakery brand to introduce a gluten-free bakery product in Australia.
Within six months it had achieved a 35% value share in Australias largest grocery retailer, delivering incremental volume for Tip Top and the bakery category as a whole.
With this earlysuccess, a dedicated gluten-free production line was built in Ermington, asuburb of Sydney.
A new product has now been developed for the Abbotts Village Bakeryrange with a unique formulation and baking process that delivera gluten-free loaf so close to regular bread that consumers cant believe its gluten free.
In 2009 In 2012 696 1,199 new gluten-free gluten-free products products were were launched, launched 16% being bread in Australia and bread-based Source: Mintel Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 16 GROCERY UNLOCKING THE MAGICAL WORLD OF TEA A fantastical story which drawson Incredible sights greet her at every turn: CASE Alices Adventures in Wonderland elegant couples sip tea at candlelit tables STUDY suspended from an enormous tree: time A young woman in black walks alone, goes backwards as a man on stilts, a alongadark and foggy London street.
ball-gowned woman on a swing and another, Spotting awhite rabbit in a red silk reclining on a white grand piano, whirl collarshefollows it, intrigued, as it around her.
And then a handsome conjuror hopstowards a plain greydoor.
tosses a deck of Twinings sachets into theair that change into butterflies, then The door opens inwards.
A smiling man intoapeerless cup of tea inafrock coat and striped trousers, withextravagant lace collars and ruff Enchanting consumers andasilver-topped cane, raises his This fantastical story which draws tophatand welcomes her to an onAlices Adventures in Wonderland extraordinary teaparty.
iscaptured in our Twinings Tealand commercial.
The advertisement, which reflects our strategy of showing how the premium brand can unlock a magical world of sensory experience, was first aired in 2014in Italy and parts of Japan with Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report operating review 17 exceptional impact.
We have since rolled Reflecting local tastes To view the Tealand commercial itout in France, India, Norway, Switzerland The advertising campaign has reached go to youtube.
com and search and Sweden.
Despite the cultural differences, consumers via multiple channels, including Twinings Tealand consumers across these varied markets terrestrial, digital and cable satellite TV, chosen for their potential for growth have cinema and social media.
corefilm remains the same in each market, elements were adapted to reflect local In the coffee-dominated Italian market, tastes, varying the products pictured, the for example, the campaign helped grow soundtrack and the straplines.
We have oursales as well as the wider tea market.
supported the film with search engine Last year alone, our sales there grew at advertising and in-store promotions twice therate of our nearest competitor.
andhave woven its look and feel into And afterthe film was aired in Tokyo national websites.
attracting moreYouTube interactions thanany other consumer goods advert during the month measured our market share again grew significantly and brand awareness rosefrom12% to 19%.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
