34ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 How we sell our products Direct-to-consumer Our franchises Broadly we have two audiences that As part of our strategy to support people utilise our products patients people living with chronic conditions in ways that We market and sell our product portfolio, with chronic and acute conditions, and enhance their quality of life, we have which is characterised by strong brands healthcare professionals.
Reflecting the established a number of direct-toand differentiated products, in more than diverse range of countries and markets consumer channels in various markets to 100 countries through four franchises: we operate in, we sell our products in a meet consumers needs and help expand Advanced Wound Care AWC, Ostomy variety of ways.
However in most of our their support network.
Care, Continence & Critical Care CCC markets there are a number of and Infusion Devices.
established channels which are detailed We sell products directly to consumers below.
through our subsidiary home delivery In 2016 our AWC, Ostomy Care, CCC and companies, Amcare in the UK and 180 Infusion Devices franchises generated Hospital channels Medical in the US.
In a number of our 33%, 30%, 21% and 16% of total revenue Products in our AWC, Ostomy Care and markets, including in both Central and respectively.
CCC franchises are sold or distributed to Eastern Europe, Latin America and parts hospitals and hospital buying companies of Asia, we also own shops and clinics Across our franchises we are committed in Europe and hospitals and group that sell directly to consumers.
to developing products and services to purchasing organisations GPOs in the help people with chronic conditions live US.
In this context, the decision to buy In late 2015 we launched our me the life they want including giving them our products is made by either a programme, a consumer-focused service more mobility, confidence and freedom.
specialist nurse or doctor involved in and support platform.
Developed to help Our products also address a range of providing acute and post-acute care in improve the lives of people living with an clinical concerns including infection wound care clinics, intensive care units, ostomy, me is being expanded to also prevention and provide economic operating rooms and other hospital provide support to intermittent catheter benefits for healthcare systems by departments.
Our dedicated sales teams users.
Through this platform, which helping to reduce the time a patient has visit them regularly in their places of work provides access to a range of resources to spend in hospital.
and provide ongoing support, including, including information and advice, when relevant, advice to assist people emotional support and superior Split of revenue m when they transition from hospital to products, we support clinicians and home, to ensure continuity of care, caregivers and develop personalised.
specialist training programmes and solutions that meet the needs of people.
general educational advice and support living with an ostomy or an incontinence through our call centres.
Distributors and wholesalers We also operate digital direct-toIn most geographies, we sell our AWC, consumer sales platforms, including the Ostomy Care and CCC products to ostomysecrets.
com online platform, pharmacies and bandagists, hospitals and which sells clothing and other.. other acute and post-acute healthcare accessories.
service providers directly or through distributors and wholesalers.
We have a Finally, we operate customer call centres, network of external distributors who staffed by specialist nurses together with manage the entire distribution process product specialists, who are available to.
m on our behalf, including ordering, answer consumers questions and.
provide ongoing support.. Continence & Critical Care.
m Homecare agencies, specialist medical Our Infusion Devices franchise has a stores and pharmacists concentrated business-to-business In many markets, once a patient leaves customer base, primarily consisting of hospital, they obtain medical device the leading insulin pump manufacturers.
products directly through homecare A minority of its revenue is derived from agencies, specialist medical stores or business-to-business urology product pharmacies and retail distributors sales.
Our differentiation and competitive catering to the homecare market.
edge is based on our intellectual Depending on the market, we sell to property ownership, our mass these outlets either directly or through production capabilities and our process our distributors.
These organisations will expertise which enable us to typically also offer consumer related manufacture millions of infusion sets services, such as home delivery of based on highly advanced mechanical medical devices.
designs and delicate micro tolerances to consistent quality standards.
We also supply a range of infusion sets directly to hospitals and the home healthcare sector as well as through specialist distributors under our brand name neria.
AQUACEL Foam Our AQUACEL Foam production at our Deeside manufacturing plant.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc35 Operational review continued Advanced wound care technologies.
36ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016, n Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Our AWC franchise provides advanced 2016 revenue performance Advanced Wound Care wound dressings, devices and skin care In 2016 our revenues grew by 6.5% at products which are used for the constant currency 4.4% reported.
We management of acute and chronic continued to see consistent growth in Revenue m wounds resulting from conditions such our AQUACEL lines, particularly in as diabetes, immobility and venous EMEA and the US with strong growth disease as well as from traumatic injury, from AQUACEL Foam.. m. burns, and invasive surgery.
m Our product portfolio includes: The launch of AQUACEL Foam Pro Antimicrobial and foam dressings, and Foam Lite ConvaTec dressings.
m which are used by healthcare which expands our product portfolio professionals to manage chronic and into the $1.2bn foam segment.
Key brands acute wounds such as pressure ulcers, The launch of AQUACEL Ag Surgical AQUACEL venous leg ulcers and diabetic foot SP dressing which has expanded our Avelle ulcers which can be hard to heal.
Our reach into new surgical indications Sensi-Care advanced dressings are developed to including caesarean sections and spine DuoDERM provide an optimal wound healing surgery.
Aloe Vesta environment whilst also addressing Our entry into the fast-growing additional wound challenges such as disposable segment of the NPWT infection.
Our portfolio of leading market with the launch of the Avelle global brands includes our AQUACEL System in the UK and Nordic regions.
line of advanced dressings which Recognition for our R&D team feature our proprietary Hydrofiber at the Journal of Wound Care World Technology.
These dressings provide a Union of Wound Healing Societies wound contact layer that transforms JWCWUWHS Awards, for the into a gel on contact to absorb and scientific contribution they have made retain wound fluid exudate and to the complex area of microbial support the healing process.
The biofilms and their relationship to addition of ionic silver in our wound infection.
AQUACEL Ag dressings further helps manage and reduce the risk of wound The Avelle System Prestigious industry award infection.
The development of this The Avelle System is the first to In the year when we celebrated 20 technology has evolved with our combine negative wound therapy years of innovation and customer AQUACEL Ag dressing, the first pressure with our Hydrofiber collaboration with our AQUACEL dressing specifically developed to Technology.
dressing, AQUACEL Ag dressing combat wound biofilm.
also received recognition from NPWT, which works by creating a At constant currency.
JWCWUWHS, which included key vacuum around the wound.
The opinion leaders, as the Most Avelle System is an unique Innovative Wound Dressing, one of disposable negative pressure device.
It only two award categories to combines our proprietary Hydrofiber recognise industry achievement in Technology with NPWT, and can be developing breakthrough used for up to 30 days.
The Avelle technologies that have System is the only product on the revolutionised wound care over the market to offer this combination.
Skin care products to clean, moisturise and protect skin which are developed for patients with exposed or fragile skin.
We are focused on three priorities to drive our growth: Expand our core AQUACEL offering through the extension of our AQUACEL Ag with anti-biofilm technology and the expansion of our AQUACEL Surgical product portfolio into new surgical areas.
Continue to accelerate our growth in the foam market by augmenting our portfolio in the fast-growing protection and prevention foam segments.
Build on our differentiated entry into AQUACEL Ag Extra Our AQUACEL Ag Extra advanced wound the fastest growing segment of the dressing incorporates our Hydrofiber Technology NPWT market.
and ionic silver which help manage exudate and reduce the risk of wound biofilm and infection.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc37, n Operational review continued Accessible advice and support.
Helping people live the life they want.
38ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Our Ostomy Care franchise specialises in Key developments in 2016 included: Ostomy Care devices, accessories and services for The development of our nurse individuals who have a stoma a engagement programmes and the surgically-created opening where bodily continued roll-out of our me Revenue m waste is discharged, commonly resulting programme globally.
from colorectal cancer, inflammatory Successful renewal of a number of key bowel disease, bladder cancer, and strategic distributor and both major.
m. obesity as well as other causes.
The launch of our Esteem Flex.
m Our product portfolio includes: Convex range of one-piece pouches in One and two-piece ostomy systems Japan, Italy and the Netherlands.
m which have a variety of closure and global roll-out has commenced in 2017. drainage options, deodorising filters Agreement to acquire EuroTec, based Key brands and pouch materials.
For individuals in the Netherlands, which increases Esteem living with ostomies, finding the right our competitive position in the Dutch Esteem product and the right level of support market and provides a foundation for Natura is essential.
In order of importance, accelerating growth across France and Natura ostomates are most concerned about Benelux.
Stomahesive leakage, odour and skin issues.
Our Durahesive products are developed to address InvisiClose these issues and, combined with our services, help people with a stoma to live the life they want.
All of our core products, including our advanced pouch range of Natura two-piece and Esteem one-piece, incorporate our highly differentiated, skin-friendly and clinically proven adhesive technologies Stomahesive, Durahesive and ConvaTec Moldable Technology.
Accessory products that complement our ostomy systems, including Stomahesive paste and powder, Esteem InvisiClose Drainable Sensi-Care skin care and our Pouch with Lock-it Pocket Ostomysecrets clothing line.
Flexible and discreet, the Esteem one-piece system is the all-in-one We are focused on three priorities to solution that combines the drive our growth: baseplate and pouch in a single unit, Continue to strengthen relationships allowing for a simple, secure, and with ostomy nurses in hospitals to comfortable experience.
increase familiarity with our products and to provide them with the tools to At constant currency.
make ostomy care simple, easy and accessible.
Expand our me direct-to-consumer programmes to engage directly and frequently with ostomates to build strong and long-term consumer Helen Bracey Helen Bracey is Advocate Lead for our Ostomy UK relationships.
She acts as a bridge between Continue to enhance our product ConvaTec and the people who use our products and portfolio, leveraging our adhesive plays a key role in helping us understand the lives of technology with consumer-led design the people we touch.
Helen was rushed into hospital in 2004 with severe abdominal pains and returned and enhancements.
home five weeks later having had surgery to create an ileostomy, due to inflammatory bowel disease.
2016 revenue performance In 2016 our revenues grew 1.7% at The doctors told me there was something seriously wrong with my colon, which meant nothing to me, I constant currency -0.7% reported as had no idea what my colon was or what losing it the implementation of our plan to return would mean.
13 years later, having a stoma has the franchise to consistent growth become so normal for me that I hardly think about it continued to gain traction.
Having a good support network and finding the right stoma appliance were key for me as I adjusted to life after surgery.
I have since gone on to travel through Asia, Australasia, Europe and Central America and I am a keen runner, completing my first marathon in 2014.
Although there have been really challenging times for me and my family through my illness and recovery from various surgeries, we have got through them by focusing on the positives and remembering that life is full of change.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc39 Operational review continued Continuous innovation and product development.
A wide range of customer solutions.
40ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Our CCC franchise comprises three In our Critical Care and Hospital Continence & Critical Care Care businesses, our strategies businesses: Continence Care including are focused on: our 180 Medical subsidiary in the US, Continued product innovation for Critical Care and Hospital Care.
Continence Care: develops and Rationalisation of our Hospital Care manufactures intermittent urinary portfolio through our Margin catheters used by people with urinary.
continence issues related to spinal cord For further details about our MIP see injuries, multiple sclerosis, spina bifida.
m page 25. and other urological disorders.
m 2016 revenue performance manufactures advanced systems that In 2016 our revenues grew 3.6% at are used in intensive care units and Key brands constant currency 2.4% reported.
hospital settings to manage acute fecal GentleCath Strong growth in our GentleCath incontinence and monitor urine Flexi-Seal intermittent catheter portfolio was production output and intra-abdominal UnoMeter partially offset in the second half of the pressure.
year by the beginning of rationalisation Hospital Care: provides a range of high initiatives within our Hospital Care quality disposable medical devices for business.
These have been identified as use in high volume procedures in part of our MIP.
urology, intensive care, operating rooms and other hospital Key developments in 2016 included: departments.
These devices include Strong growth in our GentleCath wound drainage systems, urine intermittent catheter portfolio.
collection bags and catheters, airway The launch of GentleCath Glide, a management and oxygen aerosol low friction hydrophilic intermittent therapy devices and gastroenterology catheter made with our unique tubes.
FeelClean technology which activates immediately when in contact Our product portfolio includes: Flexi-Seal SIGNAL FMS with water and reduces the residuals Our GentleCath line of intermittent Flexi-Seal SIGNAL FMS is a left behind by conventional self-catheters which are designed for temporary containment device, catheterisation technologies.
maximum comfort, safety and ease of indicated for immobilised, The global roll-out of Flexi-Seal use.
incontinent patients with liquid or SIGNAL FMS with odour barrier.
This Flexi-Seal Fecal Management semi-liquid stool.
new product launch helped us retain Systems FMS which provide our leading market position and effective and hygienic management of At constant currency.
underpinned strong growth in our acute fecal incontinence in critical care Critical Care business.
patients and help doctors and nurses The successful implementation of manage serious healthcare concerns initiatives to support our MIP, which including the spread of C. difficile identified significant rationalisation infection.
opportunities within our Hospital Care UnoMeter hourly diuresis business.
management systems which enable clinicians to monitor the urine output Tricia Downing of critical care patients.
Tricia Downing was a competitive cyclist who, after being hit by a car in a tragic accident, went from being an able-bodied competitive cyclist to a In Continence Care we are focused paraplegic, unsure of what the rest of her life would on three priorities to drive growth: hold.
Continue to innovate and expand the After my life-altering injury, I could have chosen to GentleCath intermittent catheter give up, but instead, I worked hard to overcome my portfolio to cover a wider range of challenges.
Finding the right medical supplies, such needs together with expanding our as intermittent catheters, has helped me stay me platform for intermittent healthy and independent, which has allowed me to focus on new goals.
I have competed in over 100 catheter users.
races, including marathons, duathlons, and Leverage the reach of 180 Medical, the triathlons, and I went back to school to complete a largest medical equipment distributor Masters degree in Disability Studies.
I was the first of intermittent catheters in the US, to female paraplegic to complete an Ironman triathlon and I also competed in the 2016 Paralympic Games accelerate the adoption of our new in Rio.
Build on the success of GentleCath As a result of my experiences, I wanted to help through launching in other markets.
others so I became a professional speaker and started a non-profit organisation which organises Camp Discovery a weekend retreat for female wheelchair users who want to engage in physical fitness and have the opportunity to give and receive support with other women in similar situations.
I want everyone I come across to have the opportunity to get off the sidelines of life and get in the race.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc41 Operational review continued Market leading production capabilities and process expertise.
Consistent quality standards 42ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 get Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Our Infusion Devices franchise develops Key developments in 2016 included: Infusion Devices and manufactures disposable infusion The development of the next sets for the worlds leading suppliers of generation fully automatic all-in-one insulin pumps for diabetes treatment and infusion set with a retractable needle Revenue m similar pumps used in continuous which is convenient to use, and has infusion treatments for other conditions.
been tested for use with insulin and Our customers include Medtronicother sub-cutaneous drugs including.
m. Minimed, Animas Johnson & Johnson, those for management of Parkinsons Roche Diabetes and Tandem Diabetes.
disease and palliative pain management.. m Our products are a critical component The launch of our 30-degree soft within insulin pump systems.
We also cannula infusion set with disposable.
m supply a range of infusion sets directly to serter through Medtronic-Minimed TM 1 hospitals and the home healthcare Mio 30 and Tandem Diabetes Key brands 2 sector as well as through specialist t:30. inset distributors under our brand name Significant advances in research comfort neria.
focused on the longevity of our neria infusion sets.
Our product portfolio includes: Disposable infusion sets that connect to external computer-controlled insulin pumps which allow insulin to be delivered continuously under the skin.
neria infusion sets for continuous drug delivery to manage chronic diseases including Parkinsons disease and primary immunodeficiency as well as for palliative pain management.
OEM urology and suction devices, including intermittent catheters, drainage bags and advanced medical inset infusion set film for urology, blood and dialysis The inset infusion set is designed bags.
with an automatic spring insertion device which makes insertion quick We are focused on three priorities to and easy.
The reversible connector drive our growth: also makes disconnection simple.
Maintain our strong and long-term partnerships with insulin pump At constant currency.
manufacturers to secure long-term business.
Continue to develop innovative products for both insulin and other drug delivery.
Leverage our leading industry position to ensure that we are the supplier of choice for new entrants into the insulin market and other sub-cutaneous drugs.
2016 revenue performance In 2016 our revenues grew 4.0% at constant currency 3.8% reported.
Our partners are seeing strong end-market demand for infusion pumps.
Infusion Device cannula One of our Infusion Device cannulas undergoing 1.
2. t:30 is a trademark of Tandem Diabetes, USA.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc43 get
