STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CRANSWICK DELIVERED A STRONG OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE THIS YEAR Revenue increased by 6.6 per cent to 1,069.6 now narrowed to a more sustainable October 2014.
Crown has a well invested million with volumes on a comparable basis premium of 10 to 15 per cent reflecting feed mill which is a key supplier to our up 12 per cent.
Growth was supported by the UKs unique position globally in terms Wayland Farms operation and has bestthe contribution from Benson Park which of outdoor pig production.
in-class breeding, hatchery and rearing was acquired in the second half of the last operations under the stewardship of financial year.
Underlying revenue grew by PIG HERD Directors Nigel Armes and Matthew Ward, 4.7 per cent, with underlying sales volumes The Wayland and Wold farming businesses respectively.
We welcome Nigel, Matthew ahead 10 per cent.
supply approximately 20 per cent of the and their colleagues to Cranswick and look Groups British pig requirements.
Cranswick forward to working with them as we grow Adjusted Group operating profit increased is the third largest pig producer in the UK and and develop our UK poultry business.
by 12.8 per cent to 66.2 million and adjusted represents 6 per cent of the total UK pig herd.
Group operating margin improved by 34 More than 80 per cent of the pigs produced INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT basis points to 6.2 per cent of revenue.
The from the two herds are bred outdoors We invested a further 34 million across improvement in Group operating margin providing a complete farm to fork solution our asset base during the year, to increase reflected lower pig prices, the positive for the premium pork ranges of the Groups capacity, make our facilities more efficient contribution from Benson Park, an improved two largest retail customers.
Provenance and enable them to offer a broader product performance from the Pastry business and and end-to-end supply chain integrity are range.
We have now invested in excess of a tight focus on cost control and operational a key differentiator enabling the Group to 200 million in our infrastructure over the efficiencies across the Group.
lock in key long-term retail relationships.
last eight years to give us some of the most Improvements in productivity and prolificacy efficient and well invested production Each of our categories made a positive together with lower feed costs helped to facilities in the UK food manufacturing sector.
contribution to the Groups overall partly offset the impact of lower pig prices Further details of the investment programme, performance and we continue to invest during the year.
both completed and ongoing, are provided heavily, both in our infrastructure and our in the relevant sections of the category people, to sustain Cranswicks growth and EXPORT TRADE review opposite.
Our Total export volumes grew by 23 per cent strategy of positioning Cranswick in the compared to the previous year.
Volume SUMMARY premium tiers of our product categories growth of 32 per cent in Far Eastern markets, Cranswick is committed to delivering great continues to underpin the success of the was complemented by 7 per cent volume food experiences to the UK consumer.
Whilst, in overall terms, volumes in growth in the US and 8 per cent growth commitment is underpinned by a constant the categories in which we operate are either across the rest of the world.
More than focus on quality, value and a drive to innovate growing slowly or in modest decline, the 1,000 tonnes of product are being shipped and bring new and exciting products to super-premium segments of these categories to the Far East each week with Cranswick market.
The ongoing growth and development continue to materially outperform.
Good accounting for over 50 per cent of all pig of the Group is a testament to the continued examples of this trend are super-premium meat exports from the UK to this part of efforts of the highly skilled and committed bacon and sausage which, according to the world.
Further opportunities are being people across the business.
recent market data, are showing strong explored and the range of products being volume growth whereas the overall exported is continually being developed categories are slightly down.
PIG PRICES CROWN CHICKEN Adam Couch Pig prices remained relatively stable during The acquisition of Crown Chicken shortly Chief Executive the first half of the year compared to the after the year end is entirely consistent with 24 May 2016 volatility experienced in the previous three one of the three core pillars of our long-term years, but then fell sharply in the second half growth strategy: UK diversification.
Crown is and in particular in the final quarter of the a leading player in the UK fresh poultry sector year.
The UK pig price fell 15 per cent during and provides a fully integrated, end-to-end the year and was, on average, 17 per cent poultry supply chain which is complementary lower than last year.
The differential between with Benson Park, our premium cooked the UK price and its European equivalent has poultry business which we acquired in 24 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CATEGORY REVIEW FRESH PORK 9 PER CENT SAUSAGES 1 PER CENT PASTRY 31 PER CENT Fresh pork sales grew by 9 per cent Sausage sales were 1 per cent higher Pastry sales were 31 per cent ahead of driven, in part, by the recovery of business supported by strong volume growth the prior year, continuing the positive with one of the Groups principal retail of 5 per cent.
The premium sector of the development since this category was customers in the second half of the market is the main driver of category growth introduced.
Operational performance at the previous financial year.
Record numbers as consumers are prepared to pay a modest site continued the marked improvement seen of pigs were processed through our two premium for a step change in quality and in the second half of the previous financial facilities with numbers regularly exceeding taste.
Premium beef burger volumes were year and the category made a positive 50,000 per week in the run up to the peak 18 per cent higher year-on-year.
Further contribution to the overall Group result.
Market data for the capital investment, to upgrade mixing and New product lines were launched which, 52 weeks to 27 March shows UK retail fresh filling equipment, is underway at the Lazenbys coupled with a strong Christmas and seasonal pork sales have fallen 9 per cent year-on-year facility in Hull to support substantial additional promotional programme, helped drive due, primarily, to the fall in UK pig prices over business which will come on stream in the first top-line growth.
New spring product launches the same period.
We are keen to see that half of the new financial year.
In addition, we with the business principal customer leave the versatility and price competitiveness of are investing 2 million to reinstate sausage our Pastry business well placed to deliver pork compared to other meat proteins is production capability at our Norfolk facility further growth going forward.
The recent, hugely successful to accommodate new butchers choice AHDB pulled pork advertising campaign sausage business for one of our principal CONTINENTAL PRODUCTS 11 PER CENT highlights the way in which innovative and retail customers.
Sales of continental products increased by focused marketing can deliver positive 11 per cent reflecting the UK consumers results.
This initiative resulted in a 19 per cent, BACON 12 PER CENT strong appetite for speciality continental year-on-year increase in shoulder joint sales Bacon and gammon sales were 12 per products including charcuterie, cheeses, during the campaign.
The next phase of cent ahead as continued development pasta and olives.
Category growth was redevelopment of our Norfolk facility is of the business hand-cured, air-dried supported by new product launches and new now underway.
This 6 million investment bacon was supported by strong premium retail contracts together with a continued to replace the existing abattoir will increase gammon sales.
This growth was underpinned focus on sourcing new artisan products from capacity, improve efficiencies and will by gaining sole supply status for premium across Europe.
The extension of the Guinness facilitate the sites push for USDA accreditation.
bacon and gammons with one of the Groups Circle facility to produce British cured meat lead retail customers shortly before the products was completed during the year, and COOKED MEATS -4 PER CENT previous half year end.
Several new products will deliver a range of premium cured meats Cooked meat sales fell 4 per cent were launched with both existing and new under both the Woodalls brand and retail reflecting overall category deflation and customers in the run up to the peak Christmas customer own label.
lower volumes to one retail customer.
The redevelopment and However, it is pleasing to report that volumes conversion of the former Kingston Foods site SANDWICHES 3 PER CENT for this category returned to growth in the in Milton Keynes into a gammon facility was Sandwich sales grew by 3 per cent, final quarter.
Further substantial capital completed during the year and the facility is supported by new contract wins brought investment at the Sutton Fields facility will now targeting a new sector of the bacon and on stream part way through the first half upgrade staff amenities and refurbish both gammon market.
of the last financial year.
Top-line growth high and low risk production areas to enable was supported by an improved operational expansion into new categories with existing PREMIUM POULTRY 24 PER CENT performance as the business continued to customers and develop further capability Sales of premium poultry from Benson strip out underperforming accounts and to supply slow cook and food to go Park grew by 24 per cent when comparing rationalise the product range.
However, part ranges to manufacturing and food service the equivalent post acquisition period in way through the year the business received customers.
A major three-year capital both years.
New business wins during the confirmation that a key account would not investment programme at the Valley Park year, both with existing and new customers, be extended beyond its current term which facility will refurbish the fabric of the site leave the business well placed moving into ended shortly before the year end.
Whilst the and upgrade chilling and storage facilities to the new financial year.
The capital investment loss of this contract adversely affected the support future growth.
New slicing capacity programme which was underway when the final four weeks of trading in the run up to year is also being added to the Milton Keynes business was acquired in October 2014, is now end and is having a similar effect in the early operation to accommodate substantial complete.
The enlarged factory footprint part of the new financial year, a new substantial additional volume which will come on stream and new in-line, flat-bed cooking and spiral contract has been secured which is expected in the second half of the new financial year.
cooling equipment was fully and successfully to come on stream during the early summer, commissioned ahead of the peak Christmas leaving the outlook for the Sandwich business trading period.
This 9 million investment far more secure and stable.
programme has substantially increased capacity and has improved operational efficiencies as well as enabling the business to offer a broader product range.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 25
