OPERATIONAL REVIEW Suzanne Harlow, Group Trading Director, and Matt Smith, Chief Financial Officer, set out progress in delivering the strategy in FY2016.
Michael Sharp stepped down as Chief Changes to the team and priorities for FY2016 and beyond can Executive of Debenhams earlier this year.
operational structure befound in the strategic report.
Suzanne Harlow, Group Trading Director, As we move the business towards a global and Matt Smith, CFO, led the executive multi-channel model we have made some In line with our strategy to drive nonteam until our new Chief Executive changes to our management structure.
clothing categories harder, we have made Officer, Sergio Bucher, joined the We have aligned online and store channels excellent progress this year in beauty, gift business inOctober.
across both UK and international, with and accessories: we have added in RossClemmow taking the role of Retail exciting new food brands: and launched Strong first half, tougher second half Director UK and ROI and with David new furniture and lighting ranges.
We FY2016 has been a year of two halves.
Smith joining the Company from Body opened five new stores in the autumn We delivered an excellent performance Shop International as International which are performing to plan and over peak, growing market share and Director.
All marketing channels are now showcase our latest brand presentation.
delivering strong multi-channel growth aligned under Richard Cristofoli, Marketing against a good performance in the Director, and we have undertaken some A planned reduction in outerwear prioryear.
restructuring ofroles within buying and clothing stocks enabled us to trade a merchandising designed to support our difficult autumn 2015 clothing season The UK clothing market softened in the move towards a more flexible and successfully.
Over the summer months, second half and the overall marketplace responsive supply chain.
the clothing market declined further, was more volatile but we kept focused buthaving tightened our initial buy, on delivering our strategy, with the Delivering the strategy in FY2016 wetook action to manage seasonal emphasis on managing stock and Our strategy to deliver a compelling stocks, particularly in womenswear, margins and generating cash.
customer proposition: with growth including selected promotional activity.
across multiple channels: focusing on As a result, we ended the year in a As a result, we ended the year with improving returns from our UK stores: cleanseasonal stock position, in maintained underlying profits on a and expanding internationally is enabled linewithour plan, achieved further 52week basis, and net debt improved by our investment in operational and reductions in markdown and have by41 million at the balance sheet date organisational effectiveness.
Further delivered an improvement in full in line with our plan.
discussion of our strategy and the pricesales.
6 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Online sales growth continues to be several years of losses.
All 11 stores and operating model to drive global growth, strong, growing by 9.3% in line with the the website have remained open and and continuing the work to restructure wider market and reflects continuing 1,330 colleagues remain with the our supply chain to make it more improvements in our service proposition business, working hard through the responsive and more flexible.
as well as being driven by rapid growth in examinership process to maintain high smartphone usage.
Combining our retail standards and help secure its future.
Longer term growth drivers and online operations allows us to deliver Following reinvestment and the We have a well-invested store portfolio a seamless shopping experience across introduction of a number of new brand in major markets, we are on the way to the UK business.
and service offers, the future is looking establishing an infrastructure for longer bright for our operations in Ireland.
term global multi-channel growth, and Our space optimisation programme, we have the financial resources to relating primarily to our 40 largest stores Outlook for FY2017 continue investing to deliver sustainable and covering approximately one million Many economists are predicting a growth.
Our colleagues who work so square feet, has now filled over 70% tougher consumer environment in the hard across the business are energised ofthe relevant space with a variety of next 12 months.
The outcome of the by the prospect of new leadership as we new brands and services, as well as EU referendum means that retailers enter the next stage of our development.
extensions to existing brands, and is face increases in their sourcing costs, ontrack to be completed within the but our hedging strategy allows us to In the UK our focus is to understand our nexttwo years, as planned.
manage the effect of this over the year.
customer better in order to maximise the performance of our store portfolio and Under the leadership of David Smith, our The executive team will focus to exploit the online growth opportunity.
International Division is mirroring the UK onmaximising the trading As a one-stop shop for a broad choice structure to support a fully integrated opportunities in current markets: ofinternational and exclusive brands multi-channel approach.
International continue to rebalance our sales mix across fashion, accessories, beauty and accounted for 19% of GTV and 25% of towards growth categories: deliver homewares, we are in a tremendous operating profit in FY2016 and has further full price sales improvement: position to drive multi-channel growth.
Whilst we grow multi-channel participation have a number of growth strands, we are profitably: drive a better return Internationally we have the opportunity taking a more focused and coherent fromour stores:and expand to drive growth via a number of different approach to international markets, .
models, all of which are capital-light.
We identifying the markets we wish to enter expect to continue to generate good and to expand in and which of our Our strategy has remained unchanged cash flow, giving us a strong platform business models franchise, wholesale, and our priorities for the coming year todrive long-term sustainable growth multi-channel or online-only works best include building on the growth in forour shareholders.
categories such as beauty, gift and accessories: further investment in Debenhams Ireland successfully fullprice marketing: gaining deeper Left to right: exitsexaminership customer understanding that has Nikki Zamblera, Human Resources Director In May 2016, Debenhams Retail Ireland allowedus to identify and address Ross Clemmow, Retail Director UK & ROI Peter Swann, Operations Director Ltd DRIL entered examinership and customer service pain points: leveraging David Smith, International Director following this process the business has mobile technology to bring channels Suzanne Harlow, Group Trading Director been successfully restructured.
This will closer together and improve in-store Richard Cristofoli, Marketing Director ensure a sustainable future for DRIL after service: evolving the international Matt Smith, Chief Financial Officer Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 7
