STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM OPERATIONAL REVIEW Health & Personal Who we are and what we do How we do it Care Packaging A leading global provider of packaging Our objective is to use our business and authentication solutions to a development philosophy and resource A leading global provider of specialist diversified blue-chip customer base in to identify innovation opportunities packaging and authentication the pharmaceutical, health & personal and translate these into novel, workable solutions to a diversified blue-chip care, consumer and specialist packaging solutions.
We seek to leverage our customer base.
The business focuses on delivering well-invested, international footprint value-adding innovation, quality and to provide market-leading quality and service through the provision of a wide service on a global basis, and to add range of printed products and solutions, value to both customers and consumers.
including cartons, pressure-sensitive Revenue tapes, leaflets, foils, labels and Operating from manufacturing sites 2016: 430.2m 2015: 422.6m 1.8% authentication technologies.
across Europe, the Americas and Asia, Essentra is a leading global supplier of 1 Operating profit Our product portfolio is led by our a broad suite of innovative specialist 2016: 34.5m 2015: 57.5m -40.0% pharmaceutical and health & personal secondary packaging and authentication care offerings, positioned under the single solutions to meet the rapidly changing 1 Operating margin Essentra brand throughout Europe and requirements of the pharmaceutical and 2016: 8.0% 2015: 13.6% -560bps the Americas and expanding in Asia.
Working Our cartons, pressure-sensitive tapes, in effective partnership with customers Revenue per employee leaflets, foils, labels and brand protection and strategic suppliers, Essentra is 2016: 111k 2015: 113k -1.8% technologies can combine to provide a committed to quality, flexibility and multi-functional product choice for our creativity, and is well placed to meet customers.
Accordingly, our range of the exacting needs of an international % Revenue by destination solutions helps to ensure that the customer base.
consumer does not get frustrated by Europe & Africa 56.2 opening packs, and receives products In consumer packaging, Essentra is Americas 39.6 that have been protected in transit, recognised as the leading manufacturer Asia including Middle East 4.2 have not been tampered with and and supplier of pressure-sensitive tear can be confirmed as genuine.
tape, and a growing provider of other solutions such as cartons, labels, closures, % In addition, the business is a leading seals, bags, sacks and commercial print.
Revenue by end-market manufacturer and distributor of adhesiveEssentras range not only provides Health & personal care 69.1 coated tape products for a wide range functional advantages for packaged Food & beverage 11.0 of industries and applications, in particular consumer goods, such as easy opening Tobacco 7.4 the point of purchase and white or resealability, but can also be used as goods sectors.
a medium for carrying branding and Paper, board & point of purchase 6.4 communication messages or brand Other 6.1 Supported by an in-house design studio, protection features, including overt, R&D and multi-million pound print covert and forensic technologies.
facilities, Essentra is positioned to deliver the very best in quality, service Serving a broad range of end-markets, and reliability through its worldwide Essentra has expertise in coating manufacturing and sales structure.
multiple adhesive systems in numerous technologies.
With close to 3,000 adhesive products available for same-day shipping, Essentras products can meet all highperformance needs, from foam, magnetic, finger-lift and acrylic high bond tapes to hook and loop and non-skid foam.
1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 17 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING How we performed in 2016 In speciality tapes, the performance tape in the tobacco category.
Further to the reflected a normalising of the point of completion of the detailed year-end testing Financial performance purchase segment in the US following of asset carrying values, an impairment of Revenue increased 1.8% decreased 5.5% a softer first-half: in addition, there were 123.9m with respect to the Health & at constant exchange to 430.2m.
some early encouraging results from the Personal Care Packaging business has been Adjusting for the acquisition of Clondalkin application of Key Account Management reflected in the Companys results on a SPD on 30 January 2015, like-for-like revenue principles in terms of cross-selling reported basis.
declined 9.0%, reflecting integration opportunities between Europe and the challenges at certain acquired facilities, Americas, largely in the white goods Operational developments the Companys  and automotive sectors and with foam Further to the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD, efforts to address less profitable healthcare and box-closing tapes.
the subsequent integration of nine of their packaging activities and further weakness 24 sites since mid-2015 has evidently been in tobacco tear tape.
Notwithstanding the consolidation issues, a challenging and complex process.
In the 2016 was a year of further packaging UK, the consolidation entailed the transfer The result in health & personal care was innovation and the commercialisation of activities during the year from four sites supported by the further roll-out of the of recently launched products.
Benefiting to a new operation in Newport, UK, Companys Key Account Management from investment in additional equipment adjacent to our existing site which was strategy to its global customer base, as and technology in 2015, we continued to officially opened at the end of 2014. well as progress with the pruning of certain develop our serialised carton and label While there is still much to do in terms of Clondalkin SPD business which had offering in the healthcare segment, stabilising the operational performance previously been identified as not meeting thereby helping customers to ensure that of the facility, the substantial investment in Essentras return and profitability metrics.
they are well placed to meet the rapidly this second location will enable us to offer However, as communicated in the evolving legislative requirements in respect customers a broad range of packaging announcements of 9 June and 21 November of tracking, tracing and authenticating solutions from labels and cartons to foils 2016 as well as the post-close update on their products throughout the supply and design capability from under one roof, 23 January 2017 three facilities in the US chain.
We also developed our tamper thereby reducing supply chain complexity.
and UK experienced significant integration evidence solutions through the further With the consumer packaging activities at issues, resulting in deteriorating performance commercialisation of our range of fibreDenekamp in the Netherlands also being during the year which has continued into tear, void-release and frangible labels absorbed by the Leeuwarden site during the start of 2017.
These challenges being which allow consumers to easily identify 2016, the integration of the Clondalkin SPD to the detriment of customer service and if packaging has been interfered with, sites was thus completed by year-end.
quality not only materially impacted thus providing a crucial brand and user revenue and operating profit at the protection function.
Further to the completion of the acquisition affected sites, but also entailed doubleof the pharmaceutical packaging assets running costs elsewhere as a result of In consumer packaging, our broad range of Kamsri at the end of January 2016, the postponing certain closures to later in the of freshness labels continued to perform relevant equipment and customers were year than originally scheduled.
In addition, well, particularly in the tobacco sector.
successfully transferred to our facility in our ability to grow the business in line with These labels, which can be tailored to Bangalore, India.
Following the business previous expectations was correspondingly customer requirements, help to keep the relocation, a second carton manufacturing constrained.
In light of the further significant product as fresh as possible for as long as line was installed to ensure that Essentra decline in the last months of 2016 nor possible and in the case of tobacco is optimally positioned to serve customers the current expectation of a near-term create a barrier to ensure that, once the in this strategically important market, improvement in 2017 the business is pack has been opened, the contents and which has already supported new receiving specific short-term focus and do not go stale, dry out or lose their domestic customer wins.
remedial action from Paul Forman and distinctive flavour.
Also in January 2016, we launched the Adjusted operating profit decreased 40.0% Design Hub, being a new approach to In Tapes, sales of tear tape to the tobacco -44.1% at constant exchange to 34.5m, design and delivery which combines industry continued to come under pressure, equating to a margin of 8.0%.
The 560bps structural and creative packaging design owing to the ongoing trend of removing decline in the margin -550bps at constant with the technical expertise of Essentras value-added features.
exchange was due to the afore mentioned product development teams to deliver integration challenges, together with the standout packaging which differentiates mix effect of the decline in value-added tear customers brands on-shelf.
This new 18 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM service being a direct response to Market trends Key new product opportunities customer and consumer preferences for Investment in technology, to develop  packaging that is Management estimates the value of the novel, value-added packaging and easy to use, environmentally conscious global addressable market for specialist brand protection solutions and brand enhancing additionally allows secondary health & personal care Functional packaging benefits, such as us to leverage such innovative packaging packaging and pressure-sensitive tear opening, closing and tamper-evidence features such as embossing debossing, tapes at c. 10bn, growing at a low to hot cold foiling and specialist inks mid single-digit level depending on the Eco-friendly packaging solutions, varnishes.
One of the key outputs from end-markets served.
such as closing and resealing the Design Hub was the Lotus Pack, Creative and secure design solutions to a floral-inspired concept which was Increasing consumer communication provide enhanced communication and unveiled at a leading trade show, Packaging is increasingly used to authentication opportunities showcasing Essentras extensive range communicate brand messages, and to of premium packaging capabilities in engage with consumers via promotions beauty and personal care, as well as our or competitions.
What we measure interpretation of current trends in these industries.
As a result, we are even better Functionality and convenience INNOVATION PERCENTAGE OF placed to provide our customers with of packaging REVENUE DERIVED FROM RECENTLY impactful, value-added packaging There is a growing demand for packaging DEVELOPED PRODUCTS solutions, while simultaneously simplifying which not only offers optimum product Why we measure it the steps from concept to finished article protection, but is also easy for consumers Demonstrates the success of new and reducing time to market.
products and technologies As part of the revision to the complex Group Brand and identity protection How we have done organisation structure announced post and verification 6.3% of revenue generated from products year-end, a new Managing Director of Brand owners have a continued need to launched in the last three years, reflecting Health & Personal Care Packaging, Europe protect their assets from counterfeiters, the impact of the acquisition of was appointed, who will join the company while public and private organisations Clondalkin SPD on 1 March 2017. require secure identification of individuals.
ON TIME IN FULL 2017 key initiatives Legislation Why we measure it Stabilise the health & personal Increasing regulatory requirements, Drives performance of quality systems packaging activities, particularly such as the European Falsified Medicines and service delivery the challenged integration sites Directive, are driving demand for tamperevident packaging, while the more How we have done Improve customer service to best in standardised pack requirements of the 91.6% compares to 92.9% in 2015, class levels, and develop and initiate EU Tobacco Products Directive potentially reflecting the impact of integration customer win-back programme limit the scope for innovative solutions.
challenges at certain facilities Grow market share and continue to build global Key Account Management, Sustainability and waste reduction CUSTOMER SATISFACTION to increase customer relevance There is a growing need for packaging to CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS be resealable so as to maintain freshness Why we measure it Deliver creativity in market-led product and reduce waste, as well as to have Drives performance of quality systems development eg, patient adherence a lower environmental impact.
and performance delivery and further leverage in-house design expertise Provision of total solutions How we have done Expand healthcare packaging Customers are increasingly seeking a 103% increase from 2015, reflecting the offering in India partner which can deliver a complete impact of integration challenges at offering from design to end-supply certain facilities Complete roll-out of global Quality as well as individual products capable Management System, to ensure of providing multiple pack benefits.
alignment of standards around the world 19 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT SOLUTIONS Component Who we are and what we do and comprehensive product catalogues, which are available in many languages Solutions The Components business is a global and online.
market-leading manufacturer and A leading global manufacturer distributor of plastic injection moulded, We target organic growth through and distributor of a comprehensive vinyl dip moulded and metal items.
increasing the range of products and range of components, used in diverse Operating units in 29 countries serve effective marketing, expanding our industrial applications and a very broad industrial base of customers customer base and entering new end-markets.
with a rapid supply of products for a geographic markets.
We also see variety of applications in sectors such opportunities to grow through acquisition, as equipment manufacturing, automotive, where it can move our business into fabrication, electronics and construction.
complementary product categories or end-markets, or further our geographic Revenue The Pipe Protection Technologies PPT distribution capability.
2016: 302.6m 2015: 285.9m 5.8% business specialises in the manufacture of high-performance innovative products As a global leading supplier to the oil 1 Operating profit from commodity resins to engineering- & gas sectors, our PPT business provides 2016: 54.4m 2015: 58.1m -6.4% grade thermoplastics and polymer alloys the broadest range of custom thread and for use in a range of industries.
Locations pipe protection productions for a complete 1 Operating margin in four countries, combined with a wide range of OCTG tubulars, line pipe and 2016: 18.0% 2015: 20.3% -230bps distributor network, serve customers drilling pipe applications.
Our objective around the world.
is to leverage our state-of-the-art Revenue per employee manufacturing footprint headquarters 2016: 136k 2015: 119k 14.3% Essentra Extrusion is a leading custom in Houston, US, to meet global demand profile extruder located in the Netherlands, while ensuring adherence to the latest which offers a complete design and industry regulations.
% Revenue by destination production service.
One of the first companies to extrude plastics in 1956, Offering a full range of value-adding Europe & Africa 56.1 Essentra is now one of Europes most design and production services, Essentra Americas 34.6 advanced suppliers of co-extrusion and Extrusion is well placed to provide Asia including Middle East 9.3 tri-extrusion to all branches of industry.
purpose-developed products based on unique specifications.
Our objective is to The Security business is a provider of ID card leverage our extensive in-house capabilities % printers, systems and accessories to direct including a laboratory, R&D department Revenue by end-market and trade customers, providing a broad and tooling expertise to partner with Electronics 27.1 product offering and competitive value.
customers from the earliest stages of new Fabrication machinery 24.8 product development and provide them Automotive 9.8 How we do it with a compelling value proposition, no matter how complex the finished product.
Paper, board & point of purchase 7.7 The objective of our Components business Oil & gas 6.0 is to leverage its extensive customer base, The Security business has access Construction 5.2 product range and distribution capability, to a wide portfolio of products and using our efficient sourcing and services, including printers, software and Hydraulics pneumatics 2.5 manufacturing operations and integrated consumables from leading manufacturers.
Health & personal care 0.3 IT platform, to respond to the demands Our systems produce durable, high-quality, Other 16.6 of our diverse customer base.
Our tool credit card-style photo ID cards, which are library, product development skills and compatible with the majority of security manufacturing experience, combined with systems, and which can be specified to our inventory and logistics infrastructure, incorporate magstripes, barcodes, are unique assets.
We have sophisticated contactless chips or smart cards.
business-to-business, multi-channel 1 marketing expertise, and support this Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items with our knowledgeable sales resource 20 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT SOLUTIONS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM How we performed in 2016 automotives.
In addition, the objective Adjusted operating profit decreased of expanding custom injection moulding 6.4% -12.4% at constant exchange to Financial performance activity continued to yield encouraging 54.4m, equating to a 230bps decline in Revenue increased 5.8% decreased future incremental revenue opportunities, the margin to 18.0% -200bps at constant 3.0% at constant exchange to 302.6m, with the successful development of tooling exchange.
Operating efficiency savings, with a strong result in Extrusion being to support contract wins particularly together with further benefits from the offset by further weakness in PPT in the automotives segment.
consolidation of the site footprint, were and softness in both the UK and US offset by softness in the US in Components, Components businesses.
Excluding PPT, Like-for-like revenue in PPT decreased the impact of the decline in revenue in PPT revenue increased 7.9% decreased 1.1% 33.4% to 12.5m owing to developments and the mix effect of strong growth in the at constant exchange.
in the oil & gas industry, with a further lower margin Extrusion business.
decline in the North American rig count The result in Components was supported continuing to drive a consequent reduction Operational developments by continued broad-based growth in in drilling activity and demand from the During the year, we undertook further Continental Europe, and reflected a more pipe mills for much of the year.
stable second-half performance in the the business successfully added a number UK following the relocation of the majority of new customers during the period, and In Components, we continued to of the Commercial team to a dedicated an improving oil price towards the end rationalise our footprint, with the transfer distribution centre in Jarrow from our of the year additionally saw a number of activities from Xiamen to our facility European manufacturing hub in of OCTG manufacturers re-establish in Ningbo, China, with productivity at Kidlington, UK.
Growth in Asia came production in Q4, with a resulting the seals facilities in Rayong, Thailand particularly from China and Singapore positive impact on order book trends and Ipoh, Malaysia benefiting from the in the electronics segment, and we albeit from low levels.
Notwithstanding automation of certain manufacturing continued to benefit from further the challenging backdrop, our MaxX processes.
In addition, a global inventory expansion of the regional distribution American Petroleum Institute-compliant, reduction programme was implemented, centre where the number of SKUs was premium and standard thread protectors with improvements in the stockholding doubled during the year and service levels performed well as did the Ultra position being delivered against a continued to improve.
Trading in the US premium range both continuing to backdrop of rising service levels.
was more challenging, particularly in the benefit from being specified by certain Maintenance, Repair & Overhaul MRO large customers as their product of choice.
In PPT, we concluded the process of adding segment, where a number of initiatives In addition, the business benefited from robotics and automated parts handling aimed at better segmentation of the the geographic expansion of its footprint systems to our presses at our facility customer base and product offering were undertaken in 2015, with incremental in Houston, which was commenced implemented during the second half revenue generated both in the Middle in 2015, resulting in further improvements of the year, including the relaunch of a East and in Asia, where product availability in quality and labour cost savings.
Taken dedicated industrial supply catalogue and commercial expertise was further in conjunction with such other investments featuring 40,000 mechanical products built to help support future potential we have made over the last two years of which 4,000 new.
opportunities in Singapore and Australia.
from large capacity, energy efficient injection presses and the development The suite of access solutions hardware Additional contract wins boosted the of the latest in part moulding tooling, to performed well, and was boosted by excellent result in Extrusion, where the new sales and warehouse distribution sites the launch of five new product ranges business continued to benefit from its such as Leduc, Canada we believe that which were added both to the catalogue expertise in complex, technical profiles.
we are well positioned for a recovery in and to a dedicated website, providing These included extruded finishing parts the oil & gas industry.
customers with an even more used in the furniture sector, such as plinths comprehensive offering and highlighting and edge bands, where further good Having installed innovative high-speed Essentras technical capability in this field.
growth was seen with a major global equipment and a second line for the New category marketing materials were retailer during the year: across a range manufacture of high-quality profiles also introduced in all three geographic of internal and external applications incorporating foil application in 2015, regions, reinforcing the breadth of notably for swimming pools in we added Extrusion production capability Essentras capabilities and supporting construction: and plastic profiles used at our Components facility in Turkey the focus on large customers in targeted in the purification of drinking and towards the end of the year.
This additional segments such as white goods and processed water in both industrial investment in our footprint to support our and municipal installations.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT SOLUTIONS capability in the point of purchase Increased use of standard components Key new product opportunities segment means that we remain well There is an increasing move to small, Continue range expansion, to provide placed to respond to the requirements specialised manufacturing businesses, customers with the broadest selection of our retail customer base and exploit which assemble their parts and equipment of components potential new business opportunities.
from a range of standard components.
Develop new sectors for existing This approach provides them with customer base, such as hardware 2017 key initiatives flexibility, and the ability to move quickly Introduce further new product lines to provide their own customers with Globalise successful local products into the core Components business the service they require.
through established supply chain Successfully deliver key custom Enter new and adjacent product Just-in-time delivery components, and continue to markets, such as point of purchase As customers are required to deliver exploit new business opportunities their own products just-in-time, so their Launch products which are compliant in the automotives and white demand for critical components from their with new industry standards goods segments suppliers is increasingly on the same basis.
Improve Components performance What we measure in the UK and the US Increasing labour costs Standardised manufacturing processes Ensure that PPT is optimally positioned NUMBER OF ACTIVE CUSTOMERS and components typically require less to respond to any industry recovery Why we measure it labour, thereby helping customers reduce Reflects marketing effectiveness and Further develop commercial their cost base.
There is also a trend measures the potential population for opportunities in oil & gas beyond among larger customers to design in further growth opportunities the US higher technology markets such as the US, UK, Germany, Japan and Singapore, Continue to drive growth in technical How we have done and then to manufacture in lower labour extruded plastic profiles and 7.7% decrease in active customer cost regions eg, eastern Europe, China potentially expand geographic accounts on the prior twelve months, and India, which benefits components reach within the Essentra footprint, largely reflecting softer performance suppliers with global reach.
to support further value-added in the UK and US opportunities Industry specification NET PROMOTER SCORE As end-markets become more Why we measure it Components sophisticated and demanding, so Reflects our customers overall satisfaction the requirement for higher-quality with our products and service, as well as Market trends components increases.
Over and above loyalty to our brand Given their very wide application, the this more general trend, certain customers global market for industrial components are increasingly facing regulatory How we have done is large, fragmented and ill-defined for guidelines in terms of the specification Given the remedial initiatives implemented both suppliers and customer.
However, of the components they use.
to address weakness in the UK and the US, management estimates the value of the survey was postponed to Q1 2017 the available market for low-cost direct Weight reduction material components at c. 4.5bn pa. Increasing focus on fuel efficiency in the ON TIME IN FULL automotives industry is resulting in weight Why we measure it Manufacturing GDP growth rate reduction targets and a trend of replacing Demonstrates the ability to meet With low-cost direct material components metal components with plastic.
delivery demands being used in a very broad spectrum of industrial end-markets, those countries Growing functionality How we have done with a higher manufacturing GDP growth Increased product sophistication, 89.2% compares to 88.3% in 2015 rate are particularly attractive.
particularly in the automotives and white goods sectors, is resulting in growing demand for cable management solutions.
22 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT SOLUTIONS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM Pipe Protection Technologies What we measure Practicality and reliability Market trends SALES PER MACHINE HOUR In many end-markets, particularly in The global oil & gas market is prone to Why we measure it construction and furniture, the use of volatility in supply, with the consequent Indicative of business mix and productivity plastic is increasingly displacing more fluctuations in energy prices having an traditional materials such as wood and impact on the level of drilling activity How we have done metal in a wide variety of applications and rig count.
15% decrease in sales per machine from finishing to protection, and for hour, reflecting the slowdown in the interiors and exteriors alike.
Evolving oil and gas oil & gas industry during much of 2016 production techniques Regulatory requirements Over the cycle, the significant increase NEW CUSTOMERS ADDED and sustainability in shale gas and oil will result in the Why we measure it As regulation evolves and sustainability development of more efficient drilling Reflects our ability to successfully concerns increase, so there is a growing rigs and the adoption of new technologies, target new growth opportunities demand for products which use more which benefit suppliers with the ability , non-PVC to invest in supporting industry growth.
How we have done raw materials.
137 compares to 85 in 2015 Industry specification Key new product opportunities As end-markets become more ON TIME IN FULL Continue to invest in high value-added sophisticated and demanding, so Why we measure it tooling and design capabilities, the requirement for higher quality Demonstrates the ability to meet to meet demand for technical and components increases.
Over and above delivery demands efficient high-end profile solutions this more general trend, customers are and reduce lead times increasingly facing regulatory guidelines How we have done Actively outsource tools where in terms of the specification of the 88.9% compares to 94.6% in 2015, owing appropriate, to provide greater components they use.
to order book recovery in Q4 albeit from capacity flexibility low levels Cost Investigate alternative suppliers and Continued customer focus on their cost or raw materials to meet regulatory base benefits suppliers with a broad Extrusion sustainability requirements and product offering across price points and customer need the ability to invest in more efficient Market trends equipment and manufacturing processes.
Management estimates the global What we measure addressable market for extruded plastic Key new product opportunities products at around 400m, with low to NEW CUSTOMERS WON FROM Continue to invest in state-of-the-art high single-digit growth.
The underlying MADE QUOTES manufacturing capability and further growth rates and key trends vary Why we measure it capacity, to meet industry demands depending on the end-market served and Demonstrates the ability to translate the respective solution being provided.
Launch products which are compliant quotes into revenue-generating opportunities with new industry standards Increased demand for fully-engineered How we have done Leverage new product development and rapid solutions 17% compares to 18% in 2015 expertise, to provide customers with Customers are increasingly seeking more the most comprehensive and sophisticated and bespoke solutions to WASTE cost-competitive range their needs, which typically require more Why we measure it value-added equipment and a more Drives productivity and the efficient technically-educated workforce.
In use of materials addition, with solutions required ever more rapidly, the ability to provide prototype How we have done tooling for example, through the use of 15.6% compares to 15.5% in 2015 3D printing, as well as to integrate the design and manufacturing process, is becoming more important.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTRATION PRODUCTS Filtration Products Who we are and what we do applications, its enabling components are found in a wide range of products A leading global provider of specialised Our Filter Products business is the only from medical diagnostics tests to filtration solutions to an international global independent supplier of filters.
Not advanced wound care pads, inkjet printer customer base in a diverse range only do we manufacture standard filters, cartridges, writing instruments, cleanof end-markets, including tobacco, but as the leading supplier of special filters room wipes and air fresheners.
health & personal care and we also provide innovative solutions that consumer goods.
meet the consumer-driven demands of How we do it the tobacco industry against a backdrop of ongoing legislative changes.
In addition, Innovation is at the heart of our Filter our offering extends to nicotine delivery Products business, and our objective is to solutions, where we have a number of develop value-creating partnerships with Revenue fully-functional and packaged e-cigarette our customers.
We seek to leverage our 2016: 374.4m 2015: 394.2m -5.0% products, which draw upon the broad long-standing experience, expertise and range of solutions which the entire insight to provide brand differentiation 1 Operating profit Essentra Group can deliver.
and identity solutions, as well as excellence 2016: 59.0m 2015: 72.1m -18.2% in both manufacturing and service.
We also increasingly provide adjacent Our recognised ability to provide new 1 Operating margin services to the tobacco industry.
Our value-added products and services is 2016: 15.8% 2015: 18.3% -250bps Scientific Services facility located in the key to the future growth of our business, UK was one of the first independent, as market dynamics in the tobacco Revenue per employee externally accredited laboratories for industry continue to evolve.
2016: 176k 2015: 175k 0.6% the testing of cigarettes, cigarette filters, smokeless devices including e-cigarettes Research in filters is carried out at a and low ignition propensity LIP dedicated Technology Centre, supported for cigarette papers, and has over 20 by three regional development facilities.
% Revenue by destination years experience of providing analytical Together, they work closely with customers Americas 39.5 services to state monopolies, and to understand their specific needs, Asia including Middle East 30.3 both independent and multi-national and strive to deliver innovative solutions customers.
Additionally, we offer a full which will give their brands differentiation Europe & Africa 30.2 bespoke range for the design, packing and relevance, at a pace appropriate to and packaging of filters for roll your local market conditions and legislative own brands, providing an efficient and requirements.
Our offering is further % Revenue by end-market cost-effective solution to delivering enhanced by our ability to complement Tobacco 72.0 retail-ready products to the market.
our customers own strengths and assets in a variety of tolling, or outsource Writing instruments 7.4 The Filter Products business supplies management, relationship arrangements, Health & personal care 7.4 over 700 product specifications to c. 300 as well as our growing adjacent Clean-rooms 5.8 customers, including all the multi-national services activities.
We have eight manufacturing facilities in seven countries, We continuously upgrade our technology Printer systems 3.0 supported by a dedicated research facility and footprint, to ensure we exceed our Other 0.7 and three regional development centres.
customers expectations and remain at the forefront of market trends.
Our flexible Essentra Porous Technologies is a leading manufacturing capability allows us to developer and manufacturer of custom respond rapidly to market changes and fluid-handling components, engineered customer demand for surge volumes, from a portfolio of technologies that while a consistent focus on high standards includes bonded and non-woven fibre, of quality, cost control and production polyurethane foam and porous plastics.
efficiency act as further sources of Representing innovations used in competitive advantage.
1 healthcare, consumer and industrial Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 24 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTRATION PRODUCTS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM In Porous Technologies, our objective Specifically, we introduced new Superslim ramp-up of new product development is to leverage our technical expertise variants into China to meet the growing with major OEM customers.
in collaboration with our customers, consumer trend for smaller diameter to provide them with innovative, highformat filters, as well as supporting a In 2016, the business continued its track quality, reliable, quick-to-market solutions multi-national customer with a sizeable record of converting its intellectual to their respective fluidand vapournumber of tube capsule filters for certain property into commercial success.
Our R&D teams markets as these two largest innovative included further sampling, verification and focus on each of our three material segments for shaped and flavoured special qualification of our infused antimicrobial technologies and constantly develop filters start to combine.
Accordingly, the advanced wound care foam, which provides new intellectual property regarding business maintained its track record of enhanced infection prevention control materials, processes and applications, supporting customers in the development to address this growing market trend, with a view of providing new and of bespoke solutions tailored to their as well as the application of increasingly existing customers with unique solutions.
specific needs as they seek to respond sophisticated techniques such as colour to global tobacco market trends, marbling in our cosmetic foam offering.
How we performed in 2016 with an increase in the number of joint In household, our development of development projects during the year.
flexible and robust fragrance-handling Financial performance components continued to meet the needs Revenue decreased 5.0% -13.7% at Continuing to leverage its extensive of the increasingly trend-driven air care constant exchange to 374.4m, with experience and expanded portfolio of segment, while investment in alternative growth of 14.8% 2.7% at constant accredited testing methods, the Scientific ink technologies including metallics exchange in Porous Technologies being Services laboratory played a positive role helped to support growth in the more offset by a significant decline of 11.0% in supporting customers with analytical mature printer systems and writing -19.0% at constant exchange in laboratory services particularly in respect instruments categories.
of innovations in both the traditional tobacco and non-tobacco segments Adjusted operating profit decreased In Filter Products, underlying volumes to ensure the delivery of high-quality 18.2% -25.5% at constant exchange were below the prior year.
As announced analysis which remains at the forefront to 59.0m of which 21.5m related to in the trading updates of 9 June and of industry trends and evolving Porous Technologies and the margin 21 November 2016, the business was regulatory requirements.
declined by 250bps -240bps at constant impacted by a number of commercial exchange to 15.8%.
Further efficiency challenges, the most material of which Modest like-for-like growth in Porous improvements as well as a more stable being the impact of a sizeable contract Technologies was supported by new outturn in higher margin printer systems, in Europe which matured during the year business and the further development led to a 140bps 150bps at constant and was not replaced with an equivalent of recent awards.
A strong increase in exchange improvement in the Porous new business win, as anticipated.
In health & personal care was boosted by Technologies margin.
However, in Filter addition, destocking in the Chinese commercial wins acceleration of existing Products, production gains were offset market, the temporary impact of contracts in advanced wound care and by the volume and mix effect of a weaker transferring particular line of business diagnostic components, and was supported result in special filters, resulting in a from the US to Asia and the slower than by an increase in cosmetic foam.
Global 420bps margin decrease -410bps at expected ramp-up in new contracts growth in speciality wipes came from constant exchange.
weighed on performance, with lower new product introductions applications volume across much of the site footprint in critical care environments and Operational developments having a consequent impact on both ongoing distribution channel expansion.
Both Filter Products and Porous revenue and operating profit.
The performance in writing instruments Technologies benefited from a number benefited from further success in nibs of operational initiatives during the year.
While 2016 presented a number of issues, with both new and existing customers nonetheless the acknowledged capabilities as well as the ongoing trend for adult In order to ensure that it continues to of the business in terms of delivering colouring, while household continued deliver value, our Filter Products business value-added filters which meet the to gain from further development and is committed to maintaining a flexible and evolving requirements of the tobacco scaling up of innovative air care wicks.
industry continued to be successfully Versus a declining end-market, a stable In 2016, this was reinforced during the year commercialised during the period.
result in printer systems reflected the by the transfer of activity to Hungary 25 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTRATION PRODUCTS from the UK which while not without On 25 August, we announced that we had Filter Products short-term operational challenges leading signed an agreement to divest our Porous to additional integration costs in the first Technologies business to Filtration Group, Market trends half of the year helps to ensure that our an affiliate of Madison Industries, for The global tobacco market is valued at manufacturing footprint remains aligned a gross transaction value of 220m.
As c. US$810bn, with broadly flat cigarette with customers shift of production from previously communicated, the divestment retail volume growth.
western to eastern Europe and Asia.
is expected to complete in Q1 2017.
In addition, our joint venture facility in Regulation Dubai continued to deliver excellent 2017 key initiatives The tobacco industry is heavily regulated growth in the opportunity markets of the Continue to align geographic around the world on health grounds, with Middle East and Africa, both through footprint with market shift in significant restrictions on the way in which increasing share with existing customers production volume products can be marketed to consumers.
Legislation continues to evolve, both in Continue to invest in advanced filter respect of traditional cigarettes and capability to support further growth, During the year, we also continued our innovations such as e-cigarettes, as well particularly in the Middle East and Asia investment in modern, high-speed as surrounding the testing and packaging equipment to underpin our objective of Improve value proposition in more requirements for these products.
improving our capability and capacity competitive mature tobacco markets notably in our Thai and Indonesian Illicit trade Maintain focus on delivering further facilities, where we enhanced our capability Counterfeiting of tobacco products is productivity and quality improvements in shaped and capsule filters to serve these a significant and increasing challenge growth segments in the market.
Further to Drive further benefits from investment for the industry, undermining brand value, these investments, we now have installed in high-speed, more flexible filter presenting a risk to consumers from capacity to support over one-third of the manufacturing equipment low-quality goods and reducing tax tube and approximately 10% of the revenues.
The illicit trade accounts for Continue to focus on infection capsule filters markets, and currently approximately 10% of duty-paid prevention control for new medical supply a number of multi-national, cigarette volumes and is estimated components and antimicrobial wound as well as independent, customers with to be growing at c. 9% pa well ahead care foam these technologies.
Target higher-end, branded personal In Porous Technologies, the transfer care and cosmetics products Beyond tobacco products of our nibs capability from South Korea to eg, colours, shapes The market for products beyond our state-of-the-art manufacturing facility traditional cigarettes continues to Continue to drive global growth in Indonesia in 2015 continued to yield evolve rapidly.
There is increased interest opportunities in wipes, fuelled by further productivity benefits: in conjunction in other nicotine delivery mechanisms product portfolio, new distributors with an additional writing instrument which offer heat not burn, in particular and branded products ink reservoir line in India, these investments in e-cigarettes which are reportedly mean that we are well placed to serve Maintain focus on expanding the delivering rapid growth albeit from our global customer base with a full writing instrument nib portfolio, a low base and which are forecast technology platform from a more including polyester and acrylic variants to continue doing so.
In addition, expansion of our fibre capabilities in East versus west China, combined with the establishment Accounting for approximately 70% of total of further capabilities for acrylic nib world cigarette volume, the growth rod formation and grinding, helped to markets of Asia dominate the global underpin new product development and tobacco industry and are forecast to growth in the healthcare and writing continue to increase.
26 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTRATION PRODUCTS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM Consumer engagement What we measure Porous Technologies As per capita income rises particularly in eastern markets so lifestyles change and CONVERSION COSTS AS A PERCENTAGE Market trends new segments are created, with different OF REVENUE Management estimates the global consumer expectations and aspirations Why we measure it addressable market for our Porous from the products which they purchase.
Continued focus delivers financial Technologies products at around 1.2bn, As such, there is an increasing demand for performance ranging from mid single-digit negative to new products to reflect these changes.
The underlying How we have done growth rates and key trends vary Consumer need 22.3%, a 220bps increase from 21.1% in 2015 depending on the end-market served Consumers are increasingly concerned and the respective fluidor vapourwith environmental matters, such as ON TIME IN FULL handling challenge being addressed.
sustainability and pollution, and the Why we measure it impact of products which they purchase.
Demonstrates the ability to meet Printer systems: platform extension Such needs are often unspoken but delivery demands and performance improvements create challenges for the industry Customers continue to introduce to supply products which address How we have done new platforms, as well as enhance such considerations.
92.7% compares to 92.9% in 2015 the performance of their products such as through the use of increasingly Cost and price QUALITY COMPLAINTS PER complex inks.
As the price of cigarettes has continued BILLION RODS to increase, growth opportunities have Why we measure it Healthcare: infection prevention been created for other industry segments Drives productivity and the efficient control, enhanced fluid-handling including roll your own and Other Tobacco use of material capabilities and changing customer Products, such as chewing tobacco.
patient needs How we have done Infection prevention and control is Key new product opportunities 5.9 complaints per billion rods, increasingly a critical requirement, Lifestyle solutions eg, Slims an increase from 4.9 in 2015 prompting the development of Superslims, low ultra-low tar, antimicrobial components.
eco ranges WASTE Why we measure it Market growth is also partly driven by the Brand-specific requirements, Drives productivity and the efficient migration from slower and more expensive such as recessed filters use of material laboratory-based testing to results being Enhanced user experience, provided at the point to care.
such as capsules, flavoured thread How we have done and activated carbon 6.4%, a decrease from 6.8% in 2015 In addition, a globally ageing population is resulting in a change in the incidence Full bespoke service for roll your of medical conditions such as diabetes own brands which require advance wound Provision of scientific services care products.
Adjacent sectors such as e-cigarettes Household and personal care: emerging and heat not burn products market growth and lifestyle trends Consumers are increasingly transitioning to more sophisticated household and personal care products.
In addition, insecticide products continue to evolve from solvent to water-based systems.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTRATION PRODUCTS Non-woven products: growing What we measure requirement for sensitive environments Industries such as electronics operate INNOVATION PERCENTAGE OF SALES in controlled environments, while others DERIVED FROM NEW PRODUCTS eg, hospitals have a requirement for Why we measure it clean-room conditions to combat Demonstrates the success of new infection and or contamination risk.
Such products and technologies controlled environments are increasingly being adopted as best practice on a How we have done global basis.
9.4% of revenue generated from products launched in the last three years Writing instruments: range expansion Customers are increasingly looking SUSTAINED IP DEVELOPMENT for a total solutions provider from Why we measure it ink reservoirs to nibs.
Continued development of intellectual property to support future growth and Key new product opportunities strong development project pipeline Improved technologies to further enhance fluidand vapour-handling How we have done capability Currently 30 2015: 34 patents in force in the US, with 13 2015: 10 Additional technology platforms, applications pending to take advantage of new end-market opportunities CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS Further range expansion Why we measure it Drives performance of quality systems Investment in faster-growing product and service delivery end-markets, such as medical Continued focus on customer How we have done partnerships 79 complaints, being a 38.6% increase versus 2015 MAN HOURS PER MACHINE HOUR Why we measure it Indicative of shop floor productivity How we have done 1.66 2015: 1.85 man hours per machine hour 28
