Operating Review Underwriting 'Through our data-led pricing analytics, coupled with full contribution analysis across a wide range of variables, we take a holistic, life-time value view of a customer.
Through strong customer retention, combined with our expanded footprint programme, we are confident our strong growth will deliver increased value in the coming years. '
Jon Wilshire Chief Underwriting Officer Overview esure Group provides Motor insurance products and services to its customers through its two key brands, Motor esure and Sheilas Wheels, with all its underwritten products rated 5 Star by independent research and software company, Defaqto.
Developments Rating capability enhancements Customer contribution modelling evolved Improvements in counter fraud capabilities Expansion of customer footprint from 55% to 7080% Digital journey improved increasing customer conversion Claims inflation mitigation strategies enhanced Market Positive rating environment across the market Claims inflation running at the top end of historical averages Whiplash reforms announced in February Ogden discount rate lowered in February 2017 from plus 2.5% to minus 0.75% Renewal pricing transparency scheduled for implementation in April 2017 Outlook Strong growth to continue through positive rating and expanded customer footprint.
Footprint expansion 'We are now able to quote competitively for 7080% of the market, providing more customers with the opportunity to benefit from our great products and service.
We will continue to grow in a controlled manner in these segments, alongside our core territory, providing us with solid foundations from which to deliver our growth ambitions. '
Elspeth Hackett Head of Personal Lines 14 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Retail 'With over 80% of our new business customers coming through price comparison websites use of data is essential to provide competitive prices and improve our customer journey.
Further enhancements are scheduled for 2017 to continue our strategy of trying to make things simple for our customers and increase value across our business. '
Nigel Gosden Retail Director Overview The Group provides Home insurance products and services to its customers through its two key brands, Home esure and Sheilas Wheels with all its underwritten products rated 5 Star by independent research and software company, Defaqto.
Developments Rating capability enhancements Expanded customer quote footprint from 40% to 7080%.
This remains very much embryonic Market-leading approaches to wet peril claims Market Rating environment in price comparison market highly competitive Storm events in early 2016 alongside flash flooding in June and September Flood Re levy introduced in April 2016 Renewal pricing transparency scheduled for implementation in April 2017 Outlook Competitive rating environment not conducive to growth.
Home Claims '2016 has unfortunately been a busy year for weather claims with Storms Frank to Katie in the early part of the year and flash flooding events in June and September.
It can often be a difficult time for our customers and we look to provide them with assistance as soon as possible to stabilise the property and begin the clean up to help them return to their homes quickly. '
Sarah Parkins Head of Home Claims esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 15
