Operational review PUB COMPANY The Boathouse in Peterborough has At the year end our Pub Company division comprised been converted to a Chef & Brewer 1,823pubsand restaurants open across Britain, appealing during the year.
to a broad rangeof the population.
OUR GROWTH BRANDS REVENUE 1,688.2m SHARE OF TOTAL REVENUE 81.4% Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational review continued PUB COMPANY CONTINUED NPS IN THE INCREASE IN ONLINE 1 LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES OPERATING PROFIT GREENE KING ESTATE TABLE BOOKINGS 1.5% 56.8% 7.9%pts 41% Our Pub Company strategy is to attract customers with exciting brands On a combined basis, operating profit increased 56.8% to 299.2m.
The that deliver unrivalled value, service and quality.
The acquisition of Spirit combined operating margin declined 1.4%pts reflecting higher lease costs Pub Company has helped us accelerate this strategy through the addition following the Spirit acquisition and a 0.3%pt reduction in the margin in the of successful brands and the opportunity to learn from each other and Greene King managed estate due to ongoing investment in our people and enhance the customer offer.
It also allows us to generate greater scale our service proposition.
todrive cost efficiencies that can be reinvested in the business.
Build attractive and strong brands In the former Greene King estate, total sales grew by 5.1%, while total We constantly improve our brands and the offer within them to ensure sales increased 68.7% to 1,688.2m when including Spirit.
they remain fresh and appealing to todays demanding consumer.
For example, to extend the appeal of Hungry Horse while retaining the Full year LFL sales growth in the Greene King and Spirit managed estates brands family focus, we are trialling improved zoning, allowing more was 1.9% and 1.0% respectively.
On a combined basis, LFL sales grew by 2 families to dine in a comfortable environment, while other customers 1.5%, ahead of the market, which grew by 1.3% over a broadly comparable enjoy the option to watch sport.
We achieved LFL sales growth in food, drink and accommodation and, by brand, we saw notable strength in Chef & Brewer.
On digital, we have combined the best of both from the Greene King and 1.
Spirit businesses and our ambition is to create seamless hospitality across the whole customer experience.
Aiming to facilitate the customer journey, 2.
we developed our online booking capabilities, which contributed to a 41% increase in online bookings.
Feedback from our customers on how we are doing is important to us and during the year we relaunched our Hungry For Feedback initiative in Hungry Horse while, recognising the increasingly important role of social media, we further rolled out the Always On Service initiative encouraging pub teams to engage with customers on Facebook ata pub level.
We continued to personalise the content of our email communications with customers and saw an 18% increase in visits to ourpub websites.
Our food festivals turn classic pub food and drink into interesting events, giving customers more reasons to visit and offering them the opportunity to trade up, which can drive spend per head.
Further initiatives to expand the appeal of the traditional pub included the relaunch of our value-oriented breakfast offer in Farmhouse Inns, extended breakfast service hours in Hungry Horse and the introduction of a Grab n Go price point for a coffee and a pastry in Local Pubs.
Including the Spirit estate, the proportion ofsales generated before 5.00pm increased by 7.6%, including by 8.6% inthefive retail growth brands.
Industry-leading value, service and quality During the year, we expanded the number of KVIs across the Greene King added successful brands estate, driving repeat visits among core customers and positively impacting volumes and gross margins.
We introduced an EDLP approach into the and the opportunity Spirit estate and, aiming to enhance the customer experience, particularly ahead of the Euros, upgraded our sports viewing facilities in Flaming Grill and in Local Pubs.
Elsewhere, we were proud to see Hungry Horse win to enhance the best value pub restaurant menu at the Menu Innovation and Development Awards.
On service, initiatives focusing on great service at all customer touch points led to further increases in NPS since the half year and a 7.9%pt customer offer.
increase in the full year in the original Greene King estate to a new company record since measurement began in 2011.
Quality improvements included a refreshed Steak Education programme in Flaming Grill, and, in the Greene King estate, further improvements in core dishes contributed toa2.3%pt increase in quality scores compared to last year.
Work with the best people Our teams are vital to our success and we are pleased with the trend in team member retention since the acquisition of Spirit, demonstrating the resilience and commitment of our pub teams throughout the integration progress todate.
During the year, we began developing updated employee value propositions by brand, which outline recruitment, retention and development opportunities in each as well as the overall employee experience.
This initiative has delivered positive results to date including the highest team member retention in Hungry Horse since measurement began.
On apprenticeships, we had over 3,000 apprentices in learning during the year and we were delighted to be recognised for our commitment to apprenticeships through the award of Macro Employer of the Year by Apprenticeships 4 England.
We were also named as one of the top 50 apprenticeship employers in the UK by the Daily Telegraph.
Own the best invested pub estate We continued to invest in our estate to ensure that our pubs remain We had over 3,000 enticing places for our customers to spend their time.
During the year, wespent 139.0m on maintaining and developing the combined estate, apprentices in learning including 51.8m on the Spirit managed estate and, reflecting a rigorous approach to investment allocation, we achieved annualised EBITDA returns in excess of 27%.
Taking advantage of opportunities to selectively during the year.
and strategically expand our Pub Company estate, we opened 13 new pubs in the year.
We disposed of 26 pubs from the combined managed business including ten disposals that were required by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA.
Overall, we were pleased to be recognised with the award of Best Managed Operator at the prestigious Publican Awards.
Excludes synergies in the existing Greene King business.
Includes Spirit acquisition fair value accounting adjustments, synergies and a 45-week contribution from Spirit.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 25
