Operational Review Retail Putting Customers in the Driving Seat In recent months we have been rapidly reminder to come in to have their free 6-week positioning and new brand look and feel improving our customer data knowledge bike check.
Also, after any purchase online or across a number of customer touch points, and capability.
We introduced e-receipts in-store, the following day the customer will including advertising campaigns, website in January across all stores and since receive a we recommend email containing design and in-store marketing, under the then have collected over 1 million email 6 products: this is driven by a bespoke strapline of Halfords For Lifes Journeys.
addresses, of which the majority are new recommendation engine built for Halfords.
We This is a significant change of approach and contacts to our database.
For the 12 months will develop more of these tailored campaigns is designed to create a more emotional and to the end of April 2016 we can match 15% in the months ahead.
This summer we will also relevant connection to the brand.
We are also of Retail sales to customers, up from 3% as commence a customer discovery project, improving the richness of online content, with of November 2015.
We have joined up our where we will use the enhanced data to more videos and how to guides, positioning online and in-store customer databases segment customers and better understand Halfords as a friend in times of need.
At this in Retail, meaning that we can now match shopping habits.
We will share some of these stage we are not embarking on a complete online orders to customers when they insights in due course.
and immediate change to external branding collect in store.
Over the course of the year of stores or a complete change of in-store There is more to be done.
In FY17 the we will develop a complete single view of point-of-sale collateral.
Rather, these will implementation of the new electronic point customer, which involves joining up all of the change over time as and when they come up of sale EPOS system towards the end of numerous customer databases within Retail, for refresh, in order to provide a more costthe year will, apart from delivering operational Cycle Republic and Autocentres.
enhancements, provide benefits for customer Investment in customer data has allowed data, enabling store colleagues to look up In November we explained that we needed us to move from generic email marketing customer details in a live customer database to improve our value perception.
Value is an to a more personalised approach.
In recent at the till and improving the speed and equation of the right price, great service and weeks we have started our first tailored accuracy of matching and customer interface.
The relative importance email campaigns.
For example, anyone of each factor varies by category and we Another key part of Putting Customers in buying a bike and agreeing to submit their have assessed our products and services the Driving Seat is a new brand positioning.
details will, for the first time, receive an email accordingly.
We have already introduced new Over the past few years our messaging opening price points in order to improve the to consumers has been focused around value perception where we are, for example, See more on Autocentres strategy and price and spot buys, rather than creating a competitive on pricing of the better and operational review on pages 20 and 21 relationship with the brand.
In a few days time best products but dont have a good we will be launching a new Halfords Brand equivalent to our competitors.
Helping families cycle safer Kids Bike Workshops Cub Bike Workshops A major factor parents worry about when 22,000 children and their In FY16 we helped over 5,500 cycling is safety and the confidence to parents attended free in-store Cubs achieve their Cyclist fix things, as and when problems occur.
bike workshops helping to Activity Badge, with over 98% Through workshops colleagues share improve their skills in basic bike satisfaction.
In addition to a their knowledge and expertise, to give maintenance and cycling safely, more advanced in-store based customers the confidence to get out on giving them greater confidence workshop, a resource pack also their bikes.
The majority of workshops to go out cycling more.
focus on primary school children, an of parents found the in-store age when they are often starting to workshops useful very useful cycle without adults and are also and 96% would recommend the doing Bikeability.
16 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance Financial statements sHareHolder inFormation Service in Our DNA Services and service-related sales are a We remain committed to the 3-Gears training We have previously reported on the progress key part of this pillar of the strategy.
We programme: 99% of eligible colleagues are at made on improving turnover of colleagues have recently introduced new services into Gear 1, over 70% of colleagues had qualified within 3 months of joining.
This continues to our stores including windscreen chip repair for Gear 2 by the end of FY16 and we also be around 9%, having been over 20% three and motorcycle bulb and battery fitting.
now have over 600 colleagues trained to years ago.
We have now turned our focus We continue to look to add to and enhance Gear 3 guru level.
As of April 2016 we to improving the overall colleague turnover the suite of services we offer.
In November introduced the National Living Wage for our and this improved by 500 basis points within we introduced a new KPI: service-related colleagues aged 25 and over, and at the the last year.
We were pleased to once again sales.
This is the income that Halfords same time introduced our 20p supplement be included within the Sunday Times Best derives from the sale of services and any for all colleagues upon qualifying for Gear Companies To Work For list, maintaining associated products included within the 1.
This, combined with other changes to our our 18th position, and our Retail colleague same transactions.
Our aim is to grow pay structures, lifted the pay of all colleagues engagement score, surveyed annually each this faster than overall sales: in FY16 we of the Halfords Group to above the minimum April, has been maintained at 82%: a strong achieved growth of 8.5%.
result in the context of the more challenging trading conditions this year.
Our customer service metrics continue to Our Retail apprenticeship scheme has now improve.
The net promoter score is at its been in place for over a year and we have highest recorded level and has increased already placed nearly 200 trainees into significantly year on year.
We have decided permanent roles across our stores.
We to continue to use net promoter score, continue to build our pipeline of Assistant but we have opened up more channels Store Managers and Store Managers through for customers to give us their feedback our Aspire programme: in FY16 all but two including exit interviews as customers of our store manager roles in our Southern leave the store, carried out by an external division were filled internally.
See our Chief Financial Officers review on pages 24 to 29 School Bike Workshops Colleagues also go out to primary schools each year to teach pupils in their final year bike maintenance and safety.
Complementing the Government scheme Bikeability, which teaches children how to ride a bike safely: Gear-Up workshops show basic bike maintenance and safety hazards to avoid key skills as pupils prepare to make the transition to secondary school.
5,500 pupils benefited from the programme in FY16: 96% of teachers found the school workshops useful very useful and 92% would recommend the workshop to other teachers.
com community stock code: HFd halfords.
com 17 slugline Operational Review Retail continued Building on Better Shopping Our Uniqueness Experience Exclusive products, relevant innovation and unique partnerships Over the last three years we have been working hard to improve all strengthen our clear differentiation as a retailer.
Over the last the in-store and online experience for customers but, as we set few months we have introduced the following new initiatives and out in November, there is more to be done.
We continued to make products: ongoing enhancements to our fulfillment proposition, such as adding specific delivery time slots and extending the online order Launched the worlds first 130% brighter bulb.
In Q4 this was cut-off deadlines.
our second highest selling bulb.
Since May 2013 we have refreshed 97 stores under the Getting Introduced a lifetime guarantee on certain car batteries.
Customer feedback has been positive and Extended our range of motorcycle products to include the investments have justified themselves financially.
As such we a 2Bs bulbs and batteries product and fitting service remain committed to the continuation of a refresh programme, for motorbikes, as well as a range of consumables and but we have slowed down the pace of roll-out whilst we create the accessories.
Store of the Future refresh concept.
The initial design principles have now been agreed and we anticipate trialing the first concept Expanded our range in store and online of gifts and toys.
in the second half of this year.
Store of the Future builds on many For Christmas we had many new products including camera of the features of our recent store refreshes and is building in drones and Disney Frozen roller skates, as well as gift versions technology to enable colleagues to better serve customers, create of our popular tool products.
a hub for our We-Fit services and create more flexible spaces.
Launched the new range of Boardman Performance bikes.
We are not locking down the refresh concept at this stage: as we learn from the trial we will look to evolve the concept over the next During the year we commenced joint sponsorship with Yuasa of 12 months.
In the meantime we will continue to roll out a number of last years winning team in the British Touring Car Championships existing refresh concepts during FY17.
Across both concepts, we BTCC.
Halfords previously sponsored a BTCC team from 2004 anticipate refreshing 15 to 25 stores in the year.
Cycle Republic reached 10 stores by the end of the year and In March we unveiled to the press our new Wiggins and Orla Kiely represented 0.5% of group revenue.
It was a difficult year to launch collaborations, which were both well received.
The partnership a new cycling concept because of the market conditions, but we with Orla Kiely comprises a range of cycling and leisure products are encouraged by the progress of the brand.
The next important and accessories and has recently launched online and in around step is to launch the new website, which will go live in the next few 250 Halfords Retail stores.
The Wiggins range comprises bikes for weeks.
In the year ahead, we will continue to roll out more stores, toddlers to teenagers and priced at 99 to 450. although fewer than last year, and will continue to implement We have lots planned for FY17 including: lessons to develop the concept.
We anticipate that sales in FY17 will reach approximately 1% of group revenue and total capital An exclusive collaboration with Olympic Gold Medalist and expenditure for the three years to the end of FY17 will be around World Champion cyclist Laura Trott to create a range of limited 5m, 4% of the Group total.
edition performance bikes for women under the Trott brand.
These will be launched in stores and online in July, priced from 449.
Our largest ever range of in-car connectivity products, with an emphasis on design, colour and technology, such as solarpowered devices and branded items.
First to market with an exclusive launch of digital in-car adaptors.
Developing our trade offer, starting with the enabling of the trade cards to be used online.
18 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance Financial statements sHareHolder inFormation Fit for Future Infastructure In November we explained how investment in infrastructure remains a opportunities to improve in-store processes, such as goods priority, but that the type of investment moves from being about fixing in out, processing vouchers and promotions, as well as the foundations to customer and colleague-facing enhancements.
eradicating many paper-based processes: and This change in focus began during FY16 with projects such as providing a modern and stable platform on which to implement the online marketplace, new tills in stores, electronic numberother enhancements.
plate lookups and bike finance online.
There are also a number of developments that we have been working on in recent months that will The new resource planning tool removes eleven systems and launch in the coming weeks: a transactional Cycle Republic website, replaces them with one tool that we will use across stores, contactless payments in store and the ability to use trade cards online.
autocentres, the Support Centre and distribution centres.
Colleagues and line managers will be able to log into the system to Looking ahead, our IT investment is focused on two key projects that view and change shifts, as well as optimise scheduling of resource.
we anticipate will be implemented over the next 12 months: a new electronic point of sale EPOS system and a new people resource Our supply chain infrastructure has undergone significant change planning tool.
over the last 18 months, having moved in October 2014 from 1-day-a-week deliveries to store to a 5-day-a-week in-house The EPOS system will be rolled out across all stores and also delivery arrangement and then, in August 2015, to a 3-day-a-week into Autocentres.
This will be the first major change to our outsourced delivery solution.
This is now embedded, stable and EPOS system for many years.
In Retail there are many benefits, working well: providing the benefits of good availability on a cost including: effective basis.
Availability has remained at strong levels through the improved customer data capability, including improved transition and thereafter.
Concurrently, over the last few months we customer matching and the ability for colleagues to look up have been reviewing the long-term supply chain requirements.
We customers within a live single view database: have concluded that in order to support our future growth we will develop our warehouse infrastructure to improve customer service, an e-diary, with which customers can pre-book services, such but we do not anticipate such plans to cause any significant ongoing as 3B fitting or cycle repair, and with which we can allocate changes to warehouse and distribution operating costs or to the resource accordingly: capital expenditure guidance we have previously given.
Fast Fact Bike ranges in 2016 from 4 Olympic Heroes - Chris Boardman MBE, Victoria Pendleton CBE, Sir Bradley Wiggins and Laura Trott OBE Fast Fact figures relate to 4th April 2015 - 1st April 2016 stock code: HFd halfords.
