237.0m Profit before tax 2015: 219.6m Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 15 As previously stated, the Board intends to Since it started in autumn 1995, the business target a capital structure that is both prudent has opened new depots and increased turnover and recognises the benefits of operational and continuously, except for a 12-month period in financial leverage, and, after considering our 20089.
At the end of 2016, the business had 642 capital requirements, to return surplus cash to depots across the UK and has small operations in shareholders as appropriate.
The Group has continental Europe, where it has 24 depots.
Around significant property leases for the depot network, one-third of the products the business sells are and continues to have a material deficit in the made in its own UK factories.
Group pension fund and a small number of Even today, we continue to see the opportunity to remaining legacy liabilities related to the Groups transform the scale of the business, seeing scope former ownership of MFI.
Taking into account this for up to 800 UK depots.
We continue to invest underlying level of gearing, the Board believes it in all aspects of the growth and performance of is appropriate for the Group to be able to operate the business, including new depots and depot through the annual working capital cycle without operations, existing and new employees, product incurring bank debt.
development, and manufacturing and distribution.
The Board has reviewed the cash balances in light UK depot network and operations of the Groups future investment opportunities, During the course of 2016, 23 new depots were expected peak working capital requirements and opened, bringing the total number of depots trading trading outlook.
As a result, it has decided to return at the end of the year to 642.
In addition, five depots up to 80m of cash to shareholders by way of a were relocated and 22 were extended.
This is expected be implemented over the course of the next two years.
It is important that we have the optimal number of Shares that are bought in the market by our regional and area managers leading and supporting brokers will either be held in treasury, to use our UK depot operations.
The continuing growth of to satisfy future obligations for company share the number of depots has led us to introduce a new schemes, or cancelled.
region, which consists of five areas, bringing the number of regions to nine.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW Our account base continued to grow, increasing by The mission statement of Howden Joinery is To over 30,000 net new accounts in 2016.
While there supply from local stock nationwide the small builders has been a significant increase in accounts, our debt ever-changing, routine, integrated kitchen and joinery collection performance continues to be robust.
requirements, assuring best local price, no-call-back quality and confidential trade terms and to provide the builders customer with enough choice, advice and aftersales to make a home to be proud of.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 16 Review of finance and operations continued Product and marketing Manufacturing and logistics Continuing to enhance our product offering is crucial operations to our competitive position.
In 2016, we introduced Our UK-based manufacturing and logistics a number of new products across all product operations play a vital role in ensuring that we are categories, albeit the programme was less intensive able to supply our small builder customers from than in recent years.
Notable amongst these were: local stock nationwide at all times.
This requires us to have the space and the flexibility to respond three new Burford ranges with textured wood to each depots individual needs, even during our grain finish, as a lower priced option to the critical period 11, when sales are more than double Tewkesbury family: the level seen in other periods.
three new grey kitchens in our Greenwich and Clerkenwell families and an ivory Greenwich In February 2015, we said that we had undertaken Shaker door, following the growing popularity a review of the medium and longer-term growth of these colourways.
prospects for the business and had identified more opportunities than previously foreseen.
On the basis In addition, a number of successful tests were of this, we said that we had considered how undertaken, including pre-finished doors which to ensure that we are best placed to deal with and make the builders life more time-efficient.
take advantage of what the future might bring.
One outcome of this work was the identification of a It is planned that 2017 will see a larger new product programme of investment in our supply operations.
introduction programme, including around 20 new kitchen ranges and a number of products that were During 2016, a number of projects were progressed tested in 2016. as follows.
We continued to invest in our marketing Manufacturing operations communications and brand advertising with a At our Howden site, the refurbishment phase of a number of initiatives.
These included: new cabinet production facility has been completed, assembly lines have been installed and the a series of Rooster News flyers distributed to our installation of machining lines has commenced.
small builder customers, which have been used When complete, this will improve our cabinet to help drive footfall and sales in our depots: and manufacturing capability.
to further raise awareness of the Howdens brand, we attended eight county shows and agricultural At our Runcorn site, installation of a new cabinet fairs throughout the UK during the summer.
component line is complete and this has been commissioned.
Production on the line is now being ramped up.
Logistics A new 650,000 sq ft warehouse that has been built near Raunds, which is to the east of our existing national distribution centre in Northampton, was handed over to us in July.
Fit-out has been 26 completed and IT systems integration is underway.
1,282 Continental Europe 16 In France, we opened two new depots in the north 1,204 and one in the south, meaning that we now have 20 98% depots in the country.
In Germany, we opened one 2% depot, our first in the country, which will allow us to 16 15 learn about the market.
Revenue m Howden Joinery UK depots Howden Joinery continental Europe depots
