22 IMI plc Operational review IMI Critical Engineering After adjusting for 77m of exchange rate IMI Critical Engineering is Performance benefit and 6m from prior year disposals, a world-leading provider of Full year order intake at 614m 2015: revenues of 651m 2015: 631m were 619m was 11% lower on an organic flow control solutions that 7% lower on an organic basis and 3% basis, after adjusting for disposals and enable vital energy and process higher on a reported basis.
In the second industries to operate safely, operating profit of 82m 2015: 93m half, order intake was 7% below the same was 12% lower on a reported basis and cleanly, reliably and period in 2015.
In the year, as predicted, 24% lower on an organic basis.
new construction Oil & Gas intake was the impact of lower volumes, margins 13% lower resulting from reduced LNG were 12.6% against 14.8% in 2015. orders, following the peak in new project The divisions Value Engineering initiative activity in 2015.
Significant improvements Revenue continued to have a significant positive were evident in both midstream, where impact and contributed to 80m of new a large Kazakhstan order was booked in 651m Down 7% bookings in an increasingly competitive the year, and in HIPPS, where a 15m market environment.
Value Engineering order was booked in the second half.
and improved project management New construction Fossil Power orders Operating profit activities helped deliver a year-end order were 23% lower due to reduced activity book of 486m at broadly equivalent levels, particularly in the Middle East and Down 24% 81.8m margins to the prior year.
Significant orders were also awarded improved significantly to 62% in Petrochemical where full year order organic against 56% at the year-end in 2015. input was 2% higher, including a strong performance in the first half of the year.
Outlook Aftermarket orders were 6% lower Key achievements Based on the current order book and when compared to 2015 with a return Value Engineering initiative helped market outlook, we expect first half to 2015 levels in the second half of the to secure 80m of new orders organic revenues to reflect a similar year.
In the full year, Oil & Gas was 11% percentage reduction to the first half Introduced 23 new products lower reflecting reduced parts activity in of 2016 with margins broadly similar the upstream sector which offset good Rationalisation programme delivered to the first half of last year.
Results for growth in our downstream activities.
on-time and on-budget with 12m the full year are expected to include Lower levels of spend, particularly in North profit benefit a second half bias reflecting the timing America, resulted in a 13% reduction in On-time and on-budget ERP of restructuring benefits and normal Fossil Power while Nuclear Aftermarket implementation at four sites trading seasonality.
increased 36%, reflecting a substantial Increased average lean score to 62% Korean order in the fourth quarter.
Successful consolidation of three sites into new world-class facility in China Sale of loss-making Italian service business IMI Critical Engineering Website www.
com During a year when the market was challenging, IMI Critical Engineering made further important improvements in its competitiveness and manufacturing footprint.
We also accelerated our Value Engineering and new product programmes, significantly increasing the value proposition for our customers while improving our order intake.
Roy Twite Divisional Managing Director Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 During 2016, we significantly Enhancing our enhanced our Value Engineering skills and capability and won new orders totalling 80m as a direct competitive advantage result of our new improved levels of competitiveness.
Despite the tough market conditions, these new orders were secured at margin levels in line with our historic average while still delivering, on average, a 15% cost reduction for our customers.
Value Engineering, which covers all aspects of design and manufacture, systematically reviews every aspect of a product and its production process to make it more efficient and cost effective, without affecting product functionality.
As a result, we are able to deliver cost competitive solutions to our customers while still preserving our margins.
The use of Value Engineering has also enabled us to access a number of new lower-priced markets with our world-class valve technologies at now acceptable margins.
The contract wins Value Engineering has helped us to secure include: a 5.6m order to supply valves and attemperators, which control heat and steam to NEM Energy B. V. a world leading supplier of heat recovery steam generators to the power generation sector: a 15m contract for a semi-severe choke valve for installation in a large Middle East oil companys gas development, which will extract gas from one of the worlds biggest sour carbonate gas reservoirs for use in power generation and the chemical industry: and a 15m contract to supply a High Integrity Pressure Protection System for installation in the Middle East which will be used to protect a pipeline and process plant from the danger of over pressure and also to reduce gas emissions into the atmosphere.
Close collaboration with customers, engineers and operations has helped drive Value Engineering progress 24 IMI plc Operational review IMI Precision Engineering with the first of our great new products IMI Precision Engineering is Performance due to launch in the first half of 2017. a world leader in motion and After adjusting for 72m of exchange rate This review also formed the basis for a benefit and 1m from prior year disposals, fluid control technologies structured programme of reorganisation, revenues of 708m 2015: 662m were 3% wherever precision, speed including Janus, to capitalise on the most lower on an organic basis and 7% higher on and reliability of process are significant opportunities.
We deliver integrated The successful implementation of lean revenues were 1% lower principally driven solutions which improve the throughout the division has continued by a small decline in Europe which offset to make excellent progress with the broadly equivalent revenues in the balance productivity and efficiency of score increasing to 66% against 59% of our core markets.
The revenue profile in our customers equipment.
The impact of the year included a 5% pick-up in the final lean was clearly evident in the results quarter providing early indications of with improved productivity, a 22% a potential, so far unconfirmed, Revenue reduction in scrap costs and a seven day improvement in the sector.
improvement in inventory days in the year.
In the year, Commercial Vehicle sales were 708m Down 3% 9% lower reflecting a 22% decline in North Outlook America due to lower truck production in The global industrial outlook remains that region.
European Commercial Vehicle Operating profit mixed albeit with some leading indicators revenues were broadly consistent with the and improved fourth quarter sales prior year whilst Asia improved.
Energy 118.5m Down 10% providing a more positive backdrop sales continued to be impacted by lower for Industrial Automation in the year investment and were 7% lower than 2015 organic ahead.
We remain cautious given the while Life Sciences and Rail were broadly considerable economic, political and equivalent to 2015. industry uncertainty that remains across Segmental operating profit of 119m Key Achievements many markets and geographies.
We 2015: 118m was 1% higher on a expect the European heavy truck and Successfully developed first new reported basis and, after adjusting for North American Class 8 volumes to soften platform products for launch in 2017 13m of exchange rate benefit and in 2017 which, when combined with Improved operational performance disposals, 10% lower on an organic basis.
the conclusion of 13m of Commercial resulted in new Commercial Vehicle Operating margins of 16.7% compared Vehicle contracts, will result in lower opportunities to 17.8% in 2015 and reflected the impact revenues in the year ahead.
of lower overhead recoveries following Launched innovative IMI Norgren Based on current market conditions, weaker market conditions and investment Express App we expect first half organic revenues to support long-term growth.
22% reduction in scrap costs to be slightly lower than the first half of Our detailed review of the Industrial 2016.
Excluding the 4m benefit from Seven day improvement in Automation market and its various sub- 2016 property disposals, margins will be inventory turns sectors confirmed that we have excellent comparable to the first half of last year.
market positions with a valuable installed Janus Phase 1 now being implemented While markets remain uncertain, the base and high margin aftermarket and benefits of further restructuring activities identified those sub-sectors and products and new product launches are expected IMI Precision Engineering Website that would provide us with the greatest www.
com to deliver broadly equivalent margins opportunity for growth.
In response, for the full year.
the division has embarked on a significant programme of new product development At IMI Precision Engineering we made further significant progress on a number of strategic initiatives in the year, continuing to improve operational performance through the application of lean, re-organising the business to be even more customer-focused and preparing for some important new product launches for 2017 and beyond.
Massimo Grassi Divisional Managing Director Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Performance Review Financial Statements 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 A significant proportion of Driving the aftermarket Precision Engineerings revenue is generated by aftermarket sales.
To maintain our strong through innovative existing market positions, and to increase the rate at which sales channel we convert competitors products into our own, a number of new initiatives were launched to enhance the customer service experience.
A particularly innovative initiative is the IMI Norgren Express App, which enables customers using their smartphone, to quickly find and buy replacement parts, including the replacement of competitors products.
All a customer has to do is scan the required part and they will receive full details of the product and its price on the IMI Norgren Express website, enabling them to purchase the product immediately.
If the part number or data matrix is not visible, or the part to be replaced is a competitors product, using the App, the customer can simply photograph the part and, within 30 minutes, they will be sent relevant replacement details or compatible options.
The App also provides information about the required parts availability within the distributor network, allowing the customer to find the closest local stockist.
Following the IMI Norgren Express Apps launch in November 2016, customer reaction has been extremely positive.
The new, unique IMI Norgren Express App enables maintenance engineers to find and buy replacement pneumatic products fast 26 IMI plc Operational review IMI Hydronic Engineering These agreements, while having relatively IMI Hydronic Engineering is Performance modest impact on the 2016 results, are the leading global provider Revenues on a reported basis of 290m expected to underpin increased trading 2015: 264m were 10% higher than and recognised expert in in future years.
The previously announced 2015 and after adjusting for 30m of hydronic distribution systems entry into the actuator market, with exchange rate benefit, were 1% lower and room temperature control, TA-Slider, has received an excellent on an organic basis.
While warmer market reception and 2017 plans with experience in more than weather impacted the heating season include further product launches.
100,000 construction projects in the divisions largest European markets, The divisions lean scores continued to revenues in that region were marginally world-wide.
improve and increased to 76% against higher than the previous year.
In the year, project delays, sales in China were Hydronic Engineerings Polish operations, significantly reduced in the first half before Revenue the Groups highest lean scoring plant, recovering with positive momentum in the successfully launched the divisions final quarter of the year.
North American 290m Down 1% standard J D Edwards ERP system.
sales reflected an overall increase of This system is now providing increased 6% in the year.
efficiencies and forms the foundations Segmental operating profit of 52m 2015: Operating profit for future ERP roll-outs across the 52m was equivalent on a reported basis division.
Also in 2016, the divisions and, after adjusting for 6m of exchange 51.9m Down 10% largest manufacturing plant, in Germany, rate benefit, 10% lower on an organic undertook a total refurbishment of its basis.
As expected, operating margins organic foundry facilities resulting in a significant showed a second half seasonal reduction in scrap and work in progress.
improvement to 19.4% while full year margins at 17.9% 2015: 19.6% were Outlook Key achievements lower than the prior year reflecting the While the European construction markets 19% of revenue from products launched impact of lower volumes and the on-going are forecast to remain subdued, the in the last three years investment in great new products and success of new products and over-theoperational excellence.
Two substantial over-the-counter sales counter sales are expected to result in contracts signed New products launched in the last three organic revenue growth in the year, albeit years continued to have an important, weighted to the second half.
Operating Successful Product Development positive impact on the results and margins are also expected to show their momentum building sustainable generated 55m of sales in the year.
normal second half improvement and will competitive advantage Included in the 2016 product launches include the benefits of restructuring.
were a number of products specifically Refurbishment of foundry in Germany targeted at the development of the significantly reduces scrap divisions over-the-counter sales strategy, Lean score increased to 76% which resulted in two significant new agreements being signed in Europe.
IMI Hydronic Engineering Website www.
com As well as delivering another great performance in the application of lean and maintaining strong momentum in new product development, at IMI Hydronic Engineering we also made good progress with a new over-the-counter sales strategy, successfully re-opening an important market segment for the business.
Peter Spencer Divisional Managing Director Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 To support our significant new product offering and Revitalising our sales our strengthened over-thecounter sales strategy, we and marketing activities have revitalised our sales and marketing activities to drive revenue within the division.
At the heart of our new approach is our sales team, who have dedicated roles and responsibilities tailored to meet the specific needs of our wholesale and project based customers to ensure that at all times an optimum customer experience is delivered.
Feedback to date has been very positive, as evidenced by improved Net Promoter Scores NPS which measure customers satisfaction.
In particular, NPS feedback indicates that 86% of our customers rank Hydronic Engineering as a true innovator.
In addition to creating a dedicated specialist sales force to drive our new over-the-counter sales strategy, we have reviewed how best our products should be merchandised within wholesalers and new and attractive packaging has been created to maximise the profile of the product in crowded retail environments.
To coincide with the development of our new product pipeline we have also significantly increased our digital marketing activities.
Today, every new product launch has its own bespoke digital campaign which delivers far greater exposure for less cost and provides a more effective platform to showcase our product technologies and engage with our customers.
In addition to Hydronic Engineerings great new products, packaging and installation support materials are customer driven from the start
