DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION PRODUCTS Excellent revenue performance with double-digit growth benefiting from robust organic revenue growth and the contribution from recent acquisitions.
B USINESS LINES SERVICES & CUSTOMERS Our Products-related businesses consist of business lines SOFTLINES that are focused on ensuring the quality and safety of physical components and products, as well as minimising HARDLINES risk through assessing the operating processes and quality management systems of our customers.
ELECTRICAL As a trusted partner to the worlds leading retailers, NETWORK ASSURANCE manufacturers and distributors, our Products business lines support a wide range of industries including textiles, BUSINESS ASSURANCE footwear, toys, hardlines, home appliances, consumer electronics, information and communication technology, BUILDING & CONSTRUCTION automotive, aerospace, lighting, building products, industrial and renewable energy products, food and TRANSPORTATION TECHNOLOGIES hospitality, healthcare and beauty, and pharmaceuticals.
FOOD Across these industries we provide a wide range of ATIC services including, laboratory safety, quality and CHEMICALS & PHARMA performance testing, second-party supplier auditing, sustainability analysis, product assurance, vendor HEALTH, ENVIRONMENTAL compliance, process performance analysis, facility & REGULATORY SERVICES rd plant & equipment verification and 3 party certification.
PRODUCT ASSURANCE 24 24 I IN NT TE ER RT TE EK G K GR RO OU UP P P PL LC A C AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 16 6 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION STRATEGY Our Total Quality Assurance proposition provides a systemic approach to support the Quality Assurance efforts of our Products-related customers in each of the areas of their operations.
To do this we leverage our global network of accredited facilities and world leading technical experts to help our clients meet high-quality safety, regulatory and brand standards, develop new products, materials and technologies and ultimately assist them in getting their products to market quicker, in order to continually meet evolving consumer demands.
ADJUSTED OPERATING REVENUE PROFIT 1,465.5m 297.7m INTERTEK INNOVATIONS INTERTEK SUPPORTS MORE EFFICIENT NASAL DRUG DEVELOPMENT Intertek launched an innovative technology offering that provides clients with a new tool in the development of Orally Inhaled and Nasal Drug Products, in particular for generic nasal suspensions, providing generics developers with a more efficient route to market.
This new technology uses  Raman Spectroscopy 'MDRS', allowing direct measurement of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 'API' particle size in the nasal suspension.
This was previously difficult to achieve without the Raman function as excipient particles are often a similar size and shape to the API particles.
MDRS allows Raman spectra to be produced for selected particles, with this additional chemical information providing robust identification of both drug and excipient.
Meeting regulatory requirements through costeffective and efficient approaches, such as the inclusion of MDRS data, is of huge interest to generics developers and should support the development and approval of more generic nasal products in the future.
I IN NT TE ER RT TE EK G K GR RO OU UP P P PL LC A C AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 16 6 25 25 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION PRODUCTS continued 2016 PERFORMANCE We delivered solid organic growth Excellent revenue Our Products-related businesses delivered in Electrical & Wireless driven by an excellent revenue performance with higher regulatory standards in energy growth benefiting double-digit growth rates.
efficiency and by the increased demand for wireless devices.
from robust organic We benefited from a robust organic revenue growth performance that We continue to benefit from the increased revenue growth and delivered organic margin accretion and focus of corporations on food safety and the contribution from recent acquisitions delivered good organic growth in our the contribution from was strong.
Our Softlines business delivered a robust We saw a solid organic growth in recent acquisitions.
organic growth performance across our our Chemicals & Pharma business markets.
We continue to benefit from as we continue to leverage the structural INNOVATION strong demand from our customers for growth opportunities in the healthcare We continue to invest in innovation within chemical testing.
We are also leveraging markets in both developed and our Products-related businesses to meet the investments we have made to support emerging economies.
the evolving needs of our clients: the expansion of our customers in new Our Building & Construction markets and to seize the exciting growth Our Business Assurance division business delivered a robust organic opportunities in the footwear sector.
has developed a proprietary supplier growth performance driven by the management platform known as GSM.
Our Hardlines and Toy business growing demand for greener and higher GSM maximises supply chain visibility for continues to take advantage of our quality buildings and infrastructure in both buyers and suppliers through supply strong global account relationships, the the US Market.
PSI benefited from a good chain management, evaluation and expansion of our customers supply chain revenue momentum and delivered the improvement.
One of our major clients has into new markets and our innovative expected synergies in year one.
asked us to help them mitigate the risks technology for factory inspections.
2017 OUTLOOK of their entire global supplier base by We delivered a robust organic growth We expect our Products division to designing an end-to-end Supplier performance across our main markets benefit from good organic growth Qualification Operating System to track of China, Hong Kong, India and Vietnam.
the compliance of these suppliers based Our Transportation Technologies on their code of conduct in the areas of MIDTO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK business delivered strong organic growth human rights and labour practices, worker Our Products division will benefit from across our main markets in the USA, UK, health and safety, environmental midto long-term structural growth Germany and China.
We continue to management and business integrity.
drivers including product variety, brand capitalise on our clients investments in and supply chain expansion, product Our Transportation Technologies new powertrains as they strive to adopt innovation and regulation, and on the business became one of the first facilities more stringent emissions and fuel increasing quality and sustainability in Europe to be accredited to perform economy standards.
demand of developed and emerging power certification testing on electric Our Business Assurance business economies, the acceleration of motors, following a significant investment delivered double-digit organic growth e-commerce as a sales channel, and we made in our electric vehicle testing in our three regions of North America, the increased corporate focus on risk.
Recognising the Europe and Asia.
We continue to benefit changing landscape of traditional gasoline from the increased focus of corporations and diesel engines, our business on risk management resulting in strong responded swiftly to the evolving needs growth in Supply Chain Audits.
of our clients and can now provide both testing and certification services in the same location, providing a more efficient solution for our customers.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2016 Change at Change at 2016 2015 actual constant m m rates rates Revenue 1,465.5 1,110.6 32.0% 19.9% Organic revenue 1,260.7 1,086.6 16.0% 5.5% Adjusted operating profit 297.7 233.8 27.3% 16.5% Adjusted operating margin 20.3% 21.1% 80 bps 60 bps 26 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION INTERTEK INNOVATIONS INTERTEK INTRODUCES REMOTE VIBRATION MONITORING Our Building & Construction business has implemented an innovative remote vibration monitoring solution for clients in New York City.
Using specialist sensory equipment, vibration levels caused by construction activity are recorded and documented during the course of the working day.
Our experts apply data analysis techniques to interpret the stresses being placed on the building, and if an event occurs that exceeds a certain trigger level, an email or text message alert is automatically sent to the client allowing them to mitigate their level of current activity.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 27 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION TRADE Our Trade-related businesses delivered solid organic growth.
BUSINESS LINES STRATEGY Our Total Quality Assurance proposition assists our CARGO & ANALYTICAL ASSESSMENT Traderelated customers in protecting the value and quality of their products during their custody-transfer, GOVERNMENT & TRADE SERVICES storage and transportation, globally, 24 7.
Our expertise, service innovations and advanced analytical capabilities AGRIWORLD allow us to optimise the return on our customers cargoes SUSTAINABILITY and help them resolve difficult technical challenges.
Our independent product assessments provide peace-of-mind SERVICES & CUSTOMERS to our government clients that the quality of products imported into the country meet their standards and Our Trade division consists of business lines with differing import processes.
services and customers, but with similar midto long-term structural growth drivers: Our Cargo & Analytical Assessment 'Cargo AA' ADJUSTED OPERATING business provides cargo inspection, analytical assessment, REVENUE PROFIT calibration and related research and technical services to the worlds petroleum and biofuels industries.
Our Government & Trade Services 'GTS' business provides inspection services to governments and regulatory bodies to support trade activities that help the flow of goods across borders, predominantly in the Middle East, Africa and South America.
584.5m 81.8m Our Agriculture business provides analytical and testing services to global agricultural trading companies and growers.
28 28 I IN NT TE ER RT TE EK G K GR RO OU UP P P PL LC A C AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 16 6 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION INNOVATION 2016 PERFORMANCE INTERTEK INNOVATIONS Providing innovative solutions is a key Our Trade-related businesses delivered point of differentiation for our Tradesolid organic growth overall with moderate related businesses: margin progression at constant currency.
INTERTEK TAKES Our Agriculture business has recently Our Cargo AA business reported solid #1 POSITION IN developed the Soil Manager App to organic growth performance benefiting MEXICO'S FAST Support Local Farmers in Africa.
Africa from the structural growth drivers in the is home to more than 10 million farmers Crude Oil and Refined Product global GROWING with 50% owning a mobile device.
As expected we saw allows 24 7 access to a range of services a normalisation of the supply situation ENVIRONMENTAL which can assist with enriching soil fertility following the build-up of the high level MARKET and increase yields whilst minimising input of inventory we saw in 2015. costs.
It is available free of charge from The demand for GTS continued to weaken online app stores, and is an innovative way During 2016, Intertek expanded its following the slowdown seen in the for local farmers to connect with qualified Analytical Assessment offering by second half of 2015 and was below last specialists, fertiliser merchants, and even entering into an agreement with the year.
The volume of regional trade in the allowing for direct investments by shareholders of ABC Analitic to form Middle East and Africa has reduced given sponsors.
After submitting test samples, an environmental services Joint the economic challenges and uncertainties the results are directly available along with Venture in Mexico.
fertiliser recommendations on the app.
ABC Analitic has been a leading In addition, farmers can connect with a Our Agriculture business continues to provider of water testing services in qualified agronomist to discuss the results, benefit from the expansion of the supply Mexico since 1970, being one of the a service that is often beyond the reach of chain of our clients in markets such as pioneering companies to offer small scale farmers in Africa.
Brazil and Turkey, and delivered a robust wastewater analysis when the first organic growth performance.
In our GTS business, we have developed regulations for the prevention and a proprietary Workflow ERP system known 2017 OUTLOOK control of water pollution came into as Astra.
Following client feedback, we We expect our Trade-related businesses to effect.
Since then, ABC Analitic has developed our existing platform to deliver solid organic growth performance continued as a market leader in the integrate through EDI into our clients at constant currency.
provision of its water testing and logistics operations, in order to provide analytical services in the key areas MIDTO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK them with real time updates on the of wastewater, natural and drinking Our Trade division will continue to benefit process of certification approvals.
from regional and global trade-flow enabled our client to reduce the logistics growth, as well as the increased customer ABC Analitic is highly complementary cycle by knowing at every stage where focus on quality, quantity controls and to Intertek's existing environmental we were up to in the certification process.
testing business in Mexico, which has This ultimately led to faster product a particular strength in soil testing delivery, a reduction in stock, a shorter and analysis.
By bringing the two sales cycle, and an improved competitive businesses together, Intertek will position in the market.
This was a great increase its offering of sustainability example of our GTS business developing services by become the market leader a bespoke assurance solution to optimise in the provision of assurance, testing, supply chain processes for their clients.
inspection and certification services to Government environmental projects, regulators and corporations.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2016 Change at Change at 2016 2015 actual constant m m rates rates Revenue 584.5 536.6 8.9% 1.6% Organic revenue 582.7 536.4 8.6% 1.3% Adjusted operating profit 81.8 75.7 8.1% 2.2% Adjusted operating margin 14.0% 14.1% 10 bps 10bps INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 29 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION RESOURCES Our Resources-related businesses faced challenging trading conditions in 2016. BUSINESS LINES STRATEGY Our Total Quality Assurance proposition allows us to help INDUSTRY SERVICES customers gain peace of mind that their exploration projects will proceed on time with the expected quality standards MINERALS and their assets will continue to operate with a lower risk of technical failure.
Our broad range of services allows us SERVICES & CUSTOMERS to assist clients in protecting the quantity and quality of Our Resources division consists of two business lines with their mined and drilled products, improve safety and differing services and customers: reduce commercial risk in the trading environment.
Our Industry Services business uses in-depth knowledge of the oil, gas, nuclear and power industries ADJUSTED OPERATING to provide a diverse range of Total Quality Assurance REVENUE PROFIT solutions to optimise the use of customers assets and minimise the risk in their supply chains.
Some of our key services include technical inspection, asset integrity management, analytical testing and ongoing training services.
Our Minerals business provides a broad range of ATIC 517.0m 30.2m service solutions to the mining and minerals exploration industries, covering the resource supply chain.
30 30 I IN NT TE ER RT TE EK G K GR RO OU UP P P PL LC A C AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 16 6 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION INNOVATION 2016 PERFORMANCE INTERTEK INNOVATIONS During 2016, our Industry Services team Our Resources-related businesses saw has developed a unique tool, known as an organic revenue decline of 13.0% InterPret.
InterPret is a suite of software and a slight margin erosion.
INTELLIGENT tools that have been developed in order to The revenue from Capex Inspection PIPELINE support our clients needs for the provision Services was lower than last year driven of faster real time information in production by a lower volume of investments and in INSPECTION environments.
There are three processes exploration activities by our clients and available to our clients within the suite of SERVICES from price pressure in the industry.
"InterPret solutions: The demand for Opex Maintenance InBlend uses infrared spectra Interteks China-based Intelligent Services remained stable overall and we to predict hydrocarbon composition, Pipeline Inspection Services utilise are benefiting from the investments made significantly speeding up the laboratory tools known as ""intelligent pigs"" to in NDT services."
process allowing customers to assess assess the integrity of assets in a every delivery and sample for all known Given the challenging trading conditions quick and non-intrusive manner.
This helps them maximise in our Industry Services operations we Smart pigs are intelligent pipeline margins and reduce process delays.
continue to be very focused on cost and inline inspection tools that examine capacity management in our Capex InProcess uses smart data analytics to the structural integrity of pipeline Inspection business.
analyse large datasets and mitigate systems.
An intelligent pig is a future problems such as shutdowns and Continuing the trend seen in the second cylindrical device that is placed inside asset failure.
For example the analysis half of 2015, we saw a stable level of a pipeline to gather information on has been used to identify major pump demand for testing activities in the the quality of pipe.
As the tool travels seal failure and to optimise the Minerals business.
through the pipeline, technicians are production of diesel at a refinery.
able to track the location of the pig 2017 OUTLOOK using GPS and are able to catalogue InFlow can be used to assess We do not believe that we have reached important data on the condition of the stability of blended hydrocarbons.
the trough in the Resources division and the pipe.
Understanding the interactions in we expect the trading conditions to hydrocarbon blends reduces tank remain challenging.
The results of the intelligent pigs cleaning and maintenance costs, findings help determine anomalies MIDTO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK promotes efficiency, and reduces and target areas that likely need to Our Resources division will grow in the risk of shutdowns.
undergo further examination, repair the medium to long term as we benefit or replacement.
from investments in the exploration and production of oil and minerals to meet the demand of the growing population around the world.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2016 Change at Change at 2016 2015 actual constant m m rates rates Revenue 517.0 519.1 0.4 % 8.0 % Organic revenue 478.5 508.7 5.9 % 13.0 % Adjusted operating profit 30.2 33.9 10.9 % 15.2 % Adjusted operating margin 5.8% 6.5% 70 bps 50 bps INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 31
