Operational review The strength of IP Groups portfolio, combined with the opportunities we continue to see, give us confidence for 2017 and beyond Alan Aubrey Chief Executive Officer 2016 was another productive year for the Group During 2016, the Group provided 58.8m of that saw our portfolio companies record impressive incubation, seed and development capital to 55 commercial progress but also raise a total of portfolio companies 2015: 75.9m capital: 53 approximately 230m 2015: approximately 300m.
companies as well participating in significant In addition, Oxford Sciences Innovation plc OSI financings for its strategic holdings OSI 7.5m and and Cambridge Innovation Capital plc CIC, the CIC 3.4m.
dedicated university commercialisation vehicles in Cash realisations from the portfolio increased which the Group has a strategic holding, completed significantly during 2016 to 14.7m 2015: 0.6m significant capital raises of 230m and 75m largely as a result of the second largest exit in the respectively.
Groups history with the sale of our entire holding in The total fair value of the Groups portfolio, which Tracsis plc.
now comprises holdings in 90 companies, increased Significant portfolio company by 11.3% in 2016 to 614.0m 2015: 552.2m, representing a net fair value increase, excluding net transactions and developments investment, of 6.5m 2015: 86.2m.
This increase Notable highlights in the portfolio in 2016 included: was driven primarily by a number of larger private company transactions towards the end of 2016, which In Healthcare, Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited were partially offset by reductions in the share prices announced a 100m fundraising in December, led of a number of our quoted portfolio companies.
The by new investor GT Healthcare, a pan-Asian fund latter were impacted by a generally weaker appetite with special reach in China.
Nanopore, which has for listed small-cap and biotech assets despite designed and sells the worlds only portable DNA generally reporting positive commercial and technical RNA sequencer, plans to use the funds to expand its progress during the year.
commercial operations across a range of territories, including in Asia.
It also announced a number of key The key positive contributors to the increase in fair developments including announcing a new pipeline value in 2016 were Oxford Nanopore Technologies product, SmidgION, the smallest ever sequencing Limited 33.8m, OSI 8.0m, Tissue Regenix Group device that can be plugged into a smartphone and is plc 5.2m and Mirriad Advertising Limited 4.9m.
The most significant fair value reductions were seen In Technology, we exited Tracsis plc, as noted above, in the Groups AIM-quoted portfolio companies while the divisions most valuable company holding, including Diurnal Group plc 10.3m, Avacta Group Actual Experience plc, announced a five-year plc 9.9m, hVivo plc 7.2m and Xeros Technology framework agreement with Vodafone, adding to the Group plc 3.2m.
In addition, six private companies contract wins announced during 2015 which included each saw fair value reductions of 1-2m as a result a major three-year partnership with Verizon.
of financing rounds, anticipated financing rounds or progress towards milestones that was not in line with In Cleantech, Ceres Power Holdings plc completed the Groups expectations, totalling 7.9m.
a 20m fundraising and secured development agreements with a number of leading OEMs including Honda, Nissan and Cummins.
18 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Strategic Report Our Performance In Biotech, there was excellent commercial progress at 7.9m $9.9m.
The Group committed a further from Diurnal Group plc which now has two products 2.9m $3.7m to Exyn Technologies and Uniformity in Phase 3 studies, Infacort and Chronocort, for the Labs as part of these funding rounds which included treatment of the childhood and adult forms of adrenal both new and existing US and UK based investors.
Modern Biosciences During the year, notable incubation financings plc, a drug discovery and development operation, were also completed for two spin-out companies continued to make good progress during 2016 and from the University of Pennsylvania, two spin-out expects the outcome of ongoing Phase 1a studies companies from Princeton University and one spinfor MBS2320, a novel agent for the treatment of out company from Columbia University.
The Group rheumatoid arthritis, during 2017. has also provided further incubation funding to More detail on the performance of the assets in our pursue additional opportunities from our Federal four sectors, Healthcare, Technology, Cleantech and Lab initiative through FedImpact LLC, including the Biotech, is contained in the portfolio review.
spin-out of MobilION Systems, Inc. from the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.
The US Outlook In the US, the Group signed agreements with the University of Washington and The Johns Hopkins The Board continues to believe the fundamentals University.
Both universities have consistently ranked of the business remain strong although, as ever, it in the top ten of all US universities with regards to is important to consider the Group as a long-term the quantum of their annual R&D budgets 2016: business where results can fluctuate from year to $1.1bn and $2.1bn, respectively and are known for the year.
The strength of IP Groups portfolio, however, quality and breadth of their technical output.
Having combined with the opportunities we continue to see, now moved beyond the initial pilot phase agreements give us continued confidence for the current year and with our existing university partners, Columbia beyond.
University, University of Pennsylvania and Princeton University, the Group continues to focus on building on the progress achieved with them to date.
Our US team, which comprised eleven FTEs at the end of 2016, continues to develop an exciting portfolio of companies.
IP Groups first two portfolio companies from US university partners, Exyn Technologies University of Pennsylvania and Uniformity Labs Princeton University, raised a 3 combined 5.4m $6.8m in new post seed financing rounds via private placement of ordinary shares.
The Uniformity Labs transaction completed at the end of 2016 while the Exyn transaction closed in early 2017.
Following completion of the financing rounds, IP Groups combined undiluted beneficial holdings in Exyn Technologies and Uniformity Labs were valued 3.
Calculated using an exchange rate of 1 to $1.26 19 Stock Code: IPO www.
