STRATEGIC REPORT REVIEW OF OPERATIONS RISK & INSURANCE Our Risk & Insurance business comprises our global Specialty insurance and reinsurance broking operations and our wholesale insurance broking business.
Our specialist teams focus on those sectors where we have a distinctive level of knowledge and expertise.
Working in partnership with clients to manage the key risks they face, we act as their intermediary with insurers and reinsurers, as well as providing related risk management, analytical, advisory and other services.
ADVICE AND CONSULTANCY SPECIALIST INSURANCE PRODUCTS Advising our clients on their insurance and reinsurance Providing our clients with access to certain exclusive insurance requirements, ensuring that they understand the likelihood and facilities, binders and other products, without taking any potential severity of the risks they face, the options available to balance sheet underwriting risk.
mitigate these risks and the potential cost of doing so.
BROKERAGE AND PLACEMENT OTHER SERVICES Acting on our clients behalf, using our specialist knowledge Providing a range of related services to our clients and to negotiate and place insurance cover with insurers and insurance market counterparties in areas such as captive reinsurers all over the world.
management, claims management and administration, and capital raising and corporate finance advice.
RISK & INSURANCE CONTRIBUTION TO OUR BUSINESSES 2016 GROUP REVENUE 2016 JLT Specialty p29 Revenue Underlying Trading Profit JLT Re p29 960.9m 166.6m JLT Australia & NZ p30 11% 4% JLT Asia p30 JLT Latin America p30 2015: 866.6m 2015: 160.9m JLT US Specialty p31 % JLT Canada p31 76 Trading Margin Employees JLT Europe, % Middle East and Africa p32 17 5,460 JLT Insurance 2015: 19% 2015: 5,602 Management p32 Excludes employees in shared service operations 28 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION JLT SPECIALTY JLT RE 2016 2015 % Change 2016 2015 % Change Total revenue 327.5m 311.2m 5% Total revenue 195.6m 173.6m 13% Underlying trading profit 73.1m 68.3m 7% Underlying trading profit 40.5m 32.4m 25% Trading margin 22% 22% Trading margin 21% 19% JLT Specialty, which includes our wholesale operations, JLT Re is one of the worlds largest reinsurance brokers, provides insurance broking, risk management and claims with approximately 700 professionals across 33 locations services for clients across a wide range of business sectors.
in 16 countries, delivering world-class risk analysis and risk The division employs some 1,400 people, primarily based transfer solutions.
in London, but who also work in close collaboration with all Review of Operations of JLTs international offices, supplying them with industry JLT Re delivered a strong performance in the year, with reported expertise, advice and access to international markets.
revenues increasing by 13% to 195.6 million and marketReview of Operations leading organic revenue growth of 4%, twice the rate of 2015.
JLT Specialty generated a 5% increase in headline revenues to This performance was delivered despite the well documented, 327.5 million, or a 3% increase at constant rates of exchange multi-year decline in pricing across most lines of reinsurance CRE, all of which was organic.
Trading profit increased by 7% and in most geographies and the continued consolidation in to 73.1 million, with the trading margin maintained at 22%.
JLT Re has continued to grow revenues This was a strong performance in challenging trading and profits steadily despite consecutive years of downward conditions, which saw insurance rates continuing their rating pressure.
downward trend across all Specialty lines.
The business had to JLT Res trading profits increased to 40.5 million, with an contend in particular with the reduced economic activity in the improved trading margin of 21% 2015: 19%.
This margin energy and marine sectors, which led to a lower total value of improvement was achieved while the business continued to risk to insure.
To put this in context, it has been reported that invest significantly for future growth, not only in recruiting leading in excess of $1 trillion of oil and gas capital projects in 2015 talent to further strengthen its General Property, Casualty and and 2016 were deferred, delayed or abandoned.
JLT's Energy Specialty lines and its analytics capabilities, but also in its and Marine divisions saw a 12 million reduction in  and systems.
Two acquisitions were completed year revenues, despite increasing their client bases and market in December, to deepen our capabilities in Healthcare and in shares, and an estimated 8.5 million negative impact on Group the Central American region.
JLT Re operates on a global basis, and all regions delivered The revenue base of Specialty is, however, both diverse organic revenue growth in the year.
In the UK & Europe, JLT and well-balanced, which enables JLT better to withstand Res most mature market, the organic growth came through sector-specific challenges.
In 2016 there were particularly initiatives in Facultative, Binders and Healthcare, despite the strong performances by a number of divisions - including significant adverse rating environment in International Property, Aerospace, Construction, Cargo and Food & Agriculture with Marine, Energy and Aviation.
higher revenues driven by client retention and market share penetration.
Asia Pacific once again achieved very strong levels of organic growth, with every territory showing growth.
In addition there were important client wins in the Cyber division across a range of major financial institutions and North America continues to deliver strong performance, with corporate clients, which in turn helped to drive growth the benefits of the significant investments made in talent and across our Financial Lines specialty.
infrastructure now beginning to be realised.
Principal lines of business Looking to 2017 and the recent January renewals, a reduced rate of decline from prior years has been evident, with global Accident & Health, Aerospace, Construction, Communications, property-catastrophe pricing falling by 5.7%: this compares Technology & Media, Cargo, Credit, Political & Security, Cyber, with 8.2% in 2016 and double digit reductions in the two years Energy, Financial & Professional, Fine Art, Jewellery & Specie, prior to that.
Casualty price reductions were, however, similar Food & Agribusiness, Life Science, Marine, Mining, Power, to those seen in 2016, with Specialty classes seeing more Renewables, Real Estate and Specialty Property & Casualty.
substantial rate reductions than other areas, but again a reduced rate of decline was noted.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 29 STRATEGIC REPORT Today JLT Re is positioned amongst the leading global JLT ASIA reinsurance brokers, providing real choice and differentiation.
The strong start to the year which this business has had 2016 2015 % Change underlines how the strategic investments made are enabling Total revenue 90.3m 76.6m 18% it to continue to take market share from its competitors.
Underlying trading profit 16.8m 12.7m 33% Trading margin 19% 17% Principal lines of business JLT Asia provides insurance broking and risk management All classes of Treaty and Facultative Reinsurance and Corporate services in selected Specialties across the region.
businesss rich history and in-depth local knowledge, together with the close working relationship it enjoys with Jardine JLT AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND Matheson, have enabled it to become one of the market leaders in Asia.
The division employs around 1,000 people 2016 2015 % Change across 13 territories.
Total revenue 117.7m 109.5m 7% Underlying trading profit 34.1m 32.7m 4% Review of Operations Trading margin 29% 30% Asia produced a strong performance in the year, with a headline 18% increase in revenues to 90.3 million and a 5% organic JLT Australia & New Zealand is one of the leading insurance growth rate.
Trading profits grew strongly, with an increase of brokers in the region, combining international depth with 17% at CRE.
This was a good performance when set against local, specialist expertise to deliver a comprehensive range of the challenging economic conditions and fierce rating pressure insurance and risk solutions products and services to its clients.
The division employs over 800 people across 20 offices.
Principal lines of business Review of Operations Aviation, Capital Risks, Construction, Cyber, Energy, On a reported basis our Australia and New Zealand businesses Entertainment & Leisure, Financial & Professional Services, saw revenues increase by 7% to 117.7 million, although this Food & Agribusiness, Manufacturing, Mining, People Risks, translated to a 4% reduction on a CRE basis.
The trading Real Estate, Retail, SME & Consumer Products, Transport environment has been particularly competitive in Australia and and Logistics.
New Zealand and this, coupled with the continued significant pressure on rates in the region, masked a good underlying performance by the business, with high levels of client retention JLT LATIN AMERICA and a number of high profile client wins, particularly in the Financial Lines and Corporate divisions.
The new business 2016 2015 % Change wins have included an increasing number of coast to coast Total revenue 71.4m 63.1m 13% Underlying trading profit 21.1m 21.3m 1% appointments, further underlining JLTs growing national Trading margin 30% 34% Specialty presence.
Principal lines of business JLT Latin America provides insurance broking, reinsurance broking and affinity insurance distribution through subsidiary Construction, Energy, Entertainment & Leisure, Financial & operations in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Peru.
One Professional Services, Food & Agribusiness, Government, of the largest brokers in the region, the business prides itself Manufacturing, Mining, People Risks, Real Estate, Retail, on its in-depth capabilities in its chosen Specialties.
It employs SME & Consumer Products, Sport, Transport and Logistics.
approximately 700 people across 22 offices in 5 countries.
Review of Operations Our Latin American business delivered good revenue growth of 13%, with organic revenue growth of 4%.
Operations in Brazil performed strongly despite the difficult economic backdrop in that country.
While the Groups Latin American Risk & Insurance operations experienced good revenue growth, trading profit reduced year-on-year, reflecting the planned investment in building specialty capabilities across the region, the benefits of which we expect to start to see in 2017.
30 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Principal lines of business OTHER RISK & INSURANCE Aviation, Construction, Energy & Power, Financial Lines, Marine, BUSINESSES Industrial Property & Casualty, Public Sector, Affinity Marketing & Distribution, Reinsurance Treaty & Facultative.
JLT CANADA JLT US SPECIALTY JLT Canada provides insurance broking and risk management services across Canada.
We focus on markets central to the 2016 2015 % Change Canadian economy, such as construction, public sector, natural Total revenue 41.3m 23.3m 77% resources, life science, healthcare and professional groups.
Underlying trading profit 27.0m 20.5m 31% JLT Canada employs approximately 180 people across Trading margin - - 7 locations.
US Specialty was formed in August 2014 as a Specialty broker Review of Operations to serve leading US and global firms within specific industries JLT Canada reported revenue of 19.2 million in 2016, and product lines where we are able to use our expertise to a reduction of 6% on 2015.
The business generated a trading provide clients with bespoke risk management solutions.
loss of 0.5 million, which was due to several factors: firstly, The division employs some 220 people in 13 locations across a depressed economic market in natural resources which led the US.
to many oil companies right sizing which decreased overall premium volumes: secondly, surety activity in Western Canada Review of Operations has been lower than expected due to longer than expected US Specialty continued to make progress in its second full year project life cycles, which led to fewer projects being started of operation, achieving organic revenue growth in excess of during the year.
50%, higher than the rate in 2015 and continuing a programme of recruitment, with headcount reaching 223 employees at the Significant over-capacity in the Canadian insurance marketplace year end.
Revenues for the year were $56 million, up from $36 remains, which is putting downward pressure on premiums million in 2015, while continued investment resulted in losses and commissions overall.
The underlying performance of the of $37 million.
business presents a good outlook for the future, as significant investments and strategic changes to the business have The business now has proven capability and a track record of been made to react to the changing economic factors of the winning business in specialist areas such as Financial Lines Canadian economy.
The competitive landscape remains strong, and Cyber, Energy, Real Estate and Entertainment.
and given our brand strength and specialty focus in areas in which we choose to compete, we have maintained market The recently announced investment in, and partnership with, share and continue to show growth within our core specialties, Construction Risk Partners, a highly respected Construction which include public sector, construction, and healthcare.
specialist broker, will establish a market-leading construction practice as part of the US Specialty business.
The acquisition We continue to invest in attracting specialist talent and also completes our global Construction capability and enables positioning JLT Canada to become a leading specialty broker.
us to serve international clients wherever they operate around the world.
Given the investments to date in hiring and a steadily growing client list, we are confident that US Specialty revenues will once again see a significant uplift in 2017 and that the level of investment losses will reduce.
The progress that has now been made in the US Specialty business means that 2016 represented the maximum level of losses from investment, and the business is on track to deliver profit in 2019.
Principal lines of business Energy, Entertainment & Hospitality, Aerospace, Construction, Real Estate, Technology, Financial Institutions and Marine.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 31 STRATEGIC REPORT JLT EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA JLT Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA offers insurance broking and risk management expertise in a region with a growing demand for a Specialty offering.
The division employs nearly 300 people across 11 countries with owned operations in Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Netherlands, Norway and Sweden across Europe, and in Bahrain, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates as a regional hub across the Middle East and in South Africa.
Review of Operations JLT EMEA reported revenue of 41.8 million in 2016, representing revenue growth of 39%, or 28% growth at CRE.
The business grew its trading profit by 13% to 6.8 million, but its trading margin reduced by 400 bps to 16%, mainly due to investments in people and restructure costs.
The European operations in the EMEA region have been transferred to JLT Specialty with effect from 1 January 2017.
JLT INSURANCE MANAGEMENT JLT Insurance Management provides leading corporations with Captive Management and Consulting services in Barbados, Bermuda, Guernsey, Malta, Singapore and the US.
The business employs approximately 50 people across these locations.
Review of Operations Soft insurance and reinsurance markets continued to dampen demand for captives, however the business delivered revenues of 9.3 million, a 13% increase on 2015, or an increase of 2% at constant rates of exchange.
Trading profit increased to 0.8 million from 0.5 million in 2015.
Through the provision of captive management and consultancy services, JLT Insurance Management supports some of JLTs largest global clients and, as such, plays a key role in programmes that deliver a significant amount of revenue to the wider JLT Group.
32 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Our Employee Benefits business offers a comprehensive range of employee benefits advice and services to companies, pension trustees and individuals.
Our specialist teams act as advisors, intermediaries and service providers in the areas of pensions consultancy and administration, employee benefits and healthcare, life insurance and wealth management.
OUR GLOBAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS BUSINESSES PROVIDE SERVICES INCLUDING: PENSION ADMINISTRATION WEALTH AND INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Providing an array of administration services designed to meet Offering advice and support to high net worth individuals in the requirements of pension trustees, corporate sponsors and respect of their financial planning, at-retirement support and life scheme members, from back-office support to fully outsourced protection requirements.
The range is supplemented with payroll, of assets for both high net worth individuals and company communication, documentation and technical services.
pension schemes, in addition to asset-hosting services.
TRUSTEE & CORPORATE AND BENEFITS TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CONSULTING Providing integrated risk management services to the UK Provider of one of the most widely used UK pensions pensions market, to meet the requirements of both pension administration and fund accounting software to trustees of UK trustees and corporate sponsors, including actuarial, private sector pension schemes and their administration and investment and risk transfer consultancy, scheme design, accounting teams, whether in-house or through third parties.
governance and independent trustee services.
These are available with integrated web solutions to enable member and trustee access to information and services.
Our benefits consulting team provides advice on and JLT also provides a comprehensive online integrated benefits implementation of employee health and benefit programmes, management solution to corporate and trust-based clients.
medical claims administration, occupational health services and placement of health and risk protection policies for corporate workforces, combined with rehabilitation services.
Our BenPal software creates the gateway for employees to easily access and manage their benefits package.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTRIBUTION TO OUR BUSINESSES 2016 GROUP REVENUE 2016 UK & Ireland p34 Revenue Underlying Trading Profit Asia p34 300.4m 49.5m Australia & NZ p34 4% 14% Latin America p35 Canada p35 2015: 288.5m 2015: 43.6m % Europe, Middle East 24 and Africa p35 Trading Margin Employees % 16 2,656 2015: 15% 2015: 3,121 Excludes employees in shared service operations Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 33 STRATEGIC REPORT UK & IRELAND ASIA 2016 2015 % Change 2016 2015 % Change Total revenue 87.3m 78.9m 11% Total revenue 160.0m 167.4m 4% Underlying trading profit 27.2m 24.5m 11% Underlying trading profit 12.3m 12.8m 4% Trading margin 31% 31% Trading margin 8% 8% Our Employee Benefits business in Asia primarily focuses on JLT Employee Benefits is one of the largest employee benefit helping companies develop employee benefit programmes and pension consultants in the UK, offering a comprehensive and on wealth management for high net worth individuals.
range of employee benefits advice and services to companies, The division employs more than 460 people across 13 pension trustees and individuals.
The business employs some locations.
1,500 people across 16 locations in the UK and Ireland.
Review of Operations Review of Operations In Asia, the Private Client Services PCS high net worth life Reported revenues for the year for our UK EB business were assurance broking business saw some slowdown in first half 160.0 million, compared to 167.4 million in 2015, reflecting revenues due to regional economic uncertainty in South Asia: the final impact of the cessation of commission revenue from however, steps were taken in the second half to broaden the life assurers - which amounted to 5 million earned in 2015. range of products offered by the business.
This succeeded in Second half revenues of 85.1 million exceeded those of the pulling revenues back up from the half year position, which had same period in 2015 of 82.4 million, following the successful been negative year-on-year.
completion of the restructure of the business, which was an encouraging indication of the stabilisation in the revenue Principal lines of business run rate.
Healthcare insurance programmes, including Life & Dental, At the time of its 2016 interim results the Group indicated and risk management services including wellness consulting that the business would deliver the majority of its profits in the and prevention.
Flexible benefit consulting and platform design second half and this has been the case.
Trading profit for the and implementation.
year was 12.3 million, compared to break even at the half year.
The business successfully completed its restructure AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND programme, which has resulted in a flatter, more client-centric structure and a headcount reduction of over 300 employees.
2016 2015 % Change The programme will deliver 14 million of annualised savings Total revenue 27.5m 20.3m 36% in 2017, 9 million of which were delivered in 2016 7 million Underlying trading profit 5.5m 3.3m 67% of that in the second half.
Trading margin 20% 16% The focus in 2016 was, and will continue to be into 2017, very much on transitioning and rebalancing the business so that The Employee Benefits business in Australia & New Zealand revenues and trading profit margins can grow.
The emphasis provides consultancy and administration services to corporate of the business continues to be on investing to strengthen and and private clients across a wide range of company-paid and enhance platforms and to build out the sales function.
The business is also one of the regions leading workplace injury risk consultancies It is anticipated that UK EB will deliver organic revenue growth and rehabilitation providers, having acquired Recovre and for 2017 and this, taken with the 5 million residual benefit of Workwise Occupational Health in Australia and Alpha in New the restructure programme, means the Group is confident that Zealand over the past two years.
The division employs some this business is making steady progress towards delivering 300 people across 30 locations.
a 15% trading profit margin for 2018. Review of Operations Principal lines of business The Australia and New Zealand EB business achieved 36% Pension Administration, Trustee & Corporate and revenue growth, following the acquisitions made in 2015 and Benefits Consulting, Wealth & Investment Management, 2016 of rehabilitation services providers in relation to workers Software Solutions.
With a series of major client wins as a result of the expanded capability of the business, accelerated revenue growth and improved margins are anticipated in 2017.
The trading margin of the Australian EB business improved from 16% in 2015 to 20% in 2016.
34 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Principal lines of business OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Corporate Health Insurance, Corporate Life & Group BUSINESSES Income Protection, Personal Accident Insurance, Workers Compensation, Software Solutions, Occupational Rehabilitation, Workplace Health Safety Consulting.
CANADA Our Employee Benefits business has been providing LATIN AMERICA consultancy, technology and administration services to clients across Canada for over 25 years.
2016 2015 % Change Review of Operations Total revenue 21.7m 18.9m 15% Underlying trading profit 3.7m 3.5m 7% Our Canada Employee Benefits business delivered revenues Trading margin 17% 19% of 2 million, an increase of 35% on an organic basis.
The business reported a trading profit of 0.6 million, compared to In Latin America, our Employee Benefits business focuses on a loss of 0.2 million reported in 2015.
The expansion of the providing employee benefits programmes, often built around Employee Benefits business in Canada has continued and, with a healthcare insurance offering.
This is a rapidly developing investments to improve branding, software and the addition market where we see the opportunity to expand our capabilities of new personnel, we remain optimistic about its growth through health management and consulting.
The division potential and opportunities for national expansion.
currently employs nearly 350 people across our office network.
Review of Operations EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA Our Latin American EB operations delivered organic revenue Our Employee Benefits business operates in Europe, Middle growth of 10%.
Performance was particularly notable in East and Africa.
In South Africa we offer healthcare consultancy Colombia - driven by the workers compensation business - to corporate and private clients, as well as retirement fund and Brazil, despite the challenging local economic backdrop.
The division employs over 50 people Investment has continued to be made in building out across the three territories.
capabilities and expanding the offering in the region, which drove a small increase in trading profit but a 200 bps reduction Review of Operations in trading margin.
Our South African business has continued to show progress, Principal lines of business delivering revenue growth of 14% on an organic basis, and reporting revenue of 1.9 million for the year.
The retirement Healthcare insurance programmes, including Life and Dental, funding division has shown good growth, now accounting and risk management services including wellness consulting for almost 15% of total income, and we believe this business and prevention.
remains well-positioned for further growth.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 35 STRATEGIC REPORT ASSOCIATES The Groups income from its Associates in 2016 reduced by 4.5 million to 1.0 million following the disposal of JLTs stake in the French associate in May 2015.
2016 2015 % Change Associate holding at 31 December 2016 GrECo Central & Eastern Europe CIS 20% Total underlying contribution 1.0m 5.5m 82% MAG-JLT Italy 25% to JLT after tax March-JLT Spain 25% JLT Sterling Mexico 36% JLT Independent India 49% GRECO CEE CIS JLT STERLING MEXICO JLT has a 20% shareholding in the GrECo Group, a leading Sterling Re Intermedio fide Reaseguro Sa fide CV, which trades as specialist insurance broker in Central & Eastern Europe, the JLT Sterling, is an associate company in which JLT has a 36% Balkans and the CIS regions.
With its headquarters in Vienna, shareholding, with the balance of shares being held by Lorant GrECo has 53 offices with 770 employees in 16 countries.
MMS, a leading independent retail insurance broker, based in Mexico City.
JLT Sterling provides specialist wholesale and Principal specialist areas are Aviation, Construction & Real reinsurance services in the Aviation, Casualty, Construction, Estate, Employee Benefits, Energy, Marine & Marine Cargo, Energy, Marine, Marine Cargo, Property and Specie sectors.
Communications, Technology & Media, Financial Institutions and Hospital & Churches.
MAG-JLT ITALY JLT INDEPENDENT INDIA JLT has a 49% shareholding in JLT Independent.
Our joint JLT has a 25% shareholding in MAG-JLT, a leading Specialty venture partner is Sunidhi Group, a leading Indian Financial broker in Italy with 200 employees in Milan, Naples, Rome and Services Group.
JLT Independent has 250 employees with offices in a further 5 cities around the country, as well as a offices in Mumbai, New Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Lloyds broking arm in London.
Key business areas include Energy, Key business areas are Corporate Risk Management & Middle Construction, Marine, Aviation, Reinsurance, Employee Market, Aviation, Marine Hull & Machinery, Liability & P&I, Benefits, Credit, Political & Security Risks, and Liability.
Cargo, High Net Worth Yacht, Fine Art, Contingency, and Affinity Employee Benefits, Motor.
MARCH-JLT SPAIN JLT has a 25% shareholding in March-JLT, which is the 4th largest commercial insurance broker in Spain.
The joint venture partner is Banca March, Spains leading privatelyowned financial institution.
Its core business is corporatefocused, with Specialty capabilities including Construction, Tourism and Marine.
The business employs 130 staff, with offices in Barcelona, Bilbao, La Palmas, Madrid, Mallorca, Seville and Valencia.
36 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016
