Operational review Continuously striving to be the best we can be 2016 was a landmark yearasfor thefirst time Just Eatsnon-UK Executing on our proven business portfolio was profitable in aggregate.
model remains our core objective, Congratulations go tothe Brazilian requiring an innovative mind-set team for leading thelatest Just Eat and obsessive focus on getting 1 market to achieveprofitability.
the basics right every time.
Adrian Blair Success of the international business Chief Operating Officer Spain and Italy remain among our fastest growing countries, achieving comfortably over 1 million orders a month in aggregate, and enjoying triple-digit growth following the acquisition of complementary businesses Our field teams continue to take a data-driven in those markets.
Our teams showed impressive expertise approach withrestaurants to help them grow their in delivering top and bottom-line benefits from these Just Eat business.
In 2016 we also made substantial complex integrations.
This bodes well for our ability to improvements to the way we generate incremental successfully integrate any future acquired businesses.
revenue via top-placement, and are encouraged by the 76 per cent improvement in revenue.
We are confident Our Danish business enjoyed its 15th year of of further growth here in the year tocome.
incremental growth, demonstrating the very long growth runway these businesses canenjoy.
We exit 2016 with an extremely able cohort of countrymanagers, leading strong local management Helping our Restaurant Partners grow teams.
In2017 we expect to optimise the team Our Partner Centre app, now fully integrated with structure further with the appointment of a Managing Orderpad, has become thede facto operating system Director of International Markets to oversee all for many ofour restaurants, and is typically accessed international operations.
1.4million times a month in the UK.
It offers menu Just Eat offers Restaurant Partners and customers amendments, invoicing, the ability to order consumables, access to what is effectively the largest digital food and control of a restaurants online status, while also court in every country where we operate.
This makes giving access to reviews and ratings, with a right of reply.
the commercial case for branded restaurant operators 2016 also saw the launch of our restaurant partnership to work with Just Eat extremely compelling.
Onan programme in the UK, using our scale to provide great individual outlet basis we now work with all top six products and services to our estate.
Launching with global food brands somewhere across our portfolio.
Booker, the UKs largest food wholesaler, we have also Weplan to deepen and expand our relationship with added offers covering soft drinks, card processing, wifi, leadingrestaurant brands throughout 2017. broadband, motorbike insurance, business rates advice and finance funding.
To deliver this, we have developed The consumer experience strong relationships with brands such as Coca-Cola, Sky.
We invest continuously in technology to meet the Global Payments and Funding Circle.
We will continue evolving needs of customers.
This paid off in 2016 to develop these offers throughout 2017.
As these with a 21 per cent reduction in the overall number relationships and awareness of offers start to grow, oforders that required any kind of intervention, while wehave seen partners making savings close to the an improvement in efficiency ensured that customer level of the commission they pay to Just Eat.
careservice levels remained high throughout the year.
On an Underlying EBITDA basis.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 32 Strategic report This has been achieved by better contact centre technology.
Our direction of travel is toward more Our new brand recognises what shared services between markets, with customer careand restaurant operations increasingly being JustEat has achieved so far, runfrom central capabilities.
while setting the tone for where The successful deployment of more than 10,000 we want to go next.
Orderpad devices across most of our markets, along with the increasing percentage of orders thatreceive Barnaby Dawe order on its way notifications, resultedin fantastic Chief Marketing Officer feedback from both customersand restaurants.
Over 50 per cent of orders inthe UK are now transmitted via the new devices, and we plan to accelerate this rollout globally in2017.
Adrian Blair Brand relaunch Chief Operating Officer During September, we relaunched the Just Eat brand inthe UK with an exciting new vision supported by a new brand purpose.
Following the UK launch, we are Marketing rolling out the new brand into our other markets over Our marketing budgets are determined byrigorous the next 18 months.
analysis of market conditions underpinned by cohort data to drive customer growth, retention andfrequency.
The vision to create the worlds greatest food community marks a different direction for the brand.
We retain flexibility between how wedeploy spend Just Eat was one of the first companies tounite between markets and specific channels.
During customers and restaurants inthe food delivery space 2016, globally we spent 91.2 million inmarketing over 15 years ago.
Today we bring together 17.6 million 2015:64.0million and, as signalled atthe half year active users with 68,500 restaurants, processing results, this included the brand relaunch in the UK orders worth 2.5 billion.
Our new brand recognises what Just Eat has achieved Our scale enables us to offer Restaurant Partners sofar, while setting the tone for where we want to go unique insight and data, which inturn allows us to next over the short, medium and longer term.
Itmarks create co-marketing opportunities that drive more an evolution in our approach to meeting our customers customers to them.
evolving expectations and to the relationship we have To celebrate the diversity of customers on our with our Restaurant Partners.
platform, we host annual Takeaway Awards in the Whilst we continue to drive channel shift from the UK, Ireland and Denmark.
This initiative highlights telephone to ordering online or through the app, our thegreat work that our Restaurant Partners carry new purpose to make food discovery exciting for outduring the year, and allows our customers to everyone sits at the heart of everything we do.
showtheir appreciation by voting for their favourites.
Foodmakes people happy, and we help our customers This year we introduced several new categories to find more ways to enjoy their trusted favourites and honour not just the food and restaurants, but the discover new flavours.
chefs and drivers who are all vital components of asuccessful food delivery service.
Barnaby Dawe In the UK, to showcase the breadth of cuisine available Chief Marketing Officer on our platform, we held our inaugural Food Fest in July, with a weekend of world class cuisine from some of the UKs top restaurants, plus live entertainment and music.
com 33 Number of global employees Committed to bringing 2,373 people together We have an outstanding team and our aim Number of employees with five isto create the worlds greatest talent.
ormore years service We are passionate about supporting our growing teams 141 empoweringthem to focus on providing excellent service toourcustomers and Restaurant Partners.
Read more on how we have supported our people on pages 36 to 39 Big Hearted Just Eat is built on relationships with our customers, our Restaurant Partners and our people.
Strategic report The prize money has allowed us to expand and has brought in many new customers.
We are so glad to be working with JustEat: they have been brilliant for our business.
Su Cheah Owner, Chicken George, Best Takeaway in Britain, at the British Takeaway Awards 2016 Our people and community People are at the heart of our business Our people are what make Just Eat a great place to work.
We are committed to bringing emerging Attracting, developing and talent into our business, as well as nurturing talent within the retaining and developing our existing organisation is critical for colleagues, with the potential to be ourcontinued growth.
tomorrows leaders of Just Eat.
Just Eats organisational culture is important Lisa Hillier toeveryone who works here.
It embodies Chief People Officer ourpassion for delivering excellent service toour customers, delivering value to our Restaurant Partners and providing an exciting, innovative and challenging Big Hearted environment for our employees.
Just Eat is built on relationships with people.
The many, the few, the you: every individual We are focused on creating a sense matters and we use every opportunity to ofbelonging and engagement for our make things personal and fair for everyone.
Our values Razor Sharp, We listen to understand, not just to reply.
BigHearted and Make Happy are core Respect comes as standard for our towho we are as a business and sit at customers, our Restaurant Partners and theheart of our brand, our employees, each other and that is how we build ourcustomers and our relationships positivity into all our relationships and withour Restaurant Partners.
Make Happy Our culture is anchored in connecting We live for the joy side of life.
The right food ourpeople with our vision of creating for every moment.
We cherish the love our theworlds greatest food community Restaurant Partners put into their cooking.
andbeing guided by our values in every We are all about the enjoyment our customers decision we take.
It is the smiles that make During 2016 we launched a Company-wide itworthwhile.
What drives us is building programme of activities to ensure that all more excitement, quality, fun and laughs ofour employees understand our vision and intoeveryday food occasions, because values and how their role and local business foodmakes people happy.
plans fit into the overall JustEat strategy.
Razor Sharp Everything can be made better.
With clear direction, a relentless attitude and non-stop innovation, we impact the things that matter most more choice, fresh experiences andnew connections.
We focus on getting things done, at pace, and with a laser-like focus.
All so that people and restaurants discover more of each other, and the bar is constantly raised for everyone.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 36 Strategic report Developing great talent Reward Find out more In 2016, we invested significantly in developing During the year we introduced an annual about our graduate the talent we have across our global business.
performance-related bonus scheme to and apprenticeship During the year, we offered numerous reward employees based ontheir personal programme online development opportunities to all employees and business performance.
We also further based on key trends identified in individuals enhanced our employee benefits introducing personal development plans.
Thisincluded acore package with a focus on protecting opportunities such astraining courses run the future, health and wellbeing and leisure by external experts, coaching, mentoring, and lifestyle.
We have increased the Company webinars, access to online learning resources contribution to employees pensions and and professional sponsorship.
extended our Sharesave Scheme in 2016to additional Just Eat countries.
This enables We have also provided extensive support ouremployees to take a direct stake in the forall of ourmanagers, from newmanager future success of thebusiness.
development programmes all the way through to executive leadership development, ensuring Listening to our people they arewell placed to drive and lead high We value our employees views on what it is performing, successful teams.
We ran an employee engagement survey in April 2016 and used Hiring great talent the results to understand what we could do We also supported our growth byhiring great better as an employer and measure employee talent across all of theGroups locations, engagement.
Thesurvey was followed up with including theintroduction of a graduate local action planning sessions to listen to andapprenticeship programme.
We hired ideas todrive improvement regarding the 13graduates in September 2016 across whole employeeexperience.
Finance, Marketing, Technology, Business Insights, Sales and Operations.
Following this years success, we are planning toexpand the programme to26 graduate hires in 2017.
During the year, we were pleased to welcome FernandoFanton as our Chief Product and Technology Officer and Paul Harrison as ourChiefFinancial Officer.
We further strengthened ourANZ, Canadian and Swiss businesses with the appointment ofthree new country managers, the latter being an internal promotion.
Just Eat launched its first ever graduate programme in 2016.
We recruited 13highly talented individuals spanning sixareas of ourbusiness and, after great success, we plan torecruit another 26graduates in2017.
com 37 Our people and community continued Broadening our perspective The environment To find out Becoming a more diverse and inclusive We continued to make our business processes moreabout GHG business is integral to our future success.
disclosure go to our Our ambition is that our workforce reflects Examples include our use of office paper Directors Report the diversity of our customer base and that has been made from agricultural waste, on page 142 Restaurant Partners.
Diversity of thought, and lighting with automatic shut-off to experience and backgrounds at every level reduce our carbon footprint.
In addition, ofthe business are critical ingredients to wecontinue to support the Fruitful Office innovation and making the best decisions to campaign, which as well as providing continue building a truly inclusive workplace.
healthier snacks for employees, directly We are pleased to have met the Davies results in new trees being planted.
report recommendations in 2016 that at This year we launched a Cycle Safe campaign in least 25per cent of Board members should the UK, providing free hi-vis rucksack covers, befemale.
However, wedo recognise that hi-vis vests and bikelights to employees who further long-term succession planning choose tocycle to from work.
isrequired to further address the gender imbalance at a senior management level.
For our greenhouse gas disclosure, In2016, we enhanced our paternity and pleaserefer to page 142. maternity provisions, introduced a Senior Womens Network andin 2017 will continue Modern Slavery Act to support anddevelop our female leaders.
The Board has approved a Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement incompliance In 2017 we will also build on our commitment with section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act to, and investment in, people who want 2015, which is available to view on the tolearn while they earn through extending Companys website: www.
our apprenticeship scheme in the UK.
Our policy for the employment of disabled Human rights persons is to provide equal opportunities The Group has no specific policy in place with other employees to train for and attain regarding human rights: however, all any position within the Group.
employment policies and practices are equally applied to all employees, officers, consultants, volunteers, interns, and casual and agency workers.
Gender breakdown of our Board, senior management and all permanent employees at31December 2016: 1 Board membership Senior management All permanent employees 25% female 15% female 35% female 2016 2 6 2016 6 33 2016 823 1,550 2015 1 8 2015 2015 5 30 708 1,096 2014 1 8 2014 2014 4 27 584 901 Female Male 1.
We have defined our senior management to be the top two grading levels for roles within theglobalbusiness.
This is predominantly our Executive Teamand their direct reports.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 38 Strategic report We are delighted that Just Eat has chosen to support our goals of addressing food surplus, reducing food poverty and social isolation byserving tasty, nutritious meals.
Ourshared belief in the importance of community makes this a great fit.
Mary McGrath Chief Executive, FoodCycle Charitable partnerships The partnership will grow over time but will To find out more In 2016, we continued to work with our initially include opportunities for our employees about our new charitable partner Starlight, a charity which to volunteer and use their skills to solve charity partner visit helps grant wishes for seriously and terminally issues faced by the charity, activities to help www.
A total of 91 per cent offunds our Restaurant Partners toreduce their food raised by Starlight are allocated to charitable surplus, and a number of exciting events to spending, an important factor for our raise funding to support FoodCycles ongoing continuing support.
To find out more about our new charity partner visitwww.
Since our partnership began in 2014, Just Eat and its employees have helped to raise over Looking ahead 60,000 including funds matched by the For 2017, our people, Restaurant Partners Company towards granting wishes.
During and customers continue to be at the heart 2016, weraised funds through many bake of everything we do.
We are committed to: sales, team events, a pool tournament and football league, a Christmas raffle, IronMan developing leaders with greater courage Mallorca, Tough Mudder, anOlympic cycle to think independently, innovate and lead: challenge, climbing Mount Kilimanjaro and evolving our culture and letting our aLondon to Bristol bike ride.
One employee values guide every decision we make: successfully referred someone into the business and pledged to donate his referral combining our existing deep technical fee, plus a technology team won a hackathon expertise with the skills we need to hosted by Microsoft in San Francisco, create new, market-leading products, California, and generously donated their services and experiences for our US$5,000 prize.
Restaurant Partners and customers: developing talented people so that, FoodCycle: a new charity partnerforJustEat through moves across products, markets In 2016, as part of a review of our strategic and geographies, they have theagility, approach to being a responsible business, knowledge and collaborative skills to help wespent time identifying a charity partner Just Eat grow: that is aligned to our values and our business.
This process identified FoodCycle, a rewarding and recognising performance: UKcharity that combines surplus food, helping our people to build their careers volunteers and spare kitchen capacity to by improving how we highlight global create tasty, nutritious meals for people opportunities and supporting them in atrisk of food poverty and social isolation.
thinking through their goals for their Itruns 29 community hubs across the UK, careers: and united by the simple idea that food waste and food poverty should not co-exist.
providing opportunities for our people to learn and develop so they are better able The partnership, which started informally to drive growth.
in2016, officially commenced at the start of2017.
Lisa Hillier Chief People Officer www.
