Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 MIDWAY Attractions 26 26 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - MIDWAY Attractions 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended Constant 31 December 24 December 26 December currency 1 1 2016 2016 2015 Growth growth Visitors m 41.7 40.6 40.0 1.5% Revenue m 638 621 561 10.8% 3.4% EBITDA m 236 224 221 1.5% 4.7 % Operating profit m 172 160 167 4.3 % 9.7 % Like for like revenue growth 0.2 % 1 This y ear we are reporting on the 53 weeks to 31 December 2016.
Profit metrics are provided on a 53 week statutory basis in the financial statements.
To provide a more direct comparison with last years 52 week period, the operating performance commentary in this section is stated on a 52 week basis, unless otherwise noted.
LIKE FOR LIKE REVENUE LEVEL WITH 2015 SPECIFIC CHALLENGES IN A NUMBER OF KEY MARKETS GOOD CONTRIBUTION FROM MIDWAY ROLL OUT Nick Mackenzie Managing Director Midway Attractions Market backdrop and strategy Nevertheless, a number of savings were made in light of the The Midway Attractions Operating Group experienced a difficult geopolitical events of the first half of 2016 and in anticipation year in 2016, with several of our large, city centre attractions of mounting underlying cost pressures.
Whilst the part-year experiencing volatile trading patterns.
Whilst occasional shocks benefit of these mitigating actions did not fully offset the softer have always been present to a degree given the global nature of revenue performance, they are expected to support profitability the Operating Group, the increased prevalence of these in recent going forward, allowing for continued investment in marketing years has resulted in a more challenging trading environment.
Nevertheless, we remain confident in the long term prospects for Midway.
We continue to see growth opportunities as consumers seek more leisure experiences, and as increased digitalisation of media and entertainment leads to greater value being placed on high-quality experiences with friends and family.
Against this backdrop, our strategy is based around the continued growth and global diversification of our brands, exceptional marketing execution, owning the visit in our gateway city attractions and maximising strategic synergies.
Trading performance Overall revenue growth of 10.8% was underpinned by constant currency growth of 3.4%, with more favourable foreign exchange rates benefiting our reported results.
EBITDA grew by 1.5% decline of 4.7% at constant currency, representing a decline in the margin from 39.4% to 36.1%.
With a cost base that is typically more fixed in nature when compared to our theme park businesses, significant structural cost savings in Midway are challenging to achieve.
New drop ride in the Berlin Dungeon HIGHLIGHTS Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - MIDWAY Attractions The Operating Groups margin in 2016 was also driven by our Other key product launches included a new drop ride in the roll out strategy impacting mix, with newer sites typically having Berlin and San Francisco Dungeons, a Sherlock Holmes feature lower margins.
in Madame Tussauds London, and the K-Wave Zone in Madame Tussauds Shanghai - capturing the appetite in China for Korean music.
We introduced a number of NINJAGO based As a result, and including higher depreciation driven by continued Laser Training Camps at our LEGOLAND Discovery Centres investment in the estate, operating profit declined by 4.3% and launched a new caf format at LDC Dallas which has the 9.7% at constant currency.
potential to be rolled out to the wider estate.
Late in the year we launched a penguin feature at SEA LIFE Sydney Aquarium.
Existing estate Revenue declined by 0.2% on a like for like basis as difficult Brand investment trading conditions in a number of our larger markets, which As part of the continuous evolution of our iconic brands, we were adversely affected by security concerns or market-specific continued in 2016 to support their competitive positioning issues, were not fully offset by strong performances elsewhere.
In Madame Tussauds, we have We are nevertheless encouraged by the continued strong market focused upon evolving the experience beyond wax, creating positioning of our brands even in these more challenging markets.
new immersive experiences and ensuring appropriate differentiation between our global portfolio of attractions.
As the largest of Midways five Divisions, the impact of security We are also developing new strategic partnerships with concerns was most strongly felt in London.
Although the international media and consumer brands.
In SEA LIFE, we competitiveness of Sterling improved following the UKs are rolling out refreshed marketing communications and referendum on the EU in June, this resulted in little material product, and are increasingly partnering with major brands.
benefit on visitation from overseas as 2016 summer holiday decisions had largely been made prior to the currency Customer satisfaction movements.
Some improvement in overseas visitation Our continued focus on delivering memorable experiences was however experienced towards the end of the year.
helped our Midway attractions maintain their excellent levels of guest satisfaction with a particular focus on improvements Our Midway Asia Division saw challenging trading as localised to Top Box scores.
market factors impacted several of our larger attractions.
This was most prevalent in Hong Kong where travel restrictions Existing estate - looking ahead from the Peoples Republic of China continue to impact visitation We will make further investments in 2017, with something new to Madame Tussauds.
We however remain confident in the at each of our attractions as we deploy capital efficiently across longer term prospects for the region as a whole and will the estate.
These will include: continue to invest in both our existing and new attractions.
a penguin attraction at SEA LIFE Paris and a jellyfish feature at SEA LIFE London Aquarium: In a portfolio of over 100 attractions, there were naturally a The Voice - based around the hit TV show - number of strong performances.
These tended to be delivered in Madame Tussauds London and New York: at our attractions located outside of city centres.
As these NINJAGO City - which we will roll out to are typically smaller in scale compared to their city centre more LEGOLAND Discovery Centres.
counterparts, their good performances were insufficient to offset weakness elsewhere.
Capital investment New penguin feature at SEA LIFE Sydney Aquarium 2016 saw a number of significant product launches, typically designed to deliver new news via marketing and PR to drive repeat visitation, support price increases, or shift focus towards a particular audience.
Madame Tussauds New York enjoyed a new Ghostbusters feature, coinciding with the remake of the film which was launched in July.
We also teamed up with a virtual reality provider - The Void - to make this experience even more interactive and engaging.
PR surrounding the product was fantastic, and the performance uplift helped offset a difficult tourist market in New York.
28 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - MIDWAY Attractions In Spring 2016, following a number of terrorist attacks across Europe, and with UK exchange rates still relatively unfavourable for inbound tourists, the London tourist market was displaying signs of weakness.
European markets were struggling and visitor sentiment was negative at a crucial point for summer holiday bookings.
With international guests typically representing over 70% of visitors to our London attractions, we decided to execute a proactive strategy.
With a primary focus on growing market share in This included working with our partner, Big Bus, with domestic audiences in London and the South East advertising across their fleet and sales team incentives.
of the UK throughout the summer holidays, we increased our marketing spend and developed an As we had planned, the campaign boosted impactful campaign to drive visits to Londons domestic interest, web traffic and visitation.
A fully integrated, multi-media campaign Whilst the international market remained difficult featuring Eye-Popping Days Out ran from June over the summer period, the improvement in until the end of August across a range of media domestic visitor numbers arrested the decline to maximise awareness and share of voice.
29 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 LEGOLAND Parks 30 30 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - LEGOLAND Parks 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended Constant 31 December 24 December 26 December currency 1 1 2016 2016 2015 Growth growth Visitors m 12.9 12.8 12.7 0.6% Revenue m 495 486 429 13.5% 2.9% EBITDA m 193 188 169 11.1% 0.5% Operating profit m 165 160 146 9.1% 1.4 % Like for like revenue growth 1.6% 1 This y ear we are reporting on the 53 weeks to 31 December 2016.
LIKE FOR LIKE REVENUE GROWTH OF 1.6% SPECIFIC CHALLENGES IN FLORIDA: STRONG PERFORMANCES IN EUROPEAN PARKS CONTINUED ROLL OUT OF THEMED ACCOMMODATION Hans Aksel Pedersen Managing Director LEGOLAND Parks Trading performance Existing estate capital investment Following two years of extremely strong growth, the LEGOLAND In 2016, the high year major product investment was in Parks Operating Group saw further positive momentum in 2016.
LEGOLAND Billund, with a medium year in LEGOLAND Our ongoing successful investment in product and the guest California.
In both these parks, we launched new offerings experience at our six existing parks, underpinned by the based upon core LEGO NINJAGO intellectual property LEGO toy brand, has been a major driver of this.
Overall revenue growth of 13.5% was driven by constant Additionally, we launched the new and exclusive movie short: currency growth of 2.9%, with the strength of the US Dollar The LEGO Movie 4D A New Adventure across each of our benefiting the translated result of our two North American parks.
Partnering with Warner Bros. and the LEGO Group, this Reflecting growth in revenue offset by underlying cost growth efficiently added further capacity to our parks, and supported and pre-opening costs related to future parks, EBITDA grew guest satisfaction.
by 11.1% 0.5% at constant currency, and operating profit by 9.1% decline of 1.4% at constant currency.
Existing estate trading Revenue grew by 1.6% on a like for like basis, reflecting the strong comparatives following exceptionally strong growth in recent years.
LEGOLAND Parks saw further positive momentum We enjoyed good performances in our parks in Billund and Germany which benefited from a staycation effect.
LEGOLAND from our ongoing successful California maintained a strong market position despite increased promotional activity from competitors, whilst the Florida tourist investment in product and the market suffered from a number of issues, including concerns related to guest experience the Zika virus and the Orlando shootings, resulting in increased competitive pressures.
31 31 HIGHLIGHTS Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - LEGOLAND Parks 2017 will see a significant acceleration in our accommodation strategy Looking ahead In 2017 we will continue to provide our guests with new, innovative and compelling features at each of our parks.
Building upon the resounding success of our NINJAGO product investments in 2016, similar rides and experiences will be rolled out across the remaining parks.
We believe these will benefit from the LEGO Groups continued investment into the NINJAGO brand, as well as further marketing momentum around the LEGO NINJAGO movie currently expected to be released towards the end of 2017.
It is this mutually-synergistic relationship with LEGO, allowing for strong product offerings and marketing opportunities, which provides us with confidence in the longer term outlook for the LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group.
2017 will also see a significant acceleration in our accommodation strategy.
A new holiday village offering at LEGOLAND Florida will add capacity to complement the hotel that opened in 2015.
We will also open a second hotel at LEGOLAND Windsor and expand the holiday village at LEGOLAND Billund.
In total, just over 300 rooms will be added to the estate in 2017, with a further acceleration of the roll out expected in 2018, as Resort positioning Merlin progresses towards its 2020 milestones.
Our strategy of developing our theme parks into short break resorts made further progress in 2016 with the addition of 47 new accommodation rooms.
We opened a 34 room Castle hotel and more giant-sized beer barrel chalets at LEGOLAND Deutschland Holiday Village.
Such accommodation developments not only generate attractive returns in their own right, but drive increased volumes to the park as a result of the broader catchment area.
Data continues to show that guest satisfaction is higher amongst those who have stayed with us overnight.
Customer satisfaction 2016 showed an improvement in guest satisfaction in a number of key areas.
For example our themed accommodation performed particularly well which was also reflected through highly favourable ratings on Trip Advisor.
The Castle hotel at LEGOLAND Deutschland Holiday Village 32 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - LEGOLAND Parks We also opened a similar NINJAGO themed The rationale for LEGOLAND Billund attraction at LEGOLAND California.
developing a NINJAGO themed feature as a high year capital investment project Following the successful launches in Billund and was compelling, with NINJAGO already California, and coinciding with the NINJAGO one of LEGOs best-selling toy lines and movie anticipated in 2017, the remaining parks becoming a key LEGO intellectual will launch similar attractions throughout 2017. property.
Our own detailed market Rolling out similar or identical products in this research reinforced that the idea of a way offers clear synergies from a development, NINJAGO training camp scored well with operational and cost perspective.
both boys and girls and across different age groups, as well as amongst parents.
With our defined investment cycles giving clarity DID YOU KNOW?
to our parks, LEGOLAND Billund started the project in 2014 for the 2016 season.
The objective LEGOLAND Billund's NINJAGO World was to deliver a high capacity ride and a new themed area, driving improvements in guest covers an area of 5,100 square metres.
satisfaction and visitation whilst delivering the expected returns on capital.
The LEGO models weigh 1.5 tonnes, containing 727,000 bricks.
LEGO NINJAGO World opened in 2016 in Billund.
In addition to various training exercises to become The high score on 'NINJAGO - The Ride' a Ninja, the heavily themed area includes a dark' is currently 380,000!
ride - with lasers controlled by hand gestures, as well as dining and shopping features.
33 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 RESORT Theme Parks 34 34 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - RESORT Theme Parks 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended Constant 31 December 24 December 26 December currency 1 1 2016 2016 2015 Growth growth Visitors m 10.5 10.4 10.2 1.5% Revenue m 322 319 285 11.8% 5.8% EBITDA m 70 69 47 45.9% 28.1% Operating profit m 38 37 18 109.7% 61.3% Like for like revenue growth 4.3% 1 This y ear we are reporting on the 53 weeks to 31 December 2016.
LIKE FOR LIKE REVENUE GROWTH OF 4.3% RECOVERY IN LEISURE VISITATION UNDERWAY AT ALTON TOWERS GOOD PERFORMANCE IN THE WIDER ESTATE STRONG CONTRIBUTION FROM NEW ACCOMMODATION Justin Platt Managing Director Resort Theme Parks Trading performance Due to the decline in visitation at Alton Towers experienced Following an extremely difficult year in 2015, the Resort in the second half of 2015 and in anticipation of a continuation Theme Parks Operating Group made good progress in 2016, of this in 2016, action was taken towards the end of 2015 to with revenues growing by 11.8% or 5.8% on a constant re-align the cost base.
These savings have been achieved more currency basis.
rapidly than initially envisaged, with any further operational improvements expected to be more modest as the focus shifts Reflecting growth in revenues and control of the cost base, towards driving revenue growth.
Crucially, we are pleased that EBITDA grew by 45.9% and operating profit by 109.7% guest satisfaction has remained above target levels.
28.1% and 61.3% respectively at constant currency.
Existing estate trading On a like for like basis revenues grew by 4.3%.
Growth for the Operating Group as a whole was held back by the full year effect of lower volumes at Alton Towers following the accident in June 2015, although we saw a steady recovery in leisure visitation volumes during the year.
Elsewhere, we enjoyed strong performances, including THORPE PARK in the UK which launched a major new product investment - Derren Browns Ghost Train.
Across the estate, a strong Halloween offering built on the success of previous years, supporting trading outside of the summer season.
Knight's Village lodges at Warwick Castle 35 35 HIGHLIGHTS Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - RESORT Theme Parks Capital investment In line with our four year capital investment cycle, the major investment for 2016 was in THORPE PARK where we opened another world first - Derren Browns Ghost Train.
This combines the unique talents of the mentalist and illusionist with the creative and project management expertise of Merlin Magic Making.
This investment drove good growth in volumes although, Alton Towers used reflecting the complex and cutting-edge nature of the project, state-of-the-art virtual reality the launch was not without its challenges.
We are confident of further opportunities to improve guest satisfaction, with further technology to create a brand product development already planned for 2017 and we continue to see intellectual property as an area for focus in coming years.
new ride experience, Gardaland and Heide Park each saw new themed areas Galactica based around DreamWorks Animations Kung Fu Panda and How to Train Your Dragon, respectively.
Finally, Alton Towers used state-of-the-art, virtual reality technology to create a brand new ride experience called Galactica.
Based upon the re-imagining of an existing ride, and Customer satisfaction despite being a low year investment, we are pleased with the We maintained good levels of satisfaction this year as a result positive impact the ride has had on visitor numbers, and in of continued investment in new products and features together contributing towards rebuilding the Alton Towers brand.
We are particularly pleased that Alton Towers showed a continued improvement in their Net Promoter score - a metric we are increasingly focused upon.
Refinements to the Derren Brown - Ghost Train at THORPE PARK in 2017 should also drive further improvements.
Looking ahead 2017 will see further investment in the existing estate and an expansion of our accommodation offerings, with a particular emphasis on intellectual property.
In Heide Park, following the success of previous partnerships with Sony, Ghostbusters 5D: The Ultimate Ghosthunt will launch as Europes only 5D Ghostbusters experience, allowing guests to fight their way through an alien-infested warehouse!
Meanwhile, at Chessington World of Adventures in the UK, the much loved How to Train Your Dragon at Heide Park Gruffalo will come to the resort through an interactive and immersive ride experience.
Resort positioning We see a strong pipeline of further accommodation across each Our strategy of developing our resorts into short break of our resorts as part of the Groups target to open 2,000 new destinations continued in 2016, with the addition of the 28 room rooms by the end of 2020.
Offerings will include not just hotels, Knights Village lodges at Warwick Castle, the launch of a 100 but holiday villages, lodges and speciality accommodation such room second hotel in Gardaland see case study on page 37 as as glamping.
Where appropriate, we may also look to use well as 35 room glamping at Chessington World of Adventures.
intellectual property in our accommodation projects in the We will continue to invest in themed accommodation which, same way that we have for our existing estate investments.
as well as generating attractive returns directly, has the benefit of widening a resorts catchment area and improving At Alton Towers for example, building on the success we have guest satisfaction.
enjoyed with CBeebies Land, which opened in 2014, we will in 2017 open a CBeebies themed hotel, incorporating 76 rooms and enjoying its own dedicated entertainment area and restaurant.
With a full entertainment programme running throughout the year, the new development will feature live shows, hosted activities, character meet and greets and play areas.
36 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - RESORT Theme Parks A key pillar of Gardaland's strategy in recent Pricing reflects the hotel's premium nature, with years has been to develop its short break average room rates approximately 35 higher.
Results have been positive, with a strong share of offering.
The existing 247 room hotel has enjoyed international visitors underpinning financial results strong growth and occupancy levels as marketing in line with our expectations.
The existing hotel also campaigns and product offerings have increasingly saw a 6 percentage point increase in international been aimed at short breaks for the Italian domestic tourists and both hotels had close to 100% market.
Approximately 70% of the Lake Garda occupancy rates during peak season.
region's five million annual visitors come from outside Italy, so in 2016 Gardaland launched the new Gardaland will continue to develop its resort 100 room 'Adventure Hotel' to target this positioning strategy in its long term ambition international audience.
Four different 'adventure' to ensure that we are offering a wide range of themes are aimed at families with slightly older accommodation types and price points.
children and differentiate this new product from the existing hotel that has 'Fantasy' as its central proposition.
