Operating review The shape of our business 78m 1,255m Healthcare Soft FM 280m 2.2bn Property Management Revenue 619m 5 1 Hard FM 2 4 1,874m Facilities Management revenue split 3 Facilities Management revenue split 2016 2015 1.
Catering and front of house 112m 114m 4.
com 37 Operating review continued Developments during the year Our FM businesses had a strong year, with a 93% contract retention rate and some notable successes.
We broadly maintained revenues and Facilities Management profits despite a shortfall in project work, due to our success in winning a number of new contracts.
Our FM business comprises two divisions.
Soft FM includes cleaning and environmental services, security, The macroeconomic backdrop in the UK limited our catering and front of house services.
Hard FM provides growth during the year, as clients changed their a range of technical, building maintenance and energy spending patterns.
In the first few months of the services.
We bring these services together with property year, we saw organisations delaying decisions on consultancy and data analysis in a single tailored projects until after the UK general election.
Following the election, the private sector resumed proposition that we call Integrated Facilities Management.
activity at a healthy rate but the public sector As all of the services in our integrated FM contracts are retained its focus on reducing the deficit and delivered by our FM businesses, we include relevant cutting expenditure.
In the second half of the year, revenue and profits on these contracts within Hard our markets experienced general uncertainty, and Soft FM below.
following the Governments decision to hold a referendum on the UKs membership of the EU.
2016 2015 Growth Together, these factors combined to cause a Revenue number of our clients to either delay or cancel Soft FM 1,255.1m 1,280.3m 2.0% projects until after the referendum.
Hard FM 618.4m 621.1m 0.4% While the day-to-day services that we provide 1,873.5m 1,901.4m 1.5% continued as expected, there was some reduction Operating profit in discretionary spend and projects.
In response, before other items we took prompt action and removed any Soft FM 85.4m 81.9m 4.3% discretionary items of expenditure from our Hard FM 31.7m 31.4m 1.0% budgets, and also delayed or cancelled some of our own projects.
These actions enabled us to maintain 117.1m 113.3m 3.4% a healthy level of profitability across FM as a whole.
Operating profit margin before other items Soft FM 6.8% 6.4% 0.4ppt Hard FM 5.1% 5.1% 6.3% 6.0% 0.3ppt Order book 7.2bn 7.6bn 5.3% Key contract awards: Total Time Client value frame Deloitte LLP 40m 5 years Appointed to deliver the complete range of FM services, including cleaning, security, landscaping, pest control, waste management, health and safety management, energy consultancy and helpdesk services across Deloittes entire UK estate.
Dixons Carphone 10m 3 years A new FM service contract to provide premises management, maintenance, cleaning, security and front of house for key non-retail locations.
JLL Property and Asset Management 100m 3 2 Awarded multiple soft and hard FM contracts for Investor years Mitec Client property portfolios across the UK.
Mitec is our remote monitoring disaster Sky 190m 8 years recovery and technology centre, central to Extended contract term by five years and changed scope with Europes leading entertainment company.
our communications and technology services Mitie will continue to provide a range of services including, operational 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
mechanical and electrical maintenance, and security, front of house, cleaning, helpdesk, switchboard, mailroom management and waste management.
38 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Lone worker protection Earlier this year we were awarded a five-year contract to provide lone-worker protection services for Northumbrian Water Group based on our wide range of lone worker solutions and industry leading technology.
Another major factor this year was the impact of any increases, many are not able to do so.
In these a series of initiatives by the UK Government that instances we work with them to identify changes will result in significant increases to the cost of to either the quantity or scope of services that employing people over the next few years, we provide.
Another option that we are finding especially people on lower incomes.
Our response is increasingly appropriate is to increase the extent to engage with our clients and discuss the possible to which we use technology to support our service options in detail, before implementing the necessary delivery.
Recent innovations mean that we are changes.
The actions that we take vary depending now able to track more accurately the needs of our upon the circumstances of each individual client.
clients, both in terms of the buildings they occupy While some clients are able to afford and pass on and the people who use them.
com 39 Operating review continued In addition to providing services, our Integrated Facilities Management IFM business manages Integrated FM and develops contracts where we manage those services, using technology to analyse data in order Key contract awards: to improve efficiency and support our clients Total Time property strategies.
We currently manage 19 IFM Client value frame accounts in the public and private sector across the dmg media 30m 5 years UK and Ireland with 4% of its revenue coming from Multi-year FM contract with increased scope that will see the rest of Europe, representing total revenue for Mitie add mechanical and electrical maintenance, front of Mitie of 745m.
house, mailroom and logistic services to its existing security and cleaning service offering.
During the year we achieved excellent results in Thales UK Ltd 40m 5 years New contract to deliver a range of IFM services across contract retentions, where we have successfully Thales Groups entire UK estate.
extended all our major private sector contracts over Rolls-Royce ND ND the last 12 months.
There are no significant re-bids Successfully re-bid the facilities management of Rolls-Royce in this portfolio over the medium term.
In the public UK and specific European properties.
sector, we extended our contract term and scope RWE npower ND 3 2 with the Cumbrian Collaboration until 2019.
Successfully re-bid contract with leading energy company to years provide a number of services including cleaning, security, waste management, reprographics, space planning, mechanical and We successfully re-bid our contract to deliver electrical maintenance, pest control, mailroom management pan-European integrated FM services for and drink and snack vending.
This was the largest contract out to tender during this financial year and we are delighted to be continuing a relationship that first began in 1992, when we provided a single service to Rolls-Royce in the UK.
We also extended the term and scope of our integrated FM contract with Sky for an additional five years.
We have supported Skys operations since 2012 and the new agreement, under which we will provide integrated FM across Skys entire estate in the UK and Ireland, will extend our partnership to 2021 and generate total revenues of 190m.
In addition, we successfully re-bid our integrated FM contract with RWE npower and were awarded a new contract to provide integrated FM for dmg media, building on our existing work providing security services to the group.
Our success in developing existing client relationships has been complemented by a range of service contracts for new clients, including three significant integrated FM contracts.
Each of these contracts is valued at around 40m over five years and includes the potential for additional reactive and project works.
In the finance sector, we will deliver a wide range of services for Deloitte, across 34 sites and over 1.3m square feet of office space.
We were also awarded a contract to provide services to over 300 UK branches of a new high street bank.
In the industrial sector, we have been awarded a new contract to provide services across the UK estate of Thales Group.
Our telephonists in our front of house business answer over 10,000 calls per day.
40 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our approach to IFM is to be selective about the opportunities we bid.
We have a preference for the private sector due to the greater volume of IFM opportunities, faster procurement turnarounds and the sectors balanced approach to risk transfer, as well as its ability to develop stable long-term relationships.
Retain and expand service scope to current IFM clients 2.
Develop single bundled current service provision into IFM contracts 3.
Identify and target new outsourcing clients in key sectors 4.
Develop our international capability to service current clients overseas Our IFM proposition is based on: Cleaning the windows of the airport control tower an experienced management team to integrate at Heathrow.
the contracts, provide one point of contact and lead at a strategic level - providing value-add advice beyond day-to-day operations and that help us to gain a deeper understanding of enabling a thin client interface: advocacy, pinch points and strengths and 95% in-house service delivery - offering expertise weaknesses which are used as a robust feedback on tap, consistency, flexibility and no people loop.
Finally, senior members of the IFM Board and duplication or margin on margin: and Mities Executive Board regularly spend time with quality technology and data to enable greater our largest clients, developing strategic relationships at the highest level and making sure that these strategic decision-making around the total cost of property ownership and occupation.
clients concerns and priorities are understood.
Our IFM clients are at the heart of Mities future We work hard to deepen our relationships with our IFM clients, including through the services provided development and we foster very strong relationships with them.
Partnering and relationship by our property consultancy business, Source8.
In addition to the advisory and business support building are key aspects of our operational expertise, reflecting the size and scope of the services Source8 provides to corporate and governmental organisations on implementing contracts we manage.
In many cases we see these relationships developing and leading to our team real estate, technology and risk management, the business is now supporting some of our IFM being established as trusted advisors.
Alongside the significant investment of senior and experienced clients across their global property portfolios.
This is enabling us to execute our strategy of resource for our contracts, we also carry out Miclient campaign reviews which support the following our clients internationally, and will be an important area for us in the years to come.
retention and extension of current relationships.
These campaigns help us focus on the importance of contract retention and ensure we contribute to and improve our performance in this area.
Each contract features targets which we strive to achieve.
In addition, our award-winning top level executive relationship programme helps establish and build relationships with property and facilities directors from current clients as well as prospects at a strategic level.
We also conduct regular surveys www.
com 41 Operating review continued and among the first to rigorously enforce ethical procurement policies for uniform suppliers.
Soft FM: Cleaning We were the first to set up independent lean Six Sigma applications, with our own lean software Key contract awards: and Lean Academy.
We are now taking cleaning to Total Time the next level of innovation by investing in and Client value frame implementing automation, wearable technology, Farnborough International Air Show 3m 5 years apps focusing on quality, telemetrics, intelligent A new contract to provide cleaning services at the Farnborough sensors and real-time energy meterage together International Air Show.
with liquid glass and ozone technology.
Chelsea Harbour Ltd 7.5m 5 years Secured a contract to provide manned security All these technologies are brought together and cleaning services across its large estate.
in our business management system Workplace, Transport for London TfL 16.5m 5 years Successfully re-bid street furniture cleaning and maintenance which links workplace planning, traceability and contract with Transport for London.
accountability with cloud-based productivity, St Georges University Hospitals NHS 33m 3 years auditing and reporting systems.
Foundation Trust Extended the term and scope of our contract to deliver New contracts awarded during the year included a full suite of soft FM services in-house and under one Virgin Atlantic, Westfield, Chelsea Harbour and TfL, management team.
while we extended the term and scope of our contract with BMW and successfully re-bid Canary Wharf.
For the year ahead, we will be launching a new technical cleaning services business across the The cleaning business has had a solid year, supported by the benefits of shifting the business UK to expand our flooring, windows and industrial cleaning offer an area where we see good to a more innovative technology-based service.
The structure of this business features regional operations across the UK together with business units specialising in different market sectors such as transport, leisure, retail, manufacturing and healthcare.
We are the largest daily office cleaning business in the UK and also the number one events cleaning business in fact our people clean over 20 million square feet of retail space every day.
In the healthcare sector we have over 3,000 people providing FM services including domestic cleaning, clinical cleaning, patient dining, portering, retail restaurants, linen, helpdesk, waste and recycling, post room, materials, reception, grounds maintenance, pest control and security.
We prepare and serve over two million patient meals a year.
The manufacturing team also employs around 3,000 people who provide FM services, including heavy duty industrial cleaning and window cleaning.
The scope of the contracts operation includes motor manufacturing, heavy engineering, food manufacturing and distribution centres all highly specialist areas that require dedicated teams and management.
Our cleaning business is differentiated by the Clean Environments is one of Mities largest degree of innovation that we bring to the market.
offerings with over 30,000 employees working For example, we were the first to use microfibre across the UK.
technology, an early adopter of vacuum back-packs 42 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our environmental services comprise landscaping, pest control and waste management.
Soft FM: Environmental services Landscapes enjoyed a successful year, with highlights including the implementation of a Key contract awards: major contract with JLL, new contracts with Total Time Client value frame NHS Property Services and National Grid and the successful re-bid of contracts with CBRE and Network Rail Ltd ND 7 years A new contract with Network Rail to provide environmental BNP Paribas.
The business also launched a new on-track support services which will see Mitie deliver a unique, look and feel for its brand and developed a combined service incorporating trackside pest control, fly customer portal.
Sectors targeted for the year tipping clearance and sanitation support.
ahead include managing agents, retail, distribution, Lucozade Ribena Suntory ND 3 years Appointed by the soft drinks manufacturer to provide complete utilities and leisure.
waste management services across its entire UK estate.
Waste Management made good progress, Hull and East Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust ND 5 years Secured a contract to provide waste services across with its market-leading offering that enables the hospital.
clients to realise significant cost benefits at the same time as exceeding their sustainability objectives.
It benefits from a differentiated approach that blends waste minimisation, reuse and resource resale, supported by efficient disposal only where necessary.
The business was awarded contracts with Lucozade Ribena Suntory and Network Rail during the year and successfully re-bid its biggest contract with Novartis.
Target sectors include FMCG, automotive, pharmaceuticals and retail.
Pest Control continues to innovate in its market, winning awards for the high standard of its technicians as well as for quality.
Following investment in its PestAlert system, the business now uses drones to survey some sites.
Pest Control was awarded contracts with Network Rail, NHS Property Services and Onestop during the year while extending the term and scope of our contract with Bourne Leisure.
Target sectors include food manufacturing, retail and distribution.
Our trained sniffer dogs are specialists in rodent and bed bug detection.
com 43 Operating review continued Our security business performed well during the year.
Although margin pressure continued in the Soft FM: Security manned guarding market, we are pleased that this was offset by the successful development of Key contract awards: technology, vetting, systems and mobile services.
Total Time We expect this change in mix to continue in the Client value frame years ahead.
Aberdeen Harbour Ltd ND 3 years A new contract to deliver security services across four key We have launched an emergency services business areas of one of the busiest ports in the UK.
which will provide emergency security and mobile NuGen ND 3 years services, and will be introducing more technology Appointed by the UK nuclear company to provide security driven services to detect security threats and personnel at three of its sites.
protect properties with either fixed or mobile CCTV.
Belfast City Airport 6m 3 years We are also looking to develop our car park A new contract to deliver security services at Belfast City Airport.
Major retailer 50m 4 years A new contract to provide security services across a leading The years major contract awards included an retailers 500 stores.
agreement with a large food retailer, where we are Scottish & Southern Energy PLC ND 3 years adopting a risk-based deployment model utilising A new contract to provide 24-hour security personnel across software and handheld technology to capture its UK-wide portfolio.
The contract will have a dedicated pod in our Mitec centre for remote CCTV and BMS monitoring.
We will also be providing protection for lone and vulnerable workers and providing specialist risk management services.
In line with our commitment to greater use of technology, we will be using a mobile and detection model for the contract with the National Grid, with an emphasis on protecting unoccupied buildings.
The business successfully re-bid a number of contracts during the year, including those with Citibank, Channel 4, Financial Times, Pearson and Coventry University.
Procius, our employment screening business, continues to deliver good growth and is now established as one of the UKs largest providers of pre-employment screening, competency management and criminal records checking services.
Procius provides services though a central software platform, MyCheck, which has increased productivity significantly and enabled us to attract new clients such as New Look, Home Retail Group and Eversheds.
We will shortly be launching an online service to support organisations seeking to provide references for ex-employees.
Our document management business made good progress in the year.
It started the first outsourced print room for a magic circle law firm, delivering both hybrid and digital mail solutions from our We have more than 250 highly trained security professionals ensuring offsite facilities in London and Birmingham.
We have the safety and wellbeing of Eurostar passengers.
rolled out our new Pinpoint tracking software across multiple sites for both public and private sector clients and, in addition, launched and delivered our Lean consultancy services across a number of customers and their portfolios.
44 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Sustainability is a big focus area for the business, and we successfully moved from 2 stars to the Soft FM: Catering and front of house maximum 3 star sustainability champion rating from the Sustainable Restaurant Association.
We also Key contract awards: made significant investments in driving technology Total Time solutions across the business, including the launch Client value frame of the Gather & Gather app.
Capita 2.3m 3 years Expanded the scope of a contract to provide catering at In 2015 we completed the full acquisition of Capitas key offices.
Creativevents, having initially acquired 51% of the Vodafone 40m 5 years business in 2012.
Creativevents provides food and New contract that will see Gather & Gather cater for 9,000 beverage services at leisure and entertainment Vodafone employees every day across 12 locations across the UK.
venues, outdoor festivals and corporate events.
It reported a good year, securing a number of new LinkedIn ND 3 years Gather & Gather awarded a new contract to provide catering to events and festivals, as well as a new visitor cafe LinkedIns EMEA Head Office in Dublin.
London South Bank University 2.5m 3 years Retained contract to provide reception and student information Client Services, our business specialising in front-ofservices across the London campus.
house reception services and switchboards, has enjoyed strong retention successes and is looking forward to a successful 2016 under the leadership of new MD Conrad Dean, who came through Mities highly successful development academy.
Following two years of dramatic growth, the Gather & Gather brand now has a substantial presence in the market.
We were awarded a new five-year, 40m contract with Vodafone, consolidating the groups position as a leading IFM provider.
Gather & Gather also successfully expanded its catering operations in Europe, including in Germany, following the successful retention of the Rolls-Royce contract.
In Ireland, the business grew revenues by 7m, boosted by key new contracts such as LinkedIn and Eircom.
Other successes during the year included Laithwaites Wine and Primark.
Our approach is to create food with personality and attitude, served by people who are passionate about food as well as the quality of service they provide.
Sourcing of ingredients is a key part of the Gather & Gather ethos, with local and sustainable always being the preferred option.
We pay particular attention to how the food we serve impacts upon the productivity of the people who eat it.
We want to be a part of what makes a successful productive workplace that helps our clients to attract and retain the best people.
Gather & Gather encourage a holistic approach to wellbeing in our clients workplace by promoting healthier lifestyle choices including fitness, mental wellbeing and nutrition.
com 45 Operating review continued Our team of over 2,000 multi-skilled engineers provide vital services for thousands of clients across the UK, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
46 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Hard FM Key contract awards: Total Time Client value frame Cornerstone Telecommunications 70m 5 years Infrastructure Ltd A new contract to manage the network sites for CTIL, a joint venture between Vodafone UK and O2 Telefonica, to consolidate their sites to create a single grid.
The contract will see Mitie deliver FM maintenance services to the network, covering the entire UK.
Red Bull Racing ND ND A new contract to provide hard FM services to Red Bull Racing in Milton Keynes.
NHS Property Services 100m 3 1 1 Appointed by NHS Property Services to supply its Hard FM years services of Mechanical and Electrical M&E and Building Fabric at locations across England.
The Hard FM business delivers a range of technical building and maintenance services across most market sectors in the UK.
We are the largest such organisation in the UK and work closely with our clients to manage their maintenance and energy expenditure.
The year saw a reduction in the number of projects, for reasons previously outlined.
Due to this change in business mix, with a smaller proportion of revenues generated by higher-margin variable project works, profitability of this division was Our MobileTech service has over 750 engineers negatively impacted.
However, we delivered maintaining 40,000 client sites across the UK.
revenues broadly in line with last year due to a steady stream of contract successes.
We also successfully re-bid our contract with We were recently awarded a contract worth up to Ladbrokes during the year, which is valued at 100m over five years with NHS Property Services, more than 80m over five years.
We will provide a private company set up by the Department of a range of services including hard FM, complaint Health to manage all the ex-primary care trust management and other soft services to over estates.
Following a client-led rationalisation of 2,000 retail outlets and offices.
In addition, suppliers, we will be providing hard FM, security, Dixons Carphone awarded us a five-year landscaping and pest control.
We will be conducting bundled contract which includes hard FM extensive asset and facet surveys, and will use our and other soft services.
patented technology to manage, monitor and report on all maintenance and project works.
Our energy consulting business, Utilyx, successfully re-bid contracts with key clients We have also been awarded a five-year contract including McDonalds, Barclays, HSBC and John with Cornerstone Telecommunications Lewis Partnership, and extended the term of its Infrastructure Ltd, a joint venture between Vodafone contracts with Royal Mail and Virgin Active.
It has UK and O2 Telefonica to manage the network sites also been awarded new work with current clients for both companies, and consolidate a number of including over 40 Energy Saving Opportunity sites to create a single grid.
The contract is valued at Scheme submissions.
This has resulted in positive more than 70m over five years and will see Mitie follow-on projects with organisations including KFC deliver hard FM services to the network of over and GLH Hotels.
20,000 cell mast sites across the UK.
We will use our unique dashboard asset management software, Direct Audits, to provide real time contract and asset data.
com 47 Operating review continued The Property Management business provides a wide range of services to predominantly social housing clients in the UK.
It also delivers claims handling and repair services to insurance companies and is the Property largest commercial painting organisation in the UK.
Management Our social housing business experienced a year of two halves.
In the first half, buoyed by contract The Property Management business provides a wide awards and increased spending levels from existing clients, it recorded significant growth in both range of services to predominantly social housing clients revenue and profits.
Over many years we have seen in the UK.
It also delivers claims handling and repair a marked improvement in the second half as our services to insurance companies and is the largest clients look to deliver their budget commitments.
commercial painting organisation in the UK.
However, this was not the case this year, with social housing landlords forced to reassess spending plans 2016 2015 Growth as a result of the UK Government reducing rents by 1% a year for four years from April 2016, in an Revenue 280.4m 273.4m 2.6% attempt to reduce the housing benefit bill.
As social Operating profit landlords had previously been able to increase before other items 15.8m 10.4m 51.9% rents each year by CPI plus 1%, this equates to Operating profit margin items 5.6% 3.8% 1.8ppt around a 12% reduction over the four-year period.
Order book 0.8bn 1.0bn 20% Consequently, a number of social landlords are deferring project work and all are concentrating on statutory maintenance work.
The result is that the Key contract awards: second half saw reduced revenue and profit terms Total Time instead of the traditional boost to performance Client value frame typically achieved during those months.
Home Group Ltd 7m 3 2 Awarded a contract to provide cyclical external redecorations years and pre-painting repairs.
The Governments actions are driving social LHC Building Components & Services landlords to consider different ways to look after ND 4 years New social housing contract.
Some are re-tendering services in the Greenfields Community Housing 1.3m 2 years traditional way, hoping that competition will drive New painting contract to provide cyclical external and internal down prices, while others are looking at new models redecorations and pre-painting repairs.
where the range of services provided and the We received the Outstanding Approach to Repairs and Maintenance award at the 2016 UK Housing Awards UKHA, in recognition of our repairs and maintenance contract with Golding Homes.
48 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We are the largest painting business in the UK, providing a full range of painting services, from planned maintenance and specialist coatings, to historical property redecoration and painting repairs.
It is worth noting As the market leader in painting and repair services, that a feature of the current market is that we are with national coverage, we continued our strong being approached by some of our clients to take growth trajectory during the year.
We secured over contracts from other providers that are not notable new contracts with Semperian Group Ltd meeting expectations.
providing a re-decoration service nationally to schools, hospitals and prisons, Taunton Deane Our response to the changes is to retain a flexible Borough Council, Johnnie Johnson Housing Trust, approach to service delivery, enabling us to provide CityWest Homes, Wandsworth Borough Council, services locally, regionally or nationally as well as three universities in Glasgow Strathclyde Glasgow either in single services, bundles or in more Glasgow Caledonian, Heineken UK Ltd, Britannia integrated models.
We targeted improved revenues and associated margins in the private We are currently expanding our service capability, sector, while ensuring that we also secured a with a focus on providing an integrated property number of long-term public sector contracts.
This will mean that we will be able to provide clients with a total, integrated We were proud to win the most prestigious prize in service including call centres, property the painting and decorating industry the Painting management, responsive and planned maintenance, and Decorating Associations Premier Trophy compliance and energy services, property surveys, Special Award for Excellence.
This showcased our asset management consultancy and investment diversity of skills as well as the high levels of planning across the UK.
craftmanship that our teams possess, keeping us ahead of our competition.
com 49 Operating review continued Our healthcare business provides care at home for people who need help and support due to illness, infirmity or disability.
In addition, we also provide nurse-led complex care solutions in the home.
Healthcare The majority of these services are funded by local authorities or the NHS, however we also have a Our healthcare business provides care at home for service offering that delivers privately-funded care.
people who need help and support due to illness, infirmity or disability.
In addition, we also provide This has been a challenging year for our healthcare nurse-led complex care solutions in the home.
Our local authority clients have been faced The majority of these services are funded by local with a multi-year squeeze driven by reduced funding authorities or the NHS - however, we also have a from central government, increasing demand for services caused by demographic shifts and an service offering that delivers privately-funded care.
inability to increase council tax.
This has been alleviated to some extent by the UK Governments 2016 2015 Growth decision to allow an increase in council tax of up to 2% to fund increasing social care costs.
However, Revenue 78.0m 91.4m 14.7% most of this increase will be absorbed by wage Operating profit increases resulting from the new National Living before other items 4.0m 4.9m nm Wage.
In the longer term, the funding crisis would Operating profit margin be better solved by pooling health and social care before other items 5.1% 5.4% nm budgets and redesigning the commissioning Order book 0.5bn 0.4bn 25% of services.
During the year we reduced the scale of our Key contract awards: operations in the social care business, with Total Client value Time frame MiHomecare reducing from 40 branches to 31 branches.
Hampshire County Council 3.2m 4 years A new contract to provide care at home for residents in the Havant and Petersfield area.
London Borough of Hammersmith 36m 4 years & Fulham and Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea A new contract with the London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham and Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea to deliver care at home and specialist learning disability support to the local residents.
Reading Borough Council 4m 4 years A new contract to deliver care in the home to the residents of Reading including low level continuing healthcare services.
We help people to live a happier and more independent life in the comfort of their own home.
50 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Complete Care business employs over 700 people including registered nurses and person care assistants who specialise in caring for clients with a range of conditions, including acquired brain injury, cerebral palsy and muscular dystrophy.
It is pleasing to see that the business is making This has been a year of stability for our complex progress and achieving better quality scores.
The focus has been We now have a better care business operating in to consolidate its position as a leading provider areas where we can develop over the long term.
of nurse-led homecare by ensuring a pipeline of quality care workers.
In addition, we have worked In future, our approach to the social care market to ensure that the commercial arrangements of all will be highly selective.
We will only work with clients Complete Care contracts are appropriate for the who are prepared to pay sustainable rates for care, level of care being provided.
The business is now and this will in turn allow us to pay wage rates which well placed to grow in the future.
will support our drive to attract and retain quality people.
We want to develop long-term relationships Our Care Agency business delivers privately-funded with our clients and are looking forward to working care.
This can range from the traditional domiciliary with them on developing improved models for the care and support to providing carers who will live delivery of social care in the future.
permanently at a service users home.
Although the Care Agency is currently a relatively small part of We are now seeing examples of our ability to retain the business, the signs are encouraging for its existing contracts and also win new contracts at the future prospects.
higher rates that will allow the business to return to profitability over the medium term.
Recent awards include contracts with Devon County Council and the London Borough of Barnet.
