e c n e r e f e r p r e m u s n o C Operating review Payment Processing DIVISIONAL CAPABILITIES: Payment Digital Processing & Wallets Acquiring Capabilities PCI compliance Chargeback management Risk rules engine Pay Later Prepaid Business Payment guarantee Consumer Solutions Solutions Merchant support Processing.
White labelling Reporting and analytics Cashback and loyalty Technology platform Developer portal Card Remittance Issuing HOW WE CREATE VALUE: and reporting and other enterprise level solutions.
This Paysafes Payment Processing division division also includes our nascent consumer credit business, helps businesses accept credit and payolution, and our new mobile order and delivery solution created by FANS Entertainment.
debit card, bank transfer and direct debit payments from consumers, with We excel in serving merchants in medium to higher-risk verticals, for example where the risk of consumer refund the option to integrate various other requests falling due on the payment processor are elevated.
third-party and Paysafe payment In order to manage risk effectively, we leverage technology alongside deep expertise in both the verticals we target and methods.
Payment Processing is the business models of our merchants.
currently strongest in serving North Our business development strategy reflects our merchant American e-commerce merchants.
base, and includes direct sales, sales through agents and referral partners, and partnering with third parties.
These We differentiate by adopting a service-oriented, partners, such as value-added resellers,  one-stop-shop approach for merchants with specific platforms and independent service vendors, integrate requirements.
We provide a wide range of services, from Paysafes processing capabilities into their solutions, full-service merchant account provision and processing to providing us with a scalable channel into their merchants pure payment gateway technology.
We partner with multiple andconsumers.
acquiring banks around the world, and in Europe we are a licensed acquirer with Mastercard and Visa, enabling us Merchants pay a variable fee structure comprising tomanage the entire payment process from end to end.
apercentage of the value of every transaction processed and or a fixed fee based on number of transactions.
Were focused on providing our merchants with innovative, Merchants may also pay fixed fees for value-add services.
relevant value-added services, including Payment Card Ourcosts of sales include payment processing fees and the Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS compliant cost of bad debt where we take on merchant risk from our checkouts, fraud and risk management, customer analytics acquiring partners.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 30 e c n a t p e c c a t n a h c r e M OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION The Payment Processing divisions reported revenue was $467.8m in FY 2016 from $375.1m in FY 2015.
This represents 47% of the Groups reported fee revenue 2015: 61%.
On an organic constant currency basis, revenue grew 21% FY 2016 FINANCIAL KPIS year-on-year 2015: 16%, reflecting an exceptionally strong first half, balanced by a tougher 2015 comparative in the Reported revenue Organic constant second half.
Excluding Major Merchant Asia Gateway revenue, currency year-on-year Payment Processing revenue grew 20% on an organic 15 $467.8m revenue growth constant currency basis, compared to 29% in FY 2015.
The Major Merchant Asia Gateway revenue included an estimated FY 2015: 21% $3-4m of revenue related to the 2016 UEFA European Championship.
$375.1m FY 2015 pro-forma : Reported revenue growth was 25% 2015: 37%, including Reported gross margin 16% a$13.5m impact from the acquisition of MeritCard inFebruary2016.
40.6% Volume for Payment Processing in US dollar terms increased FY 2015: to $22.4bn 2015: $17.2bn.
Volume represents all transactions 36.9% including fee-generating credits and chargebacks processed by the division.
It excludes volume processed for other FY 2016 NON-FINANCIAL KPIS Groupdivisions.
Revenue represented 2.1% of volume 2015 pro-forma: 2.2%, Volume Revenue volume the decrease largely driven by the inclusion of MeritCard volumes with a lower risk profile and pricing structure.
$22.4bn 2.1% Reported gross margin for the Payment Processing division FY 2015 pro-forma : FY 2015 pro-forma : was 40.6% in FY 2016 2015: 36.9%.
This reflected growth in profitable merchants as well as a 1.0% positive year-on-year $17.2bn 2.2% effect of re-presenting intersegment cost of sales, as set out in the Change in presentation appendix.
Reported bad debt as a percentage of revenue has increased from 1.3% in FY 2015 to 1.6% in FY 2016.
This largely reflects the first full-year contribution of the payolution business acquired as part of the Skrill Group, which, as a consumer credit business, runs at a higher bad debt percentage.
CANADIAN RED CROSS When the Alberta wildfires began in May 2016, the Canadian The average transaction duration was under 1.5 milliseconds, Red Cross opened its website for donations to help with the and involved almost 20 risk verification rules, with constant relief effort.
Paysafes processing platform managed the flow monitoring of risk rules to minimise false positives.
Ten days of funds, including accepting and settling donations, and after the start of the campaign, the Canadian Red Cross was limiting fraud with our proprietary tools.
ready to distribute CA$50m in immediate financial assistance, the majority of which was donated online.
They were also Despite a increase in online donations over the month of the able to avoid 7,500 suspicious transactions identified by our appeal, our gateway ensured that high volumes of online proprietary tools.
donations were processed in a robust, PCI DSS Level 1 compliant environment with effective fraud management.
com 31 Operating review continued Payment processing continued Sustainable organic growth FY 2016 FINANCIAL KPIS CONTINUED Payment Processing has continued to demonstrate strong organic performance during 2016.
This reflects our ability H2 2016 REPORTED REVENUE BY VERTICAL togrow with our existing merchants as well as to add new merchants during the period, especially within our US business.
While merchant-initiated churn remains low, wecontinue to optimise our risk profile, for example by E-commerce & other Online gambling restricting processing volumes or removing merchants from time to time.
68% 30% Weve seen continued success with our direct sales strategies as well as increased signups through our integrated payments channel.
Gaming Our Payment Processing division includes our Acquiring 2% business, where we utilise our own acquiring licences in Europe to serve new and existing clients.
During this period, we launched our multi-currency cross-border European acquiring capability.
Weve seen encouraging levels of signups among existing North American merchants, who are H1 2016 REPORTED REVENUE BY VERTICAL expanding their reach into Europe, as well as our first new European client signups.
Paysafe Acquiring volumes remain asmall part of total volumes, but this capability enables us tooffer faster onboarding and a more flexible and personal E-commerce & other Online gambling service to our clients as we build out our European business.
70% 28% Payment Processing also includes the results of payolution, our nascent consumer credit business.
Approximately 60% of Payment Processings FY 2016 reported Gaming fee revenue is derived from North America, with 13% from Europe and the remaining 28% from Asia and the rest of the 2% world.
E-commerce is Payment Processings largest vertical, representing 69% of FY 2016 divisional fee revenue.
Online gambling, largely driven by the Major Merchant Asia Gateway, contributes another 29% to divisional fee revenues, with the balance from gaming.
H2 2015 PRO-FORMA REVENUE BY VERTICAL E-commerce encompasses a number of end verticals, such asdirect marketing, e-tail and professional services such as dentists, doctors and insurance companies, and weve seen E-commerce & other Online gambling good growth across these verticals throughout the period.
Were focused on building expertise in additional verticals 68% 28% over 2017.
State-of-the-art technology Payment Processing functionality has been made more Gaming accessible to merchants and the developer community through the launch of the first phase of our new Paysafe 4% Developer Portal in December 2016.
The Developer Centre will provide the foundation of our focus on the developer community: not only to educate and support them, but also to use their feedback to inform the Paysafe product roadmap.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 32 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION This year, weve entered into technology partnerships with Bold M&A companies like ServiceMax and mobile point of sale During H1 2016, we acquired the Dallas-based MeritCard providers, including Handpoint and Cardflight.
This acquisition has broadened and deepened enabled us to target new verticals, such as field service theGroups sales capabilities and relationships in payment providers, where we are integrated as a preferred payment processing in the US, and through its lower-risk merchant method for merchant delivery services on the go.
portfolio has enabled continued growth in other parts of the Payment Processing division.
Relevant, niche-oriented solutions The division expects to be able to leverage the products and As an example of innovation within the Payment Processing offerings in the Digital Wallets and Prepaid divisions more division, we were pleased to have soft-launched our GOLO effectively, to drive cross-selling and cross-border mobile pickup and delivery product in a number of Canadian opportunities, as the consolidated platform is delivered cities this period.
This multi-channel product has been inamodular approach over 2017 and beyond.
delivered by the FANS Entertainment team and provides relevant value-added services such as in-app orders and consumer analytics to local merchants.
Our Payment Processing division specialises in a number of niche verticals and merchant types, including moderate to higher-risk merchants and those in regulated sectors.
Were well placed to serve businesses that need expert and personal service, tailored and compliant reporting, and sophisticated risk solutions.
In addition, were able to offer these features across North America, Europe and multiple other countries and currencies.
For example, during the year weve helped DraftKings, a fantasy gaming merchant, expand in the UK, and helped the Canadian Red Cross manage donations and limit fraud during the Alberta wildfires.
MANAGING RISK AND FRAUD Payment Processing specialises in servicing medium to We expect competition in these verticals to continue to higher-risk merchants.
Medium to higher-risk merchants often evolve.
Our aim in 2017 remains to differentiate through exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: value-added services such as data analytics, integration to local payment types, sophisticated fraud tools, split payment 1.
Long lead-time between when a consumer makes a options, comprehensive reporting and personal service.
purchase on their credit or debit card and receives the good or service, elevating the risk that the merchant will be Entrepreneurial culture unable to deliver the good or service.
Expert personnel are key to our niche-oriented offerings.
Highly customised or one-off goods or services, elevating Oursales and account managers are encouraged to become the risk that a merchant will be less able or willing to accept industry leaders in the niche verticals that we target, to a return.
publish thought leadership articles, and to attend and speak at relevant trade conferences.
High-value items that can elevate cash flow and return risks.
During the year, our Acquiring and Card Solutions CEO Andrea Dunlop was recognised as No.
1 in PayExpos Payments Power Overall, these factors can increase the risk that a consumer 10 list and as the Emerging Payments Associations Individual may charge back the purchase request a refund through Member of the Year.
Carla Erlick, our SVP Sales and Business the card networks and the merchant wont be able to fulfil Development, was recognised as a Rising Star in the 2016 that refund.
In that case, Paysafe would usually be required Canadian Women in Payments awards.
Neil Erlick, our EVP to fund the refund.
Please see the case study in our Risk Business Development, was recognised as one of Global management section for further information on how Gaming Business Magazines 2017 Class of 40 under 40, Paysafe manages charge back and other merchant and theonly payments industry expert recognised on the list.
SOME OF OUR MERCHANTS INCLUDE: 15.
Unaudited organic constant currency year-on-year revenue growth is an alternative performance measure that the Group uses to communicate the underlying revenue performance of the Group excluding the impact of acquisitions and currency movements.
Further information on our alternative performance measures, including definitions, explanations and reconciliations, is included on page 147. www.
