e c n e r e f e r p r e m u s n o C Operating review continued Digital Wallets DIVISIONAL CAPABILITIES: Payment Digital Processing & Wallets Acquiring Capabilities PCI compliance Chargeback management Risk rules engine Pay Later Prepaid Business Payment guarantee Consumer Solutions Solutions Merchant support Processing.
White labelling Reporting and analytics Cashback and loyalty Technology platform Developer portal Card Remittance Issuing HOW WE CREATE VALUE: advantage of access to 200 local payment options, with no The Digital Wallets division provides set-up or monthly fees, full chargeback protection and access online stored value accounts through to customer support in 16 languages.
Indemnified, immediately available funds make it easy for them to accept the Skrill and NETELLER brands.
payments and move money to their consumers around the world, and withdraw funds from their own wallet account Consumers with a Skrill or NETELLER digital account asand when required.
canupload, withdraw and store funds in their account.
Thesefunds are then available for transactions with Merchants pay a percentage of amounts transferred to and merchants, friends and family through the Paysafe ecosystem.
from their wallets, and these fees account for the majority With a broad range of global payment options, consumers ofDigital Wallets revenue.
Consumers also pay a fee on have confidence that they always have easy, instant access certain withdrawals and deposits, peer-to-peer payments, totheir funds.
Paysafes digital wallets offer additional functionality over and The Digital Wallets division also includes our Paysafe Issuing above wallet-to-wallet payments.
This includes easy-to-use and Income Access businesses.
Income Access is our affiliate options such as frictionless recurring payments, VIP and management technology business, which we acquired in loyalty programmes, linked virtual and plastic payment cards, August 2016.
Paysafe Issuing issues prepaid cards to Digital and mobile-optimised solutions.
We also enable our Wallet consumers, and on behalf of other merchants.
consumers to send money to other wallet users globally using just an email address.
Our costs of sales include payment processing fees where funds are moving into and out of our ecosystem, Merchants who accept payments through our digital wallet commissions and direct marketing costs, and the cost accounts benefit from access to millions of engaged ofbaddebt.
Our merchants can take Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 34 e c n a t p e c c a t n a h c r e M OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION The Digital Wallets division contributed $311.0m of reported revenue in FY 2016 2015: $159.1m, representing 31% 2015: 26% of the Groups reported fee revenue.
Year-on-year organic constant currency revenue growth was FY 2016 FINANCIAL KPIS 30%, compared to 17% in FY 2015.
This exceptional growth within the division includes an estimated $4m of positive Reported revenue Organic constant impact from increased activity driven by the UEFA European currency year-on-year Championships.
$311.0m revenue growth Reported revenue growth was 95% in 2016 2015: 78%.
In FY 2015: 2015, the results of the Skrill Group were incorporated for the 30% five-month period following its acquisition in August 2015, $159.1m FY 2015 pro-forma : and in 2016 growth includes a revenue impact of $3.1m from Income Access, which we acquired in August 2016.
Reported gross margin 17% Digital Wallets volume on a US dollar basis rose 15% to 74.9% $22.9bn 2015: $19.9bn pro-forma.
Digital Wallets volume includes uploads and withdrawals to and from wallets, and FY 2015: member-to-merchant and member-to-member transactions.
72.9% Monetisation of our transaction volumes increased during theperiod.
Revenue divided by volume increased to 1.4% FY 2016 NON-FINANCIAL KPIS 2015: 1.2% reported, reflecting the introduction of fees onmoney transfer as well as the effect of rebasing fees Volume Revenue volume acrossthe two brands.
$22.9bn 1.4% Reported gross margin for the Digital Wallets division was 74.9%, compared to a gross margin of 72.9% in FY 2015.
FY 2015 pro-forma : FY 2015 pro-forma : Theincrease was partly due to changes in mix and reductions in processing fees, partially offset by a negative 2.8% $19.9bn 1.2% year-on-year effect of re-presenting intersegment cost ofsales, as set out in the Change in presentation appendix.
Reported bad debt as a percentage of revenue decreased to 2.8% from 3.3% in FY 2015.
OASIS GAMES Oasis Games, a global game publishing company, is a long-standing Digital Wallets merchant.
With Paysafes deep understanding of the global payment markets and flexible, easy-to-integrate solution, Oasis Games is able to provide their end customers with different local payment methods across markets around the world.
This strong partnership has helped Oasis Games to maintain and deliver excellence in operating and publishing browser-based, mobile and virtual reality games, bringing extraordinary gaming experiences to gamers worldwide.
com 35 Operating review continued Digital Wallets continued Sustainable organic growth FY 2016 FINANCIAL KPIs CONTINUED The Digital Wallets division has experienced exceptional growth in FY 2016.
This reflects stronger and more prosperous H2 2016 REPORTED REVENUE BY VERTICAL relationships with existing merchants, the onboarding of new merchants, and increases in users.
Weve enabled our merchants to expand into new territories and take advantage of new payment options, and weve also been able to E-commerce & other Gaming monetise our existing products more effectively.
35% 5% Digital Wallets largest regional market is Europe, which accounted for 60% of the divisions fee revenue in FY 2016.
40% comes from the rest of the world, including 1% from North America.
Merchant fees from online gambling are the Online gambling divisions largest revenue stream, contributing 61% of FY 2016 fee revenue.
Merchant revenues from online gaming were 5% 60% of the divisions total, with the remainder coming from consumer fees and e-commerce merchant fees.
The majority of e-commerce and other fees relate to consumer fees, which have increased as a percentage H1 2016 REPORTED REVENUE BY VERTICAL ofrevenue, partially due to the introduction of additional feesduring H2 2015 for money transfer within the NETELLERwallets.
E-commerce & other Gaming During FY 2016, the Digital Wallets division has invested further in risk and compliance in preparation for changes to 32% 6% anti-money laundering legislation in Europe expected to take effect in June 2017.
Were well prepared in advance of these changes, and are currently exploring options to leverage this Online gambling expertise to assist our merchants further.
62% State-of-the-art technology During FY 2016 weve continued to develop our consumer-facing mobile app offerings.
This includes significant new functionality, such as multiple upload options, and new versions of the Skrill and NETELLER apps.
Another priority in 2016 has been working with our merchants H2 2015 PRO-FORMA REVENUE BY VERTICAL to ensure that NETELLER and Skrill are integrated into their mobile checkouts.
We have also unified our policies and approaches across E-commerce & other Gaming Skrill and NETELLER, enabling best practice to be applied onreducing consumer bad debt levels across Digital Wallets.
30% 7% To improve our customer service functionality, weve integrated third-party technology and software solutions, enabling us to significantly increase the number ofinteractions we manage with consumers each day Online gambling andenhance our customer service experience.
64% We also relaunched our instant banking solution as Rapid Transfer.
Rapid Transfer allows consumers to make online payments instantly from their bank account without leaving amerchants website, and upload funds straight into their digital wallet.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 36 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Relevant, niche-oriented solutions INCOME ACCESS The Digital Wallets division derives the majority of its revenue In September, Paysafe announced the acquisition of Income from online gambling.
Weve been able to retain and grow our Access, a leader in affiliate marketing solutions.
Income relevance in this sector this year, including by continuing to Access brings a depth of expertise and client relationships build our VIP and loyalty programmes with targeted offerings across a wide range of markets and verticals.
Weve also demonstrated thought capabilities provide value-added services that extend beyond leadership in the online gambling space, and leveraged our payments, making Paysafes overall offering more relevant for expertise and insights with a significant presence at major our merchants, whilst providing an enhanced merchant industry events.
channel for the Skrill and NETELLER brands.
During 2016 weve seen success in a number of adjacent Paysafe holds market leadership positions in niche-oriented verticals that can benefit from our base of engaged solutions, of which online gambling is one.
Embedding the consumers and sophisticated payout and promotions established affiliate technology, and the network of affiliates functionality, including online video gaming, multi-level that Income Access brings, means we are in the right space marketing, professional service and freelancer networks and toexpand and grow.
This addition enhances Paysafes financial services and trading.
offering for existing partners, and extends the reach of the Paysafe brands into new markets and verticals.
Money transfer remains an emerging area for us with significant potential, as we look to promote this aspect of the offering further in 2017.
During 2016, weve added new mobile network operators as a withdrawal method in a number of emerging territories to support our money transfer capabilities.
Bold M&A Our sales and account management teams are increasingly The integration of Skrill, ahead of schedule and below focused on growing our merchant base, outside online budget, was a significant achievement for Paysafe this year.
gambling and into additional verticals, as we continue to Under the existing management team, a number of Skrill diversify the business.
andNETELLERs best practice elements have been combined Entrepreneurial culture to drive the business forward.
An important element of the Digital Wallets offering is the Following the completion of this integration, we acquired account management, service and expertise that we provide Income Access, an affiliate technology business.
This our merchants and consumers, enabling us to differentiate acquisition enhances the Digital Wallets proposition and and increase our relevance.
During the year, weve completed increases our relevance to merchants by providing the integration of Skrill and restructured our operations.
technology and services to manage their affiliate marketing Weve significantly invested in our customer services teams in programmes.
Sofia and our account management capabilities, alongside In the longer term, by increasing affiliate pay-outs through risk and compliance expertise.
Weve also introduced thewallets, and the amount of funds within the digital wallets incentives and resources promoting a single Paysafe ecosystem, we also expect to increase the appeal of the customer service style, based on our Group-wide values.
digital wallets to other merchants and encourage other revenue streams.
SOME OF OUR MERCHANTS INCLUDE: www.
