e c n e r e f e r p r e m u s n o C Operating review continued Prepaid DIVISIONAL CAPABILITIES: Payment Digital Processing & Wallets Acquiring Capabilities PCI compliance Chargeback management Risk rules engine Pay Later Prepaid Business Payment guarantee Consumer Solutions Solutions Merchant support Processing.
White labelling Reporting and analytics Cashback and loyalty Technology platform Developer portal Card Remittance Issuing HOW WE CREATE VALUE: The my paysafecard service allows consumers to store their The Prepaid division provides prepaid paysafecard vouchers in a personal online payments account cash vouchers through the paysafecard which can then be easily used wherever paysafecard isaccepted.
and my paysafecard brands, and became part of Paysafe through the For online merchants, paysafecard helps them generate incremental revenue by providing a channel to reach new Skrill acquisition in 2015. consumers, in particular, consumers who might not otherwise transact online using other online payment methods.
We help paysafecard allows consumers to convert cash into digital our merchants increase conversion and reduce their risk currency to pay for goods and services online, without having through guaranteed cash-based payments.
to provide any bank or credit card details to the merchant.
This enables consumers to protect their financial credentials, Merchants pay us a percentage of the transaction value take better control of their online spend, and participate in ofthepaysafecard voucher they redeem.
For consumers, the online economy without needing access to traditional itstypically free in most markets to purchase paysafecard payment methods.
vouchers and then spend them online.
Consumers purchase paysafecard vouchers for fixed Prepaids cost of sales primarily includes the costs of denominations from our distribution partners at physical distribution of vouchers, where we pay our distribution locations.
paysafecard vouchers can then be redeemed partners a fee based on the volume of vouchers that they sell.
atmerchants that accept paysafecard as a payment method, Our sales strategy includes direct sales to target merchants, by entering the unique 16-digit voucher PIN at the merchant as well as sales through our integrations into multiple online checkout.
paysafecard has an average transaction value checkouts and payment service providers.
Were also ofaround 25, and is used by millions of consumers boosting consumer engagement through a number of everymonth.
As part of this, we are making paysafecard available through a wider range of distribution outlets.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 38 e c n a t p e c c a t n a h c r e M OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION The Prepaid division contributed $213.7m of reported revenue in FY 2016 2015: $76.4m.
This represents 22% of the Groups reported fee revenue 2015: 13%.
Year-on-year organic constant currency revenue growth for FY 2016 FINANCIAL KPIS Prepaid was approximately 14%, compared to 11% in FY 2015.
These organic growth figures exclude the estimated Reported revenue Organic constant impact of discontinued revenue that was acquired as part of currency year-on-year the Ukash acquisition by Skrill in March 2015.
Before adjusting $213.7m revenue growth for that impact, organic constant currency growth was 10% in excluding the impact FY 2016, compared to 5% in FY 2015.
FY 2015: ofdiscontinued Ukash Reported revenue growth was 180% in FY 2016.
For FY 2015, territories and services $76.4m results were incorporated for the five-month period following the Skrill Group acquisition in August 2015.
Reported gross margin 14% Prepaid payments volume was $2.8bn 2015: $2.7bn FY 2015 pro-forma : 52.6% pro-forma.
Volume represents merchant transactions paid 11% for with a prepaid voucher provided by the division.
The FY 2015: relatively flat US dollar volume partly reflects the inclusion 51.3% ofdiscontinued Ukash volumes in the comparative figures, aswell as the impact of currency headwinds in H2 2016.
FY 2016 NON-FINANCIAL KPIS Prepaid revenue in 2016 was 7.7% of payment volume 2015: 7.5% pro-forma.
This increase largely reflects the impact of Volume Revenue volume maintenance fees applied to unredeemed voucher balances from the Ukash business.
Maintenance fees are standard $2.8bn 7.7% charges applied to vouchers that are not redeemed after acertain period of time.
As this unredeemed voucher balance FY 2015 pro-forma : FY 2015 pro-forma : decreases over time, the impact of maintenance fees $2.7bn 7.5% willreduce.
FY 2016 gross margin for the division was 52.6%, compared to51.3% in 2015, with the increase largely reflecting the impact of maintenance fees as outlined above.
com 39 Operating review continued Prepaid continued Sustainable organic growth FY 2016 FINANCIAL KPIs CONTINUED paysafecard originated in Europe, and now operates in 43 territories.
Growth in its core markets has been driven by the H2 2016 REPORTED REVENUE BY VERTICAL signup of new merchants and the expansion of distribution networks, as well as user number and usage growth with existing merchants.
E-commerce & other In addition, growth has been strong in a number of new Gaming territories that have been entered over the last five years.
17% 22% % Wecontinue to extend and expand into territories such as Latin America and MENA, where we can increase our relevance with merchants in cash-driven regions with low credit-card penetration and large unbanked populations.
Online gambling We have adapted well to the new environment in Greece, 61% following our decision to pause activity in the country in mid-2015 due to the introduction of new capital controls.
Asat the end of the year, we are experiencing volumes equivalent to pre-capital control levels.
H1 2016 REPORTED REVENUE BY VERTICAL Our organic revenue growth is underpinned by growth in our distribution network, which now has over 500,000 outlets across the markets that paysafecard service.
As an example ofthe depth of the distribution network, as of November 2016 E-commerce & other Gaming paysafecard vouchers are even available from on-board ticket machines on buses in Warsaw, Poland.
21% 18% We are well prepared for upcoming changes to anti-money laundering legislation in Europe.
During 2016, we have integrated additional KYC technology solutions and Online gambling enhanced the my paysafecard offering, enabling us to sign upour consumers more quickly and efficiently.
61% Europe represents 93% of the divisions total fee revenue.
Online gambling is the strongest vertical for the division, accounting for 61% of FY 2016 fee revenue H2 2015 proforma: 59%.
Gaming contributed 18% of FY 2016 fee revenue H2 2015 PRO-FORMA REVENUE BY VERTICAL H2 2015 pro-forma: 20%, with the remaining 22% of fee revenue coming from e-commerce and consumer fees.
E-commerce verticals include social and freelancer communities, online dating, music, film and entertainment, E-commerce & other Gaming internet services and travel.
21% 20% State-of-the-art technology One of our areas of focus this year has been on improving and enhancing the my paysafecard product.
Alongside integration of automated, real-time KYC solutions and increasing security Online gambling with partner authentication products, weve also introduced a new solution called paysafecard direct.
59% Were excited about how this product innovation makes the consumer journey easier, encourages my paysafecard signup, and helps us target new verticals with an additional relevant offering.
paysafecard direct is currently live in a number of European countries, including Austria, France, Spain and Greece.
The rollout is continuing into 2017.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 40 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Were proud that a number of the paysafecard team, Relevant, niche-oriented solutions including the divisional CEO, have been with the paysafecard The paysafecard product is tailored to a consumer base who business from the start.
The start-up culture atpaysafecard want to use an alternative cash-based product to pay online.
has been successfully scaled up into a key element For example, our consumers value safety and convenience.
We carried out a Payment Radar Europe survey in March 2016 that revealed that 48% of the 4,000 participants surveyed Bold M&A hadcancelled at least one online purchase due During 2016 weve seen the continued success of the Ukash tosecurityconcerns.
acquisition made in March 2015. paysafecard has seen growth In supporting this consumer base, paysafecard has proven in the Ukash markets that transferred to the paysafecard particularly relevant in verticals such as online gambling and platform in H2 2015. online gaming, and weve continued to add users throughout In addition, paysafecard has been working with the Digital the year.
Wallets division to identify, promote and reward referrals As part of our targeted approach to the online gaming through the Skrill Quick Checkout product, into which vertical, we again sponsored e-sports tournaments during paysafecard is integrated as an alternative payment method.
2016, including ESL One Cologne, which involved theworlds This initiative has delivered a number of new client wins for biggest Counter Strike: Global Offensive event.
Thisgave both divisions during the period.
paysafecard visibility as a market-leading e-sports brand, at one of the most significant events for the gamingcommunity.
PAYSAFECARD DIRECT Weve integrated with a number of the leading online video paysafecard direct allows any registered user of my game distribution platforms covering multiple formats, paysafecard, paysafecards online and mobile payment including console and PC.
This allows gamers to use vouchers account service, to top up his or her account directly at the to buy triple-A games and make in-game purchases through point of sale without having to purchase a physical paper their devices.
Using a mobile phone or computer, customers select a denomination to generate a unique barcode.
This We are also targeting new verticals that are relevant to our barcode is then scanned at the point of sale, and the desired existing consumer base.
For example, we have integrated with amount appears in their account and is ready to use within Switzerlands safemoni app to enable worldwide prepaid afew minutes.
For consumers, it removes the need to collect mobile phone top-ups with paysafecard.
For merchants, it enables quicker and easier payments.
For distributors, it can generate more sales Entrepreneurial culture through promotion in the my paysafecard app and increased 2016 has been a year of process improvements for denominations available.
paysafecard, with launches of distribution and merchant service portals as well as streamlining internal processes.
These improvements are aimed at automating various procedures so that we can better utilise and stretch our highly skilled professionals.
SOME OF OUR OUR MERCHANTS INCLUDE: www.
