Operating review Merchandise Food Our Merchandise segment is comprised Pet food represents the largest segment of our Merchandise revenues.
We sell food for of Food and Accessories across both our all major pet categories dogs, cats, small mammals, fish, reptiles, birds and horses.
In 2016, revenues from food were 382.5m, representing 54.9% of total Food Merchandise revenues.
Advanced Nutrition Grocery food Our growth in food is driven by Advanced Treats Nutrition, premium ranges offering Other food significant health and wellbeing benefits to dogs and cats.
Advanced Nutrition Accessories revenues of 163.2m, which grew by Pet homes and habitats 12.3%, accounted for 43% of our food Toys, collars, leads, clothing and other accessories revenues in 2016.
The health benefits of Health & Hygiene products Advanced Nutrition are best communicated by well-trained colleagues who can discuss the specific requirements for an individual pet and advise customers of the most appropriate diet.
For this reason, the Our Merchandise brands distribution channels for Advanced Nutrition are restricted to pet specialists.
Pets at Home has been responsible for much of the growth in this segment of the market and holds a 53% market share.
Grocery pet food, which is sold by pet specialists and supermarkets, and pet treats, form the other major segments of our food offer.
Our Pets at Home brand and private labels, Merchandise revenue such as Wainwrights, account for 32% of our total food revenues.
Our flagship Wainwrights brand alone has sales of Revenue split Growth 47m.
Over the year we added unique new ranges such as Pure, which uses Food 382.5 m 6.4% dehydration to preserve the quality of its Accessories 314.0 m 2.4% fresh ingredients, and Wellness, one of the leading Advanced Nutrition ranges in the US which is exclusive to Pets at Home in the UK.
We continue to innovate in this growing Merchandise revenue category and are investing in the development of new ranges that extend choice for customers and provide 696.5m additional opportunities for growth.
4.6% Pets at Home Group Plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Accessories Strategy in action: VIP club exclusive offers Revenues in accessories, which account for 45.1% of Merchandise revenues, grew 2.4% to 314.0 million in 2016.
Our ranges include bedding, collars and leads, feeding bowls, clothing, toys, grooming products, training and behavioural products, and travel accessories for dogs and cats in addition to small animal homes and bedding, equestrian accessories, and Health and Hygiene products.
In accessories, our own brands and private labels represent 51% of store revenues.
Progress in accessories is supported by success in designs that mirror human trends in home furnishings and fashion, and over the peak Christmas trading period, advent calendars for dogs and cats sold well.
We expect these trends towards a humanisation of pet accessories to continue.
Case study: Innovation is a critical factor in our VIP club driving success in both food and accessories.
We continue to invest in the development customer purchasing of new and innovative products that are into Advanced Nutrition both attractive and fun, and yet always contribute positively to the welfare Our loyalty scheme, VIP club, allows us of pets and represent good value for to engage with our customers through our customers.
In the past year we exclusive offers on both products and services, refreshed 40% of our store range.
based upon our understanding of their pet ownership and purchasing behaviour.
A seamless approach 4.5m By communicating with our VIPs about the Our in-store range is supported by an VIP members benefits of better pet diets, both through expanded offer of 12,000 products our colleagues in-store, as well as mailers available online.
We have continued to and online communications, we have invest in providing our customers with a successfully increased our VIPs participation seamless approach to shopping which 64% in Advanced Nutrition foods.
Over 50% of allows them to engage with us where they our longest serving VIP members purchased Swipe rate of VIP card at store tills Advanced Nutrition foods, compared to want, when they want and how they want.
40% across the whole VIP club, where many This will be enhanced by new developments customers have been members for only which will allow colleagues to place orders a short period of time.
for customers from our extended range while they are in store, using our Pet Pads, and the launch of our VIP App.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35 Operating review continued Services Not only are pet services profitable in Our Services segment is comprised their own right, they are an important driver of both increased footfall and of our vet practice, grooming salon additional merchandise sales in our stores.
They also create additional and insurance businesses, as well as expertise within our stores, contribute to their appeal and enhance brand loyalty.
Veterinary practices Services & Other Pets at Home operates the largest branded First opinion veterinary practice services network of first opinion veterinary practices Specialist referral veterinary centre services in the UK, trading mainly under the Grooming salons Vets4Pets brand name.
During the year, Insurance the Group also entered the market for Pets veterinary referrals with the acquisitions of Northwest Surgeons and Anderson Moores veterinary specialists and, since the year end, we have acquired Eye Vet and Dick White Referrals.
First opinion practices Our Services brands Our first opinion practices represent the only large scale joint venture veterinary services business in the UK.
Practices operate both within our stores and in standalone locations.
The joint venture model provides opportunities for individual vets to own their own practice together with Pets at Home.
Each joint venture is constituted as an independent business which is funded by small loans into the new business from the Services revenue vet and from Pets at Home, and a larger independent bank loan, which together provide for the fit out of the practice and Revenue split Growth the initial working capital requirements.
Pets at Home receives a percentage of Vet practice fee income 34.5 m 22.3% fee income from the JV in return for the Other services 46.8 m 34.8% administrative and back-office services we provide.
If the practice is located in one of our stores a service charge is also levied on the practice, reflecting the space it occupies.
The JV partner has access to all the profits in the business once the Services revenue loans are repaid, and is entitled to the increase in value on the business if it is sold to a new JV partner.
81.3m 29.2% Pets at Home Group Plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance We also operate a number of practices Strategy in action: Increasing customer footfall that are wholly owned by Pets at Home which provide vets with opportunities to trial working with us before committing to a JV partnership.
Veterinary referral centres Based on the success of our JV model in first opinion practices, we have developed a shared ownership model for our veterinary referral centres.
This allows Directors to remain with a significant interest in the business, it provides support for future growth and development, and creates a platform for new clinicians to become business partners in the future.
Looking forward, we see further opportunities to grow our business in veterinary referrals through organic growth, bolt-on acquisitions and we will continue to explore additional products and services for clients of our first opinion practices, including extended opening hours and the development of innovative care packages.
Case study: Adding vet practices Grooming salons In a highly fragmented UK market we provide and grooming salons grooming services under two brands: The to our stores increases Groom Room, which is the largest branded chain of pet grooming salons in the UK: overall profitability and within our Barkers premium dog stores where the spa and bath house is a major Adding veterinary practice and grooming salon element of the total offer.
services to our stores creates the ultimate pet shopping experience for our customers, all Groom Room salons are primarily located under one roof.
Services create more reasons for pet owners to shop with us and increase within our stores, with a small number being footfall and customer loyalty.
trialled alongside standalone vet practices.
59% In addition to increasing customer footfall and Colleagues working in our salons receive of stores have a vet practice loyalty, services generate additional revenue extensive training and education which takes and profit streams for the business, providing more than 1,400 hours to complete.
Our highly margin support to the Group.
skilled stylists provide grooming services In a fully mature store with vet and groomer, for dogs and cats including bathing, clipping, 56% the operating profitability is 24% higher than coat cutting and nail trimming.
of stores have a grooming salon that of a store alone, which reflects the additional profit streams of those businesses, operating at a higher margin to the store, as Pet insurance in our stores well as the service charge paid by the veterinary We offer Pets at Home branded insurance practice for the space occupied in-store.
in our stores and online, which provides Our overall estate is still very immature, with only cover for dogs, cats and rabbits.
We 20% of our vet practices and 15% of our grooming operate on an introducer basis, with the salons having reached maturity.
Opening more insurance product issued and underwritten vet practices and grooming salons, alongside our by a third party.
services maturing, brings margin support to our business over the longer term.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37
