Operating review 2016 2015 Assumption m m 1 Orders 495.4 461.6 EMEA Services Revenue 616.4 625.6 EMEA Services combines world-leading Underlying operating profit 93.8 93.0 expertise with unique facilities to provide Underlying operating margin 15.2% 14.9% technical assurance, test and evaluation and 1 Book to bill ratio 1.2x 1.1x training services, underpinned by long-term 1 Funded backlog 719.1 678.6 contracts.
The most significant of these is the Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 149.
1 Excludes the 998m third term of the LTPA contract.
B2B ratio is orders won divided by revenue recognised, for test, evaluation and training services excluding the LTPA contract.
which has delivered an improved service and significant savings for the MOD over the last 13 years.
EMEA Services is also a market leader in research and advice in Year in review RPAS to meet growing demand particularly specialist areas such as C4ISR, weapons Air & Space from international organisations such as the and energetics, cyber security and With technology developments increasingly United Nations.
blurring boundaries between air and space systems, our Air & Space businesses were Following the opening of the Snowdonia combined on 1 April 2016 to increase Aerospace Centre at Llanbedr in Wales, Financial performance collaboration in our engineering capabilities it successfully demonstrated the use of RPAS Each of the core Air & Space, Maritime, to fide-risk complex aerospace programmes.
in tackling environmental issues in a project Land & Weapons and Cyber, Information for the Welsh Government.
& Training businesses delivered a solid The business is working in partnership with performance in 2016, despite the the MOD and the supply chain to implement Maritime, Land & Weapons uncertainty resulting principally from the a new model to transform the provision of The Maritime, Land & Weapons business UK Strategic Defence and Security Review aircraft test and evaluation.
During the year, was created on 1 April 2016 combining SDSR published in November 2015 and it was awarded two single source contract businesses with a strong focus on test and budgetary pressures.
renewals under this new model, worth a evaluation at a time when customers are combined 153m over five years, to deliver increasingly undertaking more complex, Orders grew 7% to 495.4m 2015: multi-domain trials.
The new business will technical services to fast jets and heavy lift 461.6m driven by the timing of multi-year deliver operational advantage to customers aircraft.
This represents a new way of contract awards including the 153m by providing independent research, working under which we are measured five-year UK MOD renewal for aircraft evaluation and training services.
and paid on results and outputs, not inputs, engineering services with some continued improving long-term planning, providing fide-scoping and delay to other orders In the weapons domain, the business is better visibility, and delivering considerable in a challenging market environment.
a leading provider of independent research savings to the MOD.
This award complements on weapons and energetics, coordinating a 13m contract to assist the MOD in bringing Revenue was flat on an organic basis at a the MODs conventional weapons research the Delta Test variant of the A400M Atlas into constant exchange rate, after adjusting for programme through its leadership of the UK service, and a 5m contract to evaluate the divestment of Cyveillance Inc, which Weapons Science and Technology Centre.
flight control system upgrades to Boeings was sold in December 2015 for net disposal During the year it was also awarded a Chinook helicopter.
Cyveillance, which had new research framework contract for trials, revenues of $18m in FY15, is a former testing and analysis in cyber and electronic In international markets, the Air & Space business unit of the US Services division, warfare, a five-year contract to provide business was awarded a five-year extension sold in May 2014, and more recently has advice to the MOD on military batteries to the contract under which it manages been reported in EMEA Services.
At the and a four-year contract to provide advice and assists in the delivery of training at the beginning of the new financial year, 77% to NATO, contracts which all demonstrate Swedish Flight Physiological Centre.
It is also of EMEA Services FY17 revenue was under confidence in QinetiQ as a long-term partner.
developing the gridded ion engine electric contract, compared with 80% at the In addition to research and advice, core propulsion systems for the flight module beginning of the prior year.
capabilities include test and evaluation, to be used on the European Space Agencys delivered mainly under the LTPA, and targets BepiColombo mission to Mercury.
Significant Underlying operating profit increased 1% to services.
In October 2015, the business led resources are being deployed by all parties 93.8m 2015: 93.0m assisted by a credit a team from across QinetiQ to deliver an to ensure the mission meets the planned of approximately 3m due to the resolution international at sea demonstration at the launch date which has been deferred to 2018. of a historical overseas exposure.
Hebrides range, the largest in Europe.
The business delivers turnkey services for customers using Remotely Piloted Air Systems 34 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The exercise attracted nine ships from eight Cyber, Information & Training constellation of satellites the European nations, culminating in the first ever launch The CIT business helps government and Union version of GPS which goes live in 2017. of a ballistic rocket into space from the UK commercial customers respond to everDuring the year it launched a new receiver and its subsequent engagement by an SM3 evolving threats based on its expertise in that will utilise the PRS service for use by missile launched by a US guided missile training, secure communication networks governments, the military and emergency destroyer.
As a result, the business is now and devices, intelligence gathering and services across Europe.
pursuing opportunities for further combat surveillance sensors, and cyber security.
scenario training and inter-operability testing International involving customers from many nations.
Although competition is fierce, the UK SDSR On 1 April 2016, a new International business It also undertook testing of the latest and the focus on counter-terrorism are likely was established incorporating businesses helicopter-borne Infra-Red Threat Warning to drive increases in budgets for C4ISR with a significant international footprint and System in live rocket and gunfire scenarios.
The CIT business is the those with international potential, as well as MODs leading supplier of C4ISR research, to manage other opportunities via our Sustaining and growing its core technical maintaining its research revenues during international offices.
The business includes advice and design support services to the the year and winning new work to improve QinetiQ Australia as well as Advisory Services UK Royal Navy is a strategic priority for the information systems for deployed previously known as Procurement Advisory Maritime, Land & Weapons business, and headquarters.
during the year it was awarded a new a network of more than 100 UK SMEs contract to deliver acceptance trials for the through these research framework contracts, The Australian business provides impartial four new MARS class tankers.
The business fulfilling an innovation integrator role that advice and services predominately to also resolved urgent operational issues is becoming more and more important in government customers.
This year, the to enable ships to deploy and be effective defence and other sectors.
Large framework business successfully agreed with the in theatre including improving the contracts are being used increasingly for the Australian Department of Defence, the hydrodynamic efficiency of Type 23 frigates delivery of technology services and during renewal for up to 15 years of the Aircraft by optimising the design of the propeller the year the business was awarded a position Structural Integrity ASI services contract for and hull, enabling the Royal Navy to realise with Northrop Grumman on a seven-year a minimum value of A$21m, which supports potential fuel savings across its fleet.
It also framework contract to deliver cyber security the airworthiness of military aircraft.
This is delivered a container-based combat system support to the UK Government.
It also won one of two underpinning contracts for the for close-in defence against Fast Inshore a contract with Motorola Solutions to provide Australian business, which position it well for Attack Craft offering a new, flexible solution monitoring, assessment and assurance strategic partner style contracts that the for the self-protection of support ships.
services in support of the delivery of the Australian Government is using increasingly The business is pursuing selected growth UK Emergency Services Network.
as it implements its recapitalisation and campaigns with a focus on emerging defence acquisition reform programmes.
technologies such as autonomous systems.
Outside its traditional markets, CIT is During the year, it won a number of providing advice to regional and local Advisory Services helps customers deliver autonomy-related contracts, including government customers on innovation complex programmes by providing analytical support to the Royal Navy to deliver the initiatives to support local business growth, services and the evidence required to make Unmanned Warrior exercise in October and is delivering training and simulation complex decisions.
Building on its strong 2016 which will demonstrate the use of services to customers in North America, record in the UK, the business won a major autonomous systems in a wide range of Europe and the Middle East.
Finally, the contract to provide early stage advice and scenarios.
QinetiQs role also includes the business is providing secure receiver business case support to a Middle Eastern delivery of a containerised command system processing for the encrypted Public client for a complex engineering project.
to control multiple unmanned systems.
Regulated Service PRS on the Galileo Global Products Financial performance Revenue was up slightly to 139.3m Orders grew 8% to 164.4m 2015: 152.0m 2015: 138.2m as a result of currency Global Products delivers innovative as a result of a new pipeline contract for movements but underlying operating solutions to meet customer requirements OptaSense and due to improved order flow profit fell to 15.1m 2015: 18.3m, and undertakes contract-funded research in QinetiQ North America.
As a result, the impacted by a reduction in income from and development, developing intellectual Global Products division had 64% of its FY17 the oil and gas sector and the completion property in partnership with key revenue already under contract at the of certain programmes in the prior year.
customers and through internal funding beginning of the new financial year compared The underlying operating profit margin with potential for new revenue streams.
with 61% at the same time last year.
2016 2015 Assumption m m Orders 164.4 152.0 Revenue 139.3 138.2 Underlying operating profit 15.1 18.3 Underlying operating margin 10.8% 13.2% Book to bill ratio 1.2x 1.1x Funded backlog 139.1 116.7 Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 149.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35 Operating review continued Year in review OptaSense The project will pave the way for a second QinetiQ North America OptaSense is a Distributed Acoustic Sensing mission, recently rescheduled to 2020, in QinetiQ North America develops and DAS business operating in multiple vertical which a rover will spend six months analysing produces innovative military protection markets.
During the year, Jamie Pollard Marss environment for signs of life.
The business products, specialising in unmanned systems, was appointed to be its CEO after more is currently developing the computer and survivability and maritime systems, along than 20 years running large global businesses avionics for ESAs Proba 3 satellites, to be with products in related commercial markets.
at oilfield services company Schlumberger.
launched in 2019 to study the Sun.
The performance of this business improved An OptaSense advisory board has also been in year as it continued to adapt to a defence established, comprising senior industry EMEA Products funding environment that has shifted specialists to provide domain expertise in EMEA Products provides research services markedly from the overseas contingency key target markets including Hansjorg Hess, and bespoke technological solutions operations associated with Iraq and a former Executive Director of Deutsche developed from intellectual property spun Afghanistan.
QinetiQ North America is the Bahn Netze.
Although growth in the out from EMEA Services.
QinetiQ makes worlds leading provider of military robots upstream oil and gas market has been an important contribution to sovereign UK with employees centred in Massachusetts, constrained by the low oil price, the product capability in advanced materials technology, Pennsylvania and Virginia.
Activity in year development agreement with Shell continues and during the year it renewed a five-year, focused on the reset and recapitalisation to deliver significant technical progress and 10m contract to provide materials research of robots previously used on operations and a fourth generation OptaSense system was and advice to the UK MOD.
This capability the upgrade of systems with new capabilities launched in year.
The business also signed underpins ongoing commercial relationships such as the detection of CBRNE chemical, a strategic marketing agreement with with EDF Energy for the development of biological, radiological, nuclear, and Weatherford, an oil and gas service company stealth wind turbines.
At the same time, the business with a presence in every major oil and gas the first company accredited and authorised is preparing for multi-year Programs of region of the world.
The partnership will by the French Government to assess Record which will be funded out of the deliver enhanced data acquisition and proposed wind farm impact on Department of Defenses base budget.
monitoring of seismic activity, well meteorological radars, in order to speed construction, completion and fracture up planning applications.
Other orders During the year the business announced operations, and production flow.
received in year included a contract with a contract win valued at $16m from General the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Atomics in San Diego, California to deliver OptaSense continues to make progress in Agency DARPA to develop an electric control hardware and software for the infrastructure security, winning a contract hub-drive that will improve survivability and Electromagnetic Aircraft Launch System with a partner to deliver the worlds largest mobility of future military ground vehicles.
EMALS and the Advanced Arresting Gear distributed fibre sensing project for the The contract, worth $2m with an option for AAG to be installed on the Navys next Trans-Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline TANAP a further $3m, is part of DARPAs Ground aircraft carrier, the future John F. Kennedy that runs from Azerbaijan, through Georgia X-Vehicle Technologies GXV-T programme.
It was also awarded orders for and Turkey, to Europe.
The total contract survivability products for both US and value is more than $30m, of which Subsidiaries Boldon James and Commerce international customers, with demand for approximately half has been contracted Decisions are reported in EMEA Products.
air and ground armour increasing in year.
with OptaSense, and will cover the protection Boldon James, which provides data In addition to product sales, QinetiQ North of over 1,850km of pipeline.
The business classification solutions to large military America is building on its base of contractalso won a contract to monitor a further and commercial organisations, had a strong funded R&D projects to drive technology 500km of gas pipeline in India.
At the end year and should see further opportunities development, explore new customer of September, OptaSense successfully following changes to European Union problems and expand its competitive completed an 18-month development regulations that introduce significant offerings.
project with Deutsche Bahn, which penalties for data classification leaks.
concluded that DAS technology has the Commerce Decisions renewed its agreement potential to significantly reduce the cost with the MOD for the provision of tender of sensing in the rail industry.
It also won assessment and procurement support a contract with a Class 1 US Railroad operator software.
It also won the first contract to deliver a software platform in preparation through its Australian arm and was selected for a wider rollout of DAS technology.
to deliver bid evaluation criteria for the Canadian Surface Combatant programme Space Products which will be used to assess warship QinetiQs Space Products business, which designers and combat system integrators.
provides satellites, payload instruments, sub-systems and ground station services, delivered several innovative projects during the year.
In March, the European Space Agencys ESAs ExoMars mission was launched, containing QinetiQs UHF transceiver which will transmit data from the lander on the planets surface back to Earth via a satellite orbiting Mars.
36 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Leading the way in UK maritime autonomy Unmanned Warrior The UK Defence Science and Technology Laboratory Dstl has awarded QinetiQ a 4.2m contract to deliver a command and control demonstration of coordinating multiple unmanned vehicles.
This will see landmark new systems deployed during the Royal Navys Unmanned Warrior showcase in October 2016, with demonstrations including a comparison of mine countermeasures by manned and unmanned craft.
This showcase takes place alongside the Joint Warrior exercise, with QinetiQ facilities and expertise supporting a wide range of activities.
Leading the way in maritime autonomy Anticipating the critical role of autonomy in future maritime operations, QinetiQ established its Maritime Autonomy Centre two years ago to support customers in the design, integration, test and evaluation of these emerging systems.
We deliver the innovation, expertise and facilities that help our customers to lead the way in this increasingly important sector, says Bill Biggs, Campaign Leader Maritime Management.
The centre won new business valued at more than 6.5m in its first year of full operation.
Groundbreaking technology Unmanned Warrior will involve more than 60 unmanned vehicles from 40 organisations operating in the challenging waters and airspace of northwest Scotland.
Leading a team that comprises BAE Systems, Thales Group and SeeByte, our experts are developing a solution to integrate unmanned systems from multiple suppliers.
The objective is to minimise the number of screens and controls needed to conduct missions, so improving efficiency and mitigating the risk of human error by reducing the burden on operators, Biggs adds.
Using QinetiQ facilities near the Isle of Skye and Hebrides, this groundbreaking work will provide two systems for Defence Equipment and Support fide&S and Dstl: one in a surveillance role and the other supporting underwater mine countermeasures.
Commander Peter Pipkin, Royal Navy This is an important part of showing the true potential of unmanned systems.
Being able to demonstrate the end-to-end flow of information to enable better decisionmaking is key and an important enabler for our demonstrations.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37
