38 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Review % of Net Revenue 65% ENA Percentage of Net Revenue from ENA ENA Total Net Revenue was 6,410 million, with like-for-like LFL growth of Rob fide Groot 1%.
North America had a tough year, with a flat LFL performance.
Executive Vice President, ENA While we achieved good growth in our VMS brands, Mucinex and Finish, this was offset by weakness with our Amop Wet & Dry pedi innovation.
Net Revenue Russia had a very weak year, with a double-digit LFL decline in revenue.
Volume declines arose from a combination of customer and consumer destocking and weakness in Scholl.
While Russia remains 6,410m volatile, we are looking for an improving performance in 2017.
2015: 5,830m The rest of ENA saw robust growth during the year.
Growth was LFL growth: 1% innovation led in our larger markets of Germany, the UK, France, Actual growth: 10% Spain and Australia, with strong performances from the Veet precision trimmer, Harpic Waves and Air Wick Pure.
Scholls performance was mixed, with strong performance from our GelActive insoles more than offset by weakness from the Wet & Dry pedi.
Adjusted Operating Profit Adjusted Operating Profit increased by 2% at constant exchange rates to 1,978 million.
The Adjusted Operating Margin rose by 100bps to 30.9%, due to strong Gross Margin expansion.
1,978m 2015: 1,744m Total growth: 2% at constant 13% at actual Food Food Total Net Revenue was 411m, a 5% LFL increase versus prior year and 7% LFL increase in Q4.
Frenchs continues to deliver a strong performance, driven by growth of Frenchs ketchup, regaining share in 4% Frenchs mustard, outperformance on Franks Red Hot and continued of Net Revenue expansion in international markets, most notably Canada.
Operating Margins declined by -50bps to 28.7% as we continue to invest for growth and international expansion.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 39 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements % of Net Revenue 31% DvM Percentage of Net Revenue from DvM DvM Total Net Revenue was 3,070 million, with LFL growth of 8%.
This Frederic Larmuseau Executive Vice President, DvM reflected a strong underlying performance.
Had it not been for the impact of South Korea, LFL growth in DvM would have been double digit.
For more information on our ongoing support in South Korea see pages 14 to 15.
Net Revenue In South Asia, India delivered strong growth, despite a significant slowdown in the fourth quarter caused by demonetisation disrupting 3,070m the market.
We reduced the impact of the disruption on reported revenue through a focused programme of support to distributors, with 2015: 2,695m some increase in channel inventory which will reverse in 2017.
LFL growth: 8% Actual growth: 14% We achieved further strong penetration gains with our leading Dettol and Harpic brands, underpinned by innovation and consumer education programmes.
China had another strong year, driven by e-commerce Adjusted Operating Profit initiatives and the launch of Move Free.
Over 30% of Chinas net revenue is now via e-commerce channels and we have an ambition to achieve 50% by 2020.
Indonesia and Thailand also had strong performances.
681m 2015: 528m The Brazil macro environment remains challenging, although a strong Total growth: 19% at constant performance from Veja and pest brands helped mitigate some of the 29% at actual weakness.
Turkey and Saudi Arabia had a weaker year, due to geopolitical issues in the second half.
Adjusted Operating Profit increased by 19% at constant exchange rates to 681m, and the Adjusted Operating Margin was 260bps higher at 22.2%.
This was due to Gross Margin expansion, combined with Supercharge initiatives.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 40 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Review continued Highlights 2016 Total Net Revenue was 3,332 million, with LFL growth of 4%, following exceptional LFL growth of 14% in 2015.
This was an Health average result versus the market but below our ambition to outperform.
We remain steadfast in our commitment to driving outperformance in this strategic category.
Net Revenue Market position Our Scholl Amop franchise experienced a double-digit decline.
Nurofen and Gaviscon are leading analgesic and The cause was twofold: an exceptional year of product launches and gastro-intestinal brands geographic expansion in 2015, followed by the launch of the Wet & Dry in Europe and Australia rechargeable pedi in 2016, which failed to meet expectations.
1 worldwide taken some key lessons from this launch and continue to innovate in this in condoms for both safe 2015: 2,942m important and underpenetrated category.
and more pleasurable sex LFL growth: 4% Strepsils is No.
1 in Actual growth: 13% medicated sore throat All the Powerbrands in the remainder of our Health portfolio grew in globally 2016 and the overall performance of our Consumer Health portfolio Mucinex is the No.
1 ex Scholl Amop was the same as in 2015, exceeding both in-year cough brand in the US and medium-term category growth rates.
1 globally in footcare This broad-based growth in 2016 included: Our Health Powerbrands Durex KY: Invisible ultra-thin condom and the launch of our KY Duration spray in the US Gaviscon: continued strong growth of our recent Double Action innovation VMS brands: all of our key brands MegaRed, Move Free, Digestive Advantage and Airborne grew during the year.
Move Free was particularly strong, following its full launch in China Mucinex: successful launch of our Clear & Cool range of liquids, within Fast Max and Sinus Max We believe we are well positioned to outperform long-term category growth in Consumer Health, led by our market-leading and trusted brands, strong consumer-centric innovation pipeline and significant investment behind medical professional and consumer education programmes.
Highlights 2016 Total Net Revenue was 1,828 million, with a LFL decline of -1%.
Air Wick grew, with a good performance from our recent Air Wick Pure Home innovation, which we scaled across a number of ENA markets during the year.
We also experienced success in the US from the launch of the new liquid electrical fragrance diffuser.
This provides the user with the Net Revenue Market position benefit of 8 x more fragrance control and has won a number of Vanish is No.
in fabric treatment Calgon is No.
1 The Vanish franchise declined in 2016, driven solely by the impact of worldwide in water 1,828m softeners events in South Korea.
We have continued to drive the Vanish Gold Air Wick is No.
2 2015: 1,715m franchise with the 30 second removal even on seven day dried in stains worldwide in air care LFL growth: -1% campaign as well as penetration building activities in key DvM markets Actual growth: 7% in Indonesia, Mexico and the Middle East.
Our Home Powerbrands Our overall performance in Home care, excluding the impact of South Korea, was at the upper end of our long-term category growth rates.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 41 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Highlights 2016 Total Net Revenue was 4,066 million, with LFL growth of 4%.
This was an improved performance versus the previous year and we saw Hygiene growth across both ENA and DvM.
Growth continues to be led by our key emerging market brands of Dettol and Harpic, as we focus on the right combination of relevant Net Revenue Market position and appropriately targeted innovations such as Dettol Squeezy and RB is No.
1 globally in the overall category of Harpic bathroom cleaner and consumer awareness programmes.
surface care Dettol also launched an innovative new mask in China to protect families No.
2 worldwide in from the harmful effects of air pollution.
Banega Swachh in India 4,066m lavatory care with Lysol continues to gain momentum in championing better hygiene in North America and 2015: 3,589m and Global Handwashing day, which helps teach children better Harpic across Europe and LFL growth: 4% Developing Markets hand hygiene, delivered more than 2 billion impressions.
Actual growth: 13% Dettol is No.
1 worldwide in antiseptic liquids Finish was a growth driver in ENA, with particular success in the US Finish is No.
1 worldwide as a result of our instore initiatives and successful Max-in-1 innovation.
in automatic dishwashing We also saw a near doubling of our Finish business in China where we No.
2 worldwide in pest control with the announced a new global partnership with a leading dishwasher Powerbrand Mortein, manufacturer in China.
While the market is still small in absolute terms, Our Hygiene the Groups international Powerbrands the growth rates for new dishwashers are now becoming the highest in brand, supported by local the world and Finish remains well positioned to benefit from brand franchises like this growth.
d-Con in North America Veet is No.
1 worldwide in depilatory products Veet had a successful year, with the launch and scaling of our new precision trimmer innovation.
Our pest business had a very strong year experiencing high market growth due to the spread of mosquito borne illnesses like Zika, the launch of our premium insect repellent range in Brazil and the recovery of our business in India.
Veja also had a strong performance in Brazil.
Highlights 2016 Food Total Net Revenue was 411 million, representing a 5% LFL increase.
Portfolio including Food Food continues to deliver a strong performance, driven by growth of Frenchs ketchup, regaining share in Frenchs mustard, outperformance by Franks Red Hot and continued expansion in international markets, Net Revenue Market position most notably Canada.
Frenchs Mustard is the No.
1 mustard brand in Operating margins declined by -50bps to 28.7%, as we continue to the US invest for growth and international expansion.
665m 2015: 628m Portfolio including Food LFL growth: Flat Total Net Revenue was 665 million, with a flat LFL performance versus Actual growth: 6% the prior year.
Laundry detergents and fabric softeners suffered from the twin impact of weakness in Southern Europe and South Korea.
Food Our Food Powerbrand continues to perform well.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
