RPC Group Plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report OPERATING REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY RPC is a leading plastic products design and There are four core elements to the Groups Vision engineering company for packaging and selected 2020 Focused Growth Strategy, which the Group non-packaging markets, with 24 design and announced in 2013, which are: engineering centres and over 130 operations in continuing focused organic growth in 29 countries, employing more than 18,300 people.
selected markets: The Group develops and manufactures a diverse range of products for a wide variety of customers, selective consolidation in the European plastic including many household names, and enjoys packaging market through targeted acquisitions strong market positions in many of the end markets to strengthen and extend market positions: it serves and the geographical areas in which it PIM creating a meaningful presence outside Europe VERVAAT operates.
Using a wide range of polymer conversion where growth rates in GDP are considerably Chief technologies, including injection moulding, blow Executive higher: and moulding, thermoforming, rotational moulding and other specialist conversion techniques, it is now pursuing added value opportunities in nonone of the largest plastic converters in Europe and packaging markets.
This has been another combines the development of innovative packaging The Group has continued to make good progress successful year with a strong and technical solutions for our customers with in the year in implementing all elements of business performance founded unparalleled levels of service and support.
upon good underlying organic The business is organised and managed according Continuing Focused Organic to product and market characteristics, and is split growth.
The Promens business Growth into two segments, Packaging and Non-packaging.
has been integrated and the After taking account of the full year impact of recent The Packaging business serves the food, nonacquisitions, overall sales growth on a like-for-like integration of GCS is well food, personal care, beverage and healthcare basis was 3%, with packaging sales increasing advanced.
The Non-packaging businesses design by 4% with good sales growth in personal care and manufacture moulds, moulded products and Group continues to explore and food.
Non-packaging sales reflect particularly technical components for other markets.
strong growth in automotive and rotational opportunities for growth in line moulded products, offset by lower mould sales.
The Group reorganised its operations at the with the Vision 2020 strategy.
Underlying growth was ahead of the GDP growth beginning of the year into five divisions servicing The new financial year has rates in the main geographical areas served by both the packaging and non-packaging markets, the businesses.
with the larger divisions operating a cluster started well and in line with structure to preserve autonomy in particular The Group continued to invest in new product managements expectations.
The divisions are RPC development and process technology, with over Superfos, RPC Bramlage, RPC Promens, RPC Bebo 100m of capital investment in the year and 24 and RPC Ace.
Each division operates across a design centres of excellence now recognised wide geographical area for reasons of customer across the Group.
Its innovation capabilities were proximity, local market demand and manufacturing acknowledged through winning several awards, resource, with the Ace business operations based including the FPA Product Innovation award and the in China.
UK Packaging Company of the Year for the second consecutive year.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 Also in March 2016 the Group acquired Global The acquisition in February 2015 of Promens, a Selective Consolidation in the European Packaging Market Closure Systems GCS, a leading innovative global leading European-based manufacturer of rigid Through Targeted Acquisitions manufacturer of plastic closures and dispensing plastic products for a wide range of end markets, systems supplying a wide range of end markets.
also extended the Groups geographical reach The Group has continued to build on its strong Headquartered in Paris, France, it operates from outside Europe, with packaging and non-packaging market positions and leading product and 21 manufacturing sites and 2 mould-making shops operations in Canada, Russia, Tunisia and China.
process innovation capabilities by completing five across 13 countries in Europe, the Americas and In addition the recent acquisition of GCS has acquisitions during the year, four of which were Asia.
The acquisition combines two of Europes further extended this reach, with operations in in the packaging market.
Although varying in size, leading design and engineering companies in USA, Mexico, China, Thailand and the Philippines.
these were all European based businesses with plastic products and extends the Groups product It generated sales of 83m from these operations attractive market leading positions which provide reach and capabilities, enhancing its presence in in the last financial year which will in due course platforms for future growth and further selective the closures and dispensing systems market, where provide the Group with new opportunities to consolidation within Europe.
historically the Group has had a limited presence.
sell its existing packaging and other products In May 2015 the Group enhanced its position in Its product range is also highly complementary to tothese markets.
PET by acquiring Innocan, a Belgian based start-up RPCs existing product offering and the combination The Group also benefited from the recent expansion company with a range of innovative and stackable of both businesses should generate purchasing and programmes in the USA within its own operations containers.
Located in Antwerp and with annual efficiency savings.
in RPC Bramlage and RPC Superfos, where sales sales of c. 6m, it sells two-stage PET containers for have increased significantly in the last two years.
the food and industrial markets, complementing the Creating a Meaningful Presence Additional capacity has provided growth particularly Groups position in PET.
Outside Europe in the food and personal care markets.
Furthermore, The acquisition of Ace in June 2014, the China In June 2015, Depicton, a small manufacturer the Group is establishing a manufacturing capability based and Hong Kong headquartered design and of cosmetic tubes based in Market Drayton, in Brazil, following one of its major customers with manufacturer of complex plastic injection moulded was acquired.
This business and its production a product launch to this market.
components and injection moulding tools supplying capabilities have been transferred to Beccles and mainly non-packaging markets, contributed 7% Overall, 218m 13% of the Groups turnover now incorporated within M&H Plastics.
of the Groups turnover for the year.
It is now originates from businesses operating outside of In March 2016 the Group acquired JP Plast, a Czech providing RPC with a strong platform to support its Europe 2015: 158m and the recent acquisition of based manufacturer of industrial blow moulded international customer base in Asia, as evidenced GCS will add an additional 83m on a full year pro products for the industrial packaging and selected by the integration of the Promens operation at Hefei forma basis.
non-packaging markets, largely automotive and into the Group for a major global customer.
With annual sales of c. 12m continues to develop the Groups in-house technical it is the local market leader in the Czech Republic, expertise in mould design and manufacture.
and together with its sister operation in Slovakia, Significant investment is being made to extend its addition to the Group extends our presence the Groups electroplating capabilities in China into Eastern Europe.
Its strong management tofurther grow in the automotive sector.
team and market positions means it requires limited integration.
Segment Division Major markets and principal sectors Packaging RPC Promens Non-food general industrial, agrochemical, automotive : Food: RPC Bramlage Personal care mass personal care, cosmetics, beauty : Healthcare pharmaceuticals : Beverage single-serve coffee : Food spreads : RPC Superfos Food dairy, sauces, spreads : Non-food surface coatings, general industrial : RPC Bebo Food spreads, fresh foods, dairy, long shelf life : Beverages single-serve coffee, drinking cups vending : Non-packaging RPC Ace Technical Components moulds, lifestyle, specialty vehicles & automotive : RPC Promens Technical Components specialty vehicles & automotive, fish tubs : RPC Group Plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report OPERATING REVIEW continued Pursuing Added Value Promens GROUP PERFORMANCE Opportunities in Non-packaging The Promens business has been integrated into Overall sales increased 34% during the year Markets the Group.
With 40 sites across 24 countries and to 1,642m with a significant contribution Since the acquisition of Ace further synergies have with a wide range of packaging and non-packaging coming from acquisitions and 3% growth in been realised with the newly acquired businesses products and conversion technologies, this has like-for-like sales.
Adjusted EBITDA was 251.2m within the enlarged RPC Group leveraging from required a significant post-merger integration which 2015: 187.6m and adjusted operating profit of Aces mould making expertise, and providing new is now complete.
It was the catalyst for creating a 174.3m increased by 42.7m 32%, with return opportunities for Ace to apply its mould making new divisional organisation structure for the Group, on sales at 10.6% 2015: 10.8% and RONOA at capabilities to new types such as blow moulding.
given the products, markets and end sectors in rigid 22.7% 2015 pro forma: 21.5%.
Main drivers for In addition, the acquisition of the materials handling plastic packaging common to both companies.
the adjusted profit improvement were the profit and specialty vehicles businesses through the contribution from the newly acquired businesses, The major integration achievements and synergy Promens acquisition have provided opportunities underlying organic growth and significant synergy realisations included for the Group to make enhanced returns, with these benefits which more than offset the adverse businesses trading well under RPCs ownership.
eliminating corporate overhead by closing the impacts of currency translation and the time lag This includes the recent reorganisation of the fish Reykjavik, Iceland, head office and the Finance in passing through polymer price variations to tub Splast business to focus operations in Europe and IT offices in Oslo and Kongsvinger, Norway: the customer base.
The Group incurred 68.2m and the Americas and restructuring activities at 2015: 42.9m of exceptional restructuring realising the purchasing and working the specialty vehicles and automotive business at costs, impairments and other exceptional items, capital synergies.
Hockenheim and Zevenaar, both of which have seen mainly relating to acquisition costs and the improved returns.
The optimisation of the combined manufacturing integration and restructuring costs in respect of the footprint in Europe is currently on-going.
In November 2015, the Group acquired Strata The Groups estimate of overall steady state cost Products, a market leading manufacturer of material The Group continued to invest in growth and savings was 50m 36.0m p. a. the run-rate of handling products including branded products Ward efficiency projects, with 101m of capital which is expected to be achieved by the end of and Sankey for the horticultural market, thereby expenditure incurred in the period.
Total restructuring costs were estimated extending and enhancing the Groups position in the improved reflecting the impact of the recent to be 110m 79.1m over two years, with UK retail market.
Based in Pinxton, Nottinghamshire acquisitions with 150.9m 2015: 92.7m of net associated cash costs of 65m 46.8m and taking and with annual sales of c. 29m, the business has cash from operating activities and free cash flow into account non-cash asset write-downs and 10m seen recent strong growth and provides further of 109.2m 2015: 50.8m.
Working capital as a 7.2m of working capital synergies.
At the year opportunities for the Group to leverage purchasing percentage of sales was 6.8% 2015: 5.5%, higher end 35m 26m of benefits had already been and other best practice synergies.
than the previous corresponding period due to the realised, with a further 25m 20m expected by acquired businesses.
The Group retains a strong the end of 2016 17.
The costs of the programme to BUSINESS INTEGRATION balance sheet with net debt of 744m, and it had date, which are charged as exceptional integration total finance facilities available of 1,141m at Current Year Acquisitions and restructuring costs, amounted to 83m 63m.
All of the bolt-on acquisitions have been fully Having reviewed both the Promens and GCS integrated into the Group, with all short term synergy programmes, the new estimate of synergies realised.
The Innocan, Strata Products the overall cost benefits associated with the and JP Plast acquisitions now operate within the optimisation of the overall cost base is 80m, RPC Promens division.
The Depicton business is which is 15m higher than the previous combined now part of M&H Plastics operations, in the RPC estimate.
The estimate of restructuring costs to Bramlage division.
achieve these benefits has increased by 50m The GCS acquisition was completed on 29 March to170m.
The integration of the business is proceeding well, with the business reporting to the RPC Bramlage division.
The management teams from both GCS and RPC are working well together.
The original estimate of the cost synergies was 15m with a one-off cost of 10m.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 PACKAGING 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Revenue Sales m 1,345.4 1,107.3 Adjusted operating profit m 133.4 110.7 Return on sales 9.9% 10.0% 1,345m Return on net operating assets 23.3% 23.5% 2015: 1,107m Operating margins and return on net operating The Packaging business serves diverse end markets assets remained steady at 10% and 23%.
This was with innovative solutions.
While acquisitions achieved despite the dilution from acquisitions, contributed 310m to top line growth, after taking an increased polymer headwind compared with account of the polymer price reductions and the same period last year and adverse currency translation impact, like-for-like revenue growth of translation effects, through sales growth and 4% was achieved during the period.
the benefit of cost synergies from the Promens The strongest growth rates were in personal integration programme.
In order to realise the care and food markets both through product synergy potential from the combined RPC and development and geographical expansion, with RONOA Promens packaging businesses, manufacturing technological developments supporting the growth.
optimisation projects were initiated during the Several product innovations such as airless year and are progressing well.
These involved dispensing systems came to market, including the 23.3% site closures and restructuring activities with Twist Up and Slidissime which provide innovative the majority of business transferring to more ease of use while increasing the protection of optimum locations.
In food packaging the first inmould labelled thermoforming line for the spreads The rigid plastic packaging market is forecast to market was successfully introduced, combining grow at above GDP over the next 5 years which the potential of an oxygen barrier with photo will continue to present opportunities for the quality decoration, light weighting and high output.
Packaging business to continue to grow organically There were also further successes in the sales of both inside and outside Europe, through innovation SuperLock food containers and increased sales and continuing to launch turnkey projects from its of PET products, with further penetration by the extended platforms in the USA and China.
Group into the UK, Nordic and US markets for both personal care and food.
At the recent UK Packaging Awards, RPC won Packaging Company of the Year for the second year running and was short-listed for Design Team of the Year, Rigid Plastic Pack of the Year, Best Packaging of a New Product and Consumer Convenience.
This industry recognition is testament to the innovation and development of the packaging business within RPC.
RPC Group Plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report OPERATING REVIEW continued NON-PACKAGING 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Revenue Sales m 297.0 115.1 Adjusted operating profit m 40.9 20.9 Return on sales 13.8% 18.2% 297m Return on net operating assets 24.4% 21.7% 2015: 115m RPC Splast, which comprises the materials The Non-packaging businesses of the Group handling rotational moulding business of Promens, primarily comprise the RPC Ace division, RPC serving the fish and agricultural industries, Splast and RPC Vehicles.
The increase in sales performed well in the period, with sales activity and and profits were a result of the impact of the profits well ahead of the previous year.
Following a Promens acquisition and the full year impact of strategic review of this business, the manufacturing Ace, with the 2015 comparator period reflecting ten facility at Taicang China was closed during the months of contribution from this business.
The new year and the operation at Ahmedabad India is businesses acquired from Promens operate at lower expected to be sold shortly, allowing the business return on sales levels than Ace, which accounts for RONOA toimprove its profitability and focus on its markets the lower overall return on sales but due to lower in Europe and the Americas.
capital intensity they operate at higher RONOA levels.
On a like-for-like basis mould sales were RPC Vehicles, which manufactures plastic parts 24.4% lower in the period due to some large customer for trucks and specialty vehicles from sites in the contracts for tooling in 2014 15 which were not Netherlands, Estonia, Germany and the Czech repeated in the year.
Republic, also performed well with increases in sales volumes and profits over the period, and The Ace division, comprising six sites in China, additional orders for longer term sales secured.
operates a world class mould design and The cost base of these operations have been manufacturing capability supplying complex optimised and further expansion investment is moulds to both internal and external customers nowbeing considered.
and provides the Group with an Asian precision engineering platform for manufacturing high added value co-engineered injection moulded products.
It serves, alongside packaging markets, medical, lifestyle, power and automotive end markets.
Overall, the business traded satisfactorily in the period but the slowdown in GDP growth in China, the appreciation of the renminbi versus the euro adversely impacting exports to Europe, and reduced demand from two major lifestyle customers impacted growth rates.
Successes in securing automotive contracts were achieved and will boost sales going forward.
Two new electroplating lines were installed at the Zhuhai site during the period to replace those destroyed by fire in October 2014 and a third line will be launched in the autumn of 2016 as a result of increased demand for electroplated products.
Good progress has been made in integrating the start-up Promens Hefei operation into the Ace business and sales from thisbusiness are anticipated from June onwards.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 NON-FINANCIAL KPIS RPC has three main non-financial key performance indicators KPIs which provide perspectives on the Groups progress in improving its contribution to the environment and employee welfare.
12 months to 12 months to 31 March 31 March Continuing operations 2016 2015 Electricity usage per tonne kWh T 1,981 2,001 Water usage per tonne L T 702 737 1 Reportable accident frequency rate 925 753 1 Reportable accident frequency rate RAFR is OUTLOOK defined as the number of accidents resulting This has been another successful year with a strong in more than three days off work, excluding business performance founded upon good underlying accidents where an employee is travelling to or organic growth.
The Promens business has been from work, divided by the average number of integrated and the integration of GCS is well advanced.
Good progress has been made in the implementation of the Vision 2020 strategy with continued consolidation The Group continues to make stringent efforts to of the European plastic packaging market and improve its efficient usage of electricity and water: enhancement of the Groups global footprint.
electricity usage per tonne and water usage show The optimisation of the enlarged Groups cost base further progress made in the period.
The impact of a is on track to deliver structural benefits of 80m per number of energy saving initiatives to replace older annum, an increase of 15m compared with previous machinery with more modern energy conserving estimates.
Going forward, the Group continues to equivalents has been mitigated by the shift towards explore opportunities for growth in line with the Vision a higher consumption per polymer tonne converted 2020 strategy.
The new financial year has started well associated with the manufacture of higher and in line with managements expectations.
Water usage has reduced significantly in recent years following recycling initiatives including closed loop cooling systems introduced to manufacturing sites across the Group.
P R M Vervaat The overall reportable accident frequency rate Chief Executive during the year was affected by the impact of the former Promens sites acquired in February 2015 2 June 2016 whose health and safety record is currently not as strong as the rest of the Group.
Excluding the recent acquisitions and former Promens sites, the number of reportable and major accidents decreased during the period reducing the RAFR to 660, reflecting the continued focus on this important area.
A programme of assessment and improvement for the Promens sites to bring them to standard isin progress.
