Strategic Report Operating Review Laboratory off-line businesses Materials Analysis Operating companies Industries Materials Analysis provides products and servicesthat Reported sales Aftersales Malvern Instruments Metals, minerals & mining enable customers to determine structure, composition, quantity and quality of particles and materials during 418.9m 32% Eoghan OLionaird PANalytical Pharmaceuticals & fine Business Group Director chemicals their research and product development processes, when Particle Measuring Systems Adjusted operating profit Employees assessing materials before production or during the Academic research The operating companies in the Materials Analysis and Test and manufacturing process.
76.2m 2,375 Measurement segments sell their products and services into the Semiconductors laboratory and off-line activities of certain industries.
Whilst Reported operating profit these operating companies differ as regards their technologies, solutions and applications, they also share much in common, 66.2m Read more on pages 18 and 19. with the primary demand driver for all of them being the rate and pace of innovation in technology and materials and new product development undertaken by our customers.
Test and Measurement In these segments, our businesses are predominantly exposed Operating companies Industries Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement and Reported sales Aftersales to capital investments devoted to improving productivity in Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration Automotive analysis equipment, software and services for product the R&D, testing and quality control processes in a range of design optimisation and validation, manufacturing 404.5m 23% ESG Solutions ESG Aerospace industries see industry breakdown charts on pages 18 and 21. control, microseismic monitoring and environmental Many of these industries are highly regulated, and the need to HBM Electronics Adjusted operating profit Employees noise monitoring.
comply with national and international legislation also results Millbrook Energy in increased demand for our products and services.
Around 61.8m 3,460 a quarter of the revenues across these segments is derived Academic research Reported operating profit from aftermarket sales, being a combination of services e. g. equipment calibration and consumables e. g. x-ray tubes.
26.7m Process manufacturing businesses In-line Instrumentation Operating companies Industries In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical Reported sales Aftersales Brel & Kjr Vibro Process industries measurement, asset monitoring and on-line controls as well as associated consumables and services for both 275.6m 44% BTG Pulp, paper & tissue Jo Hallas Business Group Director primary processing and the converting industries.
NDC Technologies Energy & utilities Adjusted operating profit Employees The seven operating companies in In-line Instrumentation and Servomex Web & converting Industrial Controls sell their products, services and solutions 41.2m 1,465 into the discrete and process manufacturing sectors covering Reported operating profit a number of key industries see industry breakdown charts on pages 22 and 25.
The operating companies within these 37.6m Read more on pages 22 and 23. segments are predominantly exposed to the level of investment devoted to enhancing productivity within these industries.
Many of these industries are highly regulated, and the need Industrial Controls to comply with national and international legislation also Operating companies Industries Industrial Controls provides products and solutions that results in increased demand for our products and services.
Reported sales Aftersales Microscan Manufacturing measure, monitor, control, inform, track and trace during Around two-thirds of the revenue across these segments 246.8m 1% theproductionprocess.
Omega Engineering Omega Process industries is derived from customers operating expense budgets: the vast majority of products sold within Industrial Controls are Red Lion Controls Energy Adjusted operating profit Employees typically small enough in value to be viewed as consumables Electronics by customers, whilst within In-line Instrumentation there is a 21.6m 1,400 significant portion of revenue derived from both consumables Healthcare e. g. coating blades for the pulp and paper industry and services Reported operating profit e. g. condition monitoring and diagnostic services.
16 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Laboratory off-line businesses Materials Analysis Operating companies Industries Materials Analysis provides products and servicesthat Reported sales Aftersales Malvern Instruments Metals, minerals & mining enable customers to determine structure, composition, quantity and quality of particles and materials during 418.9m 32% PANalytical Pharmaceuticals & fine chemicals their research and product development processes, when Particle Measuring Systems Adjusted operating profit Employees assessing materials before production or during the Academic research manufacturing process.
76.2m 2,375 Semiconductors Reported operating profit 66.2m Read more on pages 18 and 19.
Merged from 1 January 2017 Test and Measurement Operating companies Industries Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement and Reported sales Aftersales Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration Automotive analysis equipment, software and services for product design optimisation and validation, manufacturing 404.5m 23% ESG Solutions ESG Aerospace control, microseismic monitoring and environmental HBM Electronics Adjusted operating profit Employees noise monitoring.
Millbrook Energy 61.8m 3,460 Academic research Reported operating profit Read more on pages 20 and 21.
26.7m Process manufacturing businesses In-line Instrumentation Operating companies Industries In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical Reported sales Aftersales Brel & Kjr Vibro Process industries measurement, asset monitoring and on-line controls as well as associated consumables and services for both 275.6m 44% BTG Pulp, paper & tissue primary processing and the converting industries.
NDC Technologies Energy & utilities Adjusted operating profit Employees Servomex Web & converting 41.2m 1,465 Reported operating profit 37.6m Read more on pages 22 and 23.
Industrial Controls Operating companies Industries Industrial Controls provides products and solutions that Reported sales Aftersales Microscan Manufacturing measure, monitor, control, inform, track and trace during 246.8m 1% theproductionprocess.
Omega Engineering Omega Process industries Red Lion Controls Energy Adjusted operating profit Employees Electronics 21.6m 1,400 Healthcare Reported operating profit 92.2 m Read more on pages 24 and 25.
17 Strategic Report Geographical breakdown Sensitivity, productivity, ease-of-use: all increased % 1 4 Providing our customers with solutions combining hardware, software and service isincreasingly more important in our strategy.
2 In 2016, we worked closely with Syngenta, aleading agricultural company, in the move 3 toanew Malvern Instruments system.
1 North America 24 Syngenta manufactures a wide range parameters and is a powerful tool for 2 Europe 28 ofagrochemicals including pesticides, controlling the performance, quality 3 Asia 39 fungicides and herbicides.
4 Rest of the world 9 Consistency of the ingredients is One of the key benefits was the ease essentialfor overall product quality ofchangeover in a lab that handles Industry breakdown control and Syngenta needed a system manydifferent samples.
% toconfirm thatall the ingredients in 1 The new software was also a key selling aformulation were in suspension and point as it made it easy to gather more inthe correct concentrations.
5 sensitive data and produce closely Syngenta decided to purchase an customised reports, thus enhancing OMNISEC system, consisting of systems, bothefficiency and ability to support 4 detectors and software, for this particular decisions around different suppliers and application.
It measures absolute molecular troubleshooting.
Improving productivity 2 weight, molecular size, and other also freed uptime for higher value work.
3 1 Pharmaceuticals & nechemicals 32 Since we purchased OMNISEC, were able to deliver more 2 Metals, minerals & mining 22 sensitive data, so our ability to support decisions has been 3 Academic research 18 4 Semicon, telecoms & electronics 12 directly enhanced.
In an analytical lab like ours that 5 Other 16 operates so many techniques with relatively few people, improving productivity is a major gain.
Dr Kirt Durand, Senior Analytical Chemist at Syngenta 18 Materials Analysis Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operating Review Materials Analysis Segment performance Reported Adjusted Reported Reported sales increased 15%, reflecting a 2% increase in sales operating profit operating profit LFLsales, a 1pp contribution from acquisitions and a 12pp positive impact from foreign exchange currency movements.
418.9m 76.2m 66.2m Sales growth was driven primarily by Asia, particularly in Chinaand Japan, while North America and Europe were 2015: 364.4m 2015: 53.7m 2015: 42.6m downslightly.
Ona LFL basis, adjusted operating profit increased27%and adjusted operating margins increased Sales LFL to the semiconductor, electronics and telecoms by3.7pp, primarily reflecting positive mix effects and the industry grew strongly, particularly in Asia outside of China and benefitsof restructuring actions.
Sales in North America were notably weaker year-on-year on a LFL basis.
Sales of our new ultra-high sensitivity particle We announced our decision to merge two of this segments counter products, UDI20 and Chem20, which were launched operating companies, Malvern Instruments Malvern and in2015, have been performing well.
Both companies are leading suppliers of analytical instrumentation in their respective Segment outlook markets and the combined entity will be a larger and stronger In 2017, the merger of Malvern and PANalytical is expected player in the materials characterisation market, leveraging the tobegin to generate revenue synergies as we benefit from a strengths of the individual companies in their end markets, and more comprehensive offering to our customers.
However, the working collaboratively to deliver a more complete range of underlying trading conditions in our end markets will be the products, solutions and services to a broader set of markets and keydriver of near-term performance.
For example, in November, PANalytical launched Within pharmaceuticals, we expect regulatory scrutiny of Aeris, an easy-to-operate and user-friendly benchtop x-ray manufacturing processes to continue to increase, particularly powder diffractometer.
The target markets for Aeris have inrelation to the launch of new products, and this will drive nowbeen extended beyond the cement, minerals, metals demand for our material characterisation and cleanroom andresearch markets, traditional strongholds of PANalytical, products and services.
toinclude the pharmaceuticals and fine chemicals markets where Malvern holds a leading position.
We expect that these factors will more than offset what is likely to remain an unpredictable academic research market given Sales to the pharmaceuticals and fine chemicals industries rose public sector budget constraints in certain regions.
on a LFL basis during the year, a positive sign given the strong year-on-year comparator, as 2015 benefited from a positive We are seeing a cautiously improving investment climate in impact on demand from regulatory compliance requirements in themining sector but do not expect to see a major pick-up the Indian pharmaceutical industry.
Asia saw particularly strong indemand as yet, with growth primarily expected to be from growth, notably in China, India and Japan.
In Europe and North aftermarket sales.
America, LFL sales were up modestly.
In February, Spectris acquired CAS Clean Air Service AG CAS a leading cleanroom-services company, providing measurement services, process qualification, calibration services and product sales, primarily to the pharmaceutical manufacturing market.
Its monitoring and advisory service generated strong growth within this market as well as in medical technology, plastics technology, and optics markets.
CAS has been fully integrated into Particle Measuring Systems, although the CAS name has remained a distinct product brand.
This has enabled us to offer its Good Manufacturing Practice service knowledge and expertise more extensively across their existing sales network.
The metals, minerals and mining sector reversed its better 2015 performance and we saw a LFL sales decline in 2016.
All regions experienced a fall in LFL sales, although Germany, the UK and Japan bucked this trend.
Large systems orders continue to be deferred or cancelled, and the growth within the cement and building materials markets in North America and Europe of recent years has slowed, although one area of investment is theincreasing focus from mining companies on safety and productivity.
Aftermarket sales were solid in this sector, as customers production volumes continue at good levels.
Although we saw reasonable sales growth LFL to academic research institutes in North America and in Asia, underlying demand was subdued, especially in Europe, with significant weakness in the UK.
19 Strategic Report Operating Review Test and Measurement Segment performance Reported Adjusted Reported Reported sales increased 15%, including a 6pp contribution sales operating profit operating profit from acquisitions, predominantly related to Millbrook, and a13pp positive impact from foreign currency exchange 404.5m 61.8m 26.7m movements.
By region, only Asia reported LFL sales growth, in particular in China.
LFL sales were notably 2015: 351.3m 2015: 55.3m 2015: 43.6m lower in North America and down modestly in Europe.
Adjusted operating profit declined 12% on a LFL basis and LFL operating Sales LFL of our environmental noise monitoring services margins declined by 1.3pp, with positive pricing and mix effects declined.
However, it was a difficult year-on-year comparator being offset by the impact of negative operating leverage.
given a one-off major contract in 2015.
The UK and Japan werethe only major markets to deliver growth during the year.
Within the automotive sector, the acquisition of Millbrook in We secured a key contract to provide Heathrow airport with 2016 brings a high quality test service platform to the Group.
50noise monitoring terminals and launched Airport Noise Automotive customers are increasingly demanding the provision Monitoring on Demand, a service that enables airports to of an integrated solution, combining hardware, software and temporarily and cost-effectively increase noise monitoring services, and in recent years we have been investing organically whenneeds arise, such as before and after operational changes.
and via acquisitions to meet this growing demand.
Millbrook Weestablished a dedicated urban sales force to widen our provides the opportunity to combine their service excellence market reach for noise monitoring equipment and services with the equipment and software from other Spectris operating andsecured several orders in this regard during the year.
companies to provide a joint offering to customers.
Initial performance of Millbrook in the Group has been very good Reflecting some pressure on public finances, LFL sales to andit is our intention to invest in further organic and inorganic academic research institutes declined with weakness in demand growth opportunities to expand the business globally.
Only Asia recorded growth, driven by China.
Inaddition to Millbrook, we also acquired DISCOM and Sales LFL to our consumer electronics customers declined SVTduringthe year and in combination with the acquisition in2016, although sales patterns are lumpy, reflecting the ofSound Answers in 2015, these acquisitions provide the scheduling of projects by customers.
opportunity to grow our offering of software and engineering services to automotive customers.
Following the acquisition of The weakness in the unconventional oil and gas markets ReliaSoft in 2015, we have now united it with our other continued in 2016 and we saw a further sizeable decline in engineering software business, nCode, under a single brand, LFLsales of our microseismic monitoring solutions, particularly Prenscia, which allows engineers to access all our engineering inNorth America.
As a result, we have looked to develop simulation software solutions via one licensing system.
opportunities in other markets and are making progress in this regard in Latin America and the Middle East.
Our performance Underlying demand from the automotive sector remains healthy, was better in the mining sector where LFL sales were flat, with particularly in R&D, with one of the key drivers of demand being demand for microseismic monitoring growing.
For example, we the electrification of automotive power-trains for deployment have been working more closely with Grasberg, the worlds inelectric and hybrid vehicles.
This creates opportunities for largest copper-gold mine, supplying microseismic monitoring oureDrive testing solution which enables the electric motor, equipment and analytics for different phases of development, inverter and battery data to be directly and quickly evaluated.
aswell as improving safety and efficiency.
Electrification of drive trains also creates opportunities for our NVH service offering: as engine noise is reduced or eliminated Segment outlook from motor vehicles, noise evaluation and control shifts focus We expect the automotive and aerospace sectors to benefit from the engine to sources elsewhere in the car, for example from further growth in demand for engineering software theelectric motor, tyres, etc.
applications, particularly in NVH simulation in automotive.
Additionally, the continued robust investments we see globally In machine manufacturing, a significant portion of which in the development of electric and hybrid vehicles will support represents sales into the automotive supply chain, there was LFL demand for our market-leading torque and eDrive solutions.
Sales into the two key regions, Europe and Asia, grew strongly on a LFL basis, but declined in North America.
The underlying business trends in the consumer electronics market remain healthy in our view, given consumer electronic Sales LFL to the aerospace sector decreased in 2016 and were demand and good opportunities for sound quality testing lower in each of the regions, except North America, due to the applications and calibration services in this sector.
completion of several major R&D programmes.
A good example of how we continue to develop differentiated customer-driven Market conditions in the oil and gas industry are expected to offerings beyond just hardware was the work undertaken remain subdued and will be oil-price dependent.
However, there withMarenco Swisshelicopter to accelerate their design of may be more opportunities for deployment of our microseismic aninnovative new helicopter.
We custom-developed sensing solutions in the mining space as customers seek to make solutions for Marenco and deployed these in combination betteruse of data analytics to improve safety, productivity withour data acquisition systems and software in order to andprofitability.
provide them with high-tech solutions at critical points in the development process.
20 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Test and Measurement Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Geographical breakdown Adding value for automotive customers % 1 4 Automotive customers are increasingly demanding the provision of an integrated solution, combining hardware, software and 2 services.
Ford Motor Company have been 3 working with Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibrations NVH simulator products for a number of years.
1 North America 22 Ford utilise Desktop Simulators DTS and vibration experienced by the driver 2 Europe 45 to help refine their NVH targets and or passenger, for example vibrations felt 3 Asia 29 troubleshoot sound quality issues.
The through the steering column and seat.
4 Rest of the world 4 DTS allows Ford to evaluate standard NVH Ford evaluated a prototype of a test or computer-aided engineering data Industry breakdown Full-Vehicle Simulator FVS at Brel & in a true driving environment, converting % Kjr Sound & Vibrations Engineering the data in real-time into an accurate 1 Services facility at Millbrook and realised representation of the sound in response 7 this was the next step in producing a to the drivers inputs to the controls.
6 more immersive experience for NVH The limitation of the DTS is that it only evaluation.
Ford took delivery of their FVS 5 handles the sound of the vehicle, not in December and have begun exploring the vibration.
There are many NVH the capabilities of the new system with 4 phenomena where the total perception the goal of integrating it into their of the issue is a combination of the sound product development processes.
3 2 1 Automotive & aerospace 37 2 Machine building 23 We realised that the FVS added the missing dimension 3 Environmental noise monitoring 8 4 Academic research 8 of vibration and took us to the next level in improving 5 Semicon, telecoms & electronics 7 NVH assessment and better decision-making.
It requires 6 Energy & utilities 6 7 Other 11 a significant investment in resources but the benefits to our NVH development make it worthwhile.
Mark Stickler, Fords Manager for Powertrain NVH 21 Strategic Report Geographical breakdown Award-winning technology % 1 4 Operational excellence and innovative customer solutions are two elements of our strategy.
This was recognised externally when Servomexs Hummingbird Sensing Technology received the 2 3 2016 Queens Award for Enterprise Innovation for its paramagnetic oxygen sensors.
1 North America 33 Renowned as the standard for of an intensive care unit facility, and the 2 Europe 29 paramagnetic oxygen sensing globally, end user can have confidence in the 3 Asia 31 these sensors are used in a number monitoring they receive.
A further 4 Rest of the world 7 of industrial analysis processes, such development was the launch of the as measurements for gas purity and Paracube Modus, the worlds first Industry breakdown oxygen detection.
It is also now the highly shock and vibration-resistant % go to technology for medical equipment paramagnetic oxygen sensor, designed 1 manufacturers in life support devices that specifically for the medical market require precise oxygen regulation, where vibration resistance is important, monitoring and delivery, such as critical e. g. oxygen monitoring and control on 4 care ventilators, neonatal incubators, the ward, on hospital trolleys and in anaesthesia machines and patient ambulances etc.
This is the first time monitoring.
Critically, the non-depleting this technology has been developed for nature of these sensors, combined inter and intra-hospital applications that 3 withtheir accuracy and responsiveness, require precise oxygen-controlled delivery.
2 significantly increases the available uptime 1 Pulp, paper & tissue 38 The engineering of the Engstrm Carestation required 2 Energy & utilities 25 GEto select components only of a high quality to fulfil 3 Converting, extrusion & packaging 15 4 Other 22 thedesign vision for this world-leading product.
The flexibility and forward-looking design ethos of the Hummingbird Paracube Micro was therefore the perfect partner to help us deliver exceptional ventilation control.
Paul Hunsicker, Global Product Manager, Respiratory Care and Sleep Healthcare Systems, GE Healthcare 22 In-line Instrumentation Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operating Review In-line Instrumentation Segment performance Reported Adjusted Reported Reported sales increased 8%, reflecting a LFL sales decline of sales operating profit operating profit 4%, which was more than offset by an 11pp positive impact from foreign currency exchange movements and a 2pp 275.6m 41.2m 37.6m contribution from acquisitions.
2015: 255.0m 2015: 36.8m 2015: 34.2m On a regional basis, LFL sales were up slightly in North America and down in Europe and in Asia.
The decline in LFL sales forexample, our Brel & Kjr Vibro business secured a primarily reflected ongoing weakness in capital expenditure condition monitoring contract with a biomass power plant in across many heavy process industries globally, though certain theUK and a contract to supply a turnkey condition monitoring markets remained robust, such as tissue and wind energy.
and machine protection solution for remote monitoring at a LFLadjusted operating profit fell 4% and LFL adjusted operating polyethylene plant in Northern Asia.
The latter comprises our margins were flat year-on-year.
As a result, there has been a machine protection system, software, portable instruments and focus on improving operating efficiency.
sensors along with acomplete package of services.
In the pulp and paper market, LFL sales were down slightly Sales LFL to the web and converting industries increased compared with 2015.
We continued to see diversification notably during 2016, with a particularly strong performance awayfrom graphic paper towards the tissue and pulp markets, inthe fourth quarter.
This was an improving environment after translating into growth for our tissue business which is partly 2015 when customers were delaying projects.
We have seen offsetting the decline in traditional coating blade sales.
In June, anumber of opportunities emerge in the medical market and we acquired Capstone Technology Corporation Capstone, infood, particularly in relation to snack products.
For example, aleading provider of software solutions for process control amedical tube manufacturer uses NDC Technologies optimisation and decision support.
The acquisition enables us measurement and control system to tightly control the critical tocombine Capstones software tools with BTGs instruments dimensions and quality of its high-value extruded products toprovide solutions for process control and optimisation in and, in India, a snack manufacturer has improved quality and thepulp, tissue and packaging markets and we have now production efficiency with on-line moisture and oil measurement builtan extensive pipeline of joint opportunities.
For example, for crisps and snacks lines.
amajor North American producer of pulp and paper recently implemented a process control solution consisting of Segment outlook BTGssingle-point sensors in combination with Capstones The changing mix in our pulp and paper business is expected to multi-predictive process control software which will reduce continue during 2017 as our new instruments and solutions and chemical cost and improve quality for the mill.
the more robust tissue and pulp markets offset the ongoing structural challenges in the graphic paper and coated paperboard In the energy and utilities market, LFL sales were down notably markets.
We also expect to continue to benefit from the in2016 as the weak global oil and gas markets continued to combination of Capstones software tools with BTGs instruments have an adverse impact on the demand for some of our to capture new opportunities.
Theeffect on the downstream market has lagged that of the upstream, and therefore a lack of new larger projects in We expect growth from the energy and utilities sector to be the hydro-carbon processing sector.
However, other areas such modest in 2017.
The renewable energy sector remains healthy as industrial gases, emissions monitoring, and our Hummingbird and the expansion of our offering to differing customer OEM sensor business continue to perform well.
Against the typesand new areas of the market offer potential new sales weaker backdrop and fewer new order leads, we have continued opportunities.
However, in the oil and gas sector, demand to strengthen our sales and marketing organisation and focused remains fragile, despite an improving oil price, with the on deepening our customer relationships through increased downstream market continuing to experience the lagged levels of service and support, and this has resulted in anumber impactof the 2014 15 decline in prices.
of orders for upgrades, retrofits and expansions.
Our focus on We will also continue to increase the focus on operational innovative customer solutions also continues and in November, excellence initiatives across the segment in order to improve we launched our first moisture detector which allows the fast future profitability.
and accurate measurement of moisture in process applications.
Itis designed to integrate with MonoExact, our next-generation digital oxygen analyser, to measure both moisture and oxygen which is a common requirement in many applications.
We are continuing to see modest growth in the wind energy sector and have focused on wind farm owners and operators, inaddition to the traditional turbine OEM segment, in order to offer them a post-warranty solution for their turbine fleet that isOEM-independent.
This effort is aiming at ensuring that end users can also benefit from our condition monitoring system andremote diagnostic services, and this initiative has identified significant opportunities.
We have also expanded our offering tonon-wind power applications in other industrial markets, 23 Strategic Report Operating Review Industrial Controls Segment performance Reported Adjusted Reported Reported sales increased 12%, reflecting a LFL sales decline sales operating profit operating profit of2%, a 2pp contribution from acquisitions and a favourable impact of 12pp from foreign currency exchange movements.
246.8m 21.6m 92.2 m Adjusted operating LFL profit declined by 50% and operating margins were down to 8.7%.
This was driven by negative 2015: 219.3m 2015: 35.3m 2015: 23.2m operating leverage from the sharp sales decline in North America, compounded by Omegas performance.
The reported During the year, we launched the latest version of our popular loss of 92.2 million was principally caused by the impairment Crimson software, the common programming platform for a charges booked by Omega 94.4 million : further details are variety of Red Lion products, adding control capability to our provided in the Financial Review.
This provides a key solution for customers as it removes the need to purchase stand-alone control components.
Omega derives the majority of sales from the USA and the weak We had further success with our networking products in the US industrial environment impacted demand for its products.
In automotive industry, securing a contract for a major car makers addition, the implementation of a new ERP system at Omega new plant in Latin America.
We were also delighted to win the highlighted the need for certain processes to be improved, 2016 Control Design Readers Choice Awards for panel meters withtemporary additional resources required during the for the 16th consecutive year.
consolidation of two distribution centres on the US east coast.
This resulted in significant inventory adjustments and higher The acquisition of Label Vision Systems LVS in 2015 has labour costs.
A new organisational structure and management delivered very positive results during 2016 with strong sales team has been put in place and the focus is on remedial action growth of itsproducts as the market expands due to regulatory to re-design the operational processes and improve customer trends e. g. legislation in the USA on product identification service by improving product availability, shortening lead times marking and quality requirements.
It has been fully integrated and increasing on-time delivery.
Our aim is for Omega to exit into Microscan and this has enabled the expansion of LVS 2017 with gross margins running at historic levels.
products and solutions into key international markets, and to leverage the synergies between LVSs and Microscans sales, For the segment as a whole, the LFL sales decline primarily technology, and operations.
Following the launch in 2015 of the reflected continuing broad-based weakness in US industrial MicroHAWK, amodular and scalable industrial barcode imager production: all three operating companies in this segment have and smart camera platform, further developments were made a high exposure to North America, although the impact was this year with autofocus and smart camera versions.
greatest in our industrial networking business.
Segment outlook In Asia, there was strong LFL sales growth, in particular driven Given the significant exposure to the USA, performance for this by continued good progress in the expansion of our process segment in 2017 will be largely driven by the performance in measurement and control business, Omega, outside of the USA.
Some leading indicators such as the PMI The internationalisation of Omega continues to deliver promising manufacturing index have turned more positive: however, it is results, with good LFL sales growth in all major markets outside still too early to assess the extent of any positive industrial of the USA.
In Europe, overall segment sales were broadly flat market momentum.
on a LFL basis, with a challenging year for our industrial networking business being partially offset by LFL sales growth At Omega, we expect the organisational changes and inprocess measurement and control products.
restructuring measures we have taken, as well as the continued focus on lean initiatives and improving the customer experience, This segment made good progress in a number of to deliver an improvement in performance and to exit the year strategicareas.
with margins at historic levels.
The increasing trend towards the Industrial Internet of Things In the medium term, we see additional opportunities for IIoT, driven by the need for smarter, more interconnected companies to adopt the capability to connect, monitor and operations, is benefiting our industrial automation and control their manufacturing facilities and for further industrial networking business as organisations seek easy-to-use solutions networking in order to drive productivity and operational to connect and expand the capabilities of legacy equipment efficiencies.
Spectris is positioning itself to take full advantage within existing facilities.
Red Lion Controls Red Lion provides ofthese opportunities as the IIoT market evolves.
IIoT-ready solutions that use protocol conversion, visual management, remote monitoring and industrial Ethernet technologies to help customers achieve this.
Our IIoT product development was focused on simplifying the integration of customer-generated data and IIoT cloud platforms.
Currently supporting nine industrial IIoT platforms, with world-wide coverage, Red Lions industrial gateways provide a key solution for customers looking to connect and analyse their processes in the cloud.
24 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Industrial Controls Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Geographical breakdown Wireless monitoring increases product safety % 1 Customising solutions for our customers is 4 3 increasingly more common.
A leading multinational consumer packaged goods 2 manufacturer knew that the temperature of the liquid to clean their pipes in a particular production line process had to be maintained 1 North America 70 within a very specific range to meet required 2 Europe 13 standards and ensure purity of ingredients.
3 Asia 16 4 Rest of the world 1 The accuracy required was - 1C in an Omega customised the monitoring environment where temperature could software toachieve the requisite data Industry breakdown range from 20C to 85C.
Technicians can preset a % closely with the customer and provided desired temperature range, be alerted 1 them with a package of equipment immediately if the temperature fluctuates andsoftware to remotely measure and beyond the acceptable range and easily monitor cleaning liquid temperature.
install the system to other pipes as Theyinstalled a wireless temperature necessary.
The customer now has the monitoring system which included more confidence that quality control and than 70 temperature sensor probes product safety are being maintained on 2 withtransmitters along the length of the areal-time basis.
pipes: a receiver to capture the data: and 4 software to monitor and log the data 3 onareal-time basis.
1 Distribution 29 2 Semicon, telecoms & electronics 22 One of our customers approached us with a challenge to 2 Pharmaceuticals & ne chemicals 6 help improve quality in their product.
After close collaboration 4 Other 43 with the customer, and leveraging the latest in wireless sensor technology, the Omega team helped ensure that the products consumers take home are safer than ever.
Joe Vorih, President, Omega Engineering 25
