STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS REVIEW DEVELOPMENT & PRODUCTION Q&A PROGRESS & RESILIENCE 2016 demonstrated that Tullow is a capable operator that can deliver .
2016 was a busy year for Tullow theFull Field Development FFD.
While the scheme will produce amodest Whatdoyou consider were the 2,000 bopd, EOPS will mark Tullows first oil production from our decade-long highlightsand challenges?
2016 was a real test of the strength and resilience of our operational and EHS TEN first oil was clearly a major teams.
This was most evident in Ghana achievement for Tullow and Ghana.
with the delivery of TEN first oil on time Howdoes it benchmark to projects of and on budget and the Turret Remediation equivalent scale and size in the industry?
Project, where a very significant incident Projects of this scale are rarely was safely and smoothly transitioned into delivered on time and within budget.
Both projects have Itwas a massive undertaking but the been executed incredibly well, against teams project delivery was seamless.
clear milestones and deliverables and The Independent Project Analysis IPA withexceptional EHS records.
ranked the TEN Project in the top In Uganda, we are pleased with the 10percent ofglobal projects for both farm-down of our assets to Total, which schedule andcapex budget.
underlines our commitment to Uganda It signified another historic moment for forthe long-term through our retained Ghana, which now has a second field on 11.76 per cent stake in the upstream, stream, and demonstrates real progress which we expect to reduce to 10 per cent for its oil and gas industry.
For Tullow, when the government backs in.
The the successful execution of the TEN agreement of this deal followed significant 2016 was a real test of the Project has cemented our reputation and momentum in 2016 with the Government track record for delivering large-scale, strength and resilience of of Ugandas decision on the routing of complex projects.
Projects such as the export pipeline and issuance of our operational and EHS Jubilee and TEN are normally executed production licences, milestones which teams.
On the Turret by the industry majors, so this serve to accelerate the Lake Albert Remediation Project, I am achievement demonstrates to our host development project.
All partners are governments that Tullow is a capable very proud of the teamwork, aligned on making rapid progress, for operator that can deliver projects of boththe upstream and pipeline FEED, adaptability and material size and scale.
tocommence in early 2017 with a target professionalism shown ofreaching FID by the end of 2017.
The ramp-up from TEN has been more byall teams as they came Theextensive well database and work challenging than initially envisaged.
together to respond to completed to date provide significant Are there any long-term concerns confidence in the discovered resources andmanage this about operations or the reservoir?
allowing us to move forward at a time unprecedented event.
The production ramp-up from TEN, when industry costs are at a historical low.
sincefirst oil, was slower than initially Paul McDade In Kenya, an Early Oil Pilot Scheme planned, after which production steadily Chief Operating Officer EOPS proposal was sanctioned by JV ramped up and in January, the FPSO was partners boards in order to provide the tested above its capacity of 80,000 bopd.
technical, logistical, social and political Systems are now operational and insights into what will be required for commissioning is nearing completion.
24 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1 Due to the drilling moratorium imposed as part of the ongoing What challenges does the year ahead hold?
ITLOS maritime border dispute, drilling of the remaining There will be many challenges ahead in 2017, as there were development wells cannot be completed, so 2017 production in2016.
However, the hard work that we have done over the will rely on the existing 11 wells which are expected to deliver last two years in reorganising the Company, making sure we are more efficient in how we manage the business and in around 50,000 bopd.
A judgment from ITLOS on the boundary making some difficult business decisions, leaves us in great isexpected to be handed to the Governments of Ghana and shape to face these challenges.
Cte dIvoire at the end of 2017, and we hope that we will be able to start drilling again in early 2018.
While the ramp-up In Ghana, we must complete the work on the Jubilee FPSO and ofproduction has been slower, the data collected to date progress the Greater Full Jubilee field development: at TEN we underpins both the expected oil in place and reserves inthe will work to maximise production from our existing wells and Ntomme andEnyenra fields.
prepare to restart drilling post ITLOS.
In Uganda, we will be working to progress towards FID, whilst in Kenya we will be The issue with the Jubilee turret is now stable.
progressing the Early Oil Pilot Scheme and integrating the new What are thebiggest risks still associated with the project well results in our full field development plans.
and what positives or learnings can you draw from it?
It will be a significant year for our non-operated business as we While no one would have wanted this event to happen, I am very continue to balance investment with production and cash flow.
proud of the teamwork, adaptability and professionalism shown This business is important because the 22,000 bopd comes by all teams across Tullow as they came together to respond from over 500 wells across five countries so it provides our toand manage this unprecedented event and transform it into production profile with resilience and helps spread risk.
These what we now refer to as the Turret Remediation Project.
This West African and our North Sea assets are mature fields and was a very significant and complex undertaking which has are, inmost cases, beyond plateau.
We are working with our JV again demonstrated the expertise and quality of our personnel partners to sustain the life of the fields and maintain production and the effective way in which they work to support each other.
through infill drilling programmes: however, this requires When the interim spread mooring of the FPSO completes in ongoing investment.
February 2017, the tugs will be removed, significantly reducing We will continue to balance our investment plans with our the operational complexities that the team had to manage before.
priority to deleverage the business and create financial The next phase of the project will involve modifications to capacity, which will of course be affected by future oil prices.
theturret systems for long-term spread moored operations.
Regardless of when we decide to ramp up investment across Theassessment of the optimum long-term heading continues, the portfolio, we know that the barrels are still in the ground, todetermine if a rotation of the FPSO is required.
Detailed soproduction is deferred, not lost, and can be produced at planning for this continues with JV partners and the apotentially higher oil price in future.
Government, with final decisions and approvals expected inthefirst half of 2017 and work expected to be carried What are you looking forward to in 2017?
In East Africa, Kenyas Early Oil Pilot Scheme will be an important project to progress, as will completing the deal on What is involved in the Early Oil Pilot Scheme?
Are these the farm-down of our assets in Uganda, working alongside the common and what insights are you hoping to draw from it?
JV to progress Uganda to FID, after over ten years of hard work.
The Early Oil Pilot Scheme will produce around 2,000 bopd, In Ghana, we are looking forward to demonstrating that our from five existing Ngamia and Amosing wells, which will be team has the ability to move from capital project mode to a transported 1,107 km from Turkana to Mombasa by road to steady operating mode, delivering world-class performance bestored in existing storage tank facilities.
First exports are inboth safety and cost.
being targeted for the second half of 2017.
As we deleverage our balance sheet and oil prices stabilise at higher levels, I look forward to returning to exploration and Transportation of oil by road is not unique to Kenya.
The exciting Araku well in Suriname will be the first step isalso widely practised in oil production projects in manylocations in again demonstrating the value that exploration can deliver.
around the world such as the United States, India, Russia and Kazakhstan.
The most relevant project of equivalent scale and Finally, it is an honour that I have been selected by the Board to terrain is arguably the Cairn India development of the Mangala take over as CEO at the April AGM.
Taking the helm of a company field in Rajasthan.
This initially started by exporting oil by truck, that Aidan has built up over the last 31 years to be Africas before moving to a 670 km-long pipeline.
leading independent oil company is a responsibility that I am very much looking forward to taking on.
We have a great team, EOPS has a clear strategic rationale, which is to unlock the world-class assets and a reputation for being focused on shared potential and fide-risk the technical and non-technical aspects prosperity, which is a strong foundation that I will build on.
ofthe Full Field Development FFD.
These include gaining further insight into the subsurface allowing us to continue to optimise our development plans and working together with theGovernment of Kenya on the negotiation and delivery of keyagreements that are required for upstream development.
Wewill also have the opportunity to develop local content both for upstream operations, including the required logistics services.
com 25 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS REVIEW CONTINUED EXPLORATION & APPRAISAL Q&A RETURNING TO EXPLORATION Capital spend has significantly reduced across the industry, with exploration and appraisal budgets delivering the biggest adjustments.
Angus McCoss, Tullows Exploration Director, explains how Tullow continues to create an effective and impactful E&A programme with lowerlevels of investment.
Does Tullow still have an How have you adapted your exploration exploration-led strategy?
strategy to still achieve results Exploration continues to be Tullows withlower capital investment?
long-term way of investing to secure Our exploration and appraisal spend new, valuable and material supplies of hascome down from $800 million a few monetisable oil, to sustain and grow our yearsago, to closer to c. $80 million for Company far into the future.
That has led to a and production are naturally cyclical, and renewed focus away from complex wells, recently we have also been impacted by towards an emphasis on high-quality external factors, particularly the weaker seismic and more time to apply rigorous oil price.
We have lean years punctuated geological methods to identify our best by occasional wildcat breakthroughs prospects.
This allows for a better and higher-capex years when we have understanding of the geology and busily and successfully drilled out and prospectivity of a licence before appraised our new basins.
In exploration committing to drill, which should help that means cycling between years of increase our chance of exploration prospecting at the seismic workstation success.
We continue to avoid complex and years when drilling is a more wells and we apply strict geological, significant part of our plans.
It is vitally capital risk and commercial filters so important to the Board that exploration thatwe remain focused on high-margin remains an integral and adaptive part oilplays in onshore rifts, simple offshore ofour strategy.
geologies and settings, and our key areas of production.
How has this shift in activity At Tullow, we believe that Going forward, with our reset and impactedthe industry overall?
refocused exploration strategy and our exploration is an essential Recent Wood Mackenzie research has experienced prospectors, we believe we value creation tool for the shown that global upstream capital can continue to do more with less and spend from 2015 to 2020 has been industry, and that Tullow limit our capital exposure through reduced by 30 per cent or c. $1 trillion, and our peers will need lowerequities and targeted carries includingexploration spend.
tocontinue to find new reduced investment has prompted adebate on whether the downturn in competitive supplies of What were the key areas of exploration investment will lead to a low-cost oil in years E&Aactivityin 2016?
renewed supply shortage and higher We have focused our activity in 2016 tocome.
prices in the long term or whether US onfour main areas: exploring in the Angus McCoss shale resources andslowing demand South Lokichar and Kerio Valley Basins Exploration Director growth will cause oil and gas prices in Kenya, where management estimates toremain weak.
that gross mean recoverable resources increased to 750 mmbbls: acquiring At Tullow, we believe that exploration isan essential value creation tool for andevaluating data across our South America acreage, including 3D seismic theindustry, and that Tullow and our acquisition in Suriname: entering new peers will need to continue to find new areas such as Zambia, adding to our competitive supplies of low cost oil in onshore rift basin acreage: and further years to come.
26 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1 right-sizing our portfolio through farm-downs in South America WestAfrica: the second is dedicated to increasing discovered and divestment of our Norwegian assets.
A full review of our resources in Kenya: and our New Ventures team is working on 2016 activity can befound on pages 28 to 31. activity in new and existing frontier areas such as Mauritania, Namibia and most recently Zambia.
Tullow has significant acreage offshore South America which In Kenya, we recommenced exploration in the fourth quarter has become an area of industry focus.
What is Tullows of2016 with an initial programme of four wells in the South strategy for that area?
Lokichar Basin with the potential to extend this by a further We remain very enthusiastic about the significant exploration four.
These are low cost wells, costing around $46 million net potential of this exciting area.
We continue to watch the results to Tullow per well.
The team has identified significant upside in of the significant Liza and more recent Payara-1 discovery the basin, particularly in the north around the Etom-2 discovery inthe Guyana-Suriname Basin with great interest because and that area was tested with the successful Erut-1 well in ofitsclose proximity to Tullows Kanuku and Orinduik licences.
January 2017 which extended known hydrocarbons to the far Thenext step for both our blocks is the acquisition of 3D north of the Lokichar Basin.
The next wells planned are those seismic over this area in 2017, with a view to preparing in the Ngamia and Amosing fields, which will target undrilled prospects for drilling in 2018 19. volumes, with an aim of extending the size of these existing We are more advanced in Suriname following the acquisition discoveries.
After those are completed, we will continue of3D seismic over Block 54 in 2016 where the most exciting furtherexploration drilling in the northern part of the basin.
prospect identified to date on our 3D seismic is Araku.
We are The programme in Kenya is aiming to increase management's preparing to drill in the second half of 2017 and it has been estimate of gross mean recoverable oil volumes from 750 million significantly derisked through excellent seismic work barrels towards 1 billion barrels, as we prepare for ourKenya completed to date.
In both Guyana and Suriname, Tullows blocks are on the shelf in c. 100 m to 1,000 m of water, making drilling and possible How is Tullow differentiated by its approach to exploration?
subsequent development much lower cost compared to Tullow has a low-cost production portfolio ranging from $20 to operations in deeper water.
The Araku well, for example, is $40 bbl across its full life cycle which enables us to generate forecast to cost around $14 million net to Tullow, as we take strong margins, even at a low oil price.
The high quality of our advantage of significantly lower rig rates during the downturn portfolio of strongly oil-focused exploration assets backed up and simple well designs.
byour talented team sets us apart from our peers.
Of the oil we currently produce, 90 per cent has been discovered by teams at Is Africa still a key area for Tullow to explore?
Tullow, working together across all disciplines.
Looking ahead, Africa remains Tullows heartland and we have teams focused we have strategic options to discover more oil ourselves that on Tullows acreage across the continent, focusing on three key will further underpin Tullows value and provide growth areas.
The first is near-field exploration to sustain production opportunities for our stakeholders.
and increase reserves in our main producing assets in Block 47 Orinduik Liza Araku Atlantic Ocean Block 54 Kanuku Tambaredjo Guyana Suriname Tullow Operated Tullow Non-operated Oil Field Discovery Drilling operations in the South Lokichar basin, Kenya Map showing Tullow acreage position offshore Guyana and Suriname www.
com 27 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS REVIEW CONTINUED net:26,200 bopd.
In addition, under WEST AFRICA Tullows corporate Business Interruption Ghana WEST AFRICA insurance the Group received insurance Jubilee payments which equates to 4,600 bopd In February 2016, an issue with the of net equivalent production.
Tullow turret bearing of the Jubilee FPSO expects 2017 production from the Kwame Nkrumah was identified Jubilee field to average 68,500 bopd resulting in the need to implement net:24,300 bopd, assuming 12 weeks newoperating and offtake procedures, ofshutdown associated with the next utilising tugs, a dynamically positioned phase of remediation works.
Tullows shuttle tanker and a storage tanker.
corporate Business Interruption After a period of planning, Tullow insurance policy isexpected to and its JV Partners established that reimburse Tullow for the preferred long-term solution to theequivalent of 12,000 bopd of the turret issue is to convert the annualised net production for FPSO to a permanently spreadthisshutdown period, increasing moored vessel, with offtake through Tullows effective net production a new deep-water offloading buoy.
The first phase of this work, involving the installation of a stern In December 2015, Tullow submitted anchoring system, is expected to be the Greater Jubilee FullField completed in February 2017, after which Development Plan to the Government of the tugs maintaining the FPSO on Ghana.
This project, toextend field heading control will no longer be production and increase commercial required.
reserves, was redesigned given the current oil price environment to reduce The next phase of the project will involve Key offices the overall capital requirement and modifications to the turret systems for allow flexibility on the timing of long-term spread-moored operations.
Tullow has sought addition, the assessment of the optimum Regional information 2016 toaddress comments made by the long-term heading continues, in order Countries 7 Government of Ghana on the plan and, todetermine if a rotation of the FPSO Licences 54 in lightof the current Turret Remediation isrequired.
Detailed planning for these Acreage sq km 16,185 Project, approval of the plan by the works continues with the JV Partners Government of Ghana is now andthe Ghanaian Government, with final expectedinmid-2017.
decisions and approvals being sought in the first half of 2017.
Work is expected to TEN be carried out in the second half of 2017, In May 2013, the Government of Ghana with an anticipated facility shutdown of up 67,100BOEPD approved the TEN Plan of Development, to 12 weeks, although work continues to Tullows second major operated 2016 net production optimise and reduce the shutdown period.
The project remained on schedule and on The final phase of the project will budget throughout the development involvethe installation of a deep water 553.5MMBOE phase with first oil delivered in August offloading buoy which is planned to be Total net reserves & resources 2016.
Net capital expenditure by Tullow installed in the first half of 2018.
This in 2016 was approximately $600 million, willremove the need for the dynamically in line with the Groups forecast.
positioned shuttle tanker and storage tanker and the associated operating Following first oil, the oil production, gas $1,270M costs.
This phase of work also requires compression injection and water injection 2016 net sales revenue approval of both the Government of systems were commissioned and are Ghana and the Jubilee JV Partners.
In early January 2017, the capacity of the FPSO was successfully The capital costs associated with the $694M tested at an average rate in excess of the remediation works, the lost revenue design capacity of 80,000 bopd during resulting from the shutdown period 2016 net investment a24-hour flow test.
Gross annualised andthe increased operating costs are Including the impact of insured barrels working interest production in 2016 expected to be covered by the Joint from the Jubilee field, West Africa working averaged 14,600 bopd net: 6,900 bopd.
Venture Hull and Machinery insurance interest production was 71,700 boepd.
policy and Tullows corporate Business Production testing and initial results Interruption insurance policy.
from the 11 wells indicate reserves estimates for both Ntomme and Enyenra Full-year 2016 production from the Jubilee field averaged 73,700 bopd 28 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1 Ghana continued EAST AFRICA to be in line with previously guided Kenya EAST AFRICA expectations.
However, due to some Exploration & Appraisal issues with managing pressures in the Exploration and appraisal of the South Enyenra reservoir and because no new Lokichar basin continued in 2016 and wells can be drilled until after the ITLOS theinitial phase was completed in the ruling, which is expected in late 2017, firsthalfof the year.
The success of this Tullow is managing the existing wells programme and analysis of the discoveries ina prudent and sustainable manner.
led management to upgrade the South Asa result, Tullow expects Lokichar mean resource estimate to 750 production from TEN to be around mmbo.
Also in the first half of the year, 50,000 bopd net:23,600 bopd in Tullow expanded its exploration drilling 2017, although workcontinues to programme in Kenya to the Kerio evaluate ways to increase Valley Basin in Block 12A where the production.
Cheptuket-1 well encountered oil shows, seen in cuttings and rotary Gas production from the TEN fields sidewall cores.
Post-well analysis is is currently being re-injected.
Further exploration Thegas export line between the activities in Block 12A and Tullows other TEN and Jubilee developments remaining unexplored Kenyan acreage isexpected to be connected this month continue tobe evaluated.
with gas export expected tocommence later in 2017.
After identifying a number of new prospects and appraisal opportunities, Proceedings at ITLOS with regard to the drilling re-commenced in the South maritime border dispute between Ghana Lokichar Basin in mid-December 2016 and Cte dIvoire continue, with oral Key offices with a four-well exploration and appraisal hearings scheduled for this month, and programme.
The first was Erut-1, an a final ruling anticipated in the fourth Regional information 2016 exploration well located at the northern quarter of 2017.
Drilling is expected to limit of the basin, approximately 11 km Countries 2 resume in 2018 after thefinal ruling.
The well Licences 17 discovered a gross oil interval of 55m West Africa non-operated portfolio Acreage sq km 50,344 with 25m of net oil pay ata depth of700m.
West Africa non-operated production The overall oil column for the field is was in-line with expectations in 2016 estimated to be 100to 125m.
Due to low oil results, the oil recovered from Erut-1 prices, capital expenditure was reduced appears tobe a typical South Lokichar substantially across a number of these waxy light crude.
This well proves that oil 639.6MMBOE fields in 2016.
While this reduced has migrated to the northern limit of the investment helps maximise near-term Total net reserves & resources South Lokichar Basin and has derisked cash flow it does impact the rate of multiple prospects in this area.
The rig production decline, and as a result isnow drilling the Amosing-6 well to 2017forecast production across the $86M appraise undrilled volumes.
It will then West African non-operated portfolio is move to drill the Ngamia-10 well, an expected to be around 22,000 bopd net.
2016 net investment appraisal well to the south of the Ngamia There is flexibility to increase capital discovery well.
The fourth well planned investment in the medium term to offset inthis programme will drill the Etete production decline in these mature prospect, a structure approximately 2 km assets, as market conditions improve.
This programme could be extended by up to four additional Europe production wells depending upon the results from Full year gas production from Europe these initial four wells.
Tullow believes averaged 6,200 boepd net in 2016. that significant upside remains across the Decommissioning operations in the UK South Lokichar Basin with the potential Southern North Sea on the CMS assets toincrease the resource estimate to over are continuing on schedule and are 1 billion barrels of recoverable oil.
expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2017.
2017 average net Field development production is expected to be around Good progress was made during 2016 on 6,500 boepd.
a standalone development in Kenya with an export pipeline to Lamu: life-of-field development costs comprising operating www.
com 29 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS REVIEW CONTINUED Production Licences in the Tullow and Total operated areas.
Kenya continued TheGovernment of Uganda has also made significant progress expenditure, capital expenditure and potential pipeline tariffs are on the constitution of both the Petroleum Authority to regulate expected to be in the region of $25 to $30 per barrel.
Preparations the oil industry and the Uganda National Oil Company which will for the upstream development Front End Engineering Design be the Government representative in the Uganda Joint Venture.
FEED are under way, with FEED expected to commence in the second half of 2017.
Other activity during the year included water The first phase of the upstream ESIA has also been completed: injection trials which were successfully completed on the Amosing thesecond phase is in progress.
FEED for both the upstream oil discovery in the South Lokichar Basin.
Data from the trials andpipeline are expected to commence this month.
Overall, the shows the viability of water injection for development planning and Government and JV Partners continue to aspire to achieve FID by a similar programme of water injection tests on the Ngamia oil the end of 2017, with first oil expected to occur three years after FID.
discovery is scheduled to commence later this month.
The Farm-down to Total Environmental and Social Impact Assessments ESIA scoping On 9 January 2017, Tullow announced that it had agreed report and terms of reference were approved and ESIA baseline asubstantial farm-down of its assets in Uganda to Total.
UndertheSale and Purchase Agreement, Tullow has agreed to Tullow and its JV Partners, Africa Oil and Maersk Oil, signed transfer21.57% of its 33.33% Uganda interests to Total for a total aMemorandum of Understanding in July 2016 with the consideration of $900 million.
Upon completion, the farm-down Government of Kenya which confirms the intent of the parties will leave Tullow with an 11.76% interest in the upstream and to jointly progress the development of aKenya crude oil pipeline projects.
This is expected to reduce to a 10% interest in pipeline.
Subsequent to this, the JV Partners and the the upstream project when the Government of Uganda formally Government of Kenya are also in the final stages of exercises its back-in right.
Although it has not yet been negotiation of a Joint Development Agreement JDA which determined what interests the Governments of Uganda and setsout a structure for the Government of Kenya and the Tanzania will take in the pipeline project, Tullow expects its JVPartners to progress the development of the export pipeline.
interests in the upstream and pipeline projects to be aligned.
This agreement will ultimately enable important studies to The consideration is split into $200 million in cash, consisting of commence such as pipeline FEED and ESIA, as well as $100 million payable on completion of the transaction, $50 million studies onpipeline financing and ownership.
payable at FID and $50 million payable at first oil.
The remaining An Early Oil Pilot Scheme EOPS, which involves the transportation $700 million is in deferred consideration and represents of early South Lokichar oil production to Mombasa by road, was reimbursement by Total in cash of a proportion of Tullows past exploration and development costs.
The deferred consideration is sanctioned by the JV Partners in the third quarter of 2016.
The payable to Tullow as the upstream and pipeline projects progress various agreements are in the final stages of negotiations with the and these payments will be used by Tullow to fund its share of the Government of Kenya.
The EOPS will use existing upstream wells development costs.
Tullow expects the deferred consideration to and oil storage tanks to initially produce approximately 2,000 bopd cover its share of upstream and pipeline development capex to gross in 2017.
The EOPS will provide important information which first oil and beyond.
Completion of the transaction is subject to will assist in full field development planning.
certain conditions, including the approval of the Government of Uganda, after which Tullow will cease to be an operator in Uganda.
Uganda The disposal is expected to complete in 2017.
Field development In April 2016, the Government of Uganda confirmed its decision Tullow believes this agreement will allow the Lake Albert to route an oil export pipeline through Tanzania to the port of Development to move ahead and increases the likelihood Tanga, providing clarity on the development of Ugandas oil ofFIDaround the end of 2017. resources.
In August 2016, the Government awarded eight Drilling operations at Amosing field, South Lokichar Basin, Kenya Early drilling at Jobi-Rii field, Lake Albert, Uganda 30 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1 consistent with potential oil or gas NEW VENTURES effects in the target reservoirs.
A rig Tullow has continued to actively manage NEW VENTURES iscurrently being sourced for the well its New Ventures portfolio throughout 2016 which is expected to cost $14 million through both licence acquisitions and netto drill.
farm-downs of existing acreage to optimise theallocation of exploration In Guyana, the Group is planning expenditure.
Notwithstanding a lower toacquire 3D seismic data over the exploration budget, Tullow continues to offshore Orinduik licence, awarded in successfully replenish and high-grade 2016, and Kanuku licence which are itsexploration portfolio, and believes located up-dip of ExxonMobils Liza thatthe portfolio should give the oil discovery.
These programmes Group significant low-cost are expected to cover up to 6,000 sq opportunities for the future.
km and will enable evaluation of attractive leads mapped on existing New Ventures activity in 2016 also 2D seismic data.
involved the continued refinement of the Groups frontier exploration Offshore Uruguay, a 2,500 sq km 3D portfolio and Tullow has taken the seismic programme commenced in decision not to pursue its interests January 2017 to capture data over in Madagascar, Ethiopia, French high-quality leads identified in Block Guiana, Guinea, Norway and Greenland 15 in the Pelotas Basin.
and the Group has, with the exception of Norway, now exited these countries.
In Jamaica, following the completion ofadrop core and seep study in the Walton Africa Morant blocks that identified alive oil In June 2016, Tullow extended its seep, Tullow will acquire a further680km Key offices EastAfrican rift play acreage through the of 2D seismic data beforeconsidering the Tullow withdrew from Ethiopia, award of Petroleum Exploration Licence acquisition ofa3Dseismic survey.
FrenchGuiana, Greenland, Guinea 28, onshore Zambia.
The 53,000 sq km andMadagascar in 2016 early 2017.
Europe block builds on Tullows existing low-cost, The divestment of the Norway business core East African Tertiary rift basins, Regional information 2016 giving the Group access to three further isprogressing well with two deals Countries 9 unexplored basins.
Tullow initially plans completed before year end and one in Licences 31 to complete geological studies, acquire January 2017.
Four licences, including Acreage sq km 186,505 agravity survey and collect passive the Wisting oil discovery, have been sold seismic data.
If the results are positive to Statoil, eight licences, including the the Group will then acquire a 2D seismic Oda asset, have been sold to Aker BP survey in the block.
ASA and two further licences have been sold to ConocoPhillips.
A further two During the year, there was a focus on sales were executed in December 2016 $77 M interpreting previously acquired seismic with two separate parties.
These sales, surveys to prepare prospects in advance 2016 net investment covering a further 13 licences, and of making the decision on whether to whichinclude the 2016 Cara oil and gas drill.
Encouraging oil plays have been discovery, are expected to complete by identified in Blocks C-3 and C-10 in April 2017.
In aggregate, the Norway Mauritania and in the PEL30 and PEL37 asset sales are expected to yield proceeds licences in Namibia.
Tullow plans to of up to $0.2 billion.
Once completed, the acquire a 3D seismic survey over its Group will no longer hold any licences Mauritanian acreage in June 2017. on the Norwegian Continental Shelf.
South America Asia Tullow has continued to advance its In May 2016, Tullow agreed to sell a operations in South America and plans 20per cent interest in and transfer are ongoing to drill the high impact operatorship of the Bannu West licence Araku prospect Tullow: 30%, offshore in Pakistan to Mari Petroleum.
The Suriname, in the second half of 2017.
Governments approval of the Bannu This prospect is a large structural West transfer is nearing completion.
In trapwhich has a resource potential July 2016 Tullow received Government estimated at over 500 mmbo.
It has been approval of the transfer of operatorship significantly fide-risked by a 3D seismic of Block 28 in Pakistan to OGDCL.
The survey carried out in 2015 which identified Groups position in Pakistan is now geophysical characteristics that are entirely non-operated.
