OPERATIONAL REVIEW Partnered marketed products and pipeline programmes VR647 SCIPE, our second drug device combination using the AKITA JET smart nebuliser technology as a maintenance treatment Novartis for paediatric asthma.
We had a successful pre-IND meeting with Ultibro Breezhaler indacaterol glycopyrronium bromide, QVA149, the FDA in June 2015 and it agreed with our intent to rely on the a first-in-class once-daily fixed dose dual bronchodilator, long-acting 505 b 2 pathway for the development programme with the aim beta2-adrenergic agonist LABA long-acting muscarinic antagonist offiling a New Drug Application NDA.
IND filing is anticipated LAMA, achieved total net sales of $286m within our full financial inmid-2016.
A CMC supply chain for sterile product is required 1 year.
The product has been approved for use in over 80countries bythe US market and this is being established.
Once in place, including Japan and countries in the EU.
In November, Novartis aPhase I study will be conducted to support initiation of Phase III announced positive first results from the Phase III FLAME study inmid-2018 with filing anticipated in mid-2020.
showing superiority of Ultibro Breezhaler over Seretide inreducing exacerbations in patients with chronic obstructive Partnered pipeline programmes pulmonary disease COPD the full study results have subsequently VR315 US fluticasone propionate salmeterol, our partnered 2 been published in the New England Journal of Medicine and these programme with Hikma for a generic version of Advair Diskus data were also presented at the 2016 Annual Meeting of American forthe treatment of asthma and COPD.
Vectura received cash Thoracic Society ATS in May.
milestones of $5m triggered by the successful achievement of Breezhaler glycopyrronium bromide, NVA237, a once-daily Seebri important development milestones.
In January we confirmed fixed dose inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist LAMA, achieved thatour partner on this programme and VR506 was Hikma 1.
"The product total net sales of $148m within our full financial year Pharmaceuticals PLC ""Hikma""."
is approved for use in over 90 countries including Japan and Post-period event related to VR315 US countries in the EU.
In April 2016, the ANDA was accepted for filing by US FDA and Vectura In October 2015, Novartis received US FDA approval for the new recognised a milestone payment of $10m.
The FDA has provided dual combination bronchodilator Utibron Neohaler formerly Hikma with a GDUFA goal date of 10 May 2017.
Vectura will receive QVA149 and the stand-alone monotherapy Seebri Neohaler an $11m payment on approval of the file plus royalties from all formerly NVA237 for patients with COPD.
This approval triggered sales of VR315 in the US upon successful launch of this product.
a$22.5m milestone payment from Novartis to Vectura.
It is now VR876 EU is being developed by an undisclosed partner as a nebulised expected that the launch of these products in the US will take version of a currently marketed drug for the treatment of serious placein the second half of 2016. lung disease.
This product uses Vecturas smart nebuliser FOX QVM149 indacaterol glycopyrronium bromide mometasone furoate, device.
In October 2015 we achieved a development milestone a new inhaled once-daily combination triple therapy for asthma triggering a cash milestone payment of 5m c. 3.6m to Vectura.
comprising a LABA LAMA and corticosteroid ICS.
In June 2015 Regulatory action is expected in 2016.
Novartis announced it had initiated the first Phase III trial of a new VR942 Global, our co-development with UCB of a biologic for inhaled dry powder triple therapy for patients with moderate to uncontrolled asthma with one of Vecturas proprietary DPI devices, severe uncontrolled asthma on standard ICS LABA medication, continued to make progress.
This is a novel dry powder product which triggered a milestone payment to Vectura of $3.75m.
concept utilising Vecturas large molecule formulation expertise Thefirst regulatory filings of QVM149 are planned for 2018. combined with inhaled device technology.
Following the successful Vecturais eligible to receive development, filing and approval completion of a number of pre-clinical studies, enrolment commenced milestones plus royalties on product sales in the event of a into a Phase I clinical study in healthy volunteers and patients with successful product launch.
Phase I enabling pre-clinical studies are ongoing to enable initiation of Phase II studies in 2017.
Wholly owned pipeline programmes, our drug device combination using the AKITA JET VR475 FAVOLIR VR632 EU, a second inhaled generic combination therapy for asthma smart nebuliser technology delivering nebulised budesonide for the and COPD delivered using one of Vecturas proprietary DPI devices treatment of severe uncontrolled asthmatics.
Recruitment in to the and formulation technology and partnered with Sandoz.
In October, Phase III study is underway and progressing well and the majority a cash milestone of 0.75m payable to Vectura was triggered by of study sites have initiated and to date over 200 patients have entered the successful achievement of a development milestone.
Phase III study results are anticipated in mid-2018.
VR465 Global, an inhaled, anti-RSV Nanobody ALX-0171 in development with Ablynx.
In December Ablynx confirmed it had completed enrolment of the first-in-infant Phase I IIa safety study and extended the study to include younger infants using Vecturas FOX device.
Post-period event related to VR465 Global Ultibro, Breezhaler and Neohaler are registered trade marks of Novartis AG.
Utibron isatrade mark of Novartis AG.
In May 2016 Ablynx reported positive top line Phase I IIa study results for VR465 in infants hospitalised with RSV infection.
The study met 1 Q2Q4 2015 and Q1 2016, as reported by Novartis.
its primary endpoint demonstrating safety and tolerability and 2 W edzicha JA, Banerji D, Chapman KR, et al.
Indacaterol Glycopyrronium Versus Salmeterol Ablynx confirmed these results strongly support advancing the Fluticasone for COPD Exacerbations.
New England Journal of Medicine.
programme into a Phase II efficacy study in infants.
2 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Post-period Corporate governance On 24 May we announced our collaboration with Propeller Health There have been a number of changes to the Board over the year.
for the development of a connected LOMI DPI device demonstrating Dr Per-Olof Andersson was appointed a Non-Executive Director Vectura's commitment to develop next generation inhalation devices of the Board with effect from 1 April 2015. that can help patients manage their respiratory diseases better.
At the end of June 2015 Dr Chris Blackwell stepped down as Kinnovata update Chief Executive and the appointment of James Ward-Lilley as Chief Executive Officer was announced.
Our joint venture, Kinnovata, established to create low cost DPI products for the domestic Chinese market, has made good progress Trevor Phillips, Chief Operating Officer, acted as Interim Chief during the year.
We expect the final capitalisation of the joint venture Executive Officer in the period between Chris departure and to be concluded within the next few weeks with the relevant assets James arrival.
being contributed to the business by Vectura and its partners.
James joined Vectura at the end of September 2015.
Thiswill trigger the recognition of an exceptional non-cash gain toVectura as we recognise our share of Kinnovatas net assets.
Reporting calendar Subject to completion of the proposed merger with Skyepharma, Vectura intends to change its financial year end from 31 March to 31 December.
This is in line with the financial reporting of other FTSE 250 companies, our partners and our peer group.
Further details on the financial calendar will be announced after the proposed Skyepharma merger has closed.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 3
