Vesuvius plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operating Review Steel Division Providing Flow Control, Advanced Refractories and Technical Services solutions for the global steel industry.
Steel revenue m The Steel Division 4.9% 942.0m Vesuvius is a global leader in molten metal ow 2016 942.0 engineering.
We achieve this by working closely 2015 897.6 with our customers to develop customised 2014 981.4 refractories, systems, services and technologies that enable them to improve their performance.
Steel trading profit m The three businesses that comprise the Steel -0.5% 79.2m division are Steel Flow Control, Advanced 2016 79.2 Refractories and Technical Services.
2015 79.5 2014 96.4 Our Steel Flow Control products and systems are used extensively in the continuous casting process, Steel return on sales % enabling steel to be cast without interruption, -50bps 8.4% whilst protecting it from the atmosphere when 2016 8.4 passing through the production process.
Avoiding 2015 8.9 atmospheric contact signi cantly reduces 2014 9.8 contamination levels in the steel.
Thus the quality, reliability and consistency of our products are critical in the quality of the nished metal being produced and the productivity, pro tability and safety of our customers processes.
Vesuvius Advanced Refractories business supplies the steel industry and other process industries with high-performance refractory materials used for lining vessels such as blast furnaces, ladles and tundishes to enable them to withstand high temperatures and or corrosive attack.
These refractory lining materials are supplied in the form of powder mixes, which are spray-applied or cast onto the vessels to be lined monolithics, or in pre-cast shapes and bricks.
Our Technical Services business complements existing product lines by bringing new services to our existing customers.
Technical Services focuses on the capture of key manufacturing data, combining this with Vesuvius strong presence and refractory expertise in metal casting to create new technologies and develop integrated expert process management systems.
Our Performance 37 Through a renewed focus on cost base optimisation, acceleration of innovation and growth in emerging markets, Flow Control laid out in 2016 the foundation for a solid and sustained growth strategy in the years ahead.
Patrick Andr President, Flow Control The Steel Production Process and Vesuvius The Global Steel Market in 2016 Our products can have a short service life often According to the World Steel Association, global a matter of a few hours due to the signi cant steel production in 2016 was globally stable wear caused by the high temperature, high showing a small increase of 0.7% compared thermal cycling and the erosive and corrosive with 2015. attacks they suffer.
Due to the specialised nature of However, despite this overall stability, there our products and the high volume in which these were signi cant differences within regions, products are consumed, Vesuvius has developed with declining production in EU28 2.3%, South close, collaborative relationships with customers America 10.6% and Africa 4.7% and increasing together with an extended global manufacturing production in India 7.4%, China 1.2% and the network aligned with customer locations.
focuses on gaining a fundamental understanding of customers processes and delivering systems Steel Flow Control and products that are mission-critical for the Financial performance in 2016 demanding applications in which they are used.
Against this backdrop, Steel Flow Control reported revenues of 506.4m for 2016 an increase of Market Dynamics 3.9% compared with 2015.
On an underlying basis Customers of the Steel division are principally steel revenues were down 5.3% as compared with producers and manufacturers of steel production 2015.
EMEA and NAFTA were impacted by the equipment.
In addition, the Advanced Refractories closure of steel plants where Flow Control had business supplies other high-temperature industries a high penetration rate, and this was the main such as petrochemicals and cement, and therefore contributor to the decline in underlying revenues.
around 7% of revenues in the Steel division arise At the same time, sales and penetration rates from non-steel-related process industries.
continued to increase in India, the fastest growing steel market in 2016.
For our consumable products, steel production volumes are the critical driver of demand, In this challenging market environment, the first particularly in the production of higher-quality results of the restructuring programme delivered steels where our highly technical products deliver a positive impact on the financial performance of the most value.
Steel producers are continually the business line.
striving to enhance their processes reducing Cost base optimisation downtime and labour, increasing steel quality, Following a review of the Flow Control reducing energy usage and enhancing manufacturing network in Europe, the decision metallurgical accuracy parameters in which was made during the year to close three plants our existing consumables and solutions can Avezzano and Cagliari in Italy, and Ostrava in be combined with our developing Technical the Czech Republic.
Services offering to deliver value through better productivity, quality and safety.
Vesuvius plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operating Review Steel Division continued The closure of these three plants was completed Serving customers: Flow Control by year-end with production transferred to the remaining Flow Control plants in Europe, the Working with CSA Thyssenkrupp to continuously productivity of which was signi cantly improved.
deliver higher productivity and safety in the The closures were not the only focus of the cost production of high-quality steel grades.
optimisation programme, with signi cant efforts also focused on Lean initiatives and ef ciency across the European network of sites in line with our wider Group focus on Excellence.
The series of steps we took in Europe to optimise manufacturing ef ciency bene ted the Steel Flow Control financial performance in 2016 with our focus on cost saving offsetting a substantial proportion of the pro ts lost from declining sales.
We expect these actions to have a further positive impact on Flow Control results from 2017 onwards.
Renewed focus on growth through technology and innovation Above: SEM 3085 tube changer The Vesuvius commitment to outpace steel market and refractory growth through constant innovation and valuecreating technological solutions for our customers was re-con rmed in 2016 as the core strategy The Challenge The installation of this new system of the Flow Control business line.
has been combined with a contract With the increasing competitiveness to supply the VISO refractory parts, of the world steel market, CSA To achieve this objective and increase the further contributing to the optimum Thyssenkrupp required a solution to control of steel ow from ladle to mould.
ef ciency of our R&D efforts, the decision was increase tundish life.
This solution taken to streamline the portfolio of projects had to address not only the demand to The Bene ts consistently increase caster productivity and concentrate on a reduced number of The number of heats per tundish was but also the necessity to assure the potentially high-impact projects, with improved nearly doubled from 6 to 10 heats.
highest standards of safety and quality.
This resulted in a substantial gain project management organisation and Our Solution in productivity and an increase in increased resources.
metallic yield, whilst maintaining Vesuvius introduced the latest high standards of safety through the We continue to focus our activities in centres generation SEM 3085 tube changer implementation of an emergency metal system, which improves ergonomics of excellence for R&D, with Flow Control building ow shutoff protocol, possible only with and reliability during the manufacture on the strong work undertaken at our centre stopper tube changer technology, even of high-quality steel grades.
The SEM during the tube change operation.
3085 system also brings an increase in robustness and simpler handling, Growth in emerging markets assuring consistent and continuous The penetration rates of Flow Control solutions in operation in demanding applications.
India and South America increased again in Furthermore, it is compatible with Robotic Casting Technology.
This trend is expected to continue in 2017 with a growing interest from customers in our technological offerings.
Our Performance 39 In spite of an adverse market environment, Advanced Refractories delivered on its promise of customer focus, superior products, investment in innovation, business evolution in new market segments and growth in developing markets.
Tanmay Ganguly President, Advanced Refractories Looking ahead However, due to overcapacity in the steel sector, Through this renewed focus on cost base some customers in these regions have been optimisation, acceleration of innovation and confronted with cashow issues, which has growth in emerging markets, Flow Control laid negatively impacted our payment terms.
the foundation in 2016 for a solid sustained Thus, strict credit control procedures and growth strategy in the years ahead.
customer selection criteria are being implemented to mitigate the financial risks associated Advanced Refractories with targeting growth in these and other Financial performance in 2016 developing markets.
Advanced Refractories reported revenues for Despite the challenges of refocusing business 2016 were 398.8m, representing an increase from established markets, growing the penetration of 5.3% versus 2015.
On an underlying basis, rates of Flow Control business solutions the year-on-year revenue decrease was 3.3% consumables, systems and services in India, on 2015 levels, with performance tracking the China, CIS, Middle East and South America challenging environment across global markets, will remain a strategic focus in the coming years.
driven in particular by the excess steel-making See more about our Solutions Group in Operating Review capacity in China increasing exports into some Innovation on pages 48-49 of our main markets.
Development of ux products offering: The year started with a glut of steel inventory and acquisition of Brazilian mould ux business as worsening macro-economic conditions proved Mould and tundish uxes play an important role hugely demanding for the steel industry, a reduced in the continuous casting process.
Tundish uxes demand for steel in oil and gas applications added insulate and prevent steel reoxidation.
Mould to the challenging business environment.
Against uxes provide lubrication and help to control heat this backdrop, more positively, steel prices have transfer at mould level where the temperature recovered since the beginning of 2016. and the uid dynamics of molten steel as it solidi es, are fundamental parameters in ensuring The political uncertainty in the Middle East made consistency and quality in the steel slab.
These it a fertile ground for lower-priced Chinese steel uxes are also in contact with our VISO products imports, affecting production in the region.
and in uence their service life, particularly in the However, this situation stabilised in the second highly corrosive and erosive slag layer.
All of half, with local production levels starting to recover.
these elements combined, mean that uxes are Similarly, the political instability in Brazil had a a critical element of continuous casting process major impact on the economy a major producer control, directly affecting the quality of the final of iron ore and steel leading to a signi cant drop steel products.
in steel demand and a challenging foreign exchange situation.
This forced some local The Flow Control division, already active in the producers to revise their footprint and signi cantly ux business principally in EMEA and NAFTA, curtail steel production in the region.
reinforced its presence in this market through the acquisition in December 2016 of the mould and Other than in Brazil and in the Middle East, our tundish uxes business of Carboox, the leading strategy to capture growth in emerging markets local South American ux manufacturer, increasing had positive outcomes.
India, South East Asia, Vesuvius presence in the South American market.
South Korea and Mexico continued to establish We now expect ux sales to represent around green eld projects to bolster steel production 10% of Flow Control revenues worldwide.
Trademark s of the Vesuvius group of companies, some of which are registered in certain countries Vesuvius plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operating Review Steel Division continued capacity.
Our longstanding presence and local particular success in the aluminium industry which manufacturing capabilities position us well to take continued to show satisfying growth in 2016. advantage of these future growth opportunities.
Innovation remains a key element of the business line strategy as new technologies come out of the Customer focus trial development stage and into industrialisation.
An integral part of our success strategy depends on the level of collaboration with our customers.
Our focus on product and process innovation is The frequent presence of our experts at our central to our strategy in Advanced Refractories.
customers facilities allows us a fundamental Our experience in material design and application, understanding of their needs and market coupled with a thorough understanding of our requirements.
As well as delivering improved customers requirements, enables us to develop current solutions, this information is fed back to innovative solutions.
New material and application our research centres, enabling development of technologies, deep understanding of the steelthe next generation of products.
This is coupled making process and powerful simulation tools with investment in new technologies at our R&D have allowed our technical experts to come up centres to provide our scientists with a better with breakthrough developments to help our understanding of our products, processes and customers reduce non-metallic inclusions in their applications, pushing the boundaries of the steel, leading to higher yields on some of the most solutions we can deliver to customers.
demanding applications like continuous casting of high-strength light-weight automotive, oil and Our key challenge in 2016 was to keep our gas, and stainless steel grades.
organisation focused and aligned with meeting our customers expectations in very dif cult market We are optimistic about our roadmap for the conditions for them.
It is implicit that our key development of innovative products and solutions customer-facing people are technically excellent, for downstream applications in the steel-making and equipped with the best support from our R&D process.
A new family of products for reheat and technical teams, with clear lines of access to furnace applications named Thermogard them.
We continue to work hard to ensure that is showing double digit improvements in its customers understand how to access the breadth insulating properties, leading to signi cant and depth of Vesuvius world-leading experience reductions in energy consumption.
for the bene t of their business.
More than 50% of the worlds steel is produced New product developments using an integrated route relying on blast furnaces Our continued investment in R&D is bearing fruit to melt iron ore.
In this area we have initiated the with new products for iron, continuous casting and development of a new family of products which steel nishing applications.
In addition, we saw Our Performance 41 The Challenge Our Solution The Bene ts Serving customers: Advanced Refractories More than 50% of the steel Historically, the binder systems As well as complying with the produced in the world is produced available to manufacture this strictest environmental Developing more by blast furnaces.
After iron is ceramic plug utilised coal tar regulations around the globe, melted in a blast furnace, it is and petroleum pitch.
this new binder technology has environmentally extracted through a tap hole at the controlled the aging pro le of our Thanks to our relentless responsible blast base of the furnace.
When tapping tap hole clay, enhancing shelf life commitment to innovation has been completed, the hole has and reducing operational costs.
furnace operations and our consideration for to be plugged using a ceramic clay environmental issues, Vesuvius Thus Vesuvius green tap hole clay material designed to withstand developed a new platform of binder does not aff ect traditional very severe operating conditions.
green binder systems for tap hole performance requirements When the furnace is ready for clay in blast furnace applications.
speci cally drill ability and long tapping again, a drill is used to duration casting, produces very open the hole and begin the low or no PAH polycyclic tapping procedure once more.
aromatic hydrocarbons, and is suitable for low, medium and high capacity blast furnaces.
Left: Mud gun inserting clay into the Blast Furnace taphole.
present more forgiving conditions for the customer Lean initiatives also form the core of our supply and are friendlier to the environment.
chain ef ciency and cost competitiveness.
Improved Sales and Operations Planning practices In addition, the vast experience gained over years have helped to cut inventories and improve of utilising cutting-edge computational ow response time.
We continue to use every modelling in continuous casting with products like opportunity to improve our process ow at our Turbostop family of impact pads is now being manufacturing locations, with targeted capital applied to gather a deeper understanding of the investment delivering signi cant bene ts in uid dynamics of other molten metal applications.
manufacturing ow, inventory management and This research is expected to extend the campaign labour and energy ef ciency.
life and productivity of blast furnaces which directly Organisational improvements feed the steel shop.
Increasing the campaign life As our business in mature markets like NAFTA of blast furnaces has a direct impact on the and Europe continues to evolve and growth in productivity of other processes downstream, like emerging markets like China and India moves the steel melt shop, continuous casting and rolling forward, we are constantly realigning our resource mills.
This computational modelling, along with base to align with activity levels.
That involves new refractory technologies, is showing reviewing our manufacturing base and talent encouraging results by increasing the life of the pool on a continuous basis, both to anticipate and refractories before the next repair is required.
In 2016 we have completed Operational improvements several such projects that were initiated in 2015, Quality and Lean remain the two cornerstones and which have begun to deliver results.
Sustaining of our operational excellence initiative.
talent and knowledge development is key to We have reinforced our commitment towards meeting this requirement.
Regular review of the input and output control, targeting the talent pool, succession planning and knowledge implementation of Control Plans for our transfer across the organisation has been and processes in manufacturing.
Customer complaint continues to be a key priority.
management and use of tools like 8D and Failure Technical Services Mode Effects Analysis FMEA in resolving and responding to quality issues will further strengthen Vesuvius Technical Services business focuses on the reliability of our manufacturing, and is a key providing solutions that enhance the control and area for ongoing focus.
This granular monitoring of our customers production understanding of our processes delivers processes.
The provision to our Steel and Foundry a competitive advantage and is central to our customers of sensors, probes, lasers and other customer offering.
measurement systems allows them to focus on Trademark s of the Vesuvius group of companies, some of which are registered in certain countries Vesuvius plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operating Review Steel Division continued critical parameters within their processes, thus of newly acquired technology companies and to enabling them to re ne their production methods develop and market new solutions.
The focus to improve quality, lower production costs and of R&D within Technical Services remains a key maximise ef ciency.
Current solutions include differentiator of this business, and is primarily Process Metrix laser technology which allows aimed at the development of data collection accurate assessment of refractory wear in the steel systems, combined with interpretation furnaces and ladles and the Accuoptix Continuous technologies in a widening number of areas.
Temperature System which provides customers We will continue to enrich our Technical Services with a continuous, reliable and cost-effective offering in the medium term, by providing our temperature data stream.
Each of these products most advanced customers in the metal casting can also enable customers to understand their eld with decision-critical, process-enhancing refractory needs more clearly.
Another core information and analysis to enable them to capability is the mould audit, using the unique improve their operations, both through immediate XMAT device, in combination with computerised response to process parameters and from the ow modelling, to provide our Steel customers learning available from the analysis and with an expert eye in the mould, allowing them interpretation of longer-term, consistent data sets.
to gain a ne understanding of liquid behaviour in Financial performance in 2016 the mould.
The close management of these In its second year of operation, the Technical parameters can unlock more re ned process Services business generated sales of 36.9m an management and drive steel quality improvement.
increase of 16.4% year on year on a reported The information derived from these measurements basis.
On an underlying basis, revenues fell by can be sold as a consulting service and used as 17.1% when adjusted for acquisitions.
The support for improvements in refractory solutions.
headwinds experienced in the steel industry in 2015 continued in 2016, leading to reduced The Technical Services business was formed in customer activity and signi cantly lower customer 2015 following the acquisitions of ECIL Met Tec capital expenditure.
This situation was exacerbated and Process Metrix.
A key objective of the business by the poor economic environment in Brazil.
is to harness the entrepreneurial spirit and agility Serving customers: Technical Services Process Metrix Laser Contour Scanner for Ladles: Transforming refractory thickness data into valuable information for process control and improvement Left: 3-D ladle scan made with Anteris, false-coloured to illustrate areas of acceptable blue green and unacceptable red orange refractory thickness.
Our Performance 43 Whilst customer capital expenditure dropped in 2016, the Technical Services Division extended its reach in the Vesuvius and Foseco portfolios and focused on increasing the scope of its technological solutions.
Alexander Laugier-Werth President, Technical Services Strategies to promote future growth However, we saw the first bene ts of the Going forward, we will continue to review consolidation of Technical Services companies opportunities to acquire additional technological Sidermes and ECIL Met Tec accessing customer solutions to build an integrated business that can solutions across the wider footprint of the Vesuvius deliver a long-term, stable revenue stream from customer base.
We now have an extended data gathering, information analysis and the portfolio from which our solutions can improve related process improvement for our customers.
customer performance, both in terms A key focus will be on product quality deploying of quality and cost reduction.
the Vesuvius quality breakthrough initiative in our During 2016, our focus remained on the sensors and probes companies and focusing on development of new solutions, and continued value creation through the optimisation of quality efforts to increase penetration for existing and cost per ton for customers.
From the second half of 2016 onwards, to grow sales of Technical Services through our progress was made on accessing the Vesuvius and other business units, reinforcing technical and sales Foseco networks through enhanced sales support support capabilities to ensure we take maximum and on-site customer support not previously advantage of Vesuvius global customer base.
We accessible to ECIL Met Tec and Sidermes as will also focus on building a technology platform independent companies.
This is expected to which will bring together the data collected by the deliver increased activity for Technical Services, instruments designed by all companies in the although the revenue from this developing Technical Services business and develop algorithms business may not all be recorded in the results of that will help customers improve control and the technical services business line.
In the Steel performance across their processes.
business, Technical Services bene ted from the continued growth of sensor technologies products, especially mould level sensors and slag detection, and combined offers of technology lasers, robotics and refractories, yielding signi cant savings for customers.
The Challenge Our Solution The Bene ts Is the refractory brick lining in the Process Metrix installed its Anteris The primary bene t was a nearly ladle too thin to run again?
This was based Laser Contouring System LCS 50% increase in average ladle lifetime, the risk, safety and cost dilemma to measure, quickly and accurately, with some ladles achieving a nearly for one of our major European steel the ladle brick thickness.
Historically, they had quantitative measurement tool, the of the ladle barrel, bottom pro le and adopted a conservative approach to customer could correlate changes in wear rates resulted in improvements in avoid potential catastrophic breakouts.
process operating parameters with stirring practice, tap hole geometry Without adequate monitoring in place positive or negative impacts on brick evaluation to improve yield, tap hole to correlate the feedback relationships wear rate.
The LCS scan is so quick and sand optimisation, and ne tuning of between key processes and brick convenient that measurements were electromagnetic stirring parameters wear rate, limited progress was made taken on almost every ladle cycle, to to reduce slag line wear.
build history and performance data for each ladle.
Trademark s of the Vesuvius group of companies, some of which are registered in certain countries
