Vesuvius plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operating Review Foundry Division Providing high-technology consumable products and services to the foundry industry.
Foundry revenue m The Foundry Division 8.3% 459.4m Our Foundry division trades under the Foseco 2016 459.4 brand, and generates about 30% of total Group 2015 424.4 revenue.
Foseco is a world-renowned name that 2014 463.0 has become a by-word for reliability, technology and service in the supply of consumable products Foundry trading profit m and associated solutions to the foundry industry.
21.6% 54.1m 2016 54.1 Vesuvius in the Foundry Industry 2015 44.5 The vehicle sector, comprising light vehicles 2014 46.4 passenger cars and light trucks and heavy trucks, consumes approximately 40% of worldwide Foundry return on sales % 130bps castings, and a similar percentage of the revenue 11.8% for the Foundry division.
Other end-markets for 2016 11.8 foundry castings include machinery for the 2015 10.5 agricultural, construction and mining industries, 2014 10.0 power generation equipment, railroad and general engineering sectors.
Our customers include the worlds major automotive OEMs, truck producers and equipment manufacturers.
Whilst Foseco products typically represent less than 5% of a foundrys production cost, they contribute signi cantly to improving product quality and manufacturing ef ciency, whilst reducing the environmental impact of the casting process.
Combined with our computer modelling, ow simulation and methoding capabilities, signi cant process ef ciencies can be generated by Foseco.
The Global Foundry Industry in 2016 The worldwide foundry market continued to be affected by dif culties within the agricultural, construction and mining industries, resulting from the general decline in commodity prices.
We saw reduced investment worldwide with the largest impacts in the US, China, Brazil, Indonesia and Our Performance 45 In a year of slowing in capital projects and poor steel foundry production but, with good performance in Automotive, we reduced central costs and consolidated manufacturing in the USA.
We continue our strategic focus investing in R&D and training with the introduction of the Foseco online University.
Year-on-year ratios improved despite a decline in revenue.
Glenn Cowie President, Foundry Australia, and delays to new projects resulting in Underlying Revenue in Europe decreased 4.0% reduced demand for foundry castings for the year-on-year, despite increases in light vehicle extractive industries, as well as those used for 3.6% and heavy truck 2.9% production, related equipment and vehicles.
re ecting drastic declines in output from steel foundries supplying mining, construction and However, against this backdrop, light vehicle petrochemical castings.
production globally was up 3.9% year-on-year and global heavy truck output increased 2.5%.
Underlying revenue in NAFTA decreased by Light vehicle production increases in India 9.3%, 10.1% due to weakness in the agricultural, China 12.2% and NAFTA 2.5% were partially construction and mining industries, with US offset by declines in South America -12.7% production continuing to move overseas.
and North Asia -4.8%, with signi cant heavy This was compounded by expected Mexican truck output decreases in South America -20.5% growth not occurring due to a reduction of activity and NAFTA -15.9%.
in the precious metal industry.
In South America, underlying revenue increased 2.2%, despite Brazil Financial Performance in 2016 experiencing reductions in foundry castings in Exchange rates had a considerable effect on all sectors, with growth delivered mainly from the business in 2016 with the Foundry division market share gain and further penetration of reporting revenues of 459.4m in 2016, the mining sector.
representing an increase of 8.3% versus 2015.
We continued with our global cost reduction On an underlying basis, revenue was down by and restructuring programme to respond to 2.5%.
Despite the decrease in sales, trading the challenging end-market conditions.
pro t improved by 7.3%, and underlying return on sales increased by 110 bps as a result of Customer Focus the effects of an earlier commencement of Foundry business strategy promotes high value restructuring measures in 2015. generation for our customers, helping them Emerging market conditions continued to be deliver better quality castings and enhancing their dif cult, especially in China, Russia and Brazil.
Foseco has a deep Reduced revenues in Australia and South Africa understanding of customers priorities for growth re ected production declines in the auto sectors and process improvement.
To deliver this, we and extractive industries.
However, sales in India embed technical experts at customer premises, increased 12.5%, bene ting from higher light which enables them to identify potential process vehicle and truck production, up 9.3% and improvements in cooperation with their customers.
11.1% respectively, despite a very poor This is coupled with a worldwide presence performance from the petrochemical industry.
and excellence in product innovation, from our established network of technology centres, Vesuvius plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 in which we have amassed extensive expertise Operating Review in developing solutions that incorporate Foundry Division continued engineered systems and high-value consumables.
These solutions are industrialised in our geographically dispersed manufacturing base, which leverages our global expertise whilst being deliberately located as close as possible to our customers.
This combination of product expertise and service delivery ensures that all our customers receive solutions that are tailor-made to their speci c needs and opportunities, supplied on a reliable, just-in-time and competitively priced basis.
This close customer interaction also allows us to understand the growing demand to supply technological solutions such as those being championed by our Technical Services business.
The Foundry Business Model Our global presence is at the heart of the foundry business model.
This allows the Foundry division to be: Resilient to end-market cycles, due to the exibility of our diversi ed manufacturing footprint and adjustable cost base P ro table, as it allows value pricing for bespoke products Growth generating, as markets can be expanded by creating additional innovative products and solutions for customers Our Performance 47 Foundry R&D Focus on Developing Markets The investment in our world-class R&D facility Increases in casting volumes in emerging markets in the Netherlands continues to deliver increasing has been a characteristic of the foundry industry bene ts.
In 2016, new product sales as a for the past several years.
However, Fosecos percentage of overall sales was the highest in solutions are best suited where this volume growth the last decade.
Whilst in 2016 this was not is coupled with technical sophistication at the apparent in overall revenue, with a large customer, and the most demanding end-markets percentage of new product sales occurring for the casting.
To support the signi cant growth at the expense of old technology, it is the potential we anticipate in markets where industrial cornerstone of longer-term business development.
development continues to gather momentum, we have launched the Foseco University.
This is Shaping the Business for the Future an online training facility covering all aspects of the The restructuring of our Global Management foundry production process.
Following successful and our Marketing & Technology teams beta trials this will now be commercialised as a undertaken in 2016 has been a success, supporting training programme for our customers, and is in a clear focus on market segmentation and our the process of being translated into German and investment in research, and giving a renewed Chinese.
Whilst of particular use in developing focus on the rapidly growing non-ferrous sector.
markets, the Foseco University aims to The investment in China in a completely new communicate expertise and give technical support manufacturing plant experienced initial dif culties to our customers across the globe.
Coupled with but is now running smoothly as we rapidly regain our expanding network of technical sales staff and lost sales.
In 2016, a major restructuring operation application engineers within developing markets, was carried out in NAFTA, consolidating our ladle this will ensure that customers in emerging markets lining business into the Cleveland site and have local access to our high levels of expertise mothballing the lter line to make more ef cient and technical support.
use of excess capacity in other regions.
Changes in the dynamics of the global foundry market are not over, and we continue to take action to ensure that our manufacturing footprint, technical expertise and customer-facing people are correctly located to support end-market growth around the world.
The Challenge Our Solution Serving customers: Foundry The majority of the zinc oxide By increasing the thermal conductivity Reducing Energy consumption manufactured in the world is made of the crucible, it is possible both to by the indirect or French process reduce energy consumption and to in zinc oxide production whereby metallic zinc is melted in increase productivity.
ENERTEK K K ZnO a graphite crucible and vaporised at crucibles have been developed to meet temperatures around 1000 C, at which these customer requirements.
Savings point the zinc vapour reacts with oxygen of more than 30% have already been in the air to form zinc oxide.
In this process, the high level of energy The Bene ts consumed and the slow production In one speci c study where ENERTEK K K rate both have a major impact on process ZnO crucibles were used, the company pro tability, whilst the high energy showed an annual reduction in natural consumption and related production 3 gas usage of 132,000 m which resulted of greenhouse gases are extremely Productivity increase Potential savings in an annual cost saving of over 52,000 important concerns for industries and a CO emission reduction of 260 2 today and in the future.
The faster melting rate achieved up to 30% 15% using ENERTEK K K ZnOcrucibles also resulted in an increase in productivity Left: Crucibles for Non Ferrous of 15%.
Foundry Applications Trademark s of the Vesuvius group of companies, some of which are registered in certain countries
