Vesuvius plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operating Review Innovation Customers requirements for improved process control, safety, ergonomics and sustainability have all been key drivers of our R&D.
Through targeted ideation and a robust new pipeline we continue to improve and expand our products and capabilities.
Alan Charnock Vice President and Chief Technology Of cer Customer Focus as the market continues to develop and pose new R&D spend 2016 challenges.
This process includes: Re ecting during 2016 on 100 years of innovation 28.6m in Vesuvius, it is clear that the demand for Project Portfolio Management: aligning innovation in our end-markets has changed.
The R&D with Group and divisional strategies process changes adopted by our customers over Targeted Ideation: initiating the Idea to Launch New priority patent applications the last 100 years were the main drivers for the NPI stage gate process which manages all new development of our refractories and consumable product development with the project pipeline 15 products and equipment.
Over the last decade, reviewed on a regular basis to ensure alignment however, our customers have demanded better with the strategy and to identify gaps and control of their existing processes, coupled with redirect resources accordingly Patents granted operator safety, ergonomics and environmental KPIs: setting measurable goals, for example, in 2016 concerns.
This new focus has been a key driver to double our New Product Sales measured 130 of our recent R&D efforts and has led Vesuvius as the percentage of total sales derived from to establish its Technical Services division and to products launched within the last five years : promote our Solutions strategy.
to increase R&D productivity R&D spend versus new product sales revenue : and at the same Our customers require us to be innovative and time to increase our efforts on breakthrough depend on us as a leading provider of technology.
technologies to be sure we do not move only We continue to improve our existing products and by incremental developments capabilities and to deliver new products through a strong R&D organisation.
We have expanded All of our projects are therefore measured our capabilities and product range into new areas against the criteria of: of automation, mechatronics and instrumentation, Novelty newness and uniqueness?
creating the full symphony of tools and products Inventiveness creative and non-obvious?
to monitor and manage the external factors Differentiation how different is it from what that in uence the quality and yield of our currently exists?
Impact how big is the impact of this difference?
R&D Mission and Process Sustainability how long can we maintain the advantage?
R&Ds mission is to be a driver for pro table growth by developing innovative new products, solutions In 2016 we spent 28.6m on R&D, representing and technologies needed by the business, the approx.
Our New Product Sales market and our customers.
To achieve this, we have grown from 8% of total revenue in 2014 to have to be proactive, spending suf cient time 12% in 2015 and 14% in 2016, ahead of our target and resources to develop the next generation of to double in five years.
As a result, R&D productivity breakthrough technologies, and also reactive has improved from 3.5 to 7 of New Product dealing with the issues faced by our customers and Sales per of R&D spend.
We have put in We currently have 159 patent families, and 1,695 place a robust R&D process to drive innovation and patents granted worldwide, with 579 patent to ensure that we maintain this leadership position applications pending.
Our Performance 49 The Challenge ow pattern shifts in the Serving customers: mould.
These uctuations Innovation Random Slivers surface were con rmed to be the defects on the nished coil result of changes in the steel as a result of mould ux The root cause temperature entering inclusions - can be created of a quality the mould.
at the interface between defect not the liquid steel and liquid The Bene ts mould slag.
always what Monitoring tundish Our Solution temperature with our you expect.
Accuoptix system, Using our XMAT mould customers can react and audit unit at site to verify homogenize tundish performance of our temperature using a tundish Left: Monitoring and engineering solution, gas diff user to reduce the reacting to Tundish developed using occurrence of the mould ow conditions can avoid computational uid pattern shifts that lead to quality defects created dynamics, the Solutions sliver surface defects.
in the mould Group detected random R&D Organisation for new product development from its holistic examination of customer processes.
We continue to operate R&D in a two-tier structure.
We operate a central research Enhancing Quality for Our Customers component, with a critical mass of expertise to By capturing and analysing process data and using pursue breakthrough technologies, and combine simulation and diagnostic tools we are able to this with local development laboratories that also monitor conditions and analyse samples from support breakthrough research, but which are various locations in the customers process.
primarily tasked with localisation of technologies, We can then identify the root causes of quality customisation of products, incremental defects based on our understanding of the impact developments and dealing with local technical that changes in the customers process have on support issues.
We have over 300 R&D staff the final product quality.
The key for the future is distributed in these centres throughout the world.
to capture process and product property data, Enabling Technologies is our blue sky, long-range interpret it, and then react in real time to fundamental research function.
It monitors counteract the effects that deviations from normal technology trends, building the new technology practice may have on the nished product.
platforms that will ultimately lead to new Looking Ahead products and processes in our existing, adjacent and completely new markets.
This is a core part Through targeted ideation and a robust new of helping to ensure our continuing position as product pipeline, we continue to improve and a technology leader.
The Enabling Technologies expand our products and capabilities.
We have team also manages our external partnerships with already made, and will continue to make, strategic universities and other research organisations and acquisitions to accelerate the introduction of represents about 10% of our total R&D spend.
new technologies that complement our portfolio.
By mastering all of these technologies we will The Solutions Group comprises the Simulation and continue to provide better solutions to the Metallurgy Groups as well as a team of application problems faced by our customers, both through specialists.
The Solutions Group focuses on the our traditional business model and via the new provision of solutions to customers using existing Technical Services model.
technologies, to solve the problems they face or to improve the performance of their processes in Vesuvius is no longer supplying just the linings terms of productivity, yield and quality.
Our ability and plumbing we now supply Solutions that to understand the increased complexity and include every element involved in the process of interdependence of different products and engineering the ow of molten metal, to allow technologies, and their impact on end results, the ef cient and cost-effective production of differentiates us from our competitors, who lighter, stronger, more resistant end products used are often unable to construct or supply all the to make, amongst other things: faster modes of elements that constitute the Solution.
Finally, transport, stronger and bigger buildings and the Solutions Group also identi es opportunities structures, and thinner more reliable packaging.
Trademark s of the Vesuvius group of companies, some of which are registered in certain countries Vesuvius plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Responsibility 51 51 51 51 51 51 51 51 51 51 1 Section Three Our Responsibility In this section 52 Principles 54 Health and Safety 56 Sustainability 58 People and Community
