Strategic Report Operational Review WEIR MINERALS WEIR MINERALS IS ONE OF THE WORLDS LEADING SOLUTIONS PROVIDERS TO GLOBAL MINING CUSTOMERS.
MISSION-CRITICAL HIGHLY ENGINEERED INTENSIVE COMPREHENSIVE SOLUTIONS EQUIPMENT AFTERMARKET CARE GLOBAL SUPPORT Our pumps, valves, The divisions deep As ore grades decline more That demand is supported hydrocyclones, rubber, technology knowledge has rock needs to be produced by the divisions unrivalled crushers, grinders and other made it a market leader and which leads to more intensive global service centre solutions are crucial to the built up a significant installed use of the divisions solutions network.
process of turning mined rock base of equipment which is and drives demand for into valuable ore. biased towards low-cost high spares and other production mining regions.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 30 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Achieve operational excellence and 2016 divisional input by end market 2016 divisional input by geography on-time delivery improvements across global facilities through execution of Mining North America manufacturing efficiency projects, 1% 4% General Latin America including optimised machine utilisation 5% Industrial Europe & Russia and lean enhancements.
7% 24% 28% Oil & Gas Middle East Sand and & Africa Outlook 11% aggregates Asia-Pacific Assuming commodity prices remain Power around current levels, we expect mining Other markets to be relatively stable with miners 72% 24% 14% maintaining normal maintenance schedules and continuing modest ore production 10% growth supporting demand for aftermarket products and services.
We expect further modest reductions in overall mining capital An overview of the divisions main markets Align R&D spend with customer focus expenditure in 2017, with the fifth year is available on page 5 and you can read areas of efficiency, data and control, of declines in exploration and greenfield more about its financial performance in reducing environmental impact and spending largely offset by increased the Financial Review on page 24. digital supply chain.
investment in sustaining capital Several projects developed in 2016 in expenditure in plant optimisation and In last years Annual Report we set out conjunction with academic partners.
maintenance: which is the main focus the divisions strategic priorities for 2016.
Continuing investment in product of the division.
Below is a summary of progress against enhancements to address customers those priorities and objectives for 2017. short-term priorities of brownfield Overall, Minerals is expected to deliver optimisation and process improvements.
moderately higher constant currency Key priorities and progress in 2016 revenues as it maintains its focus on Actively respond to changing market Drive the benefits of the Delta brownfield opportunities.
Operating conditions, ensuring ongoing Industrial valves acquisition and margins are expected to be broadly competitiveness.
leverage enhanced product offering stable as a higher proportion of revenues Operating margins were stable to expand presence in oil sands and from original equipment and further supported by cost reductions, global mining markets.
investment in operational capabilities procurement and restructuring savings.
Delta Industrial valves successfully is offset by volume leverage and the full Facility consolidations delivered integrated into the division.
year benefit of restructuring actions.
improved overhead recoveries: Production relocation underway to further foundry optimisation projects larger St Louis facility to support 1 are underway.
Revenue Management layers were reduced.
Roll-out of Deltas premium products to new geographical territories.
2016 1,112m Leverage the divisions unrivalled service centre network to increase Utilise global resources to deliver value 2015 1,093m customer responsiveness in chain excellence including the continued challenging market conditions consolidation of the divisions Enterprise 1,134m 2014 to support financial performance.
New service centres opened in Mexico, New ERP system successfully rolled Kazakhstan and Indonesia.
out in England, Peru and Chile.
Increased numbers of applications Further divisional roll-out to Brazil, 2 engineers deployed to customer sites, Mexico, China and the rest of Europe Operating profit resulting in identification and capture of will follow.
aftermarket and brownfield optimisation 2016 217m opportunities.
Key priorities for 2017 Pursued an aggressive trials programme In 2017, we will further strengthen the 2015 213m to win market share.
divisions performance by focusing on the Groups strategic priorities.
233m 2014 Re-allocate internal resources to Continue our strong performance facilitate Trio product line growth on safety.
in mining and sand and aggregates Increase customer intimacy through Notes end markets.
2014 and 2015 are restated at 2016 average Integration of Trio completed with the brownfield opportunities to improve exchange rates.
Adjusted to exclude exceptional items and roll-out of Weir best practice across all established assets.
Continue to leverage the Groups Continuing to recruit for key roles and expertise to further develop territories to ensure enhanced market comminution crushing, grinding and coverage and product expertise.
screening and other new products Sand and aggregates demand was while also progressing increased subdued in China and North America.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 31 Strategic Report Operational Review continued WEIR OIL&GAS WEIR OIL & GAS IS A LEADING SUPPLIER OF PRESSURE PUMPING AND PRESSURE CONTROL EQUIPMENT TO THE HYDRAULIC FRACTURING MARKET.
MISSION-CRITICAL HIGHLY ENGINEERED INTENSIVE AFTERMARKET COMPREHENSIVE SOLUTIONS EQUIPMENT CARE GLOBAL SUPPORT Our pumps, valves, wellheads Through its technology As accessing oil and gas The division has strong and other equipment are vital leadership, particularly in deposits becomes more positions in the worlds most to the successful operation upstream pressure pumping complex, the divisions attractive oil and gas markets of upstream oil and gas equipment, the division has equipment is subjected to including North American operations, helping enable built up a significant installed more intensive use which shale and the Middle East.
access to shale base of equipment in drives demand for spares and energy resources.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 32 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Outlook 2016 divisional input by end market 2016 divisional input by geography Assuming oil and gas prices remain at or above current levels, E&P and service Oil & Gas North America companies have announced plans to increase 1% 2% 6% 1% General Europe & Russia capital spending in North America.
However, Industrial Middle East the pricing environment is expected to 15% Power & Africa remain challenging.
International markets, Other Asia-Pacific which were later to enter the downturn, 7% are expected to be slower to recover.
A strong increase in constant currency 72% divisional revenues from a low base is expected, driven by continued North 96% American rig count growth, with divisional margins expected to return to modest levels.
Operating margins will benefit from the An overview of the divisions main markets Enhance the divisions relationships higher volumes and the full year benefit of is available on page 5 and you can read with key customers through innovative restructuring and cost reduction measures, more about its financial performance in custom tailored products and solutions.
although pricing benefits are expected to the Financial Review on page 24.
Seaboard SMB-22 LR reduces be limited.
customers installation time and risks In last years Annual Report we set out associated with potential leak paths.
1 the divisions strategic priorities for 2016.
Mathena Intelligent Mud Gas Revenue Below is a summary of progress against Separator reduces response time 401m those priorities and objectives for 2017. to vent overflows.
2016 SPM Valve & Seat 2.0 has been 604m Key priorities and progress for 2016 designed to provide the lowest total 2015 Proactively respond to challenging cost of ownership in expendable 1,134m market conditions through continued equipment.
2014 commitment to value chain excellence improvement initiatives.
Support the transition of Gabbioneta North American service centre to its new facility in Milan and its consolidation included closure successful integration into the Flow 2 of 11 centres.
Operating profit Edmonton, Canada manufacturing State-of-the-art facility opened in consolidated with the Fort Worth, 2016 and completed ahead of plan: -9m 2016 Texas campus.
Streamlined management in Financial and operational control 2015 58m North America.
263m 2014 Achieved total of 27m annualised savings through cost reduction Key priorities for 2017 initiatives.
In 2017, we will further strengthen the Net inventory levels reduced by divisions performance by focusing on Notes 22% across the division.
2014 and 2015 are restated at 2016 average 11% improved on-time delivery on Rapidly respond to recovering market exchange rates.
Adjusted to exclude exceptional items and average across the division.
Expand global pressure control Leverage Weirs global capability capabilities to continue Middle to strengthen current market share East market share expansion.
positions and penetrate new markets.
Extend North American service Continuing progress in developing capabilities to support increasing EPIX, a Weir and Rolls-Royce subsidiary service intensity requirements and MTU, joint venture that will be the the EPIX joint venture.
first purpose built power system Support key customers drive for for fracking.
efficiency and safety through the Weir entered a distribution and service ongoing deployment of technically agreement with ZF Friedrichshafen AG advanced products and services.
to provide transmissions that specifically address hydraulic fracturing in North America.
EMEA gains pressure control market share through multiple wellhead contracts totalling 18m.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 33 Strategic Report Operational Review continued WEIR FLOW CONTROL WEIR FLOW CONTROL PROVIDES PUMPS AND VALVES TO POWER AND OIL AND GAS CUSTOMERS AROUND THE WORLD.
MISSION-CRITICAL HIGHLY ENGINEERED INTENSIVE COMPREHENSIVE SOLUTIONS EQUIPMENT AFTERMARKET CARE GLOBAL SUPPORT Our pumps and valves We have established a Given their operational The division captures those help power, mid and significant installed base of importance, our solutions attractive aftermarket downstream oil and gas original equipment including require regular aftermarket opportunities through and industrial customers safety valves used in more maintenance and servicing.
its comprehensive efficiently process liquids than half of the worlds service capability.
nuclear safety plants where performance and reliability are crucial.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 34 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Outlook 2016 divisional input by end market 2016 divisional input by geography Power, mid and downstream oil and gas markets are expected to remain subdued Power North America in 2017, while the outlook for industrial 9% Oil & Gas Latin America markets is mixed.
The division entered the 22% General Europe & Russia year with a lower order book but expects 9% 33% Industrial the benefits of the delayed project orders, Middle East Water and & Africa 41% combined valve and pump portfolio and wastewater 11% Asia-Pacific sales initiatives, to support moderate Other constant currency revenue growth.
14% However, operating margins and profits 1% are expected to fall as the higher mix of original equipment and continued pricing 30% 30% pressure more than offset operational leverage effects.
An overview of the divisions main markets Grow aftermarket revenue.
1 is available on page 5 and you can read Aftermarket revenues fell 8% as Revenue more about its financial performance in customers pushed out maintenance 332m the Financial Review on page 24. schedules and delayed planned 2016 power outages.
368m In last years Annual Report we set out 2015 the divisions strategic priorities for 2016.
381m Below is a summary of progress against The division successfully integrated 2014 those priorities and objectives for 2017. the Gabbioneta business from the Oil & Gas division and opened a new Key priorities and progress for 2016 factory in Milan.
Successfully integrate industrial The division also opened a new facility 2 pump businesses into the Flow in Kuala Lumpur and continued to Operating profit Control division.
grow its installed pump and valve 30m The pump businesses are now fully base globally.
2016 assimilated within the division and 36m realising the benefits of shared channels Key priorities for 2017 2015 to market.
Expand the divisions aftermarket 31m service offering to further leverage 2014 Enhanced profitability and operational our installed base and grow improvements.
Margins fell by 70bps reflecting Further strengthen routes to market in Notes negative operating leverage.
order to expand regional brands globally 1.
2014 and 2015 are restated at 2016 average Operational improvements, best and to improve customer intimacy.
Adjusted to exclude exceptional items and cost sourcing and procurement savings Continue to rapidly develop and intangibles amortisation.
were offset by pricing pressure across commercialise new products, service downstream markets in particular.
Utilise the divisions global supply chain Fast-track new product development further optimise the value chain.
and expand customer digital experience.
Through the ongoing application The division added new products of lean principles, continue to including the new Rota-Jet pump improve operational execution to its portfolio.
Successfully launched an initial e-commerce platform for key customers in the UK and France.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 35
