Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 47 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operating review Worldpay operates in three principal We further strengthened our market Global eCom markets Global eCom, the UK and reach and products capabilities in 2016. the US.
These markets are described We entered new markets as a domestic on page 18 of the Our strategy section Global eCom focuses on large, internetacquirer, gaining licences in Hong Kong, of the Strategic report.
led multinationals that operate in Singapore, and Australia, and further fast-growing markets and have complex progressing ongoing work on partnerships The financial information presented payment needs.
We provide a wide range and licences across Europe, Asia and and discussed in this review is based on of payment services, both online and South America.
underlying financial performance as this by mobile, to accept, validate and settle is the way that we monitor and assess payments in 126 currencies across We made major upgrades to 20 alternative the performance of each Business Unit.
146 countries, using any one of over payment methods APMs, and were These underlying performance measures 300 payment methods.
Our customers continuing to add further APMs, are explained in the Financial review on also use our payments technology to and extend our bankout products, page 51. maximise the rate at which payments are which currently support cost-efficient approved, manage the risk of fraud, and cross-border payments in over In providing commentary on the WPUS optimise their costs of operating globally.
trading performance in this review, we make reference to constant currency We focus on five priority verticals: We are also upgrading our reporting and year-on-year growth.
Constant currency DigitalContent, Global Retail, Airlines, insight products, and 2017 will see the roll has been calculated by applying the Regulated Gambling and Travel.
Through out of the Service Portal, which will give Groups current years average US dollar this focus, we build our knowledge and customers a single point of access for exchange rate to the US-denominated expertise of our customers businesses our services, and access to world-class income in the prior year.
In the current and the specific needs of their own analytics and reconciliation tools year, the US dollar average rate applied industry as it relates to payments.
through Pazien Inc.. was $1.359 compared with $1.530 in 2015.
Given the significant movement In 2016, we further embedded this Performance review in exchange rates during the year, the approach through the creation of Global eCom had another strong year Directors believe that including these Vertical Growth teams, led by experts of growth in 2016 with transactions up adjusted growth metrics allows for a that understand the opportunities and 30% to 5.0 billion.
This reflects increased more meaningful comparison of the challenges of specific industries, and volumes across a range of products and underlying year-on-year trading which will deepen our vertical expertise verticals, but most significantly in Global performance of the US division.
Retail which accounted for almost half of the transaction growth and Digital We also appointed new Regional General Content which accounted for almost Managers across the division, reflecting a quarter of the growth.
As a result, the scale and growth of our business.
average transaction values fell 6% as These new roles, spanning five regions, higher volume, lower value transactions will ensure that we remain highly are typically predominant in these responsive to the needs of our two verticals.
customers, and that we lead business development, relationship management and implementation in their regions in a globally consistent way.
48 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operating review continued Net revenue increased by 68.9m, We also benefited from the translation or 22%, to 386.6m in the year ended of non-Sterling trading as a result of the 31 December 2016 2015: 317.7m.
These effects Growth inthe first half of the year was were partly offset by the impact of unusually strong, as a result of some refunds and lost revenue in relation to non-recurring volumes and foreign an isolated issue that occurred with one exchange business, and we saw a of our gateways earlier in the year, which return to more normal levels in the affected settlement for a small number second half.
Higher income from of customers.
This issue has now been treasury management and foreign fully resolved and we announced that 1 exchange services, net acquiring we had restored normal processing for 2 income, and gateway services new transactions on 24 July 2016. income contributed the vast majority of the growth.
Global eComs net revenue as a percentage of total transaction value Net acquiring income grew by 24% in remained strong at 0.32%, in line with 2016 as a result of the growth of existing the prior year.
customers, particularly in Digital Content and Global Retail, and new business wins.
Underlying EBITDA increased by 32.7m, Revenue from treasury management or 18%, to 216.9m 2015: 184.2m.
This and foreign exchange services grew by increase was driven principally by the 25% as a result of increased volumes, growth in net revenue noted above.
particularly in the Airlines, Travel and Divisional operating costs increased Digital Content verticals.
Income from by 4%, reflecting higher commissions gateway services rose 19%, driven by and marketing spend in line with volume increases, particularly in the revenue growth, as well as significant Global Retail and Travel verticals.
Volume improvements in operating efficiency.
growth was partly offset by lower net After technology and head office revenue per transaction, driven largely allocations, operating costs grew by by mix of customers.
25%as a result of the investment in organisational capability and technology expertise across the Group.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Year-on-year 2016 2015 change Net revenue m 386.6 317.7 22% Underlying EBITDA m 216.9 184.2 18% Total transactions bn 5.0 3.8 30% Total transaction value bn 120.9 99.3 22% Average transaction value 24.3 25.9 6 % Net revenue transaction value % 0.32% 0.32% 1 Income from treasury management and foreign exchange services is generated from settling foreign currency transactions on behalf of customers in the currency and transfer mechanism of their choosing.
2 Net acquiring income is defined as transaction service charges less interchange and scheme fees.
Transaction service charges are payable for services provided to process transactions between the customer and an acquiring bank, which is a bank that accepts card payments from the card-issuing banks.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 49 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We also continued to make progress on Net revenue increased by 33.4m, or 8%, WPUK Multi-Service Penetration.
We increased to 438.6m 2015: 405.2m, with net the uptake of multiple products and acquiring income accounting for the WPUK provides in-store, phone, online services across our customer base, and majority of the increase.
Net acquiring and mobile payment acceptance made further advances in ecommerce income grew by 17% and Gateway solutions for approximately 300,000 card not present product penetration, income by 14%, reflecting the impact UK and Ireland-based customers, from for example, with over 45% of new SME of strong customer acquisition and SMEs to large corporates including customers taking an ecommerce cross-sales, as well as a net positive Tesco, Asda and Next.
We also delivered impact of lower interchange costs on further growth in Worldpay Business the acquiring margin in the first half of To strengthen Worldpays leadership in Finance, with around 10m of advances the year.
We saw strong transformational the UK, our strategy is to evolve from made so far, in partnership with Liberis.
product income growth but also made simple payment processing to become changes to our product offering which an added-value payment services and In terms of transformational products, introduced new pricing tariffs for our solutions partner for our merchants, we now have approximately 90,000 SME customers and removed some across all of our market segments SME, SME customers using My Business of our statement and management fee 1 Small Corporate and Large Corporate.
Dashboard, over four times the number income.
As a result, ancillary income The strategy has three strands, with this time last year, and are receiving declined by 5%.
core growth being driven by a focus positive feedback from merchants using on Brilliant Basics and Multi-Service My Business Hub, which we intend to WPUKs net revenue as a percentage of Penetration, while we also seek scale further in 2017.
We are also seeing total transaction value increased slightly new growth opportunities from strong momentum among larger to 0.21% from 0.20% in the prior year, transformational products and services.
merchants with the roll-out of Worldpay largely reflecting the timing of re-pricing Total, our integrated, omni-channel and faster growth in our higher margin The success of Brilliant Basics can be solution for corporate customers.
seen in the strong momentum we are seeing in customer retentions and new Performance review Underlying EBITDA increased by 19.1m, wins across all segments.
This the year were over four times the level transactions up 7% to 5.8 billion, driven improvement was driven by the growth of 2015, driven by our continued focus by new customer wins and strong in net revenue noted above and strong on increasing lead generation, improving cross-sales and retention in both the cost control.
Divisional operating costs sales conversion, and our work to improve Corporate and SME sectors, as well as increased by only 2%, despite an increase the overall end-to-end efficiency of our continuing growth in the use of cards as in bad debts, reflecting significant sales model.
We are also seeing a very a payment mechanism.
Total transaction improvements in operating efficiency.
positive progression in customer advocacy value increased by only 3%, however, as After technology and head office through the further improvements we are average transaction values continued to allocations, operating costs grew making to customer experience, with net fall down 4% largely reflecting UK retail by 6% as a result of the investment in promoter scores ending the year at a price deflation, particularly in the grocery organisational capability and technology record high.
sector where Worldpay has a high expertise across the Group.
market share, and the continued increase in the use of contactless card payments for small-value transactions.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Year-on-year 2016 2015 change Net revenue m 438.6 405.2 8% Underlying EBITDA m 198.3 179.2 11% Total transactions bn 5.8 5.4 7% Total transaction value bn 209.0 202.8 3% Average transaction value 36.2 37.5 4 % Net revenue transaction value % 0.21% 0.20% 1 bp 1 Ancillary income includes fees charged per transaction for providing gateway services, fraud and risk management services, float income, and charges levied for the acceptance of alternative payments.
Gateway services work in the same manner as transaction processing services, but are provided for online transactions only.
50 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operating review continued For Small Business, our focus is our Corporate Business segment, WPUS on improving lead generation and notably in the Petroleum sector which revitalising sales team execution, while was impacted by continued low oil prices.
WPUS provides in-store, online and improving the customer experience mobile payment acceptance solutions through more automation, and delivering Net revenue increased by 40.2m, or 16%, for US-based customers, with a focus on further product development, including to 299.0m 2015: 258.8m.
On a constant delivering omni-channel and integrated mobile functionality.
In addition, we currency basis, the increase was 2% payment solutions for over 100,000 expect the revitalisation of our Strategic and was driven principally by growth in SME customers, and vertical-specific Partnership channel to help grow acquiring transaction volumes, offset solutions for approximately 15,000 our small business franchise through by the decrease in average transaction enterprise customers in the Grocery, a more attractive omni-channel offer value and an increase in scheme fees Petroleum, Restaurant and Retail and improved partner-friendly payment which we were not able to fully pass on industries.
In addition, WPUS provides functionality through Worldpay Total.
ATM services to a number of organisations across the US.
For Corporate Business, we will build Net revenue as a percentage of total on our historic success by further transaction value decreased slightly in In 2016, we made good progress on embedding our verticalised approach the year ended 31 December 2016, largely operational execution.
Weve brought around new segments in addition to reflecting strong growth in our lower together all our Atlanta-based teams the core grocery, restaurant, petrol and margin Corporate Business segment.
under one roof, driving an improved retail segments.
We will do this through performance culture, and we have additional vertical teams and expertise Underlying EBITDA increased by 15.1m, stood up the new US data centre.
as well as improving our product offering or 24%, to 77.4m in the year ended Over the course of the year, we also through Worldpay Total and other 31 December 2016 2015: 62.3m.
On a delivered core EMV functionality for selected partnerships.
constant currency basis, the increase multiple verticals, and in October we was 9%.
Operating costs on a constant were pleased to launch Worldpay Total, Performance review currency basis were broadly flat, as using the SecureNet technology.
It offers While performance in WPUS in 2016 has controlled spend on commissions and functionality specific to the American been subdued, we continue to see signs third-party payables were offset by an market including a user-friendly developer that the investment and the actions we increase in rent following the office and centre, fast EMV acceptance, and a are taking to turn around this business data centre moves in the year.
We expect flexible payments hub making it easy are proving successful.
Transactions operating costs to increase in 2017 as we and fast to add new features and were up 7% to 4.2 billion, driven by continue to invest in the expertise and services as payment needs evolve.
increased volumes in both our Small technology we require to drive this This will be further rolled out in 2017.
7% and Corporate Business 9% business forward.
segments, partly offset by continued However, more work remains to be decline in our ATM business -4%.
Total done on executing our strategy for the transaction value was up 5% reflecting US to deliver integrated, omni-channel the lower average transaction value in solutions to our focus markets of Small Business and Corporate Business.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Year-on-year 2016 2015 change Net revenue m 299.0 258.8 16% Underlying EBITDA m 77.4 62.3 24% Net revenue $m 403.9 396.0 2% Underlying EBITDA $m 104.5 96.0 9% 1 Total transactions bn 4.2 3.9 7% 1 Total transaction value $bn 163.9 156.2 5% 1 Average transaction value $ 39.5 40.4 2 % 1 Net revenue transaction value % 0.25% 0.25% 1 2015 transaction numbers and value have been restated to include the SecureNet numbers following integration of their operational reporting.
This impacts Group and WPUS segmental KPIs.
