40 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Operating review Our operating review analyses how we have performed in the year and sets out our strategy Optimising asset values.
The strong performance is UK investment market especially pronounced in centres where performance The uncertainty from the outcome of the we have improved the mix of catering, EU referendum vote has intensied investor We focus on creating vibrant retail and leisure and now have minimal caution, but has led to a ight to quality.
environments where shoppers want vacancy, such as intu Chapeleld and This is illustrated by prime yields remaining to be and retailers need to be.
stable, whereas the yield on secondary increases the value of our centres and assets is starting to drift outwards, provides strong, stable income streams In addition to the like-for-like deficit, we principally due to lack of demand.
These had a 60.8 million reduction in the value elements ensure we deliver attractive of redevelopments, predominantly the Our top-quality prime shopping centres long-term total property returns.
Charter Place extension to intu Watford.
remain attractive to global investors We expect this reduction to reverse as as demonstrated by our disposal of Valuation the development progresses, particularly intu Bromley, with many investors The valuation of our like-for-like once intu Watford and Charter Place generally attracted to the UKs well investment property portfolio was are valued as a single asset rather than regulated, liquid and transparent market.
unchanged, with a small deficit of separately, as at present.
The valuation Development of prime retail property 4.3 million.
This was signicantly ahead of intu Watford does not, at this point in remains low, resulting in limited supply for of the IPD monthly retail index which the development of Charter Place, reect occupiers and potential upward pressure reported a 4.7 per cent decrease.
any of the anticipated positive impact on rental values in destination centres The outcome represents the seventh of the extension on rental values of such as ours.
consecutive year of outperformance the existing centre.
The valuation of our portfolio is now Excluding the negative impact of the spread over three valuers, Cushman 1 per cent increase in the year in stamp & Wakeeld, CBRE and Knight Frank, duty, from 4 per cent to 5 per cent, following a tender exercise in 2016.
This our like-for-like portfolio would have has resulted in one-third of our assets increased in value by around 1 per cent.
being valued by a different rm of valuers.
This reects the improvements in the Some of the gures in the table below are retail and leisure mix along with the therefore not fully comparable as there tightening supply of vacant units driving are differences in approach between the increases in expected future rental rms in how they look at rental value and equivalent yield components of a valuation.
Valuation metrics Full year Second half First half On a like-for-like basis where we had 2016 2016 2016 no change in valuer, ERV increased by Group revaluation surplus deficit like-for-like 0.0% -0.6% 0.6% 1.2 per cent in the year overall Group 1 IPD capital growth -4.7% -3.5% -1.1% unchanged, outperforming the IPD index which indicated a 0.8 per cent increase.
Group weighted average nominal equivalent yield 5.02% 5.02% 5.01% The weighted average nominal equivalent Change in Group nominal equivalent yield -12bp 1bp -13bp yield at 31 December 2016 was 5.02 per 1 IPD equivalent yield shift 29bp 25bp 4bp cent, a reduction of 12 basis points in the year, reecting our ongoing asset Group topped-up initial yield EPRA 4.45% 4.45% 4.49% management initiatives, reducing vacancy and long average unexpired lease terms.
Based on the gross portfolio value, the Group change in like-for-like ERV 0.0% 0.1% -0.1% 1 net initial yield topped-up for the expiry IPD change in rental value index 0.8% 0.3% 0.5% of rent free periods was 4.45 per cent.
Strategic report Operating review 41 Revaluation surplus deficit components UK consumer market Market value Like-for-like Whilst the majority of economic indicators 31 December 31 December Surplus Surplus 2016 2015 deficit deficit relating to the UK consumer remain m m m % strong, uncertainty has increased intu Lakeside 1,375.0 1,334.0 28.6 2 because of the unknown impact of the intu Chapeleld 296.3 272.5 23.6 9 EU referendum vote.
Puerto Venecia, Zaragoza 212.5 166.1 19.3 10 Unemployment remains at record low intu Asturias 118.5 89.1 14.3 14 levels, and with wage growth still rising intu Eldon Square 317.7 299.7 10.0 3 faster than ination shoppers have intu Potteries 169.0 175.1 9.3 5 increased levels of disposable income.
St Davids, Cardiff 353.3 368.6 14.3 4 The Asda benchmark index shows their intu Metrocentre 945.2 952.3 15.3 2 measure of household income 5 per cent intu Braehead 546.2 585.5 40.8 7 higher than the previous year.
Other like-for-like 5,047.2 5,041.0 20.4 Retail spending, as shown by the British Total like-for-like 9,380.9 9,283.9 4.3 Retail Consortium like-for-like non-food intu Merry Hill acquisition 50% 444.6 3.3 n a retail sales, continues to show an average Other additions 6.0 0.3 n a growth rate of around 1 per cent for intu Bromley disposal 174.1 1.7 n a 2016 year-on-year.
Redevelopments 153.2 144.4 60.8 n a Consumer confidence, as measured by Total investment and GfK, shows consumers remain relatively development property 9,984.7 9,602.4 63.8 confident about their personal finance situation, but confidence in the general economic situation for the UK has reduced The table above shows the main intu Braehead: continuation of the since the EU referendum vote.
components of the 63.8 million less buoyant occupier and investment Retailer administrations in 2016 were revaluation deficit: market in Scotland has resulted in around 50 per cent of the 10-year average, a reduction in value of this centre according to the Centre for Retail Research, intu Lakeside: completion of new leases intu Merry Hill: we acquired the but higher than 2015, with BHS being for those that expired in 2015 adds remaining 50 per cent in 2016, which the largest casualty.
This was the only certainty to the income streams going is non like-for-like.
The surplus on significant failure in the intu portfolio forward as well as providing evidence the centre as a whole benefited from and accounted for around 1 per cent for growth in future rental levels the positive letting activity in the year of our rent roll.
intu Chapeleld: strong demand intu Bromley: book value linked with limited vacant units and movements from head lease improvements to the tenant mix and incentive accounting drive rental values and have further redevelopments: since December enhanced the centres prime status 2015, the previously income-producing in its catchment properties of Charter Place have been Puerto Venecia: improved occupancy demolished and the site is now valued and rental growth in a buoyant on a risk-adjusted cash ow model Spanish market leading to a deficit which we expect to intu Asturias: limited vacant space reverse as the development progresses and strong operating metrics increase Occupancy is 96.0 per cent, a small rental growth potential increase on December 2015, with intu Eldon Square: benefit of improved the impact of our proactive asset leisure, with Greys Quarter opening management and improved tenant fully let, along with improved demand offset by the closure of the tenant mix and minimal vacancy BHS stores.
have a favourable impact on the attractiveness of this centre intu Potteries: evidence from the sale of similar assets in early 2016 has led Rising footfall at intu centres to an adjustment in the yield prole Our compelling mix of retail, catering and on this centre leisure is key to the increased footfall of 2016 St Davids, Cardiff: impact of increased car park business rates and increase in stamp duty intu Metrocentre: impact of increase in stamp duty, with no real increase in rental values 42 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Operating review continued Operating metrics Like-for-like net rental income growth 2016 2015 Occupancy 96.0% 95.8% of which, occupied by tenants trading in administration 0.5% 0.5% 3.6% Like-for-like change in net rental income 3.6% 1.8% Leasing activity number, new rent 214, 261, 38m 46m new rent relative to previous passing rent 4% 10% Footfall growth Footfall 1.3% 0.3% Retailer sales like-for-like centres 0.2% 2.1% Rent to estimated sales exc.
anchors and major space users 12.2% 12.5% 1.3% ShopperTrak benchmark -2.0% Like-for-like net rental income was up 225 shops opened or retted in our UK 3.6 per cent against 2015 due to the centres in 2016, around 8 per cent of better rental values from strong retailer our 2,700 units.
Tenants have invested demand, development units coming back 96 million in these stores, a significant on stream and improved occupancy demonstration of their commitment partially offset by the closure of the BHS to our centres.
The outturn was in line with our guidance with the second We settled 297 rent reviews in the year for half of the year matching the strong new rents totalling 60 million, an average comparative for 2015 following an uplift of 8 per cent on the previous rents.
Our footfall increased by 1.3 per cent in We agreed 214 long-term leases in the the year as we delivered a compelling mix year, with retailers continuing to focus of retail, catering and leisure along with on increasing their space in prime, using the intu brand to promote wellhigh-footfall retail destinations.
This targeted customer-focused events, such amounted to 38 million annual rent, at as a virtual reality booth at intu Victoria an average of 4 per cent above previous Centre and a beach at intu Lakeside.
This passing rent like-for-like units and in line compares with the ShopperTrak measure with valuers assumptions.
significant of UK national retail footfall which fell by activity in the year includes: 2.0 per cent in the year.
new international brands continuing Estimated retailer sales in our centres were to expand in the UK.
Australian up 0.2 per cent in 2016, impacted by the accessories retailer Lovisa signed two closure of BHS.
Excluding this, the increase of its first five UK leases at intu centres would be 0.5 per cent and similar to the and Victorias Secret continued its LED-ing the way British Retail Consortium trends.
The ratio roll out at St Davids, Cardiff An 8 million investment in LED of rents to estimated sales for standard premium fashion and lifestyle brands lighting is key to achieving our units reduced slightly in the year to expanding with Joules, Jack Wills, target of 50 per cent reduction in CO 12.2 per cent.
2 Cath Kidston, Calvin Klein, Kuoni and intensity between 2010 and 2020.
We have Nespresso all taking space in the year installed 100,000 LED lightbulbs across The difference between annual property established fashion retailers upsizing the business since 2011.
These paid for income of 467 million and ERV of and rolling out more of their brands.
themselves within three years as well 543 million represents 31 million from New Look are increasing their space as saving tenants 2.5 million in annual vacant units, reversion from lease expiry at intu Trafford Centre as well as energy costs and reducing lamp and rent reviews of 40 million and the continuing the roll out of New Look replacement costs.
The energy savings impact of rents subject to a rent free Men with their largest store to date to have been just as dramatic: 23 million kWh period of 27 million less non-recoverable open at intu Metrocentre.
Inditex have of energy saved in the first three years, costs of 22 million.
Of the 40 million opened a new larger Zara store at intu cutting CO by around 16,000 tonnes each reversion, 32 million, 7 per cent, is 2 Trafford Centre as well as introducing year a 47 per cent reduction in the realisable in the next 10 years.
Stradivarius, Pull&Bear and Zara Home building intensity of our GHG emissions.
and at intu Merry Hill, River Island and The weighted average unexpired lease Read more in our 2016 CR report JD Sports have both upsized term is 7.7 years 31 December 2015: 7.9 years.
Strategic report Operating review 43 Delivering UK developments Our pipeline of planned active asset Funding management projects over the next We will fund our near-term pipeline In 2016 we spent 93 million on capital three years amounts to 262 million from cash and available facilities and expenditure including 37 million on and we would expect these to generate from recycling capital to deliver superior the extension of intu Watford and a stabilised initial yield on cost of 6 to returns.
Cash and available facilities at 13 million on the completed casual 10 per cent.
We have projects at every 31 December 2016 were 922 million.
centre and the exibility to start these projects when we have the required level Further recycling potential lies in the Looking ahead, we are progressing of pre-lets.
Projects include: introduction of partners into some our near-term pipeline in the UK of of our centres.
In addition, to fund the 655 million which, along with a further at intu Merry Hill we have several future opportunities we expect to raise 1.2 billion of opportunities over the projects expected to cost around finance on near-term projects as next 10 years, provides a robust platform 110 million to deliver our strategy they complete.
for organic growth delivering valuefor the centre.
sizing a number of anchors and major space users, which in turn will reduce Near-term pipeline the number of smaller units, and Our UK development pipeline over the repositioning the catering and next three years amounts to 655 million.
leisure offering mall refurbishment and right-sizing We are committed to spending 249 of units at intu Metrocentre costing million over the next three years: around 26 million at intu Watford we are on target and We have progressed the next wave of on budget with the 400,000 sq ft major extensions and redevelopments extension due to be completed in and expect to invest an estimated late 2018.
This project has 143 million 144 million: cost to completion.
The extension will be anchored by Debenhams and at intu Lakeside we have signed Cineworld and is around two-thirds Nickelodeon to anchor the leisure pre-let, by space, which signicantly extension.
We continue to progress fide-risks the project.
As previously the other leisure and catering lettings stated, the project is expected to and should be on site in 2017, with the deliver a return on cost of 6 to 7 project expected to cost 73 million per cent, including 1 to 2 per cent and deliver a stabilised initial yield on generated through the existing centre cost of around 6 per cent other active asset management at intu Broadmarsh we are working projects total 106 million and towards the required level of pre-lets include the 56 million enclosure and to commence this 100 million project, extension of Barton Square and the of which our share will be 71 million 7 million redevelopment of Halle Square at Manchester Arndale to Future opportunities create a casual dining destination in Beyond 2019, we have a 1.2 billion the heart of Manchester pipeline of opportunities across several centres with major extensions planned intu Chapeleld at intu Lakeside, intu Victoria Centre, intu The Norwich centres prime status has been Braehead and Cribbs Causeway, and an enhanced by an improving line-up of retailers upgrade and remodelling of intu Milton Keynes.
The first three projects have planning approvals and we are in the planning process on the other two.
We expect these projects to generate a stabilised initial yield on cost of around 7 per cent and we will bring these projects forward in line with tenant demand.
For more information see our growth story on pages 10 and 11 44 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Operating review continued Making the brand count We recorded 28 million website visits in 2016, an increase of 15 per cent on the By combining our scale, expertise previous year.
Key to driving customers to and insight to create compelling the 480 affiliate retailers on the website is experiences we are seeing the benefit the 2.5 million individuals on our active of the brand grow year-on-year.
Our marketing database delivering above in-house teams ensure we offer the industry average open and click-through best customer service and experience rates from online marketing campaigns.
Understanding autism via VR Seizing the growth In a world first, intu shoppers used Customer service opportunity in Spain virtual reality headsets to experience a Our focus on putting the customer first shopping centre visit from the perspective is embedded in the business, with our net Our Spanish strategy is to create a of an autistic child.
Recreating the sights promoter score, our measure of customer business of scale through the acquisitions and sounds of a shopping centre as service, consistent at 70. to date and our pipeline of development experienced by someone on the autism projects.
Concentrating on the top-10 spectrum across all 18 centres, this joint intu Experiences key catchments, we aim to establish a project with the National Autistic Society We delivered nationwide immersive brand market-leading position in the country is part of a range of supportive measures, partnerships, mall commercialisation and through ownership and management including autism-friendly shopping centre advertising, which generated income of of prime shopping resorts.
We own and guides and frontline staff training, to be over 20 million in 2016, our in-house manage two top-10 Spanish centres and rolled out to all intu centres in the next team ensuring all promotional activity have four development sites with the two years.
A greater most advanced being intu Costa del Sol.
share of this revenue is now from media Read more in our 2016 CR report and promotional activity rather than Operational performance traditional mall kiosks, thereby enhancing Our two centres, intu Asturias and Puerto the customer experience.
Venecia, Zaragoza, are benefiting from our active asset management approach With over half of the UKs population and the improving Spanish economy, with visiting an intu centre at some point footfall and retailer sales both increasing through the year in person or online, by 2 per cent.
we are increasingly working with global brands on a national basis to provide Occupancy is 99 per cent at intu Asturias high-quality promotional events, both and 97 per cent at Puerto Venecia where physically and digitally across multiple we have reduced the vacancy level in the centres.
One example of this is Playmobil, retail park in the year.
who sponsored our Christmas grottos across the portfolio.
We agreed 27 new long-term lettings in the year, amounting to 3 million We also introduce new concepts to new annual rent, at an average of our shopping centres, blurring the lines 20 per cent above previous passing rent between shortand long-term lettings, like-for-like units and in line with valuers intu.
co. uk including car showroom pop-ups, such assumptions.
New names to our Spanish The unrivalled content on our shopping as Mercedes Benz, across the portfolio.
centres included Snipes, Joma Sport website stimulated 28 million visits in 2016 and Globo.
intu Digital In 2016, we generated improved sales for intus 50 per cent share of Puerto retailers of 6 million transacted through Venecia was valued at 249 million intu.
co. uk, our premium content publisher at 31 December 2016, an increase of and shopping platform, demonstrating 24 million 10 per cent.
intus share of the rising attraction of our digital offering.
intu Asturias increased by 18 million The commission on these sales was 14 per cent in the year to 139 million.
further augmented by income from retailers using the intu platform for online marketing campaigns.
Strategic report Operating review 45 Near-term pipeline Acquisitions and disposals Spanish market We have committed capital expenditure In line with our strategy, we have In recent years, the Spanish economy of 10 million and a pipeline of projects recycled 400 million of capital in the has had significant growth making it one costing a further 29 million.
The year from non-core assets to focus on of Europes fastest growing economies.
committed expenditure is primarily our prime centres where we have the Forecasts suggest that this is expected focused on intu Asturias where we have opportunity to deliver superior returns.
For the consumer, commenced the redevelopment of a unemployment is at its lowest level for previously underutilised area, to be Acquisitions several years and household spending anchored by supermarket retailer, In June 2016 we completed the remains solid.
This in turn benets retail masymas, and have plans to further acquisition of the remaining 50 per sales which are further enhanced by improve the catering.
cent of intu Merry Hill from QIC for record levels of tourists.
We believe the centre We are continuing with our plans for The investment market remains strong presents a significant opportunity the much anticipated shopping resort with continuing investor confidence in to re-engineer and update the tenant development, intu Costa del Sol, just Spanish real estate supported by an mix.
Encouraging large agship outside Mlaga.
In 2016 we completed economy that is growing.
With the return formats and reducing the number the land assembly and successfully of bank nancing, there is a weight of of smaller units will make the centre incorporated the proposed resort into money in the market looking to invest in more attractive to retailers and the general plan of Torremolinos.
Due to lack of development customers, and improve the rental our further design enhancements, the in recent years, this is a scarce asset tone.
This strategy is similar to reaction from the occupier market has class.
All these factors are driving that which has been successfully exceeded expectations.
implemented at intu Trafford Centre being on site in 2017, once we have and intu Lakeside.
received the required final regional planning approval, with the total cost Disposals expected to be around 700 million, In January 2016 we disposed of our Potential acquisition including the 78 million already interest in Equity One for 202 million We have entered into an exclusivity incurred by intu, at a stabilised initial to complete our exit from the US agreement to acquire the 153,000 sq m yield of around 7 per cent.
allowing us to focus on our core Xanad shopping centre in Madrid.
shopping centres, realising a gain on It has footfall of 13 million, 210 stores Future opportunities disposal of 74 million.
The disposal and Spains only indoor ski slope.
The We continue to develop plans at the three price was $26 per share.
transaction will initially be funded from other sites in Valencia, Vigo and Palma, a combination of bank nancing and with the next development likely to be In December 2016 we completed the existing facilities whilst we look to intu Valencia, following on from intu disposal of our share of intu Bromley introduce a joint venture partner at Costa del Sol.
valued at 178 million, a small a later date.
Should this transaction premium to the June 2016 market complete, we would own three of value and realising initial consideration Spains top-10 centres.
Further details of the transactions can be seen in the financial review on page 46 intu Merry Hill Now that we are full owners we are stepping up planned developments that will make intu Merry Hill the intu Trafford Centre of the Midlands
