30 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 OPERATIONS REVIEW GREAT Our strategic objective 1 2 3 SERVICE as easy and as efficient as possible for duration, on average 10 years, compared Our commitment to providing students.
Additionally, through our Living to seven years for existing arrangements.
a Home for Success for students with Unite app, 75% of maintenance jobs Our partnerships ensure that Universities and to be the most trusted brand are now fixed within 24 hours.
are able to provide their students with in the sector is centred around our accommodation close to campus and high quality properties, helpful Our Home for Success investment a safe and secure environment in which programme, which has seen us invest to live, succeed in their academic studies staff and a commitment to great 40 million across key areas of the business and meet fellow students.
customer service for both our including physical, digital, customer students and University partners.
service and people, has been completed.
Our continued focus on customer service We have enhanced our Wi-Fi speeds has led to high occupancy levels with The implementation of our operating across student rooms and communal 98% of beds let and rental growth of 3.8%.
platform, PRISM, has brought considerable spaces to 50Mbps, completed the In 2016, we achieved record high levels improvements to our customer service, installation of our LED lighting programme of customer satisfaction and a growing allowing us to move to a seven day and our Student Life Hub continues to proportion of return students, operating model, offer online room prove popular with students.
demonstrating our commitment to viewings and to adopt paperless tenancies.
helping students grow and succeed These improvements have resulted in the We continue to build on our strong at University and beyond.
time for tenancies to be confirmed relationships with over 60 high and reducing to five days from 15 days.
mid-rank Universities, with nominations 30% of bookings are now done online or agreements now representing 58%, through mobile bookings, ensuring the with new terms agreed for a longer process of securing accommodation is STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 31 BUILDING ON OUR GREAT SERVICE THROUGH THE LAUNCH OF OUR NEW OPERATING PLATFORM Simon Jones Operations Director Q&A Simon Jones addresses some topical questions from our shareholders How has PRISM benefitted the How important is the affordability Q Q services Unite provides?
of your accommodation to your business model?
Our operating platform, PRISM, A which is unique to Unite, allows Affordability is important for A us to drive greater efficiencies of scale students and therefore it is while offering the best possible service important to us.
We offer a wide range of to our customers.
PRISM has allowed price points and room sizes as part of our us to move to a seven day operating focus on delivering a more affordable model and offer new services such as proposition for students.
Over the past online bookings and room viewings, in few years, Unite has focused on addition to paperless tenancies.
These delivering a more affordable proposition improvements have not only delivered for students.
We also reinvest each year efficiencies for the business but greatly in the accommodation and extend our improved the service we provide student services so that students get to our students.
As we continue value for money.
to grow the portfolio, PRISM enables us to demonstrate a different How do you assess and value Q approach to other operations.
competition and what do you do to counteract it?
Do you envisage growing the We monitor the market closely and Q A proportion of your beds offered competition for sites and property through University partnerships?
We continue to We pride ourselves on our invest in our key differentiators such as our A partnerships with Universities portfolio scale and the locations or our and work with them to ensure that buildings as well as PRISM, through which they are able to offer high quality we deliver unmatched customer services, accommodation and services to their and through our Higher Education students, an important component industry experience and relationships.
of the overall student experience.
Our expertise continues to be important Related sections Nominations agreements make up as investor interest in the sector increases.
5 Business model and strategy 58% of the portfolio with the remaining beds let directly to students.
We continue 12 Relationships to explore future partnerships with 18 Universities, which typically span Market review 10 years and provide visibility on future 20 Key performance indicators KPIs income.
We expect to remain at around this level.
26 Principal risks and uncertainties 32 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 OPERATIONS REVIEW CONTINUED Summary EPRA income statement Finance costs decreased to 45.9 million 2015: 48.1 million.
An increase in net 2016 2015 debt of 45 million to 776 million 2015: m m 731 million was offset by a lower Unites share of rental income 159.1 144.3 average cost of finance of 4.2% 2015: 4.5% as we have added new debt Unites share of property operating expenses 42.8 39.8 facilities at lower average rates, taking Net operating income NOI 116.3 104.5 advantage of the historically low cost NOI margin 73.1% 72.5% of debt.
In addition, the increase in net debt has been driven largely by spend Management fees 14.0 12.0 on development activities which has in Operating expenses 23.1 21.9 turn lead to an increase in the amount Finance costs 45.9 48.1 of interest that is capitalised into development schemes to 5.9 million, up USAF acquisition and net performance fee 6.9 22.0 from 2.7 million in 2015.
We expect the Development and other costs 5.5 7.2 level of interest capitalisation to remain EPRA earnings 62.7 61.3 at around this level given the ongoing level of development activity in 2017.
Yield related element of performance fee 1.4 11.8 Development pre-contract and other Adjusted EPRA earnings 61.3 49.5 costs fell to 5.5 million 2015: 7.2 million, Adjusted EPRA EPS 27.7p 23.1p reflecting the levels of site acquisition in the business, the earnings impact of share A full reconciliation of Profit before tax to EPRA earnings is set out in note 2.2 of the financial statements based incentives and our contribution to our charitable trust, the Unite Foundation.
The Group continues to report on an IFRS We are now managing 49,000 beds basis and to also present its performance compared to 46,000 at 31 December Occupancy, reservations in line with best practice recommended 2015.
Alongside this increase in beds and rental growth by EPRA.
The Operations and Property there has been a growth in overheads of Occupancy across Unites portfolio for reviews focus on EPRA measures as these 1.2 million, driven mainly by depreciation the 2016 17 academic year stands at 98% are our key internal measures and aid costs associated with the new PRISM and like-for-like rental growth of 3.8% was comparability across the real estate sector.
system, and we expect a further small achieved on our stabilised portfolio.
We increase of depreciation costs in 2017. have continued to grow the proportion Recurring management fee income from Sales, rental growth of beds let to Universities with 58% of joint ventures increased by 2.0 million to and profitability rooms under nominations agreements, 14.0 million 2015: 12.0 million, as a result The key strengths of our operating business up by 5,000 beds over the last three of the growth of assets under management are our people, our PRISM operating years.
Enhanced service levels and our in USAF and LSAV.
In addition to the platform, the strength of our brand and deep understanding of student needs recurring asset management fees, a further the strength of our relationships with have resulted in longer term and more 6.9 million of net USAF performance Universities.
We have continued to build on robust partnerships with Universities.
and acquisition fees were generated these strengths throughout 2016, resulting 2015: 22.0 million.
Our key overhead in a 11.8 million, 24% increase in Adjusted We expect the proportion of beds let efficiency measure total operating EPRA earnings to 61.3 million compared to Universities to remain at or around expenses less management fees as a to last year 2015: 49.5 million.
This growth this level in the future.
This balance of proportion of Unites share of property has again been driven by high occupancy, nominations and direct-let beds provides value continues to improve and now rental growth and the impact of portfolio the benefit of having income secured stands at 40bps December 2015: 48bps, movements as well as further operational by Universities, as well as the ability to and we remain focused on our target of efficiencies and ongoing cost discipline.
offer rooms to returning students and to 25-30bps by the end of 2017 based on determine market pricing on an annual current yields.
The Groups share of rental income has basis.
On average, rents on nominations increased by 14.8 million, up 10%, as a rooms are c. 5% below direct let The 6.5 million USAF net performance result of new openings and sustained equivalents and, based on our recent fee is payable in units and is based rental growth.
NOI margin improved to experience with new agreements, there on USAFs cumulative total return at 73.1% December 2015: 72.5%, reflecting is an opportunity to close this discount in 31 December 2016.
The component of further operating efficiencies that were the coming years.
the fee that relates to yield movement driven by the implementation of our new has been excluded from Adjusted EPRA PRISM operating platform during 2016.
Reservations for the 2017 18 academic earnings purposes to reflect a normalised PRISM provides us with the ability to year are encouraging, at 73% 67% at the level of earnings.
The operational element differentiate ourselves from others, driving same point last year as a result of our of the performance fee is driven by USAFs efficiencies through the use of technology continued focus of working alongside the income and rental growth performance which enables us to provide enhanced UKs best Universities as well as our local and is not expected to significantly add levels of service to our customers.
We presence in China building relationships to our earnings performance going maintain our expectation that NOI margins with Chinese Universities.
This structural forward given the current valuation yields, will improve towards 75%, although growth within the cities we operate, gearing levels and rental growth outlook.
balancing margin growth and service together with our differentiated service level enhancement will remain our offering, provides us with further overriding priority.
STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 33 confidence in occupancy and rental Developing our teams remains a priority growth for the 2017 18 academic year for us and we have implemented new which we expect to be in the region of leadership programmes across the 3.0-3.5%.
whole organisation over the past two 69% years.
These programmes ensure that we are providing our teams with the Home for Success Reservations for the 2017 18 training required to deliver excellent Our Home for Success investment academic year customer service as well as developing programme provides us with a real their careers, and they have been an point of differentiation to other providers integral part of our successful attainment of student accommodation.
The of Investors in People Gold status in 2016. programme, which was initiated in 2014, generated significant enhancements in We also continue to invest meaningfully our operating platform, the establishment in our Higher Education sector of communal study and relaxation relationships.
Our Universities Partnerships spaces that our customers have told us and Engagement team is dedicated to that they want and the development building strong working relationships of a sense of home within our properties.
with key University partners, and this These factors, together with our service approach has seen us incorporate levels, student insight, prime locations University requirements into new and mid-market price points, make us developments and driven the growth stand out for students and Universities.
in the number of beds under nominations agreements.
Investment in people, technology and relationships In China, our marketing office is now Satisfaction with service and the strength fully operational and our local online THE FINAL ELEMENTS OF of our relationships with Universities has presence has been established.
We been maintained at high levels as both PRISM WERE DELIVERED have also started to create meaningful students and Universities benefit from relationships with both local and British IN 2016, PROVIDING FULL the investments that we are making.
Universities in China, as well as providing The final elements of PRISM were important support to our Chinese ONLINE VIEWING AND delivered in 2016, providing full online customers before they travel to the UK viewing and booking functionality BOOKING FUNCTIONALITY and to their parents while their children alongside enhanced maintenance are overseas.
We are confident that this ALONGSIDE ENHANCED service levels and revenue management investment will deliver long-term benefit functionality.
We will continue to invest to the business as well as to Chinese MAINTENANCE SERVICE in and evolve this platform to maintain students and UK Universities.
our sector leading advantage in this area.
LEVELS AND REVENUE Simon Jones We have continued to invest in our MANAGEMENT Operations Director digital capabilities, focusing on the 22 February 2017 FUNCTIONALITY student experience.
In 2016, this has seen us deliver further enhancements to our student-focused apps and our website, a portfolio-wide communications portal to drive engagement and to help students access the information they need to support them during the course of the academic year.
Our apps and digital platforms provide students with a hassle free solution to every day concerns, provide them with the support they need and so allow them to focus on their studies and time at University.
