Financial review OPERATING RESULTS for the year to 31 May 2004 REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT RETURN ON REVENUE i.
The statutory operating profit from continuing Restated Restated operations is analysed by division into: Banking and 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Securities 26.9m 2003: 43.8m, Healthcare m m m m % % 20.7m 2003: 26.6m, Financial Services 12.1m loss 2003: 4.6m profit and Group costs 5.3m Like for like operations 2003: 3.7m.
The businesses disposed of in the current year Healthcare 279 271 45 44 16% 16% related solely to the Banking and Securities Division.
Financial Services 366 436 25 34 7% 8% The prior period results include revenue of 1.1m Group 5 4 and an operating loss of 0.1m in respect of a disposal in that period in the Financial Services Total like for like 860 940 103 118 12% 13% Division, with the remaining amounts relating Operating exceptional item 8 to the current year disposals.
The businesses acquired in the current and prior Acquisitions 27 1 year contributed incremental revenue and operating Goodwill amortisation 64 60 profit before goodwill amortisation for Banking and Securities: revenue of 12.5m and a profit of Change in exchange rates 29 6 0.8m and for Healthcare: revenue of 14.5m and Statutory operating results from continuing operations 900 1,014 30 71 a loss of 2.3m.
Goodwill amortisation totalled 63.5m 2003: To assist the readers understanding of the results the table impact on operating profits, which at 103m were 12% below 59.9m, analysed as Banking and Securities 11.5m above shows the results for all businesses owned throughout last year.
Notwithstanding the reduction in revenues, operating 2003: 9.4m, Healthcare 22.8m 2003: 21.4m, and Financial Services 29.2m 2003: 29.1m.
both periods on a like for like basis and also reconciles these margins at 12% were only marginally below last year as a v. Restating the results for 2003 using the average to the figures as reported in the statutory profit and loss result of prior year cost reduction initiatives.
exchange rates for 2004 has decreased 2003 account.
The like for like results are stated before the revenues by 28.5m Banking and Securities Banking and Securities operating exceptional costs and the charge for goodwill 1.5m, Healthcare 27.0m and operating profit by The continued weakness in the market and the effect of 5.8m Banking and Securities 1.4m, Healthcare amortisation, but exclude the results of businesses disposed declining professional services revenues resulted in total 4.4m.
The most significant impact is from the of and the incremental benefit of acquisitions.
Figures are movement in the US dollar, where the average revenues of 215m being 18m 8% lower than last year exchange rate in 2004 was $1.73:1 compared quoted in sterling using average exchange rates for the year with nearly all of this shortfall occurring in the first half.
ILF order intake at 65m was marginally ahead of the vi.
Prior year operating profit has been restated by 1.1m in respect of the implementation of UITF GROUP AND DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE previous year reflecting a weaker first half but a much more Abstract 17 revised 2003 Employee Share The paragraphs in this section relating to the Group and encouraging second half, up 8% on the prior year.
Mainly as Schemes and UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for divisional financial results are on a like for like basis, as a result of this growth, the closing ILF order book at 27m was ESOP Trusts.
ILF taken to revenue at 63m was, however, 7m 10% lower than last year although the Group shortfall against the prior year was much less pronounced in Overall revenues for the year at 860m were 9% below those the second half.
Weak market conditions in both Banking and Securities and Financial Services resulted in reduced The lower level of ILF revenues over last year has continued revenues in these divisions, particularly in the first half.
In to hold back the growth in maintenance revenues, which at contrast, Misys Healthcare Systems reported increased revenues 110m were just 1% ahead of last year.
More significantly, for the full year reflecting the stronger underlying market in a decline that has been evident over the last few years, conditions.
The reduction in revenues had a consequential professional services revenue at 40m were 23% below the 18 previous year partly due to the lower levels of ILF orders and in the overall number of registered individuals RIs with the partly because professional services have been disproportionately average number of RIs being 19% below last year, although affected by cutbacks in banks IT budgets over the last two the rate of decline has slowed markedly in the second half.
However, as anticipated at the start of the year, the rate As per last year, we continue to recruit new firms, but in the of decline has fallen dramatically in the second half with current investment climate member firms that traditionally professional services only 2% below the comparable period.
recruited new RIs have been recruiting at a slower rate.
At the In addition, the order book for professional services work is same time, the uncertainties surrounding the changes in the significantly higher than a year ago.
regulatory regime, together with the more stringent regulations in force since December 2001, have increased the number of The effect on operating profits of the 18m reduction in leavers and retirees.
However, partly mitigating the reduction in revenue was partly mitigated by the cost reduction action the number of RIs there was an increase in the productivity of we took in the prior year and as a result, operating profits at our members towards the end of the year.
In addition, ahead 38m were only 6m below last year.
This entire shortfall arose of the forthcoming regulation of the mortgage and general in the first half with operating profits in the second half in line insurance markets, the take up of our new service offerings to with last year.
members has been well ahead of expectations.
Revenues arising from these new services will become significant once the Healthcare regulations become effective in October 2004 and January 2005.
Revenues at 279m were 3% ahead of last year including a 7% growth in ILF revenue.
The closing ILF order book at As part of the launch of the Sesame brand in August 2003, 31 May 2004 of 27m, was marginally below May last year the pricing rates were harmonised across all of our networks, but above November 2003.
With the inclusion of Misys CPR resulting in an overall net reduction in the average commission the closing ILF order book increases to 31m.
This reduction in retention and average margin generated.
This together with the order book mainly occurred within Misys Hospital Systems the increased cost of compliance and regulation and the in the first half, where we made good progress completing additional investment required ahead of the introduction of the the final phase of a number of older orders, enabling us to regulation of the mortgage and general insurance markets in recognise the related revenue and thus remove them from the October 2004 and January 2005 has reduced both profits and order book.
ILF order intake was up 3% in the year as a whole margins in Sesame significantly.
Operating profits in Sesame at with strong growth of 13% in the second half.
Maintenance 11m were 10m below last year.
revenues also showed strong growth at 7% ahead of last year.
In contrast, Transaction Services revenues grew by 2%, The General Insurance business produced another strong continuing the trend that was evident last year and is in line performance with increased levels of order intake and a record with the experience of other suppliers in the market.
Both level of operating profit at 14m.
The business saw record hardware, which has relatively low margins, and professional levels of EDI transactions and successfully launched a number services revenues were below last year.
Operating profits at of new products including Premium Finance, FSA Regulation 45m were 1m 5% ahead of last year with margins at 16% and OASys Commercial software modules.
Group costs Financial Services The charge for the year, at 5m, was 1m higher than last Revenues at 366m were 70m 16% below last year due to year and includes 3m 2003: 3m profit arising on the the continued weakness in Sesame, our IFA network business.
disposal of one third of the warrants held in relation to As anticipated last year, we have continued to see a reduction WebMDs common stock.
19 Financial review continued Operating exceptional item cost of regulatory review before integration costs.
In the full year these one-off integration An operating exceptional charge of 8m has been made this costs were approximately 3m.
The total integration costs are year for the estimated costs that will arise from the final stage expected to amount to approximately 7m and nearly all of the of a specific review relating to a former network member.
The balance of these costs will be incurred in the current financial review is in respect of a specific type of product sold by this year.
These costs have not been treated as exceptional and particular member more than four years ago.
Many of the sales have been charged to operating profits.
were made before the former member became part of Sesame Within Banking and Securities we sold the UK back office on the acquisition of Kestrel Financial Management Limited in products business from within Misys Asset Management 1999.
The initial review of a sample of cases was completed Systems and the entire Misys Securities Trading Systems earlier this year and we are now well advanced in discussions business.
From 1 June 2003 up to the dates of their respective with the FSA on what further work is required and as a result disposal, these businesses recorded revenue of 13m year to are now able to estimate the additional costs and redress 31 May 2003: 44m and operated at breakeven year to payments that will arise.
In prior years this liability was 31 May 2003: operating profit 7m.
contingent on the outcome of the initial review and the subsequent discussions with the FSA and as a result was In late April 2003, also within Banking and Securities, we disclosed as a contingent liability in the financial statements.
acquired Crossmar Matching Services re-branded Misys Global Managed Services, which during the year to May 2004 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS recorded incremental revenues of 7m all of which were Within Healthcare, Misys CPR formerly Patient1, acquired in transaction services revenues.
In January 2004 we acquired July 2003, has made a strong start with ILF order intake, at the IQFS commercial lending product re-branded Misys Loan 3m, well ahead of our expectations.
During the year Misys IQ, which recorded revenues of 5m from then to the end CPR recorded revenues of 15m including 2m ILF and 6m of the year.
professional services and, as expected, operated at breakeven REVENUE PROFILE at constant exchange rates 2004 2003 TOTAL 1 Excluding the incremental benefit of the 2003 and 1 2 2004 TOTAL LIKE FOR LIKE LIKE FOR LIKE 2004 acquisitions and current year disposals.
m % m % m % 2 Excluding the benefit of 2004 disposals.
ILF 124 14% 121 14% 123 13% Maintenance 242 27% 228 26% 217 23% Transaction Processing 416 46% 407 47% 477 51% Professional Services 85 9% 74 9% 89 9% Hardware 33 4% 30 4% 34 4% 900 100% 860 100% 940 100% 20 Revenue may be analysed under five generic headings, PROFIT BEFORE TAX, EARNINGS PER SHARE AND being ILF, maintenance including recurring licence fees RLF, PROPOSED DIVIDEND transaction processing, professional services and hardware.
Statutory profit before taxation, at 23m was 38m below last ILF is the revenue generated when Misys sells the right to use a year due to the shortfall in operating profit discussed earlier.
In software product including significant upgrades to a customer.
the full year there was a total tax credit of 1m, which includes When a customer buys software they also enter into either a an exceptional credit in respect of prior years of 14m and a maintenance or RLF contract.
These contracts provide technical tax charge on profit on ordinary activities of 13m.
Towards the support or trouble-shooting assistance helpdesk, etc.
In end of the first half the Group reached agreements with revenue addition, a maintenance contract provides routine upgrades authorities, particularly in the United States, covering a number and enhancements.
Maintenance also includes fees for support of prior years.
The provisions at 31 May 2003 relating to these contracts for hardware.
outstanding periods exceeded the additional cash payment arising from the agreements and this has given rise to the 2003 04 Related to some products, Misys provides transaction processing exceptional tax credit in respect of prior years of 14m.
Given services, comprising both EDI services, being an electronic link the size of this prior year item we have excluded it from our between parties who wish to exchange data, and computer adjusted EPS figures.
The underlying effective tax rate on profit aided processing activities, such as data centre capabilities or before taxation, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, Internet transactions.
Misys undertakes both forms of transaction at 14% was slightly above the effective rate last year.
processing in the Financial Services Division, while Healthcare currently focuses on EDI.
Basic EPS at 4.4p was 3.7p below last year.
Adjusted basic EPS adjusted to exclude exceptional items, goodwill amortisation On a like for like basis, the more significant reductions were and the 2003 04 exceptional tax credit in respect of prior years in respect of transaction processing, reflecting the reduced noted above at 14.8p 2003: 18.7p was 21% below last year.
revenues within the Financial Services Division, and professional In the opinion of the Directors, the adjusted basic EPS provides services, reflecting the reduced revenues within the Banking more comparable and representative information on the and Securities Division, both of which were discussed earlier.
continuing and established trading activities of the Group.
ILF revenues are broadly in line with last year with growth in Healthcare being more than offset by the reduction in Banking The Board recommends a final dividend of 4.08p per share, and Securities.
However, maintenance revenues showed like which together with the interim dividend gives a full year for like growth of 5%, principally driven by the growth within dividend of 6.52p per share, an increase of 15% over last year.
OPERATING CASH FLOW DEFERRED INCOME The Group has maintained its strong cash generation with Deferred income on the balance sheet, which represents operating cash flow of 98m, being 4m above operating amounts invoiced but not yet recognised as revenue, is 122m profit before goodwill amortisation.
Within the overall balance, 76m 2003: 79m which follows equally strong cash generation in prior years, relates to deferred maintenance fees that are generally invoiced results from the Groups rigorous focus on cash and cash annually in advance and recognised over the contract period.
Capital expenditure The remaining 46m 2003: 45m relates to amounts invoiced at 9m was 1m above last years level.
for products or services that have not yet been delivered, The net cash flow from trading before corporate activities completed or fully accepted by the customer at the balance i. e. before the cost of acquisitions, proceeds from disposals, sheet date.
dividend payments and financing including the share buyback 21 Financial review continued programme was an inflow of 63m 2003: 108m.
This arrangements, 17 million were purchased into the MEST and reduction compared with the prior year was attributable to the 26 million were purchased and held as Treasury shares.
Previously lower level of operating profit 30m below last year excluding the MEST shares would have been carried as an asset in the goodwill and exceptional costs, additional tax payments Companys balance sheet but following the introduction of UITF 7m above last year relating to the agreements reached with 38 these shares, together with those held as Treasury shares, various revenue authorities resulting in the exceptional tax are now deducted from shareholders funds note 35. credit discussed above, and a number of one-off payments.
INTEREST CHARGES AND BORROWINGS These include such items as 6m to the pension scheme to Net debt at 31 May 2004 was 183m compared with 119m address part of the current deficit of that scheme and 7m at 31 May 2003.
This increase in net debt of 64m is mainly to our IFAs within the Financial Services Division in relation to the result of the share buyback discussed above.
the harmonisation of rates and arrangements with our IFAs.
The interest charge at 8m was 3m lower than last year, Dividend payments in the full year, being last years final principally due to reduced average interest rates since average dividend and this years interim dividend, total 33m compared borrowing in both years was broadly similar.
Interest cover, with 30m in the prior year.
before goodwill amortisation, was over 12 times.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In December 2003 the UK Government introduced new UK GAAP legislation allowing companies to purchase their own shares In November 2003 the Accounting Standards Board issued and hold them as Treasury shares rather than cancelling them.
Application Note G to FRS 5 Reporting the Substance of At the same time the Urgent Issues Task Force UITF issued Transactions on revenue recognition.
The Directors have Abstracts 37 Purchases and Sales of Own Shares and 38 reviewed the Application Note and have concluded that the Accounting for ESOP Trusts that dealt with the accounting Groups existing accounting policies on revenue recognition for Treasury shares and the consequential impact on the conform with the provisions of the Application Note.
accounting for shares held by the Misys employee share trusts MEST.
With effect from December, shares purchased as part The only other change of note in the year is in respect of UITFs of a share buyback programme could continue to be cancelled 37 and 38, the impact of which has been discussed in further but equally could be held as Treasury shares and or purchased detail above, and UITF 17 Revised 2003 Employee Share by the MEST and both the accounting and the commercial Schemes.
As a result of the revision of UITF 17, the cost of effect would be similar.
Accordingly, as we continued our share awards made under the share schemes is calculated with buyback programme after the announcement of our interim reference to the intrinsic value of the award at the date of results in January 2004 we placed some of the shares purchased grant, whereas previously the charge was also determined in into the MEST and the remainder we held as Treasury shares.
relation to the cost of the shares used to satisfy the awards.
This will provide the company with maximum flexibility and The impact of this change is not significant for Misys.
some minor cost savings as we satisfy currently outstanding International Financial Reporting Standards share option grants in the years to come.
The European Union requires all listed companies to report During the year the Group has purchased 45 million shares at a under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs in cost of 95m.
Of these shares 2 million were cancelled having preparing consolidated accounts for accounting periods been bought in the first half before the introduction of the new beginning on or after 1 January 2005 with prior year 22 comparatives on the same basis.
The first Annual Report that support the business and, as a result, substantial committed Misys will publish under the international accounting principles facilities are maintained.
The Group also has a policy to ensure will be for the year ending 31 May 2006. that it maintains a comfortable margin between committed facilities and the likely peak borrowings during a year.
The core The Group has initiated a project to review the requirements of such facilities comes from a five year 750m Eurobond that of IFRSs, identify and action the points arising from this review was issued in December 2001 and which enabled the Group and to consider the impact on the Groups results and balance to raise net funding of up to 380m.
This project remains ongoing and at present it is too early to predict the impact of the adoption of IFRSs on the This debt bears a fixed rate of interest that has been swapped Groups reported results.
into US dollar denominated debt at floating interest rates.
Full details are set out in note 27 to the financial statements.
This It is already apparent that one of the impacts of adopting IFRSs facility is supplemented by a floating rate US$250m bank will be to introduce increased volatility into company accounts.
facility that has a final maturity of April 2006.
There will also be differences in the presentation of both the primary statements and notes to the financial statements.
The Group protects the interest charge on bank debt from To date we have identified the introduction of the standards increases in interest rates by using interest rate caps.
Fixed rate on share-based payments and business combinations as likely loan notes have financed some of the subsidiaries acquired.
to have the most significant impact on the Group results, This has produced a mixture of fixed, floating and capped debt.
although we are still in the process of quantifying their impact.
The Group has subsidiaries in 28 countries and trades in over TREASURY OPERATIONS AND CONTROLS 120.
Subsidiaries may trade in currencies other than their The Group has in place treasury policies that are reviewed functional currency of operation usually sterling or US dollars.
annually by the Board and more regularly by the Treasury It is the Groups policy to eliminate transactional currency Committee that comprises certain executive Directors and a exposures through forward currency contracts as soon as the non-executive Director.
The policies cover all significant areas contractual commitments are known.
of treasury activity, including foreign exchange, interest rate, The Group is subject to currency exposures on the translation liquidity and credit risk.
The Group has a centralised treasury of the net assets of, and profits earned by, its overseas that provides a service to the corporate centre and to the subsidiaries, primarily in the United States and Europe.
Its primary function is to manage the foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity and credit risks arising The Group invests its cash and cash equivalents, and enters from the operations of the business.
It is not a profit centre and into contracts for derivative financial instruments, with enters into derivative contracts solely for the purpose of hedging institutions of high credit quality, and limits its exposure to the exposures that arise in the normal course of business.
The Groups revenue is derived from The Group does not enter into speculative transactions.
various industries and could be directly affected by the overall condition of those industries.
The large number of customers, The Treasury Committee is responsible for ensuring that the their geographical distribution, and the reasonably short Group operates within the treasury policies agreed by the Board.
collection terms mitigates the credit risk associated with this.
Regular reports are made to the Board from the Treasurer and The Group routinely monitors its exposure to credit losses and from the Treasury Committee.
maintains an allowance for anticipated losses.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, new equity, loan notes and bank borrowings.
It is policy Howard Evans to ensure that the Group has sufficient financial resources to Finance Director 23
