Financial review Sean Christie Sales Our sales trend remained Our sales were up 8.5 per cent at 1,542.1 million with the 53rd week contributing just under two percentage points to the total.
Underlying strong, but profits reflected retail sales, excluding the impact of currency, acquisitions, divestments and the 53rd week, grew by 3.5 per cent despite the loss of a major cost under-recovery, the loss of savoury products contract during the first half.
Although the two halves a major contract and exceptional showed a similar trend, the contract loss had a greater effect in the latter period and was countered by very strong progress with our weather.
Despite this our financial other major customers.
position remained robust, with Overall, continuing sales excluding acquisitions rose by 3.5 per cent tight control of costs and capital in Convenience and 10.9 per cent in Grocery.
expenditure delivering strong Price increases averaging one per cent were achieved during the year.
This was lower than the inflationary pressure we experienced on input cash generation.
However, these were progressively recovered during the year and we ended it with prices on average two per cent higher than With further cash inflows from in March 2003, much closer to the prevailing level of cost inflation.
the disposal of non-core businesses, Operating profit this underpinned the continuation Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of 22.0 million was 7.4 per cent lower than in the prior year at of our progressive dividend and 107.0 million.
Our Convenience businesses more than accounted share buyback programme.
for this reduction, reflecting only partial recovery of input cost inflation and our contract loss.
Operating profit increased by 20.4 per cent to 85.0 million due to lower operating exceptional costs.
Continuing Convenience operating profit before acquisitions, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was down 23.0 per cent at 56.1 million.
Under-recovered inflation reduced profits in many operations and the contract loss left Premium Savoury Products with a significant shortfall.
The extremely hot summer also had an adverse effect.
These factors more than account for the shortfall in Convenience profits.
In Grocery, a strong performance in frozen food plus a turnaround in our biscuit business boosted continuing operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items to 45.2 million, up 12.7 per cent.
Green Isle benefited from the acquisition of San Marco from Heinz, complementing our core Goodfellas pizza range, while Dalepak enjoyed an extended barbecue season.
A combination of cost reduction and strong second half trading produced the budgeted recovery in the enlarged Foxs Biscuits.
The acquisition of Solway Foods more than offset the disposals of Batchelors and Foxs Confectionery.
Pre-tax profit Pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was reduced by 11.8 per cent to 86.0 million, with increased interest costs from the timing of the acquisition of Solway and the share buyback programme adding to the operating profit shortfall.
Pre-tax profit decreased 28.7 per cent to 75.4 million, reflecting the profit on the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands to Nestl UK included in the prior year.
Analysed in the turnover and segmental analysis Northern Foods plc Financial review 05 Financial review continued Exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Cash flow There were exceptional credits representing the net profit on the Tight control of capital expenditure and improved working capital, disposal of Batchelors and Foxs Confectionery of 9.4 million and a excluding the movement in the pension prepayment of 13.9 million, further profit arising from the sale of Ski and Munch Bunch to Nestl UK resulted in an increase in net debt of only 8.8 million despite returning last year of 2.2 million.
This was offset by reorganisation costs of 82.0 million to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks.
Our 8.2 million relating to the ongoing restructuring of the group including free cash flow generation, before acquisitions, disposals and dividends, at the Fox Elkes merger and the set up of central shared services for 61.6 million was 14.0 million higher than in the previous year, despite finance, IT and procurement.
Following the restructuring it was necessary our disappointing profit performance.
This was further boosted by the to make an impairment charge of 10.3 million against the carrying 50.9 million net proceeds from the sales of Batchelors and Foxs value of the SAP system directly relating to these elements.
Including the tax credit, the net exceptional cost was 1.4 million Treasury management compared with an exceptional profit of 24.2 million last year.
The group has a centralised treasury function which operates within Goodwill amortisation totalled 3.7 million last year: 3.1 million.
a policy framework approved and regularly reviewed by the board.
The department is not run as a profit centre and is subject to internal audit Share buyback review.
Its activities are routinely reported to the board.
The purpose of We bought 24.4 million shares in the market at a cost of 37.1 million, the centralised treasury function is to manage the main treasury risks, following the purchase of 36.4 million shares for 55.5 million in the including liquidity, interest rates and foreign currency.
Since the start of the programme in February 2000 we business in the group is responsible for its own cash management, have returned 143.6 million of cash to shareholders through share all resulting cash flows and balances are managed by the central treasury buybacks.
Since February 2004 we have made use of the new treasury to minimise borrowings and interest costs.
The main treasury policies are share rules rather than cancelling the shares purchased.
summarised below: Taxation Liquidity The tax charge before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items for The group operates a policy of maintaining certainty of funding the year was 18.0 per cent last year: 18.4 per cent.
Low Irish tax rates, by a combination of committed floating and fixed rate facilities settlement of prior year items and tax efficient funding were the key supplemented by uncommitted facilities.
The policy is to ensure that reasons for the difference between this rate and the basic rate of forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable operating headroom are UK corporation tax.
covered by committed facilities, which mature at least 12 months after the year end.
Earnings per share Excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, earnings per Bank facilities share fell 7.0 per cent to 13.77 pence.
Basic earnings per share fell The committed core of our funding arrangements is formed by long 31.8 per cent to 12.78 pence, reflecting the inclusion of the profit term facilities currently comprising a 450 million, five year, revolving on the Ski and Munch Bunch sale in the prior year.
credit facility and a 90 million fixed rate bond 2008. Dividend Short term funding requirements are met through a mix of committed The board proposes a final dividend of 5.60 pence per share making overdraft facilities 23 million and uncommitted other short term a total for the year of 8.90 pence per share, an increase of 2.3 per cent.
Dividend cover is 1.6 times on a pre-exceptional, pre-goodwill amortisation basis.
Interest rates The group manages its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on Capital expenditure its borrowings by operating with a mix of fixed and floating rate Since our trading update in September 2003 we have tightly controlled borrowings.
The objective is to operate with fixed rate borrowings within capital expenditure, keeping the years total spend to 71.3 million a range of 20 to 50 per cent of total borrowings over the medium term, last year: 79.4 million, in line with depreciation.
Within this we have although the group may operate outside of that range during the year.
undertaken a number of important strategic spends, including the Board approval is required for use of interest rate derivatives and no re-opening of our Savoury Foods factory in Nottingham to cope with interest rate derivatives are currently in place.
growing chilled pizza demand, the second phase of the new Manton Wood sandwich factory for Solway Foods and ongoing spend on SAP prior to the opening of our new shared service centre in Wakefield.
06 Financial review Northern Foods plc Currency The potential effects of adopting FRS 17 are that the post-tax balance The group operates primarily in the UK with only approximately sheet deficit rises to 155.7 million last year: 143.5 million.
The uplift 13.7 per cent of sales arising from companies operating in currencies in the value of assets, as equities have returned to growth, being more other than sterling.
Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency than offset by the effects of changes in the discount rate and inflation options are used to hedge foreign transactional cash flows and assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities.
The accordingly any gains and losses on these contracts are recognised effect on pre-tax profit would have been a reduction of 13.5 million in the profit and loss account when the underlying transaction is settled.
made up of the loss of the SSAP 24 variation credit and the calculation To the extent that a forward foreign exchange contract is not a hedge, differences between the two methodologies.
We will continue to report any resulting gain or loss is taken to the profit and loss account.
profits under SSAP 24 until the adoption of International Financial The company does not hedge against translation and all significant Reporting Standards IFRS.
Implementation of IFRS Balance sheet We have developed a framework for the implementation of IFRS.
The net result of trading, capital expenditure, acquisitions and The Standards become effective for accounting periods commencing divestments led to trading assets increasing to 693.1 million after 1 January 2005.
Our analysis indicates the most significant areas last year: 689.7 million.
With net debt at the year end of of difference from UK GAAP are the recognition and measurement of 332.4 million last year: 323.6 million, gearing was only slightly financial instruments, pensions, intangible fixed assets, deferred tax higher at 92.2 per cent and EBITDA interest cover before exceptional and share-based payments.
items was 8.1 times last year: 9.2 times.
Information technology Adding back goodwill previously written off, our average invested All companies except the newly acquired Solway Foods are using SAP.
The post-tax return on invested capital This has enabled us to centralise all IT and commission the new shared ROIC was reduced to 9.2 per cent excluding exceptional items service centre in Wakefield, which went live in the second half.
last year: 10.0 per cent but, with the weighted average cost of capital A rapid roll-out plan removing all financial accounting, ledgers and at 6.9 per cent, we still achieved a healthy margin over the cost of funds.
administration from our operating companies is now under way.
Pensions We are at the forefront of Marks & Spencers trials of Radio Frequency We believe that a defined benefit pension scheme is an important Identification RFID tagging, technology which we have also successfully benefit to our employees and is part of the remuneration package implemented internally for the control of work in progress on the offered to support the recruitment, motivation and retention of high factory floor.
Having decided to keep our final salary scheme in 2002 we increased contributions for all employees from 5 to 7 per cent Sean Christie and removed a number of company funded early retirement provisions Finance Director for future service.
2 June 2004 The last full valuation of the scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2002 using a market-based approach.
The market value of the schemes assets was 449.9 million which represented 95 per cent of the value of accrued benefits allowing for assumed future increases in earnings.
Our fund is relatively immature with almost twice the level of contributions going in as pensions paid out, which leaves us able to take a long term view of investment returns.
We continue to charge pension costs against profits based on SSAP 24 and the latest full valuation of the scheme.
The variation credit due to the amortisation of past surpluses reduces the pension charge by 0.1 million.
Northern Foods plc Financial review 07
