Operating and financial review Neil Davidson Chief Executive left Nigel Peet Finance Director right Arla Foods UK plc is delivering all the expected benefits of the merger: commercial, operational and financial.
We have representation across the dairy cabinet with strong brands and a much enhanced presence in growing, added value sectors.
Our processing facilities are among the most advanced in the UK, backed by substantial technical resources, and our distribution capabilities are truly nationwide.
This is a well balanced business with strong finances and the capability to invest for efficiency and growth.
10 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Size and scope Our dairies are strategically placed, enabling us to meet our customer requirements nationwide.
Currently 13 we operate from nine polybottling dairies, two creameries, and two glass processing bottling dairies, and employ over 6,000 sites people throughout the UK.
Growing sales Speciality cheese Turnover for the 18 month period of 1,677.0 million reflects the inclusion The strongest growing segment continues to be speciality products.
of Arla Foods Plc for over 11 months of the period.
The imported mostly We are benefiting from this trend, especially with our Discover.. brand, branded foods business, on which we earn an agreed margin, grew by which saw strong growth of 38 per cent over the last year, supported 4.8 per cent over the comparable prior period.
Milk volumes for the post by newly created TV advertising, taking the retail value of the brand above acquisition period reduced by 0.9 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Our Rosenborg blue cheese brand saw more modest growth declines of 8.5 per cent were lower than in previous periods and higher of seven per cent.
supermarket volumes, notably of the Cravendale brand, offset this decline.
Following a review this autumn, we have decided to withdraw from the Building top dairy brands wholesale cheese operation, HT Webb.
Arla Foods is the UKs leading branded dairy company, with the combined retail value of our three key brands Cravendale, Lurpak and Anchor Growth in flavoured milk now exceeding 310 million and continuing to grow.
We have a strong branded flavoured milk portfolio, which includes Caf Met, Gulp!
Caf Met has grown particularly strongly, Cravendale, the only mainstream branded fresh milk in the UK, remains an by 36.7 per cent year-on-year.
outstanding success story, proving that it is possible to build a strong brand in a major commodity market.
The brand is now achieving annual sales of Number one in retail milk over 60 million, which is bigger in the fresh milk sector than all organic We remain the clear UK market leader in the supply of fresh liquid fresh milks combined.
However, this still represents only 2.9 per cent of all milk and cream to retailers.
We gained a net 80 million litres of volume fresh milk sales, or 3.5 per cent in the major multiple channel, underlining through retailers changes to their supplier base from April 2004.
Overall, the substantial future potential of the brand.
we have maintained our share of the supermarket fresh milk sector since the merger of Arla Foods Plc and Express Dairies plc in October 2003.
Developing new products We intend to continue to develop new added value dairy products, bringing Expanding in Scotland benefits to our retail customers and us alike.
The next step in this direction We have significantly strengthened our position in the Scottish market will be the launch early in 2005 of an Atkins branded carbohydrate reduced through our Asda Wal-Mart contract, for which we will source some milk, produced using proprietary filtration technology.
70 million litres of Scottish milk.
This will be processed at our Claymore Dairies facility in Nairn and the new 16 million dairy at Lockerbie, Strong growth by Lurpak Dumfriesshire, which we are developing with our strategic alliance partner, Arla Foods is also a category leader in the butter, spreads and margarine Milk Link.
This new plant, which will become operational in 2005, firmly sector, with a total market share of 27 per cent.
We supply two of the top establishes our production and distribution capabilities throughout Scotland three brands and three of the top five individual lines, and were the only and will enable us to enhance our service to all our customers, particularly major company to increase its share over the last year, with a gain of over those in the middleground, small shop and foodservice sectors.
This increase has been achieved while reducing the amount Additionally, it further strengthens our strategic alliance with Milk Link, of product sold on special offer, which now accounts for only 12 per cent which is also processing milk on our behalf at its Okehampton facility of our butter, spreads and margarine volume compared with a category in south west England.
average of over 20 per cent, again underlining the strength of our brands.
We anticipate that the Competition Appeal Tribunals full hearing of The spreadable sector, which we created and lead, has continued to our appeal relating to Chapter II abuse of dominant position of the deliver growth.
Lurpak Spreadable grew by 13 per cent and Lurpak Competition Act will now be heard in Scotland early in 2005.
Our case Lighter Spreadable by 23 per cent over the last year, taking the total under Chapter I cartel remains stayed pending the outcome of the retail value of Lurpak Spreadable to 116 million.
For the Lurpak brand new investigation being undertaken by the Office of Fair Trading, which as a whole, including the classic Lurpak block, growth last year was is continuing.
11 per cent, taking its retail value to more than 151 million.
We have maintained our strong position in the retail cream market, based Anchor Spreadable grew by 17 per cent over the year, countering the on our dedicated facilities and the quality of the product they supply.
decline in classic block butter.
Overall the Anchor brand, including cream and cheese, marginally improved to a retail value of 97 million.
11 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review continued Outperforming in home delivery The proportion of home delivery We have continued to outperform the market in this sector, which has experienced substantial double digit decline rates.
Our own year-on-year volume rounds operated by franchisees decline at 30 September 2004 was 8.5 per cent.
We have known for some has reached an all-time record, and time that stability amongst our delivery personnel is a key factor in maintaining customer loyalty, and our relatively robust performance reflects the success of there is substantial evidence that our initiatives to expand our franchisee base and to improve retention.
The proportion of rounds operated by franchisees has reached an all-time record, both recruitment and retention is and there is substantial evidence that both recruitment and retention is benefiting from the growth of our parcel and packet delivery volumes.
Average benefiting from the growth of our volumes per round and revenue per item have both continued to grow, parcel and packet delivery volumes.
and from August we began to make mail deliveries under our two-year agreement with TNT Mail a UK subsidiary of the Dutch Post Office, TPG NV.
This agreement confirms our credentials in last mile mail distribution.
Higher underlying profit Underlying pre-tax profit, which we consider to be our primary profit measure, increased by 24.1 million to 52.1 million compared to the previous 12 month period, as a consequence of the extended accounting period and the merger with Arla Foods Plc.
On a proforma basis, by deducting our restated interim results for the six months to 30 September 2003, our underlying pre-tax profits were 42.0 million.
Audited Unaudited Audited 18 months to year to year to 30 September 30 September 31 March 2004 2004 2003 m m m Pre-tax profit loss 1.9 4.2 11.6 Operations to be discontinued 3.3 3.3 Discontinued operations 0.9 Goodwill amortisation 10.4 8.2 4.6 Exceptional items 36.5 34.7 12.7 Underlying pre-tax profit 52.1 42.0 28.0 Underlying pre-tax profit for the six months to 30 September 2004 was in line with the previous half year.
Milk volumes were reduced by doorstep declines and a reduction in Tesco business, but this was offset by growth in our branded business and the generation of the first tranche of synergy cost savings.
33% growth Cravendale Cravendale is the only mainstream branded fresh milk in the UK and remains an outstanding success story.
Following its nationwide launch in May 2002, over three million UK households now buy Cravendale milk.
As a result of increased demand, 20 million is being invested in the new Stourton dairy to double processing capacity for the brand.
12 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 23% growth Lurpak Lighter Spreadable The spreadable sector of the butter, spreads and margarine market, which Arla initially created is continuing to deliver growth.
Lurpak Spreadable now has a total retail value of 116 million.
The continuing operations to be discontinued relate to the announced Cash flow proposed closure of HT Webb, our wholesale cheese business, which Audited Unaudited Audited 18 months to year to year to has continued to be loss-making in the period since it was acquired.
30 September 30 September 31 March The discontinued operations in the prior period relate to the sale of the 2004 2004 2003 Express Dairies UHT business.
Goodwill amortisation primarily represents m m m the Arla Foods Plc transaction together with the Glanbia UK liquid milk Operating profit 18.5 8.7 20.3 acquisition in 1999.
Both of these acquisitions are amortised over 20 years.
Depreciation 52.0 43.1 19.4 Amortisation 10.4 8.2 4.6 Comparative profits have been restated to reflect the impact of Working capital 14.7 30.1 11.4 implementing UITF38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts and UITF17 Revised Employee Share Schemes.
The effects have been to increase the Other operating movements 0.7 0.3 1.1 comparative charge to profits by 0.4 million for the year to 31 March 2003 Net cash inflow from and to deduct shares held in an ESOP from shareholders funds.
Under operating activities 96.3 90.4 56.8 the previous accounting policy, these shares were shown as an investment Add back cash exceptionals 23.0 21.2 12.8 and carried at amortised cost.
Capital expenditure 78.3 73.0 10.9 Wholesale doorstep acquisitions 0.6 0.4 0.4 Cash flow Proceeds from asset disposals 7.6 5.1 5.6 Refer to table opposite.
Net tax paid 6.0 6.0 1.2 Cash flow from operations Underlying free cash flow 42.0 37.3 62.7 The working capital inflow benefited from the acquisition of Arla Foods Plc Net acquisitions 4.1 4.1 5.3 trade debtors mid period but this was offset by a significant insurance Proceeds from disposal of business 1.5 1.5 30.0 prepayment following the six month change of reporting date, whilst Cash exceptionals 23.0 21.2 12.8 accruals have risen because of exceptional provisions relating to dairy Free cash flow 16.4 13.5 74.6 closures announced immediately prior to the period end.
Interest 15.8 12.1 8.8 The charge for depreciation has increased due to operating exceptional Dividends 37.0 35.2 1.2 asset write-offs of 12.8 million and the amortisation of goodwill has risen Net cash flow 36.4 33.8 64.6 due to the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Arla Foods Plc.
Net debt acquired disposed of 24.4 24.4 0.9 Increase decrease in net debt 60.8 58.2 65.5 Substantial investment programme Capital expenditure of 78.3 million includes 40.2 million on the construction of our dairy at Stourton, near Leeds.
Other capital projects include 6.0 million on the Manchester dairy project, 4.6 million at Oakthorpe and 3.8 million at Hatfield Peverel.
Asset disposals are the sale of surplus properties.
Net acquisitions comprise the cash cost of the Arla Foods Plc transaction less net cash balances acquired, whilst disposal proceeds arise from the partial sale of the chilled distribution business.
13 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review continued 1st Yorkshire Butter wins awards Yorkshire Butter Yorkshire Butter, produced at Settle creamery, won first prize for pack butter at the Great Yorkshire Show 2004.
The brand also enjoyed success at Nantwich International Cheese Show, when it was awarded the leading pack butter accolade for a second time.
Top quality assets Stourton sets new standards for Our new 55 million Stourton dairy has been very well received by our customers, with most major retailers keen to take product from the plant.
the UK dairy industry, incorporating The facility opened ahead of schedule in September 2004 and is operating the latest equipment including in line with our expectations, delivering all the planned efficiency benefits.
Stourton sets new standards for the UK dairy industry, incorporating the the worlds largest fresh milk four latest equipment including the worlds largest filler, and is achieving high filling speeds and very good product shelf lives.
The 12 million pint weigh filler, and is achieving reconstruction of our Manchester dairy, to create the most highly automated facility in the North West, is proceeding to plan and is on track high filling speeds and very good for completion in mid 2005. product shelf lives.
New capacity for growth Cravendale is now achieving over 90 per cent distribution in the key major multiple sector, in which the brands sales have grown by 33 per cent over the last year.
Distribution through other channels to market is significantly lower, simply because capacity constraints have prevented us from targeting these potential customers.
The 20 million investment in phase two of our Stourton dairy development, scheduled for completion in summer 2005, will create a real growth opportunity by doubling our processing capacity for this exciting brand.
We are also planning a 12 million investment in a new added value milk plant at our Ashby fide la Zouch site, giving us the capacity to expand our presence in all formats within this growing market.
Merger with Arla Foods Plc The merger of Express Dairies plc and Arla Foods Plc completed on 22 October 2003.
Under the terms of the merger we issued 310.9 million new shares to the Arla Foods amba group.
The new shares have a nominal value of two pence each and had a market value on the day of issue of 44.375 pence each.
This market value of shares issued of 137.9 million, together with transaction costs of 6.4 million, compares to a fair value of assets acquired of 92.6 million to give goodwill arising on the merger of 51.7 million.
Fair value adjustments include 28.6 million of bank loans previously owed by Arla Foods Plc to a member of the Arla Foods amba group.
The benefit of this bank loan was transferred to Arla Foods UK plc on completion of the merger.
A pensions deficit of 21.0 million has been recognised.
14 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 This deficit relates to the primary Arla Foods pension scheme and has been profits on selling the closed depots, and in bank facility costs arising computed using SSAP24 principles as the group continues to use SSAP24 in the period between announcement and completion of the merger.
The deficit using FRS17 IAS19 principles Non operating exceptionals include a 3.8 million loss arising on the would not necessarily be the same amount.
completion of the sale of a major component of our chilled distribution business together with the costs of the consequent closure of the balance The transaction satisfies the requirement of merger relief in respect of shares of this business.
We expect to achieve a further significant property profit issued in exchange for shares in Arla Foods.
Accordingly a merger reserve on disposal of the Ruislip site, but no benefit is anticipated in these accounts.
of 104.5 million arises on this transaction.
The value of shares attributed to the bank loan of 28.6 million does not meet the requirements of merger Interest payments relief and the excess over nominal value of these shares has been credited Net interest payable totalled 15.9 million.
On a proforma basis, interest to the share premium account.
payable in the year to 30 September 2004 of 12.2 million compares to 8.9 million in the year to 31 March 2003.
The increased charge reflects a Rationalisation ahead of plan combination of acquired debt, increased capital expenditure, rationalisation We will complete our rationalisation of facilities, following the merger, with costs and the special dividend of 28.6 million.
the closure of our Ruislip dairy in west London in January 2005, and our Newcastle upon Tyne dairy in May 2005.
These actions follow the closure Tax charge of the Bamber Bridge dairy, Lancashire, in July 2004 and the glass bottling The effective group tax rate, excluding exceptionals, is 39.6 per cent.
This line at Hatfield Peverel, Essex, in May 2004.
We also closed our old central is a higher effective rate than in previous periods because of the increase Leeds dairy in September 2004, following the opening of Stourton.
We in goodwill amortisation arising from the Arla Foods transaction.
Excluding have already completed most of our rationalisation and integration of goodwill amortisation, the effective pre-exceptional rate falls to 31.1 per cent central functions.
In addition to direct cost savings and the benefit of improved capacity Increased earnings per share utilisation and efficiency at our remaining plants, we are deriving significant Adjusted earnings per share ie pre-exceptional items and goodwill commercial benefits from the creation of the enlarged group.
The major amortisation adjusted for operations to be discontinued of 7.3 pence multiple retailers welcome our ability to meet the full range of their dairy compares to 6.6 pence for the previous period as higher profits outweighed requirements, and increasingly regard us as a natural partner to work with the increase in the number of shares in issue.
Basic loss per share fell to them in developing the whole category.
We are also deriving important 0.3 pence 2003: earnings 2.4 pence due to the increase in exceptional costs.
benefits from our partnership with Arla Foods amba, notably through our access to their substantial research and development facilities and Ordinary and special dividends technological expertise.
Dividends charged to the profit and loss account include a special dividend of 9.6 pence per share paid on 4 November 2003.
Interim dividends of Exceptional costs 1.1 pence per share were also paid and a final dividend of 0.7 pence per Exceptional costs totalled 36.5 million in the 18 months to share is proposed 2003: total 1.0 pence.
Operating exceptionals of 35.8 million comprised asset write-downs of 12.8 million and cash costs of 23.0 million.
These Pensions charges relate primarily to the closed operations at Bamber Bridge and We continue to report our pension costs in accordance with SSAP24.
Hatfield Peverel and the announced dairy closures at Ruislip and Newcastle The triennial actuarial valuation of the Express Pension Scheme was upon Tyne, together with redundancy costs arising from the initial phase completed as at 31 March 2002 and showed the scheme to be in deficit.
of centralising head office functions, including the closure of the former As a result, we made a number of changes to the scheme whilst retaining Express Dairies head office in Leicester.
These exceptional charges continue the principles of a defined benefit scheme and consequently the charge to be broadly in line with our projections included in the Listing Particulars to the profit and loss account reduced in the period to 11.9 million, whilst for the merger.
We have incurred further exceptional charges in rationalising we made total cash contributions of 17.7 million.
our depot network, which has effectively been self-financing because of 37% year-on-year growth Caf Met, Gulp!
and Breaktime Caf Met has grown particularly strongly.
In addition, our flavoured milk brand portfolio also includes Gulp!
15 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review continued The FRS17 pensions deficit for the Express Pension Scheme has reduced from 109.1 million, post tax in March 2003 to 84.5 million, post tax in September 2004.
The reduction in the deficit reflects the recovery of equities in the period, partially offset by an increase in liabilities caused by higher inflation assumptions.
The FRS17 pension deficit for the Arla Scheme was 25.9 million, post tax, compared to a September 2003 deficit of 34.9 million, post tax.
As noted above, the related fair value adjustment was based on SSAP24 principles.
International financial reporting standards IFRS We currently report our results under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
However, we will, along with all listed companies in the European Union, be required to prepare our financial statements under IFRS for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2005.
Accordingly, following the change in our accounting reference date, adoption of IFRS will be reflected first in our financial statements for the half-year ending 31 March 2006 and for the year ending 30 September 2006, which will include restated comparatives and appropriate reconciliations.
We have established a project team to evaluate and monitor developments in IFRS and to manage and co-ordinate the implementation of IFRS across the group.
The work of the project team is ongoing.
Based on our work performed to date and current international accounting standards, the The major multiple retailers welcome significant differences that may arise on adoption are as follows: our ability to meet the full range of Financial instruments their dairy requirements, and Under UK GAAP, financial instruments are generally measured at cost with gains and losses being deferred until the underlying transaction occurs.
increasingly regard us as a natural IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement requires certain financial instruments to be measured at fair value and may therefore partner to work with them in introduce additional volatility into the groups profit and loss account.
Retirement benefits The group currently accounts for retirement benefits in accordance with SSAP24.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the requirements of IAS19 Employee Benefits are similar to those of FRS17 under UK GAAP, although IAS19 permits the deferral of actuarial gains and losses in certain circumstances, which is not permitted under FRS17.
The International Accounting Standards Board IASB is currently considering revisions to IAS19, which would substantially align the accounting for defined benefit pension schemes to the requirements of FRS17.
38% growth Discover.. One of our speciality cheese brands Discover.. enjoyed significant growth last year.
The brand was supported by newly created television advertising, taking the retail value of the brand above 11 million.
16 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7m spent on advertising Anchor Over 7 million has been spent on an advertising campaign to reinforce the pure and simple Anchor brand message in the last year.
The hard-hitting campaign encouraged consumers to re-evaluate their purchase decision within the butter and spreads market, and included a number of new television advertisements broadcast nationwide featuring the Anchor Cow and Moo characters.
Goodwill amortisation Since the period end, a 200 million five year multi-currency revolving credit Under UK GAAP, we currently amortise goodwill over its useful economic facility has been negotiated with the companys bankers.
IFRS3 Business Combinations requires cessation of the amortisation of was signed on 29 November 2004 and replaces the existing 100 million goodwill from the transition date 1 October 2004 to be replaced by an revolving credit facility and the 91.5 million sterling facility from Arla Foods annual impairment review.
International A S. Share based payments The groups policy is to ensure that there is appropriate continuing funding Our current equity incentive arrangements include long term incentive plans in place by arranging for all short term borrowings to be fully backed by LTIPS company share option plans CSOPs and share incentive plans committed medium term facilities and by limiting the amounts due for SIPs.
Under existing UK GAAP, only LTIPs and SIPs attract a charge to the repayment within 12 months.
At 30 September 2004, the weighted profit and loss account, based on the intrinsic value at grant date.
There is average term of the groups outstanding facilities was three years.
In no charge in respect of CSOPs because the grant price is the same as the addition, unused committed bank facilities were 120.0 million.
However, IFRS2 Share Based Payments requires recognition of an expense for all share based payments, including CSOPs, granted after Our policy is to use financial instruments to manage and limit the groups 7 November 2002, measured at the fair value of the award at the date of exposure to adverse movements in interest rates by fixing or capping the grant and charged over the vesting period.
interest rates on between 40 per cent and 60 per cent of debt.
At the period end 56 per cent of the groups debt was fixed through the use Leases of interest rate swaps.
IAS17 Leases amends the basis for determining whether leases are to be treated as operating leases or finance leases.
In particular, it affects leases Although only a small proportion of the groups sales and purchases are over land and buildings requiring them to be split into their constituent denominated in currencies other than sterling, the group has an ongoing parts and assessed separately.
A review of the groups portfolio of operating exposure to the euro, through European intervention prices and export leases is being undertaken to determine whether the current operating subsidies.
It is the groups policy wherever possible to protect itself against lease treatment remains appropriate under IAS17.
adverse movements in the sterling euro exchange rate through the matching of cash flows and the use of financial instruments such as foreign Deferred tax exchange contracts and currency swaps.
Due to the seasonal nature of the IAS12 Income Taxes requires accounting for deferred tax on temporary groups trade, there were no such instruments in place at either the start or differences, which is wider in scope than existing UK GAAP.
We are the end of the period.
currently considering IAS12 together with the tax accounting impact of other IAS transitional adjustments.
The group has an ongoing exposure to the price of oil, requiring diesel for the distribution division, and as a result of the impact of the price of oil Treasury management on the cost of plastic for polybottles.
During the period a portion of this The treasury operations of the group are managed within parameters exposure has been hedged via commodity swaps.
There were no amounts formally defined and regularly reviewed by the board.
The activities outstanding at the period end.
of group treasury are routinely reported to the board and the audit committee and are subject to review by the internal and external auditors.
The board has approved the policy that group treasury follows in managing the main financial risks to the group: funding, interest rates and Neil Davidson foreign exchange rates.
Chief Executive Nigel Peet Finance Director 17 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
