16PHS Group plc Financial review The Group has successfully continued its development strategy through a mix of organic and acquisition growth, resulting in another year of improved profitability and strong cash generation.
Results for the year The Group achieved an 18.1% increase in turnover, Acquisitions The acquisition of bolt-on and other businesses that largely driven by significant growth in both PHS Washrooms and complement the existing business continues to form a core part of our PHS Waterlogic.
Operating profit increased by 21.5% to 50.1m strategy to achieve further growth.
During the year, 61.6m has been with the margin improving to 30.3% from 29.5%.
All five divisions invested in 18 acquisitions, resulting in a further 60.6m of goodwill grew profitability in the year.
being capitalised on the balance sheet as an intangible asset.
The interest charge increased by 1.4m on the previous year, The two largest individual acquisitions, both of which were as a result of the higher level of borrowings to fund the ongoing bolted-on to PHS Washrooms existing operations, were the 24.9m acquisition programme and 0.4m accelerated amortisation of issue acquisition of Airstream Services Limited and the 13.9m acquisition costs due to the refinancing of the Groups bank borrowings in April of the trade and certain assets of Johnsons Washroom Services.
Despite this, interest cover remains conservative at 7.6 times These, along with our other bolt-on acquisitions, were successfully operating profit.
The Board has reviewed each acquisition and the underlying Taxation In line with increased profitability, the tax charge for business and concluded that, as in previous years, the associated the year increased to 13.1m from 10.6m in the previous year.
goodwill has an indefinite life and consequently, no amortisation The effective rate of tax for the year was 30.1%, which differs from has been charged.
More detailed commentary on our policy the 30% standard rate of corporation tax in the UK as the result of regarding the amortisation of goodwill is provided in note 1 a number of minor factors.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share have Capital expenditure Gross capital expenditure in the year was 13.1m, increased from 4.91p to 5.87p, an increase of 19.6%.
The increase which represented 125% of the 10.5m depreciation charge.
This is has been driven by the significant growth in operating profit.
broadly in line with the previous year where capital expenditure Dividend policy The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.48p represented 129% of depreciation.
Sales of fixed assets raised 0.3m per share, giving a total dividend for the year of 1.70p per share.
This compares with a total dividend of 0.55p per share paid in the Capital expenditure on equipment at customers premises has previous year.
The total dividend is covered 3.5 times by current year increased by 20.7%, in line with growth in turnover and operating earnings and represents 29.0% of basic earnings per share.
As our businesses are predominantly of a service or rental If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the Group will pay nature, this expenditure is necessary to provide the equipment core the final dividend on 1 September 2004 to all shareholders registered to our business and the additional expenditure on the previous year on 6 August 2004. reflects growth in the business and increased demand for our The dividend has been rebased at a higher level that more products and services.
At flotation in June 2001, we Cash flow and net debt During the year, the Group generated cash reported net cash inflow from operating activities of 30.3m whereas of 57.8m from its operating activities, representing a 115.4% this year we are reporting 57.8m, a 90.8% increase over the period.
conversion of its 50.1m operating profit.
This rate is an improvement Net gearing remains low and the level of interest cover, at over on the 113.6% achieved in the previous year, where operating profit seven times, is comfortable even though we have invested 129.3m of 41.2m was converted into cash of 46.8m.
This improvement in acquisitions over the last three years.
is brought about by tight controls exercised in the management of The rebased dividend will allow sufficient flexibility for both working capital ensuring that the growth in profitability does not acquisition and organic growth whilst recognising the highly cash result in a detrimental working capital position.
generative nature of the business, the substantial increase in the level Net debt increased by 38.4m in the year, largely as a result of cash generation since flotation and the low level of gearing.
of further borrowing to partly fund the Groups acquisitions.
The difference between this increase in net debt and the 64.0m spent on acquisitions in the current year has been funded through operating cash inflows.
Net gearing has increased from 33.0% to 43.8% in the year.
17PHS Group plc Treasury management The Group operates a central treasury function, Other borrowings comprise outstanding loan notes and hire purchase which manages liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange risks agreements.
The loan notes were issued to fund a previous acquisition with the ultimate objective of ensuring the provision of sufficient and have been redeemed in full since the balance sheet date.
This function is ultimately responsible to the assets are generally purchased outright rather than through hire Board who sanction all treasury policies adopted.
The policies in place purchase agreements due to the availability of funds at a more beneficial to manage these risks are largely unchanged from those in place at interest cost than is generally available on such leases.
All outstanding the previous year end and it remains the policy that no trading in hire purchase agreements attract fixed rates of interest.
financial instruments shall be undertaken.
Foreign exchange Although the Group principally trades in sterling, Liquidity The Groups policy on liquidity is to ensure a balance following the acquisition of All Water Systems Limited, it is exposed between continuity of funding and flexibility.
Operating cash flows to foreign exchange movements on the euro net investment and are reinvested in acquisitions and other capital expenditure as far as profits of this subsidiary.
The Board has assessed these risks and possible whilst retaining sufficient funds to finance ongoing activities.
concluded that the net investment risk should be hedged by the use Adequate loan facilities are maintained to supplement these cash of a forward foreign exchange contract but that the level of risk on flows as required.
translation of the profits is acceptable.
The forward foreign exchange At 31 March 2004, the Group had sterling bank borrowing contract will be settled during this new financial year via the draw facilities totalling 167.5m, of which 33.5m was unutilised at the down of a matching euro loan.
These facilities were replaced in April 2004, The profits of All Water Systems are translated to sterling at the with bank borrowing facilities that offer the Group more flexibility.
average exchange rate over the period.
The Board considers the risk These new facilities total 205.0m, are unsecured and expire on of any exchange rate movement having significant effect on the profits 20 April 2009. of the Group to be acceptably low due to the size of this operation in The Group is obliged to comply with a number of covenants relation to the Group and relative stability of the currency involved.
relating to these new facilities.
Taking account of the Groups current For this reason, it has been decided not to hedge these profits at this position, budgets and forecasts, the Board believe that the Group will time although the matter is kept under review.
continue to comply with these covenants without restricting its funding Accounting policies The Board has reviewed the accounting policies or investment policy.
Actual performance against these covenants is used in the preparation of these financial statements and believe one of the key indicators regularly monitored by the Board.
each to be the most appropriate.
The principal accounting policies Interest on borrowings Borrowings under the facilities referred to above are set out in note 1 to the financial statements.
There have been account for the large majority of the Groups debt.
These borrowings no changes to accounting policies in the year.
are at floating rates of interest because the Board believe that the The Group will be adopting International Accounting Standards current environment of low gearing and high interest cover make the IAS for the first time in the year ended 31 March 2006.
In preparation, resulting level of interest rate risk acceptable.
all existing IASs have been reviewed to assess their likely impact on the financial statements and determine the internal processes required to collect the necessary data.
Progress to date has been hindered by the fact that many key standards have only recently been finalised.
Consequently, while a number of high level conclusions have been reached, more time is needed to complete detailed calculations of the impact and have these reviewed by the Groups auditors.
This activity has now started with a view to agreeing the adjustments to the Groups March 2004 balance sheet well before the first IAS-compliant results are presented in the 2005 06 interim report.
