8397 Rank 2004 8 page spreads 30 3 05 4:16 pm Page 3 17 18 Hard Rock Lemony Snicket Hard Rock, one of the most globally Market insight Deluxe Film in focus recognised music, entertainment and dining Hard Rock The lm processing and distribution industry of competition amongst lm distributors to Established in 1915, Deluxe Film is now one of Number of major titles produced using brands, has 122 signature Hard Rock Cafes in is a subset of the wider motion picture have their lms shown at the box ofce.
Each the worlds leading suppliers of products and digital intermediates 41 countries and owns the worlds greatest industry which has enjoyed strong revenue of these factors will combine to determine services to the international motion picture 1 growth over the past five years.
Global gross the release pattern chosen by the film industry.
Its activities are split into two distinct Operating profit up 20% to 27.8m collection of music memorabilia.
With over box ofce revenues are estimated to have distributor i. e. the number of screens showing business activities: film processing and Operating margins were ahead of last year, reecting improved cost controls in the 50 million guests per annum, the brands increased by some 9% to US$21.8bn the lm in any particular territory at one time distribution, and creative services.
owned cafes and first time contributions from new licensees in 2003, driven by strong growth in Europe and therefore the number of prints required appeal is driven by the consistent delivery where box ofce revenues increased by per title.
Film processing and distribution 2 of an unforgettable and unique experience Owned cafe sales up by 6%, with like-for-like sales 15% to just under US$6.4bn.
Early indications Having processed 4.4bn feet of 35mm lm for 2004 data are that global box office After a consistent period of growth since in 2004, Deluxe Film is one of the worlds that we call kick ass service.
also positive increased further to over US$23bn.
1999, 2004 saw a drop in prints per title for largest processors of film for the motion New cafes as well as like-for-like outlets performed well during 2004 the first time.
This was due to a substantial picture industry with film laboratories Global box ofce revenues US$bn reduction in the number of major titles in Los Angeles, Toronto, London, Rome, Source: Deluxe Film estimates 13 new cafes opened during the year released during the year.
Compared with 31 Barcelona and Sydney.
In terms of film Hard Rock Cafe The first franchised cafe in Athens, Greece opened in Four new cafes opened in the US and a further nine opened in international markets titles in 2003, only 18 such titles were released processing contracts, Deluxe Film has Following the acquisition of DVCC during September 2004. in 2004, reecting a weaker lm schedule for a relatively broad customer base compared 2004, Deluxe now has one of the largest a number of Deluxe Films studio customers.
with its main competitor, Technicolor CE&A operations in the industry, providing Two major hotel casino developments opened owned by Thomson SA, and currently a complete one-stop turnkey solution for Total operating profit in Florida In recent years, the number of blockbuster has contracts with Fox for North America DVD front-end services to studios and music The two Seminole licensed hotel casinos in Tampa and Hollywood, Florida opened titles released in any single year has increased only, MGM, Miramax, New Line, Paramount labels around the world.
With facilities in 27.8m on time in March and May respectively and are performing in line with expectations substantially.
This is demonstrated by the and Sony.
Moosic Pennsylvania, Burbank California, following chart which illustrates the top 100 and London England.
lms of all time in terms of opening weekend Creative services Further hotel deals announced box ofce revenues.
The acquisition of the remaining 80% of Net operating assets Plans for new Hard Rock Hotels in New York and Madrid were announced during 2004 Source: Screen Digest EFILM not already owned by Deluxe Film and further hotel projects are planned Opening weekend box ofce and the addition of the DVD compression, 98.8m The largest single market is North America revenues US$m encoding and authoring CE&A business 1 before exceptional items which represented some 47% of global represent important developments for 2 constant currency box ofce revenues in 2003.
EFILM operates one of the most background of strong box ofce growth, advanced digital lm laboratories in the world the total footage of lm processed has also and specialises in the production of digital before exceptional items grown strongly.
Industry estimates are that intermediates and other post-production since 1998 this has grown by over 50%, from services.
Its services are already setting Hard Rock Hotels The Reina Victoria Hotel will reopen as the Hard 9.6bn feet in 1998 to 13.7bn feet in 2003. the standards in terms of post-production Rock Hotel Madrid later in 2005. techniques and this is reflected by the Total 35mm processed bn ft growth in the number of titles using digital intermediate technology in recent years.
The sheer strength of the Hard Rock Source: Variety.
com During 2004 EFILM worked on a number of Against a background of improving major titles including Spider-Man 2, Oceans brand has already been demonstrated by performance in the cafes, over US$1bn One implication for the lm processing Twelve, The Passion of the Christ, The Bourne the success in extending the brand into of investment by third parties has industry is that the timing of release and Supremacy and The Day After Tomorrow.
non-restaurant activities such as hotels number of blockbuster titles in any financial been made in Hard Rock branded year can have a material impact on overall and casinos.
This remains a core strategy developments.
As we look forward financial performance.
While the trend for the business whilst at the same time appears to indicate that the lm studios are to 2005, we are already engaged in Source: Deluxe Film estimates keen to maximise revenues on the opening Looking forward to 2005 continuing to drive owned and franchised a number of exciting new projects weekend, a reduction in the number of major cafe performance.
Growth drivers titles released by its major customers in 2004 In lm processing and distribution, the year has begun well with a number of major titles which we are confident will continue Key factors inuencing overall footage resulted in an overall reduction in Deluxe including Hitch and Son of the Mask.
The rest of 2005 is also looking strong with titles such to enhance the value of our brand growth include the number of screens Films total footage during the year.
as XXX2 and Fantastic Four expected to be major box ofce hits.
The Group is excited about available within a given territory, the number the expansion of the Creative Services division given its strong market position in the throughout the world.
Hamish Dodds President and CEO of Hard Rock of lms produced, the amount spent on specialist areas of post-production and DVD pre-mastering.
marketing and promotion, and the degree Seminole Hard Rock Hotel & Casino Tampa opened in March 2004.
Hamish Dodds President and CEO of Hard Rock The Rank Group Plc The Rank Group Plc TM MARVEL, SPIDER-MAN, DOCTOR OCTOPUS and all MARVEL character names and distinctiveness likenesses thereof.
& 2004 Marvel Characters Inc. All Rights Reserved.
MARVEL and SPIDER-MAN:Trademarks registered in the USA and certain other countries.
2004 Sony Pictures Digital Inc. All rights reserved.
8397 Rank 2004 8 page 18,20imp 30 3 05 7:02 pm Page 2 18 Hard Rock 19 Total operating profit Turnover m 232.0m Operating profit 27.8m Seminole Hard Rock Hotel Casino before exceptional items Market insight Hard Rock The US dominates the global restaurant Like-for-like restaurant sales: market and with over 900,000 locations 2004 versus 2003 % is the largest individual market in the 1 world.
According to the National Restaurant Operating profit up 20% to 27.8m Association, the US restaurant Industry Operating margins were ahead of last year, reecting improved cost controls in the is expected to generate sales of 6% owned cafes and first time contributions from new licensees approximately US$476bn in 2005, 5% a 4.9% increase over 2004.
2 4% Owned cafe sales up by 6%, with like-for-like sales 3% Based upon US Department of Agriculture also positive statistics, the trends on eating out in New cafes as well as like-for-like outlets performed well during 2004 2% the US have continued to grow both in 1% absolute terms as well as relative to overall Month 13 new cafes opened during the year disposable income.
Four new cafes opened in the US and a further nine opened in international markets Food costs While all restaurants face a range of different Two major hotel casino developments opened cost pressures, the following chart provides an indication of the recent trends of food in Florida costs, based on a basket of restaurant The two Seminole licensed hotel casinos in Tampa and Hollywood, Florida opened commodities including hogs, pork bellies, on time in March and May respectively and are performing in line with expectations boxed beef, broilers, wheat, coffee, butter, corn and cheese.
The median year-on-year increase since 1991 is 3%.
Further hotel deals announced Plans for new Hard Rock Hotels in New York and Madrid were announced during 2004 Restaurants Commodity Index and further hotel projects are planned Year-on-year YOY % change Hard Rock falls within the casual dining 1 before exceptional items sub-segment of the restaurant market.
2 constant currency This part of the industry has benefited from a long term trend towards eating out.
This growth has been attributed in part to increasing disposable income, number of dual income families and an increase in the proportion of women in the workforce, increasingly hectic lifestyles, expanding urban populations, and a decline in the price difference between eating out and cooking at home.
Source: Goldman Sachs Against a background of improving performance in the cafes, over US$1bn While the industry performance during of investment by third parties has 2004 versus 2003 was particularly strong during the first half, this outperformance has been made in Hard Rock branded been eroded during the second half with developments.
As we look forward operators also citing increased food costs as impacting on profit margins.
Industry to 2005, we are already engaged in data, provided by Knapp Track, showing a number of exciting new projects like-for-like sales during 2004 versus 2003 is illustrated below, together with Hard which we are confident will continue Rocks own performance in North America.
to enhance the value of our brand throughout the world.
Hard Rock Cafe London There are 122 Hard Rock Cafes in 41 countries around the globe.
Hamish Dodds President and CEO of Hard Rock The Rank Group Plc The Rank Group Plc 8397 Rank 2004 8 page spreads 30 3 05 4:16 pm Page 4 19 20 Deluxe Total operating profit Turnover m 232.0m Operating profit 27.8m Seminole Hard Rock Hotel Casino before exceptional items Market insight Hard Rock in focus Deluxe Film The US dominates the global restaurant Like-for-like restaurant sales: Since the first Hard Rock Cafe opened in Like-for-like sales: market and with over 900,000 locations 2004 versus 2003 % London in 1971, the brand has developed 2004 vs 2003 % is the largest individual market in the into one of the worlds most recognised 1 world.
According to the National Restaurant leisure businesses with operations in 41 Operating profit down 22% to 60.4m Association, the US restaurant Industry countries around the world.
The average 2004 was a disappointing year in financial terms following two particularly strong is expected to generate sales of 6% Hard Rock cafe accommodates around 250 performances in 2002 and 2003.
6% approximately US$476bn in 2005, guests at any one time, 70% of whom are 5% 4% a 4.9% increase over 2004. likely to be visitors, and generates over 3m 2% 4% Overall footage affected by weaker lm market in revenue.
In 2004, owned cafes delivered 0% The full year impact of the loss of two major lm contracts in 2003 and a lower number 3% -2% Based upon US Department of Agriculture a strong performance although adverse of major titles in North America resulted in a 9% reduction in lm footage -4% statistics, the trends on eating out in currency movements held back operating 2% -6% the US have continued to grow both in profit to 25.7m.
-8% 1% absolute terms as well as relative to overall -10% Month Record number of digital intermediates by EFILM disposable income.
Owned cafe operating profit EFILM worked on 29 major titles using digital intermediates during 2004 2004 versus 2003 m including Spider-Man 2 which was the first full-length feature produced using Food costs Hotel and casino developments 4K resolution technology While all restaurants face a range of different The Groups joint venture with Sol Meli SA cost pressures, the following chart provides has continued to make good progress on an indication of the recent trends of food Formation of Creative Services division the development of a portfolio of Hard costs, based on a basket of restaurant Having purchased the remaining 80% of EFILM not already owned and added the Rock Hotels around the world.
During 2004 commodities including hogs, pork bellies, compression, encoding and authoring businesses from Deluxe Media, Creative Services a further two hotels were announced, one in boxed beef, broilers, wheat, coffee, butter, 1 represents 17% of Deluxe Film operating profit New York and one in Madrid, and work has corn and cheese.
The median year-on-year already commenced on reconguring both increase since 1991 is 3%.
properties which are expected to open by Expansion of compression, encoding and authoring before exceptional items the end of the year.
Restaurants Commodity Index The acquisitions of DVCC and Softitler further enhanced Deluxes position in the fast including the impact of openings in 2003 and Year-on-year YOY % change growing DVD mastering, and compression, encoding and authoring business Hard Rock falls within the casual dining 2004 and pre-opening costs The two Hard Rock hotel casinos located sub-segment of the restaurant market.
on land owned by the Seminole Indian 1 before goodwill amortisation This part of the industry has benefited Restaurant performance Nation of Florida opened during the year.
from a long term trend towards eating out.
After a period of challenging market Both facilities are world class in terms of This growth has been attributed in part conditions with low levels of tourist trafc product offering, and have already made to increasing disposable income, number and air travel, 2004 appears to have marked a substantial contribution to Hard Rocks of dual income families and an increase in a watershed in like-for-like performance.
operating performance, despite having only the proportion of women in the workforce, The start to 2005 has also been encouraging.
been open for part of the year.
Work on increasingly hectic lifestyles, expanding urban a new hotel casino in Biloxi, Mississippi is populations, and a decline in the price While the Group continues to add limited proceeding well and it is expected to open difference between eating out and cooking numbers of owned cafes to the portfolio, before the end of the year.
Source: Goldman Sachs the focus now is to continue to develop and promote the Hard Rock brand by the While the industry performance during development of cafes, hotels and casinos Whilst we suffered a reduction 2004 versus 2003 was particularly strong through franchise and licensing arrangements.
during the first half, this outperformance has in volumes in 2004 we see this as been eroded during the second half with temporary and remain confident operators also citing increased food costs as impacting on profit margins.
Industry regarding the long term prospects data, provided by Knapp Track, showing Looking forward to 2005 for the lm processing business.
Our like-for-like sales during 2004 versus 2003 is illustrated below, together with Hard 2005 will see a full years profit from the two Seminole Indian properties for the first time, as well creative services businesses showed Rocks own performance in North America.
as contributions from the hotels in Chicago, New York and Madrid.
As a result, we expect that strong growth in 2004, and we are revenues from hotel and casino licensing should become increasingly important, reducing our exposure to variations in travel and tourism trends.
Having steered a course through the very excited about their future prospects.
difficult market conditions over the past few years and improved the quality of our earnings Hard Rock Cafe London There are 122 Hard Rock Cafes in 41 countries around the globe.
through the addition of new revenue streams, we are looking forward to the coming year Cyril Drabinsky President and CEO of Deluxe Film with confidence.
The Rank Group Plc The Rank Group Plc 8397 Rank 2004 8 page spreads 30 3 05 4:16 pm Page 4 19 20 Deluxe Total operating profit Turnover m 232.0m Operating profit 27.8m Seminole Hard Rock Hotel Casino before exceptional items Market insight Hard Rock in focus Deluxe Film The US dominates the global restaurant Like-for-like restaurant sales: Since the first Hard Rock Cafe opened in Like-for-like sales: market and with over 900,000 locations 2004 versus 2003 % London in 1971, the brand has developed 2004 vs 2003 % is the largest individual market in the into one of the worlds most recognised 1 world.
The Rank Group Plc The Rank Group Plc 8397 Rank 2004 8 page 18,20imp 30 3 05 7:02 pm Page 1 20 Deluxe 17 Lemony Snicket Hard Rock, one of the most globally Market insight recognised music, entertainment and dining Deluxe Film The lm processing and distribution industry of competition amongst lm distributors to brands, has 122 signature Hard Rock Cafes in is a subset of the wider motion picture have their lms shown at the box ofce.
Each 41 countries and owns the worlds greatest industry which has enjoyed strong revenue of these factors will combine to determine 1 growth over the past five years.
Global gross the release pattern chosen by the film Operating profit down 22% to 60.4m collection of music memorabilia.
With over box ofce revenues are estimated to have distributor i. e. the number of screens showing 2004 was a disappointing year in financial terms following two particularly strong 50 million guests per annum, the brands increased by some 9% to US$21.8bn the lm in any particular territory at one time performances in 2002 and 2003. in 2003, driven by strong growth in Europe and therefore the number of prints required appeal is driven by the consistent delivery where box ofce revenues increased by per title.
of an unforgettable and unique experience Overall footage affected by weaker lm market 15% to just under US$6.4bn.
Early indications The full year impact of the loss of two major lm contracts in 2003 and a lower number for 2004 data are that global box office After a consistent period of growth since that we call kick ass service.
of major titles in North America resulted in a 9% reduction in lm footage increased further to over US$23bn.
1999, 2004 saw a drop in prints per title for the first time.
This was due to a substantial Global box ofce revenues US$bn reduction in the number of major titles Record number of digital intermediates by EFILM released during the year.
Compared with 31 Hard Rock Cafe The first franchised cafe in Athens, Greece opened in EFILM worked on 29 major titles using digital intermediates during 2004 titles in 2003, only 18 such titles were released September 2004. including Spider-Man 2 which was the first full-length feature produced using in 2004, reecting a weaker lm schedule for 4K resolution technology a number of Deluxe Films studio customers.
Total operating profit Formation of Creative Services division In recent years, the number of blockbuster Having purchased the remaining 80% of EFILM not already owned and added the titles released in any single year has increased 27.8m compression, encoding and authoring businesses from Deluxe Media, Creative Services substantially.
This is demonstrated by the 1 represents 17% of Deluxe Film operating profit following chart which illustrates the top 100 lms of all time in terms of opening weekend box ofce revenues.
Net operating assets Expansion of compression, encoding and authoring Source: Screen Digest The acquisitions of DVCC and Softitler further enhanced Deluxes position in the fast Opening weekend box ofce growing DVD mastering, and compression, encoding and authoring business 98.8m The largest single market is North America revenues US$m which represented some 47% of global 1 before goodwill amortisation box ofce revenues in 2003.
Against this background of strong box ofce growth, the total footage of lm processed has also before exceptional items grown strongly.
Industry estimates are that since 1998 this has grown by over 50%, from Hard Rock Hotels The Reina Victoria Hotel will reopen as the Hard 9.6bn feet in 1998 to 13.7bn feet in 2003.
Rock Hotel Madrid later in 2005.
Total 35mm processed bn ft The sheer strength of the Hard Rock Source: Variety.
com brand has already been demonstrated by One implication for the lm processing the success in extending the brand into Whilst we suffered a reduction industry is that the timing of release and non-restaurant activities such as hotels number of blockbuster titles in any financial in volumes in 2004 we see this as year can have a material impact on overall and casinos.
This remains a core strategy temporary and remain confident financial performance.
While the trend for the business whilst at the same time appears to indicate that the lm studios are regarding the long term prospects Source: Deluxe Film estimates keen to maximise revenues on the opening continuing to drive owned and franchised for the lm processing business.
Our weekend, a reduction in the number of major cafe performance.
Growth drivers titles released by its major customers in 2004 creative services businesses showed Key factors inuencing overall footage resulted in an overall reduction in Deluxe strong growth in 2004, and we are growth include the number of screens Films total footage during the year.
available within a given territory, the number excited about their future prospects.
Hamish Dodds President and CEO of Hard Rock of lms produced, the amount spent on marketing and promotion, and the degree Seminole Hard Rock Hotel & Casino Tampa opened in March 2004.
Cyril Drabinsky President and CEO of Deluxe Film The Rank Group Plc The Rank Group Plc TM MARVEL, SPIDER-MAN, DOCTOR OCTOPUS and all MARVEL character names and distinctiveness likenesses thereof.
21 Total lm footage Turnover bn ft 366.6m Operating profit 60.4m before goodwill amortisation Spider-Man 2 was one of the biggest movies of 2004.
EFILM produced the digital intermediates and Deluxe Laboratories produced the lm prints worldwide.
Deluxe Media Deluxe Media faced a challenging year in 2004.
Having restructured the business, it is now focused on the manufacture and distribution of DVD, CD and VHS both in Europe and North America.
During 2004, the business manufactured 232m DVD 2003 162m and 89m VHS units 2003 160m and distributed a total of 649m units to retailers 2003 523m.
Despite these increases in volume, the loss of a major DVD contract during 2004 meant that the business had to take steps to reorganise its business and focus on its core skills of manufacturing and distribution.
Having rationalised a number of its production and distribution facilities, the business is actively seeking additional contracts.
In February 2005, the Group confirmed its intention to separate Deluxe Media from the rest of the Group by means of a sale.
The Rank Group Plc 8397 Rank 2004 8 page spreads 30 3 05 4:16 pm Page 3 17 18 Hard Rock Lemony Snicket Hard Rock, one of the most globally Market insight Deluxe Film in focus recognised music, entertainment and dining Hard Rock The lm processing and distribution industry of competition amongst lm distributors to Established in 1915, Deluxe Film is now one of Number of major titles produced using brands, has 122 signature Hard Rock Cafes in is a subset of the wider motion picture have their lms shown at the box ofce.
22 Employees Mecca Bingo Employees Whilst Rank has Group-wide human resource policies and principles which guide people management activity across the businesses, Employees because of the diverse nature of the Group, each division will implement programmes which are in line with its individual business The Group has a diverse workforce with almost strategy.
Rank has developed a bespoke 1 capability framework that seeks to identify 24,000 employees in 13 countries the core skills that senior management believes 88% of these are based in the UK and North America are required to meet the challenges faced by each of our businesses over the coming years.
43% of the Group workforce are women This framework consists of 11 capabilities 20% of senior executive positions are held by women with related behaviours and will be used throughout the Group for recruitment and development purposes at a senior level.
25% of worldwide employees work part-time While this varies by division and geography, 40% of Gamings employees work part-time People development is also a key theme within the divisions.
1 at 31 December 2004 Gaming 2004 was an exciting year of achievement in the development of our Gaming division employees.
Extensive training was provided for our top performing managers who are now poised to take the business forward in 2005.
The Management Conversion Programme, which enables general managers of Mecca Bingo clubs and Grosvenor casinos to become skilled in managing both types of venue, has been extended to provide an external industry perspective and a number of managers are already well through the programme.
During the year the division achieved a Regional Training Award one of the UKs most prestigious accolades for excellence in training and people development for its Certicate in Management Programme CIM.
This programme, which is managed by the Resourcing & Development function, provides future talent for our growing gaming estate.
General Managers who have achieved the CIM have made a considerable contribution to our business in terms of profit contribution, people leadership and customer focus.
Another important development during the year was the delivery of a new e-learningtool allowing employees to train remotely using interactive technology.
This approach will be expanded in 2005 as part of our e-learning strategy to deliver a suite of programmes for all levels of the organisation.
In particular, the organisations approach to Corporate Social Responsibility will be a key feature of the learning provided throughout 2005.
The Rank Group Plc 23 Hard Rock Cafe Deluxe After the excellent results of our Employee a number of countries including the Opinion Survey, the Executive Committee United States, Italy, Canada and India.
In Film published their further commitment to people processing and distribution, there has been with a renewed focus on people development, a reduction in lm laboratory staff in Europe, research into the impact of shiftwork, and partly through the introduction of a number taking specific action to reinforce a culture of new automated processes using new whereby all individuals are treated with equal technology, some of it developed in-house, respect.
Part of this approach has been as well as improved preventative maintenance delivered by embedding a 360 feedback programmes.
In the UK, Deluxe Film gained culture so that development is firmly on an improved rating in the annual British Safety everyone's agenda.
Council Audit of Laboratory Health and Safety procedures.
Deluxe has now achieved a four Hard Rock star rating in 2004 following on from the three In 2004, Hard Rock established four key areas stars achieved in 2002 and 2003. of focus regarding its employees.
The first area is Culture.
During 2004, Hard Rock established At Deluxe Media in the United States, 2004 a professional business culture that leverages saw a focus on employee benets.
Action the passion of its people to achieve its stated was taken to increase employee participation business objectives.
This was done by in the retirement plan which resulted in enhancing financial communications, business a significant increase in participation from goals and results, thus stressing accountability 67% to 74% of the Deluxe Media workforce.
whilst continuing to embrace individuality.
Another key success during 2004 was the The second is Business Alignment.
Following implementation of automated benefit a reorganisation of the senior management enrolment for Deluxe Media US employees.
structure around four key business segments Everyone was provided with the opportunity Company Operations, Franchise Operations, to enrol or change their benefit elections Hotels, and Casinos employees underwent through a web-based process.
a similar reorientation so that there are clear reporting structures and clarity on lines of Health and safety responsibility.
Thirdly, senior management The Group undertakes an annual assessment identied the need to secure Critical positions of the health and safety risks facing its with the right competencies.
Senior management in each division Managers are recognised as being some of the specically considers health and safety issues most critical positions within the organisation, as part of this exercise.
Actions that may be responsible for the interface with our required to improve the control of health and customers: they are the CEOs of their individual safety risks are identied and each division sets business units and in charge of the customer realistic objectives for areas of improvement experience.
Within the Hotel and Casino for the forthcoming year.
business, senior management has identied the need to recruit suitable expertise into the To ensure that the divisions continue to organisation so that opportunities to exploit address health and safety issues, an external the brand further in these areas can be audit of safety management systems across maximised.
The final area is Bench building the Group was undertaken in 2002.
The results and capability development.
With a new of the audit have been used to direct actions management structure, the business is at Group and divisional level to improve now better placed to broaden its options current practice.
A formalised development pathway process has been The Board takes an active role in monitoring established to develop and broaden business safety performance, assisted by risk management experience for individuals next position within groups in Europe and in North America who are the company.
This will continue to be a strong responsible for the co-ordination of health and focus for the coming year.
safety standards across the Group.
The activities of these groups continue to promote the Deluxe sharing of good practice and have resulted In Deluxe, key human resources activities in the development of a strong network and developments during 2004 included the of safety professionals across the divisions.
successful integration of DVCC and Softitler.
These acquisitions added employees from The Rank Group Plc
