FINANCIAL REVIEW 2004 net revenues grew by 10% at constant exchange as the Company benefited from its focus on major product initiatives in its core categories.
14 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 OPERATING MARGIN % net revenues GROSS MARGIN % net revenues 20 60 19.6 18.3 16.7 54.8 53.3 15.6 50 51.4 14.4 48.5 47.7 15 40 10 30 20 5 10 0 0 00 01 02 03 04 00 01 02 03 04 This is the last year in which Reckitt interest income of 11m 2003 expense of North America due to Electrasol with Jet Benckiser will report under UK generally 19m was lower due to the strong cash Dry Action gel, gelpacs and tablets launched accepted accounting principles.
From 1 inow over the past year reducing the level earlier this year.
In Europe growth came January 2005 the Company will adopt of net borrowings and to the conversion of behind the launch of Calgonit Finish 3in1 International Financial Reporting a substantial proportion of the convertible Extra Power in the summer.
Net revenues grew 12% to Basis of Comparison: Constant Exchange.
564m with strong growth for both air CATEGORY REVIEW AT Movements of exchange rates relative to care and pest control.
Air care grew behind CONSTANT EXCHANGE RATES sterling affect actual results as reported.
Airwick Aroma Oils and the roll-out of Fabric Care.
Net revenues grew 9% to The constant exchange rate basis adjusts Airwick MobilAir.
Pest control grew 1,064m largely due to the success of comparatives to exclude such movements behind the success of Mortein Professional, Vanish Oxi Action, the Companys fabric and show the underlying growth.
Mortein Power Booster coils and a very treatment franchise.
Key drivers included strong pest season earlier in the year in the DETAILED OPERATING REVIEW the formula upgrade to Vanish Oxi Action Southern Hemisphere.
2004 net revenues grew by 4% 10% at Max, and the benets of the launch of constant exchange to 3,871m as the Vanish Oxi Action gel and pre-treater.
Net revenues Company benefited from its focus on major also benefited from the extension of Vanish grew 15% to 599m.
Excellent growth product initiatives in its core categories.
Oxi Action into carpet cleaners.
was achieved in all categories.
Depilatories grew behind the success of Veet Rasera Operating profit increased 12% 18% Surface Care.
Net revenues grew 11% to despite a disappointing season in Europe constant to 759m.
Multipurpose and specialty due to poor summer weather.
Dettol 150 bps to 54.8% as a result of higher cleaners grew due to the success of Cillit antiseptics grew behind the personal care margin new products and savings from the Bang lime and grime power cleaner across range in Developing Markets.
Health care cost optimisation programmes Squeeze and Europe and strong growth on the base products benefited from the continuing Xtrim, plus favourable contracts on raw business in Developing Markets.
Lavatory roll-out of Gaviscon in Europe and the and packaging materials earlier in the year.
cleaners grew behind the roll-out of the strength of the UK u season for Lemsip Marketing investment increased subLysol Ready Brush in North America and early in the year.
Suboxone continues to stantially in the year with media investment the launch of the Harpic Ready Brush in grow strongly as distribution builds in increasing by 90 bps to 12.4% of net Europe plus strong growth for the base North America.
Operating margins increased by business in Developing Markets.
Core Household grew full year net Dishwashing.
Net revenues grew 5% to revenues 10% to 3,542m.
Strong automatic dishwashing constant to 586m.
The underlying tax growth was somewhat offset by a decline on Food.
Net revenues grew 9% to 190m rate was 26%, but the charge was reduced hand dishwashing products.
In automatic with continued growth for Frenchs yellow by a non-recurring tax credit of 14m dishwashing, growth came across all mustard, Frenchs Gourmayo and gains for relating to recent tax settlements.
Net regions, with particularly strong growth in Franks Red Hot sauce.
Reckitt Benckiser Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 Annual Report 2004 15 15 FINANCIAL REVIEW Growth in net revenues, operating margins and operating profits came across all Areas, and all five core categories increased net revenues.
North America & Australia 31% of Net Revenues Full year net revenues increased by 9% to 1,196m.
In Surface Care increases were due to the roll-out of the Lysol Ready Brush and growth for Lysol disinfectant cleaner, particularly Lysol Neutra Air.
In Automatic Dishwashing increases came due to the success of Electrasol with Jet Dry Action gel, gelpacs and tablets.
In Home Care, Air Care grew following the continued success of Airwick Aroma Oils and the initial success of Airwick MobilAir, and in Health & Personal Care, depilatories grew strongly due to the launch of Veet Rasera.
Suboxone continues to grow strongly as distribution builds up in North America.
Food grew due to continued growth for Frenchs Yellow Mustard and gains for Franks Red Hot sauce.
Operating margins grew by 130bps to 20.4%, resulting in profits increasing 16% to 244m.
Developing Markets 17% of Net GEOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS AT across the Area and the launch of Harpic Revenues CONSTANT EXCHANGE Ready Brush in lavatory care.
In Automatic Full year net revenues grew 16% to 643m.
Europe 52% of Net Revenues Dishwashing growth came due to the There was strong growth in all categories.
Full year net revenues grew by 8% to launch in the summer of Calgonit Finish In Fabric Care, growth came following the 2,032m.
Growth came from key recent 3in1 Extra Power.
Health & Personal Care launch and roll-out of Vanish Oxi Action product introductions.
In Fabric grew with the launch of Veet Rasera despite fabric treatment products.
In Surface Care, Treatment, growth was due to the success a disappointing summer season for the increases came with the success of Harpic of Vanish Oxi Action, including a number category, and strong growth for the health behind higher investment in key markets, of new additions to the range such as gel, care portfolio due to the roll-out of and strong recovery in certain markets for pre-treater, the upgrade to Vanish Oxi Gaviscon in Europe and a strong u season multi-purpose cleaners further boosted by Action Max and the extension of Vanish for Lemsip in the UK early in the year.
the launch of Easy-Off Bang in some Oxi Action into carpet cleaners.
In Surface Operating margins improved by 50bps to markets.
Pest control grew strongly with the Care, growth came from multi-purpose 22.8% resulting in a 11% increase in launch of Mortein Power Booster coils.
cleaners with the success of Cillit Bang operating profits to 464m.
At the end of 2004, the Net funds at the year end were 638m, an improvement Group had shareholders funds of 1,676m of 346m due to strong operating cash flow and the 1,470m, an increase of 14%.
Net funds conversion of Bonds.
Total capital employed in the business was 1,041m 1,182m a decrease of 12%.
The Companys financial ratios improved Dettol antiseptics grew due to the success of borrowings decreased further at the year signicantly during the year.
the Personal Care range supported by higher end by 67m compared to year-end 2003 to minus 645m.
Operating margins expanded by Dividends 240bps to 6.8%, resulting in operating The Directors recommend a final dividend Cash Flow.
Operating cash ow increased profits increasing by 76% to 44m.
of 18 pence per share, an increase of 29%, to 914m, due to higher operating profit.
to give a full year dividend of 34 pence per Net working capital improvements were FINANCIAL REVIEW share, an overall increase of 21%.
This is in lower than 2003 as many of the Groups Convertible Capital Bonds.
On 31 July line with the previously communicated businesses reached optimal levels.
2004 the holders of 151.6m 9.5 per cent policy to increase the dividend once the Net cash ow from ordinary operations Convertible Capital Bonds 2005 exercised dividend cover of the Group reached the increased to 664m.
Net interest received their conversion rights to convert their average of the industry peer group.
This was 8m 2003 net payment of 25m Bonds into 30.6m fully paid ordinary dividend will be covered 2.4 times by 2004 while tax payments increased from 146m shares of Reckitt Benckiser plc.
The effect net income, broadly in line with the peer to 189m.
of this is to reduce borrowings by 151.6m group.
The dividend, if approved by Gross capital expenditure was slightly thereby increasing the Companys net shareholders at the AGM on 5 May 2005, higher than prior year at 78m 71m.
funds position and increase the number of will be paid on 26 May to shareholders on This was offset by proceeds from disposal shares in issue by 30.6m.
The ex-dividend of xed assets of 9m 12m to give net date will be 2 March 2005.
The net interest income of capital expenditure of 69m against 59m 11m 2003 expense of 19m was due to Share Buyback last year.
strong cash generation over the past year During 2004, the Group purchased Net Funds at the year-end were 638m reducing the Groups indebtedness and the 19,355,000 shares for cancellation at a cost 2003 292m, an improvement of 346m impact of conversion of the Convertible of 283m as part of its ongoing share due to strong operating cash inow and Bonds reducing interest payable by 11m.
the conversion of 152m of Convertible Tax.
The underlying tax rate for the period Bonds, but after higher dividend payments was 26% but the charge was reduced by and share buyback.
The Companys net the non-recurring credit of 14m relating funds position consisted of cash of 51m to recent settlements.
59m and short-term investments of 827m 724m offset by the Convertible Net Working Capital dened as net Bonds of 40m 192m and other current liabilities excluding current asset investments, cash and short term borrowings of 200m 299m.
Reckitt Benckiser Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 Annual Report 2004 17 17 FINANCIAL REVIEW Group treasury provides a centralised service to the Group for funding, interest rate management, counterparty risk management and foreign exchange.
TREASURY OBJECTIVES, POLICIES by the overseas businesses were generally and loans.
The local business units enter remitted to the corporate centre.
The into forward foreign exchange contracts AND STRATEGIES The Groups treasury policies seek to Group used the remittances to settle with the GTC to manage these exposures obligations, repay borrowings, or, in the where practical and allowed by local ensure that appropriate financial resources are available for the event of a surplus, invest in short-term regulations.
The GTC matches the Group instruments issued by institutions with exposures, and hedges the net position development of the Groups businesses an investment grade credit rating.
A where possible, using the spot and forward while managing currency, interest rate policy exists to limit the aggregate credit currency markets.
The Groups and settlement risk the Group may have nancing and financial risk management Interest rate risk with one counterparty.
The Group activities are centralised into the Group The interest rate prole of the financial regularly monitors the credit ratings of Treasury Centre GTC to achieve liabilities of the Group as at the end its counterparties and the Groups benets of scale and control.
The GTC is of 2004 is shown in note 25 to the exposure to these counterparties.
These not a profit centre, but adds value to accounts.
The Group manages its interest policies were applied consistently the business operations by managing expense rate exposure by maintaining at throughout the year.
financial exposures of the Group least 40% of its gross financial liabilities centrally in a manner consistent with at xed rates for more than one year and FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT underlying business risks.
The GTC may use a combination of xed-rate debt Translation risk manages only those risks and flows and interest rate swaps to achieve this The Group publishes its financial generated by the underlying commercial objective.
At the end of 2004, the Group statements in Sterling but conducts business operations and speculative transactions had 66% 65% of financial liabilities at in many foreign currencies.
As a result, it is are not undertaken.
16% 39% of the Groups subject to foreign currency exchange risk The Board reviews and agrees policies, financial liabilities related to the due to the effects that exchange rate guidelines and authority levels for all areas convertible capital bonds which mature movements have on the translation of the of treasury activity and individually in March 2005.
The Group manages its results and the underlying net assets of its approves significant activities.
The GTC interest rate exposure on its gross foreign subsidiaries.
operates under the close control of the financial assets by using a combination The Groups policy is to align interest Chief Financial officer and is subject to of xed rate term deposits and forward costs and operational profit of its major periodic independent reviews and audits, rate agreements.
currencies in order to provide some both internal and external.
protection against the translation exposure Financial instruments and derivatives on foreign currency profits after tax.
The FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY Note 25 to the accounts analyses the Group may undertake borrowings and The Company has bilateral credit facilities recognised and potential gains and losses other hedging methods, primarily currency with high-quality international banks.
All on the Groups financial instruments as at swaps, in the currencies of the countries of these facilities have similar or equivalent the end of 2004, as if they had been sold where most of its assets are located.
terms and conditions, and have a financial back to the relevant markets at that date.
As at 31 December 2004, 80% 60% of covenant, which is not expected to restrict Derivative financial instruments are only the Groups financial liabilities were in the Groups future operations.
At the end used for hedging purposes in relation to currencies other than Sterling, including of 2004, the Group had, in addition to its underlying financial exposures.
Derivative 46% 37% being denominated in US long-term debt of 118m 319m, instruments are transacted in liquid Dollars.
All the Groups major currency committed borrowing facilities totalling financial markets with high-quality net assets exceeded the borrowings in the 750m 500m, all of which exceeded 12 investment grade counterparties.
Of the total facilities at Accounting policies relating to the use of the year end, 26m 49m were utilised.
derivatives are described on page 35.
Transaction risk The committed borrowing facilities, It is the Groups policy to monitor and together with available uncommitted where appropriate hedge its foreign facilities and central cash and investments, currency transaction exposure.
These are considered sufficient to meet the transaction exposures arise mainly from Groups projected cash requirements.
foreign currency receipts and payments for Funds over and above those required Colin Day Chief Financial officer goods and services and from the for short-term working capital purposes remittances of foreign currency dividends 18 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004
