Financial review Financial risk management The benchmark iron ore price increased 18.6 per cent.
This The Groups policies with regard to risk management are clearly defined resulted in increased seaborne iron ore prices, mainly effective from and consistently applied.
They are a fundamental tenet of the Groups 1 April 2004.
The seaborne thermal coal market also strengthened long term strategy.
during the year with the benefit of higher prices flowing through The Groups business is mining and not trading.
The Group only progressively in the second half of the year.
sells commodities it has produced.
In the long term, natural hedges The US dollar weakened further against those currencies in which operate in a number of ways to help protect and stabilise earnings and the Group incurs the majority of its costs.
Against the Australian dollar it cash flow, obviating the need to use derivatives or other forms of averaged 12 per cent weaker.
The effect of this and other currency synthetic hedging for this purpose.
Such hedging is therefore movements on operating costs reduced earnings by US$326 million.
undertaken to a strictly limited degree, as described below.
The effect on earnings of the revaluation of monetary items to period The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and markets, end exchange rates was also adverse, although relative to a more which have varying responses to the economic cycle.
substantial charge in 2003 it had a positive effect of US$61 million.
The relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of Gains on currency hedges initiated by North and Comalco before they most of the countries in which the Group operates provides further became wholly owned subsidiaries in 2000 increased earnings by natural protection.
In addition, the Groups policy of borrowing at floating US$18 million compared with 2003.
US dollar interest rates helps to counteract the effect of economic and Production of copper and gold from the Freeport managed Grasberg commodity price cycles.
mine was significantly below 2003 as a consequence of the material The Groups Financial statements and disclosures show the full slippage in the fourth quarter of 2003.
The effect of this on volumes and extent of its financial commitments including debt and similar costs, net of insurance, was to reduce 2004 earnings by US$203 million.
The Groups share of the net debt of joint ventures and Production had returned to normal by the fourth quarter of 2004. associates is also disclosed.
Excluding the effects of the Grasberg slippage, higher volumes, The risk factors to which the Group is subject that are thought to mainly from new projects at Diavik diamonds, Hail Creek coking coal, be of particular importance are summarised on page 7.
West Angelas iron ore and additional output from Escondida copper The effectiveness of internal control procedures continues to be a increased earnings by US$270 million.
As a result of tropical cyclone high priority in the Rio Tinto Group.
A statement on this is included in Monty the volume growth from the Western Australian iron ore Corporate governance on pages 73 and 74. operations was more modest than would otherwise have been the case.
The Groups policies with regard to currencies, commodities, Excluding the effect of inflation, higher energy costs and the interest rates and treasury management are discussed below.
Grasberg slippage, the impact on earnings of increased costs was US$173 million.
Strong markets create cyclical cost pressures within the Adjusted earnings industry.
Higher prices for skilled labour, steel, rubber, diesel, explosives UK Financial Reporting Standard 3 permits the presentation of an and freight have all had an effect on operating costs.
As presented by Rio Tinto, this excludes At Hamersley, costs were also higher due to increased material the effect of exceptional items of such magnitude that their exclusion is movement, including prestripping, and higher maintenance activity.
necessary in order that adjusted earnings fulfil their purpose of reflecting Tropical cyclone Monty had a prolonged effect on the costs as well as the Groups underlying performance.
Except where otherwise indicated, volumes at Hamersley and Robe iron ore.
Adverse cost variances at earnings contributions from Group businesses and business segments Argyle diamonds were attributable largely to lower production and at exclude the effect of these exceptional items.
Adjusted earnings is Palabora copper to lower volumes and increased depreciation reconciled with net earnings on page 86. following the commissioning of the underground project.
Excluding exceptional items, the effective tax rate of 29 per cent Group operating results was in line with that of 2003.
2004 compared with 2003 Other variances included the absence of earnings from divested Net earnings of US$2,813 million were US$1,305 million above 2003. businesses which reduced earnings by US$122 million.
Adjusted earnings of US$2,221 million were US$839 million above The East 1 Pushback project at Kennecott Utah Copper was 2003.
The principal factors explaining the changes in earnings are approved in February 2005.
This project is a higher value, lower capital shown in the table below.
intensive, but shorter life option than the previous mine plan which was US$m predicated on development of an underground mine from 2013.
Options 2003 Net earnings 1,508 to extend operations beyond 2017, including further open pit and Exclude: Exceptional gains 126 underground developments, will be fully studied over the coming years 2003 Adjusted earnings 1,382 but the results for 2004 include a one off, non cash charge of US$36 Prices 1,638 million due to the increase in the present value of environmental Exchange rates 247 remediation provisions.
Pending any extension of the assumed mine life Inflation 118 beyond 2017 there will be an increase in annual charges for Grasberg slippage 203 depreciation and amortisation of discount from 2005 of around Volumes 270 US$45 million.
Energy costs 81 In 2004 there were gains on disposals of undeveloped properties Other costs 173 totalling US$38 million.
Against this, the 2003 earnings of Rio Tinto Other 247 Brasil included a benefit of US$32 million resulting from the part reversal 2004 Adjusted earnings 2,221 of an impairment provision.
Add: exceptional net gains 592 The remaining other variance includes business interruption 2004 Net earnings 2,813 insurance claims to the extent that the costs are retained in the Group and reversion to a higher effective tax rate in the US.
Stronger markets resulted in higher prices for most of the Groups The 2004 exceptional items of US$592 million include a net profit products.
Compared with 2003, average copper prices of 130c lb were on disposals of businesses US$913 million, a charge of US$160 million over 60 per cent higher, average aluminium prices of 78c lb were 20 per relating to Colowyo coal and a provision of US$161 million, after tax cent higher and average gold prices of US$409 oz were 13 per cent and outside shareholder interests, for the write down of the carrying higher.
Average molybdenum prices were over two and a half times value of Palaboras copper assets.
Gains relating to disposals of businesses include US$518 million 32 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements FINANCIAL REVIEW profit on sale of the Groups equity interest in Freeport-McMoRan Overall, volume changes increased earnings by US$38 million.
Lower Copper & Gold Inc. FCX.
Rio Tinto invested in the Grasberg ore body gold and molybdenum volumes at Kennecott Utah Copper, as a result of through purchase of an equity interest in FCX and participation in the reduced by product grades, partly offset volume growth from new mines Grasberg joint venture: these were two components of one investment at Diavik and West Angelas iron ore and capacity expansions at decision.
The investment occurred prior to the introduction of FRS10 Escondida and Hamersley.
The benefit of higher gold grades at Grasberg, and the goodwill arising was therefore eliminated directly against particularly in the first half of the year, was negated by lower production reserves in accordance with Rio Tintos then current UK GAAP following a slippage in the mine in the fourth quarter of the year.
On disposal of the equity interest in FCX, goodwill of demand for diamonds enabled Argyle to reduce inventories.
Volumes of US$228 million attributable to this part of the total investment was titanium dioxide feedstock were affected by weak markets.
written back through reserves and deducted from the profit on disposal.
Turning to costs, higher oil, power and gas prices reduced earnings Against a background of adverse financial results, a review of by US$54 million.
Average oil prices were US$3.50 per barrel or 14 per Palaboras business was finalised in the third quarter of 2004.
Following cent higher than in 2002.
Gas prices in the US market were also higher this review, the workforce was reduced by 13 per cent and the and there were also increases in electricity prices, principally in management levels by 20 per cent.
These events triggered an New Zealand.
assessment of the balance sheet value of Palaboras copper assets, Excluding the effects of energy prices and the US$106 million using forecast long term copper prices, which resulted in the provision impact of inflation, cost increases reduced earnings by US$82 million.
Two significant events adversely affected cost performance in the A detailed review of the mine plan and projected cash flows of the period.
In the first half of the year, there was a three week smelter shut Colowyo coal business was completed in June 2004.
This indicated that down at Kennecott Utah Copper as a result of an acid plant failure.
The future operating and development costs are substantially higher than slippage at the Grasberg mine in the fourth quarter impacted both previously estimated.
As a consequence, an exceptional charge was production volumes and costs.
recorded in the first half of 2004 for the writedown of Colowyos fixed Costs at Coal & Allied were affected by higher demurrage caused assets and recognition of related onerous contract obligations.
by a shortage of rail capacity in the Hunter Valley.
Lower earnings at The 2003 exceptional items of US$126 million relate to gains on the Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium included a charge associated with the partial disposal of Kaltim Prima Coal and Peak Alumbrera gold, copper.
No write down of a customer receivable.
tax was payable on these gains.
Excluding exceptional items, the effective tax rate at 28.8 per cent compared with 31.2 per cent for 2002.
The lower charge in 2003 2003 compared with 2002 reflected reduced tax payments in the US and a number of one off Net earnings of US$1,508 million compared with US$651 million benefits including a credit of US$8 million resulting from the proposed reported for 2002.
Adjusted earnings of US$1,382 million were US$148 entry into the Australian tax consolidation regime, with effect from million below 2002.
The principal factors explaining the changes in 1 January 2003. earnings are shown in the table below.
The after tax net interest charge was US$36 million less than in US$m 2002, due both to lower interest paid and higher capitalised interest.
2002 Net earnings 651 The net central cost of the Groups pension schemes was about Exclude: Exceptional charges 879 US$60 million higher than in 2002.
2002 Adjusted earnings 1,530 The net earnings of Rio Tinto Brasil include a credit of US$32 Prices 442 million resulting from the reversal of part of an impairment provision Exchange rates 412 relating to Fortaleza nickel recorded in a previous year.
Inflation 106 The 2003 exceptional items of US$126 million relate to gains on the Volumes 38 disposal of Kaltim Prima Coal, Peak and Alumbrera.
No tax was payable Energy costs 54 on these gains.
Other costs 82 Other 26 Cash flow 2003 Adjusted earnings 1,382 2004 compared with 2003 Add: exceptional gains 126 A record total cash flow from operations, including dividends from 2003 Net earnings 1,508 associates and joint ventures, of $4,449 million, was 28 per cent above 2003.
Working capital levels increased in absolute terms by US$60 The weakening of the US dollar against the currencies in which most of the million, which is a relatively small amount compared with the increase in Groups costs are denominated reduced earnings by US$412 million.
The sales and production levels.
average levels of the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and South African Investment in the business continued.
Capital expenditure and rand were respectively 20 per cent, 11 per cent and 39 per cent stronger in financial investment of US$2,085 million was US$412 million above 2003 than in 2002.
The effect of these and other currency movements on 2003.
Purchases of property, plant and equipment included the major operating costs was to reduce earnings by US$352 million.
The effect of expansion of iron ore capacity in Western Australia, the construction of the shift in exchange rates on balance sheet values expressed in the the Comalco Alumina Refinery, and the purchase of West Antelope coal functional currencies of the relevant units further reduced earnings and this reserves by Kennecott Energy.
charge was US$100 million more than the corresponding charge in 2002.
Disposals of interests in businesses generated proceeds of over Gains on currency hedges initiated by North, Ashton and Comalco, before US$1.5 billion.
The largest components of this were the sale of shares in they became wholly owned subsidiaries in 2000, increased earnings by FCX and the sale of Rio Tintos interest in the Morro do Ouro gold mine US$40 million relative to 2002. in Brazil.
The prices of many products were stronger, increasing earnings by The net cash inflow before management of liquid resources and US$442 million.
Copper prices averaged 13 per cent higher: gold 17 per financing, but after dividends, was $1,888 million.
cent and aluminium seven per cent.
The copper price was 51 per cent higher at the end of the year than at the beginning and this led to a 2003 compared with 2002 favourable effect from provisional pricing of US$39 million.
Benchmark The Groups operating cash flow remained strong.
Total cash flow from iron ore prices increased by nine per cent.
operations of US$3,486 million, including dividends from associates and Over the full year, seaborne thermal coal prices were on average joint ventures, was only seven per cent below 2002 despite ten per cent seven per cent lower and realised uranium prices were lower due to lower adjusted earnings.
some higher priced contracts expiring at Rssing.
Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 33 FINANCIAL REVIEW Financial review continued Tax paid included an amount of US$106 million relating to the As at 31 December 2004, the Group had contractual obligations disputed tax assessments from the Australian Tax Office described in other than bank borrowings repayable on demand arising in the ordinary note 29 of the Financial statements.
The amount paid has been course of business as follows: recorded as a receivable in these accounts because the directors Total Less Between Between After 5 believe that the relevant tax assessments are not sustainable.
than 1 1 and 3 3 and 5 years Investment in the business continued at a high level.
Capital US$m year years years expenditure and financial investment of US$1,673 million was US$197 Contractual cash million less than 2002.
Purchases of plant and equipment included the obligations expansion of iron ore capacity and the construction of the Comalco Debt a 4,143 806 2,043 813 481 Alumina Refinery.
Purchases less sales of investments in 2002 of Operating leases 114 36 37 10 31 US$323 million mainly related to US Treasury bonds held as security for Unconditional purchase the deferred consideration on the North Jacobs Ranch acquisition, of obligations 3,232 386 747 611 1,488 which US$76 million were sold in 2003.
Deferred consideration b 250 96 126 28 The sale of assets, principally Peak, Alumbrera and Kaltim Prima Other c 700 564 48 88 Coal, generated a cash inflow of US$405 million.
Total  a Debt obligations exclude bank borrowings repayable on demand.
Balance sheet b Deferred consideration relates to outstanding Lease By Acquisition payments at Shareholders funds increased by US$2,547 million.
dividends declared by US$1,751 million and there was a write back of c Other relates to long term obligations including capital commitments.
goodwill of US$228 million relating to the disposal of shares in FCX.
Exchange rate translation changes increased shareholders funds by On the basis of the levels of obligations described above, the unused US$542 million.
capacity under the Groups commercial paper programmes, the Groups As a result of the strong cash flow, both from operations and from anticipated ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future disposals, net debt fell from US$5,646 million to US$3,751 million.
The and the level of anticipated internal cash generation, the directors ratio of net debt to total capital fell to 21.7 per cent from 33.8 per cent believe that the Group has sufficient short and long term sources of at 31 December 2003.
Interest was covered 20 times 2003: 11 times.
funding available to meet its liquidity requirements.
As detailed in note 18 to the Financial statements, US$806 million The Groups committed bank standby facilities contain a financial 19 per cent of the Groups borrowings at the end of 2004 will mature undertaking that the Groups consolidated income before interest and in 2005. taxes for any annual accounting period shall not be less than three times At the year end, medium and long term borrowings totalled consolidated interest payable for such period.
The ratio for 2004 was US$3,337 million.
The amount issued under the US$3 billion European 29.6.
The Group does not have any financial agreements that would be Medium Term Notes Programme was US$1.5 billion of which US$204 affected to any material extent by a reduction in the Groups credit rating.
million is repayable within one year.
The Groups policy is to centralise surplus cash balances whenever In addition to the above, the Groups share of the third party net possible.
debt of joint ventures and associates totalled US$602 million at 31 December 2004.
This debt is set out in note 14 to the Financial Exchange rates, reporting currencies and currency exposure statements, which includes a description of the Groups responsibilities Rio Tintos assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide in relation to Colowyos debt.
The debt held by other joint ventures and variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups sales associates is without recourse to the Rio Tinto Group.
and the countries in which it operates.
The US dollar, however, is the currency in which the great majority of the Groups sales are Liquidity and capital resources denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited enjoy strong long and short term countries where the Groups mines and processing plants are located credit ratings from Moodys and Standard and Poors shown below.
and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
The Australian and US dollars are the Long term Short term Outlook most important currencies influencing costs.
Standard & Poors A A-1 Stable In any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant Moodys Aa3 P-1 Stable impact on Rio Tintos financial results.
A weakening of the US dollar against the currencies in which the Groups costs are determined has an The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross adverse effect on Rio Tintos net earnings.
The approximate effects on guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and the Groups UK GAAP net earnings of ten per cent movements from the Rio Tinto Limited are automatically guaranteed by the other.
These 2004 full year average exchange rates of the currencies having most ratings continue to provide financial flexibility and consistent access to impact on costs are as follows: Average Effect of debt via money or capital markets and enable very competitive terms to exchange rate 10% change be obtained.
for 2004 in full year The Groups commercial paper programmes are fully backed by in US cents average US$m bank standby facilities which totalled US$1.45 billion at 31 December Australian $ 73 190 2004, of which US$0.85 billion was on terms exceeding one year.
These Canadian $ 77 45 facilities can be drawn upon at any time.
Rand 16 20 These sensitivities are based on 2004 prices, costs and volumes and assume that all other variables remain constant.
They take into account the effect of hedges as disclosed in note 28 to the Financial statements.
These exchange rate sensitivities include the effect on operating costs of movements in exchange rates but exclude the impact through revaluation of foreign currency working capital.
They should, therefore, be used with care.
34 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements FINANCIAL REVIEW In the case of the Australian dollar, for example, there is a significant supply and demand.
Contract prices for many other natural resource degree of natural protection against cyclical fluctuations, in that the products are generally agreed annually or for longer periods with currency tends to be weak, reducing costs in US dollar terms, when customers, although volume commitments vary by product.
commodity prices are low, and vice versa.
Approximately 40 per cent of Rio Tintos 2004 net earnings from In addition, earnings drawn up in accordance with International operating businesses came from products whose prices were terminal Financial Reporting Standards will be affected by exchange differences market related and the remainder came from products priced by direct relating to certain US dollar debt and derivatives as explained on negotiation.
The approximate effect on the Groups net earnings of a ten per Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Groups affairs, cent change from the full year average market price in 2004 for the the US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented following metals would be: Average Effect of 10% both internally and externally.
It is also the natural currency for borrowing market price change in full and holding surplus cash.
Modest amounts of cash are held in other for 2004 year average currencies for short term operational reasons.
US$m The Group finances its operations primarily in US dollars, eitherCopper 130 c lb 160 directly or using currency swaps, and a significant proportion of the Aluminium 78 c lb 110 Groups US dollar debt is located in subsidiaries having functional Gold US$409 oz 40 currencies other than the US dollar.
Exchange gains and losses relating to US dollar debt impact on the profit and loss accounts of such The above sensitivities are based on 2004 volumes and give the subsidiaries.
However, such exchange gains and losses are excluded estimated impact on net earnings of changes in prices, assuming that all from the Groups profit and loss account on consolidation with a other variables remain constant.
These should be used with care.
The corresponding adjustment directly to reserves.
This means that relationships between currencies and commodity prices is a complex financing in US dollars impacts in a consistent manner on the Groups one and movements in exchange rates can cause movements in consolidated accounts irrespective of the functional currency of the commodity prices and vice versa.
The sensitivities allow for the effect of particular subsidiary where the debt is located.
the commodity hedges maturing in 2005, as disclosed in note 28 to the The Group does not generally believe that active currency hedging Financial statements.
would provide long term benefits to shareholders.
Currency protection measures may be deemed appropriate in specific commercial Treasury management and financial instruments circumstances and are subject to strict limits laid down by the Rio Tinto Treasury activities operate as a service to the business of the Rio Tinto board.
As set out in note 28 to the Financial statements, as at Group and not as a profit centre.
Strict limits on the size and type of 31 December 2004 there were forward contracts, including synthetic transaction permitted are laid down by the Rio Tinto board and are forwards, to purchase A$1,113 million in respect of future trading subject to rigorous internal controls.
Corporate funding and overall transactions.
From the Groups perspective, these contracts offset the strategic management of Rio Tintos balance sheet is handled by the impact of exchange rate variations on a portion of the local currency London based Group Treasury.
costs incurred by various subsidiaries.
A significant part of the above Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments hedge book was acquired with North Ltd. North held a substantial for trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe that it has hedge book on acquisition which has been retained but is not being exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its investments renewed as maturities occur.
in joint ventures and associates.
Derivatives are used to separate funding and cash management decisions from currency exposure and Interest rates interest rate management.
The Group uses interest rate swaps in Rio Tintos interest rate management policy is generally to borrow and conjunction with longer term funds raised in the capital markets to invest cash at floating rates.
Short term US dollar rates are normally achieve a floating rate obligation which is consistent with the Groups lower than long term rates, resulting in lower interest costs to the Group.
Currency swaps are used to convert debt or Furthermore, cyclical movements of interest rates tend to compensate, investments into currencies, primarily the US dollar, which are to an extent, for those of commodity prices.
In some circumstances, an consistent with the Groups policy on currency exposure management.
element of fixed rate funding may be considered appropriate.
At the end No material exposure is considered to exist by virtue of the possible of 2004, only 20 per cent of the Groups net debt was fixed rate.
Based non performance of the counterparties to financial instruments held on the Groups net debt at 31 December 2004, and with other variables by the Group.
unchanged, the approximate effect on the Groups net earnings of a one The derivative contracts in which the Group is involved are valued percentage point increase in US dollar LIBOR interest rates would be a for the purposes of the Financial instrument disclosures in the Financial reduction of US$21 million.
statements by reference to quoted market prices, quotations from independent financial institutions or by discounting expected cash flows.
Commodity prices The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market Dividends prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the Dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares are Rio Tinto board and to rigid internal controls.
Rio Tintos exposure to equalised on a net cash basis: that is without taking into account any commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its broad commodity spread associated tax credits.
Dividends are determined in US dollars.
and the Group does not generally believe commodity price hedging Rio Tintos progressive dividend policy aims to increase the US would provide long term benefit to shareholders.
dollar value of dividends over time, without cutting them in economic Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under downturns.
Rio Tinto plc shareholders receive dividends in pounds contract, often long term, at prices determined by reference to prevailing sterling and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders receive dividends in market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange Australian dollars, which are determined by reference to the exchange and COMEX in New York, usually at the time of delivery.
Prices fluctuate rates applicable to the US dollar two days prior to the announcement of widely in response to changing levels of supply and demand but, in the dividends.
Changes in exchange rates could result in a reduced sterling long run, prices are related to the marginal cost of supply.
Gold is also or Australian dollar dividend in a year in which the US dollar value is priced in an active market in which prices respond to daily changes in maintained or increased.
The interim dividend for each year in US dollar quantities offered and sought.
Newly mined gold is only one source of terms will be equivalent to 50 per cent of the previous years total US supply: investment and disinvestment can be important elements of dollar dividends.
Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 35 FINANCIAL REVIEW Financial review continued Critical accounting policies and estimates disturbance is uncertain, there may be variances from these cost Dual listed company reporting estimates which could affect future financial results.
As explained in detail in Outline of dual listed companies structure and Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of basis of financial statements, the consolidated Financial statements of mining, and the majority of close down and restoration expenditure is the Rio Tinto Group on pages 85 to 141 deal with the results and assets incurred at the end of the life of the mine.
Although the ultimate cost to and liabilities of both of the dual listed companies, Rio Tinto plc and be incurred is uncertain, subsidiary companies have estimated their Rio Tinto Limited, and their subsidiaries.
They are prepared under UK respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using GAAP and satisfy the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited, as laid down by current restoration standards and techniques.
the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
This Annual report also includes a statement setting out the effect of the Post retirements benefits adjustments to net earnings and to shareholders funds for the Group Post retirement benefits are accounted for in accordance with Statement that would be required under Australian GAAP.
The US dollar is the of Standard Accounting Practice 24, which requires gradual recognition presentation currency used in these Financial statements, as it most of the surpluses and deficits that emerge as a result of variances from reliably reflects the Groups global business performance.
As permitted under the transitional arrangements, The treatment of gains and losses on US dollar debt is described FRS 17 has not been implemented in the 2004 financial statements.
above in the section dealing with Exchange rates, reporting currencies Under FRS 17, all deficits would be recognised in full and surpluses and currency exposure.
would be recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
FRS 17 transitional disclosures are included on pages 131 to 134.
Ore reserve estimates If FRS 17 had been applied in drawing up the 2004 Financial statements, Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on shareholders funds would have been US$756 million lower, including the information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance impact of the level of stock markets at 31 December 2004, and net with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration results, Mineral earnings would have been US$27 million higher.
Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves: Overburden removal costs and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and significantly when new information becomes available.
other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, economically be extracted.
The process of mining overburden and production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status waste materials is referred to as stripping.
During the development of a of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
mine, before production commences, it is generally accepted that Such changes in reserves could impact on depreciation rates, asset stripping costs are capitalised as part of the investment in construction carrying values, deferred stripping calculations and provisions for close of the mine.
down, restoration and environmental clean up costs.
Stripping of waste materials continues during the production stage of the mine.
Some mining companies expense these production stage Asset carrying values stripping costs as incurred, while others defer such stripping costs.
Those Events or changes in circumstances can give rise to significant mining companies that expense stripping costs as incurred will report impairment charges in a particular year.
greater volatility in the results of their operations from period to period.
When such changes impact on particular income generating units, Rio Tinto defers production stage stripping costs for those their carrying values are assessed by reference to the higher of disposal operations where this is the most appropriate basis for matching costs value and the net present value of forecast future cash flows.
The cash with the related economic benefits and the effect is material.
flows are particularly sensitive to changes in two parameters: exchange The amount of stripping costs deferred is based on the ratio rates and commodity selling prices.
Management considers that over obtained by dividing the tonnage of waste mined either by the quantity the long term there is a tendency for movements in commodity prices to of ore mined or by the quantity of minerals contained in the ore.
In some compensate to some extent for movements in the value of the US dollar operations, the quantity of ore is used, being a more practical basis for and vice versa.
But such compensating changes are not synchronized matching costs with the related economic benefits where there are and do not fully offset each other.
The great majority of the Groups important byproducts or where the grade of the ore is relatively stable sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars.
To the extent that from year to year.
the US dollar weakens without commodity price offset, cash flows and, In operations that experience material fluctuations in the ratio on a therefore, net present values are reduced.
year to year basis over the life of the mine, deferral of stripping costs will Rio Tintos cash flow forecasts are based on assessments of smooth the cost of stripping expensed in individual reporting periods, in expected long term commodity prices, derived principally from analysis relation to production of ore or contained minerals, as applicable.
of the cost of production.
Exchange rate assumptions used in reviews of Stripping costs incurred in the period are deferred to the extent that the carrying values are forecasts of future long term rates.
Rio Tinto uses current period ratio exceeds the life of mine ratio.
Such deferred costs historical averages of exchange rates as a starting point for these are then charged against reported profits to the extent that, in forecasts.
The price and exchange rate assumptions may, therefore, be subsequent periods, the ratio falls short of the life of mine ratio.
The life different from current levels.
of mine ratio is based on the proven and probable reserves of the For the majority of Rio Tintos businesses, by both number and by operation.
value, the net present value of the expected cash flows is substantially in In some operations, there are distinct periods of new development excess of the carrying value in the balance sheet.
For a minority of the during the production stage of the mine.
These may, for example, relate businesses the carrying value is close to the net present value of the to a discrete section of the orebody.
The new development will be cash flows, and these are reviewed for impairment where appropriate.
characterised by a major departure from the life of mine stripping ratio.
The effects of exchange rates and commodity price changes on the Excess stripping costs during such periods are deferred and values of these units relative to their book values are monitored closely.
subsequently amortised on a unit of production basis.
Deferred stripping costs form part of the total investment in the Close down, restoration and environmental obligations relevant income generating unit, which is reviewed for impairment if Provision is made for environmental remediation costs when the related events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may environmental disturbance occurs, based on the net present value of not be recoverable.
Where the ultimate cost of environmental During 2004, production stage stripping costs incurred by 36 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements FINANCIAL REVIEW subsidiaries and equity accounted operations exceeded the amounts charged against pre tax profit by US$135 million.
The net book value carried forward in property, plant and equipment and in investments in joint ventures and associated companies at 31 December 2004 was US$784 million.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is included in depreciation of property, plant and equipment or in the Groups share of the results of its equity accounted operations, as appropriate.
Contingencies Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility of any loss arising is considered remote.
Contingencies are disclosed in note 29 on page 122.
These include tax assessments of approximately A$500 million which, based on Counsels opinion, the Group expects to be successful in challenging.
International financial reporting standards Rio Tinto will be reporting its financial performance in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS starting with the interim 2005 results.
The transition project is well advanced.
The main conceptual differences, identified to date, between UKGAAP and IFRS, insofar as Rio Tinto is concerned, are set out on page 144 of this report.
There may be additional differences identified as interpretations in the application of all International Accounting Standards are finalised.
In early May 2005, full year and half year 2004 financial information under IFRS will be released and the differences between these and the previously reported results explained.
US GAAP Reconciliation The Group has received a comment letter issued on 30 December, 2004 by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC relating to its 2003 Annual Report on Form 20-F, which was filed on 26 March, 2004.
The SEC reviews such filings as a matter of routine.
The Group is currently evaluating and responding to the SECs comments.
A US GAAP reconciliation and related information for US investors will be provided to US shareholders as required by the Groups New York Stock Exchange listing agreement and will be available to other shareholders on request from the secretaries of the Companies at the time the Companies 2004 Annual report on Form 20-F is filed with the SEC.
Forward looking statements Forward looking statements are contained in this financial review and attention is drawn to the Cautionary statement on page 8.
Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 37 FINANCIAL REVIEW
