Finance Directors review Andrew Shilston We made good progress in 2004.
Better market conditions, growing services sales and increased efficiency all contributed to our improved financial performance.
Results for the year Underlying profit before tax increased by 21 per cent to 345 million 2003 285 million, and underlying earnings per share were 14.50p 2003 12.20p.
Basic earnings per share were 12.07p 2003 7.04p.
Sales increased by 294 million The Group is in a sound Sales increased by five per cent, despite an adverse foreign currency financial position, with translation impact of some 200 million.
Civil aerospace engine deliveries increased by ten per cent higher profits, l ower to 824 engines.
Civil aftermarket sales grew by 25 per cent.
average net debt and Defence aerospace turnover was stable, with a small a record order book.
increase in services revenues offsetting a slight reduction in original equipment sales.
Marine sales were down four per cent.
Sales in the offshore oil & gas support market sector were weaker than in 2003.
2000 253 However, order intake recovered somewhat in the second 2001 221 half of the year.
2002 344 Energy sales were at, with sales in the oil & gas 2003 186 sector offsetting the effects of the depressed power 2004 191 generation market.
Capital investment Fixed asset additions at cost m Group aftermarket services revenues grew by 14 per cent to 3.2 billion and accounted for 55 per cent of total revenues.
Aftermarket revenues have grown by 12 per cent compound over the last five years.
Eighty five per cent of sales were to customers outside the UK.
Gross margin, before exceptional items, increased from 17.4 per cent to 19 per cent.
Margins benefited from some 21 % improvement in market conditions, continuing growth in services Increase in underlying profit before tax sales and our focus on cost reduction.
over 2003 The net interest charge reduced from 90 million to 70 million.
This reected a reduction in the level of average net debt, which was achieved through the Groups improving level of profitability and its focus on cash management.
Group interest was covered 7.6 times 2003 4.9 times, based upon underlying profit before interest, excluding joint ventures.
Restructuring charges of 37 million 2003 10 million, which were incurred for ongoing operational improvements, were included within operating costs.
The Group made an underlying profit before tax of Joint ventures: Rolls-Royce share m 345 million 2003 285 million.
After charging non-trading items, Repair and Financial profit before tax was 306 million 2003 180 million.
overhaul services Other Total Net working capital as a percentage of sales was 6.4 per cent Gross assets 107 503 532 1,142 2003 6.8 per cent, despite some creation of inventory ahead of the Debt 31 410 77 518 introduction of new manufacturing facilities.
Other liabilities 29 51 345 425 Gross liabilities 60 461 422 943 Net assets 47 42 110 199 excluding exceptional and non-trading items, dened in note 2 26 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2004 A final payment to shareholders of 5.00p is proposed making a total Acquisitions and disposals of 8.18p per ordinary share 2003 8.18p.
The Company will continue During the year the Group disposed of Rolls-Royce Gear Systems to issue B Shares in place of dividends in order to accelerate the Inc. to Triumph Group Inc. resulting in a small profit that has been recovery of its advance corporation tax.
treated as a non-trading item see note 31.
Order book Pensions The order book, at constant exchange rates, was 18.9 billion For 2004, the charges for pensions costs continue to be calculated 2003 17.4 billion.
Items are included in the order book when under SSAP 24 and are disclosed in note 30.
Although the full a rm, signed contract exists.
implementation of FRS 17 Post-Retirement Benets has been In civil aerospace it is common for a customer to take options deferred pending the introduction of International Financial for future orders in addition to rm orders placed.
Such options are Reporting Standards, certain disclosures are required, including the excluded from the order book until they become rm, signed orders.
value of pension scheme assets and liabilities using the new rules In defence aerospace, long-term programmes are often specified by FRS 17 see note 30.
Under this standard a snapshot ordered for only one year at a time.
In such circumstances, even is taken of pension fund assets and liabilities at a specic point in though there may be no alternative engine choice available to the time, thus movements in equity markets and discount rates will customer, only the contracted business is included in the order book.
create volatility in their calculation.
Additionally FRS 17 requires Long-term service agreements, including TotalCare a memorandum analysis of the profit and loss charge.
packages for aftermarket services, represented 39 per cent of On this basis and after taking account of deferred taxation, the order book.
These are long-term contracts where only the there was a net shortfall of assets over liabilities for the UK Schemes first seven years revenue is included in the order book.
This deficit is subject to prevailing Business which has been announced but for which equity markets and discount rates.
contracts have not yet been signed is excluded from the order During the year the Vickers Group Pension Scheme and book.
This amounted to a further 2.4 billion at the year end the Rolls-Royce Group Pension Scheme were subject to actuarial 2003 1.3 billion.
Together these two funds are around one third the size of the principal Rolls-Royce Pension Fund, for which the actuarial Aftermarket services review was completed in 2003.
The Group continues to be successful in developing its aftermarket services activities.
These accounted for 55 per cent of turnover in 2004.
Investments In particular, TotalCare packages in the civil aerospace sector The Group continues to subject all investments to rigorous now cover 38 per cent of the installed eet.
TotalCare packages cover examination of risks and future cash ows to ensure that they create long-term management of the maintenance and associated logistics shareholder value.
All major investments require Board approval.
for our engines and systems, monitoring the equipment in service to The Group has a portfolio of projects at different stages deliver the system availability our customers require with predictable of their life cycles.
Discounted cash ow analysis of the remaining costs.
The pricing of such contracts reects their long-term nature.
life of projects is performed on a regular basis.
Sales of engines in profit is taken progressively on a prudent basis resulting in a net asset production are assessed against criteria in the original development of 389 million 2003 454 million on the balance sheet.
programme to ensure that overall value is enhanced.
Gross research and development investment amounted Cash to 601 million 2003 619 million.
Net research and development The Group cash ow statement is shown on pages 54 and 55 of was 282 million 2003 281 million.
Net research and the financial statements.
development investment is expected to remain roughly at the Net debt for the year reduced by 243 million to 80 million same percentage of sales in the future.
The average net debt level reduced from was 30 million 2003 29 million.
Net capital expenditure, was 219 million 2003 The average net debt is expected to reduce further in 2005.
198 million and is expected to be a little ahead of depreciation Net cash ow from operating activities was 640 million of 223 million over the next few years.
Net capital expenditure used 219 million 2003 198 million of funds generated.
Partnerships The development of effective partnerships continues to be a key Taxation feature of the Groups long-term strategy.
Major partnerships are The overall tax charge on the profit before tax was 101 million 2003 64 million, a rate of 33 per cent 2003 36 per cent.
of two types: joint ventures and Risk and Revenue Sharing Partners.
The tax charge was reduced by 13 million 2003 12 million in respect of the expected benefit of the UK research and development tax credit that was introduced with effect from April 1, 2002.
The tax charge on underlying profits was 99 million 2003 84 million, a rate of 29 per cent 2003 29 per cent.
27 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2004 Finance Directors review continued Andrew Shilston Joint ventures Intangible assets Joint ventures are an integral part of our business.
They are also normal The Group carried forward 911 million 2003 863 million business structures for companies participating in international, of intangible assets.
This comprised purchased goodwill of collaborative defence projects.
They are involved in engineering 712 million, engine certication costs and participation fees of and manufacturing, repair and overhaul, and financial services.
145 million and application engineering costs of 54 million.
They share risk and investment, bring expertise and access to Risk management markets, and provide external objectivity.
Some of our joint ventures The Board has an established, structured approach to risk have become substantial businesses.
A major proportion of the management.
The risk committee see report of the directors has debt of the joint ventures is secured on the assets of the respective accountability for the system of risk management and reporting companies and is non-recourse to the Group.
The net recourse the key risks and associated mitigating actions.
The Director of Risk nancing obligations total 12 million and are included in contingent reports to the Finance Director.
The Groups policy is to preserve liabilities see note 28. the resources upon which its continuing reputation, viability and Pembroke, the Groups aircraft leasing and management joint profitability are built, in order to enable the corporate objectives venture is not regarded as core to the Groups strategy and, as markets to be achieved through the operation of the Rolls-Royce business permit, the Group will be seeking to extract value from this business.
Risks are formally identied and recorded in a corporate Investment in the engine leasing joint venture, Rolls-Royce risk register, which is reviewed and updated on a regular basis, & Partners Finance, a core business activity, amounts to 21 million with risk mitigation plans identied for all significant risks.
and all of its debt is non-recourse to the Group.
Financial risk Risk and Revenue Sharing Partners RRSPs The Group uses various financial instruments in order to manage RRSPs have enabled the Group to build a broad portfolio of engines, the exposures that arise from its business operations as a result of thereby reducing the exposure of the business to individual product movements in financial markets.
All treasury activities are focused risk.
The primary financial benefit is a reduction of the burden of on the management and hedging of risk.
It is the Groups policy not research and development R&D expenditure on new programmes.
to trade financial instruments or to engage in speculative financial The related R&D expenditure is expensed through the profit and transactions.
There have been no significant changes in the Groups loss account and the receipts from partners are also recorded in policies in the last year.
the profit and loss account, as other operating income.
The principal economic and market risks continue to RRSP agreements are a standard form of co-operation in be movements in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates the civil aero-engine industry.
They bring benets to the engine and commodity prices.
The Board regularly reviews the Groups manufacturer and the partner.
Specically for the manufacturer exposures and financial risk management and a specialist they bring some or all of the following benets: additional financial committee also considers these in detail.
All such exposures are and engineering resource: sharing of risk: and initial programme managed by the Group Treasury function, which reports to the investment contribution.
As appropriate, the partner also supplies Finance Director and which operates within written policies components and in consideration receives a share of the long-term approved by the Board and within the internal control framework revenues generated by the engine programme in proportion to its described in the report of the directors.
The Groups policy is to monitor and manage its exposure The sharing of risk is fundamental to RRSP agreements.
Credit limits are set to cover all financial In general, partners share financial investment in the programme: instruments for each counterparty.
The Groups policy is that where they share market risk as they receive their return from future sales: exposure is only linked to the credit quality of the counterparty, they share currency risk as their returns are denominated in US the related long-term credit rating should be A3 A or better.
dollars: they share sales nancing obligations: they share warranty costs: and, where they are manufacturing or development partners, Funding and liquidity they share technical and cost risk.
The Group nances its operations through a mixture of shareholders In 2004, the Group secured new partners for the funds, bank borrowings, bonds, notes and finance leases.
The Group Trent 1000 engine programme.
However, as the number of new borrows in the major global markets in a range of currencies.
programmes has reduced and in particular as Government launch It employs derivatives where appropriate to generate the desired investment was not sought for the Trent 1000 programme, receipts currency and interest rate prole.
In 2004, other operating income in respect of RRSP agreements amounted to 73 million 2003 153 million and is expected to be at a similar level in 2005.
Payments to RRSP partners are recorded within cost of sales and increase as the related programme sales increase.
These payments amounted to 240 million 2003 179 million.
28 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2004 The Group performed some renancing activity during 2004 to The Group is exposed to a number of foreign currencies.
The most extend its debt maturity prole and to reduce future renancing significant transactional currency exposure is the US dollar followed risk.
The Group successfully raised 500 million following the by the Euro.
US dollar income, net of expenditure represented issuance of a seven year a750 million public bond under its Euro 26 per cent of Group turnover in 2004 2003 23 per cent.
The proceeds were used to The Group operates a hedging policy using a variety of replace a number of maturing borrowing facilities or to retire financial instruments with the objective of minimising the impact of other borrowing facilities early.
The Group also reduced the size of uctuations in exchange rates on future transactions and cash ows.
its main 750 million revolving credit facility to 250 million and The permitted range of the amount of cover taken is extended its maturity prole from 2007 to 2009.
As at December 31, determined by the written policies set by the Board, based on 2004 the Group had total committed borrowing facilities of known and forecast income levels.
The forward cover is managed 1.8 billion 2003 2.2 billion.
within the parameters of these policies in order to achieve the The terms for the recently completed renancings are Groups objectives, having regard to the Groups view of long-term substantially similar to the Groups previous facilities.
Forward cover is in the form of standard foreign There are no rating triggers contained in any of the Groups exchange contracts and instruments on which the exchange rates facilities that could require the Group to accelerate or repay any achieved are dependent on future interest rates.
The Group also facility for a given movement in the Groups credit rating and no writes currency options against a portion of the unhedged dollar material impact on the Groups interest charge is expected to arise income at a rate which is consistent with the Groups long-term from a movement in the Groups credit rating.
The premium received from the sale of the options The Group holds financial investments and maintains is included in the Groups achieved exchange rate.
At the end of undrawn committed facilities at a level sufficient to ensure the 2004 the Group had approximately US$9 billion of forward cover Group has available funds to meet its medium-term capital and 2003 US$10 billion.
funding obligations and to meet any unforeseen obligations and The consequence of this policy has been to maintain opportunities.
The Group from time to time holds cash and shortrelatively stable long-term foreign exchange rates.
Note 24, financial term investments which, together with the undrawn committed instruments, includes the impact of revaluing forward currency facilities, enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk.
contracts at market values on December 31, 2004, showing a The Group continues to have access to all the major value of 986 million 2003 724 million which will uctuate global debt markets.
with exchange rates over time.
The Group has entered into these forward contracts as part of the hedging policy, described above, Credit rating in order to mitigate the impact of volatile exchange rates.
The Group subscribes to both Moodys Investor Services and Standard & Poors for its ofcial publicised credit ratings.
As at Interest rate risk December 31, 2004 the Groups assigned long-term credit ratings The Group uses xed rate bonds and oating rate debt as funding were: sources.
The Groups policy is to maintain a higher proportion of Rating Agency Rating Outlook Category net debt at xed rates of interest having regard to the prevailing Moodys Baa1 Negative Investment grade interest rate outlook.
To implement this policy the Group utilises a Standard & Poors BBB Positive Investment grade combination of interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and interest caps to manage the exposure.
The Group attaches significant importance to maintaining an Commodity risk investment grade credit rating, which it views as necessary for The Group has an ongoing exposure to the price of jet fuel and the business to operate effectively.
base metals arising from business operations.
The Groups objective The Groups medium term objective is to achieve, through the normal course of business, an A category investment is to minimise the impact of price uctuations.
The exposure is hedged in accordance with parameters contained in a written grade credit rating from both agencies.
Currency risk The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates for both Sales nancing foreign currency transactions and the translation of net assets In connection with the sale of its products, the Group will, on some and profit and loss accounts of foreign subsidiaries.
occasions, provide nancing support for its customers.
This may The Group regards its interests in overseas subsidiary involve the Group guaranteeing nancing for customers, providing companies as long-term investments.
The Group has tended to asset value guarantees on aircraft for a proportion of their expected manage its translational exposures through the currency matching future value, or entering into leasing transactions.
of assets and liabilities where applicable.
Any mis-match is kept under regular review for materiality and subsequent decisions regarding risk mitigation.
29 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2004 Finance Directors review continued Andrew Shilston The Group manages and monitors its sales finance related The Group uses Airclaims Limited as an independent appraiser exposures to customers and products within written policies to value its security portfolio at both the half-year and year-end.
approved by the Board and within the internal framework Airclaims provides specic values both current and forecast future described in the report of the directors.
The permitted levels of values for each asset in the security portfolio.
These values are then gross and net exposure are limited in aggregate, by counterparty, used to assess the Groups net exposure.
by product type and by calendar year.
After taking account of the underlying security, the Groups The Board regularly reviews the Groups sales finance net contingent liability increased slightly to 189 million 2003 related exposures and risk management activities.
The year on year movement in reported contingent commitment is subject to a credit and asset review process and liabilities reects the utilisation of sales finance commitments in prior approval by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
the last year, the expiry of existing contingent liabilities through The Group operates a sophisticated risk-pricing model to assess natural debt retirement or risk transfer, and, additionally in the risk and exposure.
Costs and exposures associated with providing case of net contingent liabilities, the changes in the level, form, nancing support are incorporated in any decision to secure and value of any underlying security.
In reporting the Groups contingent liability with respect The Group seeks to minimise the level of exposure from to sales nancing, the Group includes a net exposure stress test sales finance commitments by: which incorporates the impact of a 20 per cent fall in the value of the use of third party non-recourse debt where all securities compared to the Airclaims current and future values.
appropriate: Application of this stress test results in a net contingent liability the transfer, sale, or re-insurance of risks: and of 277 million 2003 262 million.
ensuring the proportionate ow down of risk and The directors regard the possibility that there will be exposure to relevant RRSPs.
any significant loss arising from these contingencies as remote.
The Group took charges and made prudent provisions Each of the above forms an active part of the Groups exposure against exposures in 2004. management process.
Where exposures arise, the strategy has been, and International Financial Reporting Standards continues to be, to assume where possible liquid forms of nancing All European Union listed companies are required to adopt commitment that may be sold or transferred to third parties when International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for their financial the opportunity arises.
statements from 2005, which will include comparative information for 2004.
An initial evaluation of the impact of IFRS was provided in Contingent liabilities the 2003 Annual report.
The Group has continued its preparatory Note 28 to the accounts describes the Groups contingent work, to enable it to report under IFRS for the first time when it liabilities under sales nancing arrangements.
Prior to this, it is the Groups The gross contingent liability reduced to 999 million intention to restate the 2004 results on an IFRS basis, to allow the 2003 1,090 million, of which 12 million 2003 39 million related impact to be interpreted and adequately understood.
to sales nancing support provided to joint ventures.
The gross contingent liability gure is calculated by aggregating the The key areas of impact for Rolls-Royce relate to: maximum exposure on all such sales nancing commitments, financial instruments accounting under IAS 32 and IAS 39: before applying the value of the underlying security, but offsetting capitalisation of development expenditure under IAS 38: sums separately insured and sums provided for in the balance the impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on accounting for RRSP sheet.
In 2004 provisions against customer nancing exposures receipts and payments: were increased by 51 million and 27 million of existing provisions pension scheme accounting under IAS 19: were utilised.
Provisions of 116 million were carried forward in fair valuing share option schemes in accordance with respect of sales nancing commitments see note 22.
IFRS 2: and The Groups contingent liabilities are divided approximately the cessation of goodwill amortisation in accordance 60:40 between asset value guarantees AVGs and credit guarantees.
They are spread over many years and relate to a number of customers and a broad product portfolio.
The contingent liabilities Financial instruments represent the maximum aggregate gross and net exposure that the As noted earlier, a significant element of the Groups trading is Group has in respect of delivered aircraft, regardless of the point in denominated in US dollars.
In order to reduce the impact of time at which such exposures may arise.
Exposures are not reduced currency volatility, the Group takes significant levels of forward to a net present value for the purposes of reporting the Groups cover.
Currently, gains or losses which are realised on these forward contingent liabilities.
exchange contracts are taken to the profit and loss account in the same period as the underlying transaction.
30 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2004 Rolls-Royce share price performance 2004 2000 19.38 280 2001 20.20 260 2002 11.10 240 2003 12.20 220 2004 14.50 200 Underlying EPS pence 180 160 excluding exceptional and non-trading items, January December defined in note 2 IAS 39 Financial instruments requires all hedges to be strictly Share price designated against specic income and the hedge effectiveness During the year Rolls-Royce shares increased by 39 per cent from tested.
All such instruments are required to be revalued to market 177.25p to 247p per share, compared to a 32 per cent increase values at the balance sheet date.
If the hedging criteria are not for the aerospace and defence sector and an eight per cent achieved, then the change in value is taken to the profit and increase for the FTSE100.
The Companys shares ranged in price loss account.
from 167.5p in January to 269p in November.
As contracts may be signed several years in advance of The number of shares in issue at the end of the year was delivery, the delivery dates and hence payment dates on contracts 1,705 million, an increase of 38 million of which 2 million related may change and meeting the strict hedging criteria for all contracts to share options, 11 million related to scrip dividends and 25 million may not be practicable, resulting in potential volatility in the reported related to conversion of B Shares into ordinary shares.
profit and loss account and balance sheet.
Similar requirements The average number of shares in issue was 1,690 million apply to instruments used to manage commodity and interest rate 2003 1,647 million.
Underlying earnings per share were 14.50p exposures, although for the latter, hedging criteria are more easily an increase of 19 per cent over 2003. attainable.
In assessing the adoption of IAS 39, the Group has no The proposed final payment per share, of 5.00p will result plans to amend the underlying policy for the economic hedging in a total payment of 8.18p per share see report of the directors of its exposures.
Development expenditure Financial services The Groups expenditure on self-funded research and development The financial services businesses comprise: engine leasing is of the order of 300 million per annum.
Since privatisation in Rolls-Royce & Partners Finance, aircraft leasing Pembroke, and 1987, such expenditure has been expensed as incurred.
IAS 38 electrical power project development Rolls-Royce Power Ventures.
Intangible assets requires development expenditure meeting Rolls-Royce & Partners Finance, the Groups joint venture certain recognition criteria to be capitalised.
This standard is to engine leasing business, owns a portfolio of 273 engines with be applied retrospectively: hence the intangible asset will include 39 customers.
The proportion of engines on lease remains high, amounts expensed in previous years.
Impairment testing will be at 99 per cent, by value.
required at each balance sheet date.
Pembroke, the Groups joint venture aircraft leasing The key eligibility criteria for capitalisation relate to technical business, owns 28 aircraft on lease to 13 customers, 100 per cent, feasibility and the generation of future economic benefit.
This is by value, of the owned aircraft eet is on lease.
A major renancing unlikely to be achieved until around the time of engine certication of Boeing 737 aircraft was concluded during the year without or its equivalent for non-aero products.
parent company support and a charge of 8 million was taken in connection with Boeing 717 exposure.
RRSPs Rolls-Royce Power Ventures, the Groups power project The accounting treatment for the majority of RRSPs will not change developer, has 14 power generation projects under way.
However, certain RRSP arrangements must be treated The business continues to be restructured and net charges as financial instruments under the provisions of IAS 32.
Such RRSP of 5 million were taken.
arrangements will be re-categorised as financial liabilities and recognised at amortised cost.
Pension scheme accounting Andrew Shilston Under IAS 19 Employment benets the net position on the Finance Director Groups pension schemes based on market values will be included on the balance sheet.
This will be broadly in line with FRS 17 amounts disclosed in note 30.
Share options Under IFRS 2 Share-based payments, for all employee share schemes, a fair value calculated using an option pricing model is required to be expensed.
Goodwill In accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations, the amortisation of goodwill is prohibited: instead impairment tests are required at each balance sheet date.
31 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2004 Pence
