04 Rotork Operating and Financial Review Annual Report 2004 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Bill Whiteley Chief Executive Business Strategy The principal highlights were the excellent take up of our new IQT The objective of Rotork p. l. c. is to increase shareholder value by actuator, a quarter turn variant of our world leading IQII flagship developing our leadership position in worldwide valve actuator product line: the strength of our Asian and Far Eastern operations, activities.
All of the Groups activities are focused on the specialist which allowed us to capitalise on the regions growth opportunities: area of valve automation.
The origins of the company lie with the the growth of sales of the AWT product manufactured in our new founder, Jeremy Fry, who developed an electric valve actuator in 1952.
Malaysian plant, which opened up new non-hazardous market Over the years Rotork continued to build on its reputation as an opportunities for Rotork: and the continued exceptional growth of our innovator of new concepts in this field and has provided users with Fluid System division which is benefiting from its enhanced product increasing levels of functionality, performance and assurance.
ranges, worldwide marketing and strong demand from its oil and gas customers at their upstream and transmission operations.
Recent strategy directions have focused on opportunities to leverage our leadership position in heavy-duty electric actuation into other The key drivers for the Groups businesses relate to investment in oil closely associated areas of valve automation.
Today Rotorks business and gas, water and waste water and power generation installations is split into three actuation divisions: Rotork Electric, the original and around the world with demand being generated by new and expanded largest activity supplying high quality, state of the art products for capacity, upgrades to existing facilities and replacements.
This is often controlling pipeline and other valves: Rotork Fluid System, which linked to projects which are aimed at improving the efficiency, safety supplies heavy-duty pneumatic and hydraulic valve actuators for and environmental performance of plants.
Valve actuators are critical operation in emergency shut down and other critical applications: components and their long-term reliability and performance is extremely Rotork Gears, involved in the supply of gearboxes, adaptors and important to users.
They also act as a key interface between plant ancillaries for the valve industry.
Key strategies relate to the control systems and related hardware.
Rotorks reputation for quality, development of products, marketing initiatives, service revenue worldwide support and technical innovation is crucial to its leadership opportunities and cost reduction initiatives relating to these businesses.
The broad geographic spread of our operations and applications means that we have a large number of repeat Year under review customers around the world and no one customer accounts for 2004 was characterised by a strengthening demand for our products more than 5% of our turnover in any year.
in key markets which allowed us to make good progress in spite of a strong currency headwind.
Order intake was up 11% in sterling All three divisions increased their order input, sales output and terms and 16% on a like for like basis, resulting in the order book operating profits in 2004. ending 11% higher than the start of the year.
Turnover was up 8%, 13% on a like for like currency basis and operating profits before goodwill and the 2003 exceptional which relates to the gain on the sale of a building were up 9.6%, 19.6% on a like for like currency basis.
Fluid System actuators and Pakscan Pakscan IIS master station, shown meet increased operator expectations.
here being programmed by a Rotork Use of P and SP range actuators fitted Service Engineer, is particularly suitable with Pakscan digital control have allowed for installations requiring logic and Clinton Water treatment Plant to sequencing capabilities.
improve filtration and increase output.
We pride ourselves on our reputation for technological innovation We are constantly designing and developing leading edge solutions through an on-going programme of research development An innovative use of a heavy duty Rotork Rotork Jordan actuators have replaced EH electro-hydraulic linear actuator has traditional hydraulic vane control on the solved an expensive and repetitive valve boiler plant at Littlebrook power station operating problem at the Entergy removing the need for hydraulic power Willowglen power station in Mississippi.
Every Rotork actuator is assembled and then fully rig tested to stringent guidelines ensuring we maintain high quality All Rotork manufacturing sites are certified to ISO 9001 Incorporating Modbus connectivity, Rotork IQ actuators at the ExxonMobil these Rotork actuators have been facility, Toulouse - Aroconstellation Airbus.
installed during a process of automation at one of Thailands major fuel loading jetties, Suratthani.
Operating and Financial Review Rotork 07 continued Annual Report 2004 Electric Actuators UK Operations The main markets for electric actuators are oil and gas, water and There was a welcome, although modest, improvement in the UK waste water treatment, and power generation installations.
Of these domestic market in 2004, which was coupled with additional orders the oil and gas companies are Rotorks major end users.
It should be coming through UK valve makers for overseas destinations.
AMP 4 noted that the majority of the actuators we sell into this sector go was released towards the year end.
It is difficult to predict the impact into downstream operations such as refinery offsites, storage and this will have on our UK business, however some contractors are distribution facilities.
Although capital expenditure by the oil and gas upbeat about its opportunities.
companies remained at high levels the emphasis of this expenditure has in the recent past been on upstream activities such as exploration, Rotork adheres to an in-house assembly only philosophy of production and transmission.
Hence, although the activity from this manufacturing in which we rely on high quality vendors for all of our sector was reasonably strong we would only expect to be a modest components.
The main electric actuator assembly plant is in the UK in beneficiary of this investment.
Bath with satellite assembly plants in Rochester N. Y. India and Malaysia.
The Bath plant achieved a good increase in its sales and profits in One of our key strategies is to expand our business in the worldwide spite of some difficulties with its supply chain.
A number of suppliers water and waste water markets as we consider that global demand experienced difficulties resulting either from re-locating facilities or for potable water and improved waste water treatment provides a gearing up production.
Fortunately these problems abated allowing good growth opportunity.
New products and marketing outlets have us to achieve historically high output levels in the final two months been developed in recent years to realise this ambition.
The large increase in the price of some raw materials was saw a healthy increase in the number of actuators we sold into this mitigated by our policy of developing more Far Eastern sources.
The market despite a static UK market.
The new IQT and the AWT IQT actuator launched in the second half of 2003 sold well above actuators were instrumental in achieving this gain.
our expectations in 2004 and meant that we had to add additional component supply capacity during the year to keep up with demand.
We have also targeted the power generation market as a key area in which to increase our market share.
Although the North American Europe and European markets remained subdued in terms of investment Our European sales subsidiaries performed well.
They were, in most levels we saw a big increase in the sale of units into this sector due to cases, boosted by the success of their local valve makers winning the strength of the Asian and Far East markets and the attractiveness business outside their territories rather than demand for actuators of our new products.
The demand from Eastern Europe and Russia was Turnover by business segment Turnover by geographical destination Fluid system Gears Electric Rest of World Americas Europe 04 16% 12% 72% 04 13% 27% 12% 75% 28% 45% 13% 12% 75% 23% 31% 46% 03 03 0m 50m 100m 150m 0m 50m 100m 150m A valve that was installed in 1835 Rotork IQ actuators have been installed has been retro fitted with a Rotork IQ throughout the new advanced Reading actuator during an upgrade programme sewage treatment works.
It is one of on a dam at Adelaide in South Australia.
Thames Waters flagship projects which incorporates the most innovative technology.
08 Rotork Operating and Financial Review Annual Report 2004 continued lower than the very high prior year figures.
The French, Spanish and Rotork Fluid System Dutch companies all comfortably exceeded expectations and prior Rotork Fluid System design, assemble and market heavy-duty fluid year profits.
The German subsidiarys profits were down on a very power valve actuators, which are operated either pneumatically or strong 2003 performance due to reduced levels of Russian business, hydraulically.
The markets for these products are, in the main, oil but met expectations, while in Italy the results were below the prior and gas related and unlike electric actuators the bulk of these year figure.
The strength of the euro is of assistance to all of our products are destined either for upstream applications of production European sales subsidiaries as the majority of their purchases are or transmission.
These areas are benefiting from increased investment from the UK plant.
by most of the international oil and gas companies.
The principal assembly plant is based in Lucca, Italy with product also assembled The Americas in Rochester N. Y.
The product is sold either direct to Italian valve The US subsidiary based in Rochester, N. Y. saw strong growth in its makers or through the Rotork worldwide sales outlets.
A number order intake, sales output and operating profit.
Of course the US dollar of these have specialist packaging expertise and mount controls and rate, moving from an average of $1.66 in 2003 to an average of other devices on actuators supplied from the assembly plants.
A key $1.83 in 2004, took a toll on these numbers when converted into strategy of the Group is to grow this activity which is expected to sterling.
However there was still respectable growth in sterling terms.
reach 20% of Rotorks total turnover within two years.
The margins The company saw increased sales into all of its end user markets, and from this business are less than those achieved by the remainder of the it was particularly pleasing to see the strong rebound in our municipal business but continue to improve year on year.
This activity saw very business, which we experienced in the second half of 2003, continue good growth levels in 2004.
Order intake was up 25%, sales output throughout the year.
The weak dollar benefited the US valve makers 26% and operating profits 50%.
This result was particularly creditable and other O. E. M. s in terms of their competitiveness on international as it was achieved without the benefit of any one very large project business which assisted our US business.
The results of our Canadian as in the prior year and was achieved in spite of the bulk of the cost subsidiary and Jordan Controls, based in Milwaukee, were disappointing.
Jordan Controls continued to suffer from a weak domestic power market and reduced sales into Venezuela.
It did however benefit from The Lucca plant had another successful year and was supported by improved sales in the Far East and from a number of breakthrough good growth at the Leeds and Singaporean packaging centres.
The US orders in the UK and Europe.
The Venezuelan subsidiary performed operation achieved a turnaround profit in spite of difficult currency well in a market that continues to be difficult.
issues due to the euro cost base.
Deanquip Valve Automation Pty Ltd, a Melbourne based distributor of fluid power actuators and control The Far East and the Rest of the World systems, which was acquired at the beginning of 2004 for A$2m Rotork has a particularly strong sales infrastructure in Asia and the Far made a good profit contribution in its first year ahead of our modest East.
This meant that we were able to capitalise on the good growth expectations.
It has completed a name change to Rotork Fluid System opportunities which were present in many of these markets.
Recently developed new product ranges sold well and added we saw high levels of activity in the Chinese and Indian economies.
to the attractiveness of Rotork Fluid Systems portfolio of products.
However, our subsidiaries in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Korea, In addition to in-house developments, acquisitions of companies Japan and in particular Australia, all also performed well.
with complementary products are being pursued.
The Malaysian manufacturing plant continued to increase its output Rotork Gears in its second year of operation.
By the second half of the year it was Rotork Gears saw healthy levels of demand for their products from most running profitably creating a small profit for the year as a whole which of their markets.
Order intake recorded a 6% increase while sales output was ahead of target.
The plant manufactures the AWT range which was up 9%.
Operating profits were up by 10%.
This division felt the sells through our worldwide sales outlets.
Once the profitability of the impact of increasing steel and iron prices more than the rest of the sales of the equipment through these channels is taken into account Group and it was also affected by the currency transaction impact the output of the Malaysian plant made a good contribution to overall on its sales of gearboxes to the US market.
The benefits of work to profits and was in line with our general margins for electric actuators.
improve its cost base through Far Eastern sourcing helped control costs 21st Century upgrade at National Grid IQ90 actuators installed on the Da Xie Transco.
New electric actuators have Tank Farm manifolds, which is situated been installed during a modernisation approximately 300 kilometers from programme at the National Grid Transco Shanghai.
gas terminal at Bacton - working closely within the daily operational constraints of the site to ensure the minimum of disruption.
Every Rotork actuator incorporates our uncompromising focus on quality to ensure unsurpassed reliability by using advanced techniques, our actuators are virtually maintenance free operating 24 7 to reflect our fit and forget philosophy Safety shutdown with earthquake Rotork IQ actuators on the Shell protection.
Rotork Fluid System GP Malampaya deep water gas to power and P range actuators used for safety development in the Phillipines.
Shown shutdown at the Playa del Ray gas here is the projects offshore gas storage facility near Los Angeles airport.
Rotork not only offers the best products but also an unrivalled level of support with the best people working from 150 offices in 76 countries around the world we have a service network that enables a quick, efficient and local response for our customers Rotork EH actuators installed on the BP Kingsbury oil terminal serves petrol 955km long Osbra pipeline in Brazil.
stations, commercial customers and The pipeline carries multiple product airports throughout the Midlands.
By LNG, petrol, aviation fuel, kerosene upgrading the existing Rotork actuators and diesel from refineries to major full advantage could be made of the consumer areas.
Operating and Financial Review Rotork 11 continued Annual Report 2004 in the second half of the year.
Further initiatives to reduce the cost The non-intrusive quarter turn product, IQT, is an excellent testimony base by design and sourcing are underway.
In addition to revamped to Rotorks Quality philosophy.
Demand for the product has exceeded products a new range of sub-sea gearboxes was launched during the even the most optimistic expectations.
The concept-to-market time year and has gained rapid acceptance amongst its specialist customer cycle was expedited by deploying innovative techniques including base.
The purchase of the portion of the premises in Leeds which we analytical solid modelling, rapid prototyping and concurrent engineering.
did not own has allowed the Gears operation to improve its workflow.
These state of the art techniques enabled Key Design For Manufacture and Design For Assembly features to be incorporated from the outset.
Research & Development Casting design was optimized using leading edge process simulation The R & D programme was directed towards the completion of the to predict potential trouble spots, resulting in very high casting yields IQT range, which has significantly added to the attractiveness of our from the start.
Build statistics demonstrate clearly that IQT assembly is quarter turn actuator product offerings.
Additionally the launch of highly intuitive and this, coupled with automated testing, makes for the Skilmatic SI range of actuators brings sophisticated IQ technology an exceptionally consistent and accurate process.
to the operation of electro-hydraulic actuators for the first time, and we have updated all of our open system digital control offerings and Treasury developed Ethernet and web based options to our proprietary The Groups treasury function, based in Bath, manages financial Pakscan control system.
risks to the Group, as a result of our wide geographical spread, and maximises interest income from cash deposits in all our subsidiary The main focus of R & D expenditure in the current year will be the companies.
The main exposure is the currency risk from trading enhancement of the electronics package in the flagship IQII product transactions undertaken by Rotork operations around the world.
range which will further increase the flexibility of the product for our With 30% of our income streams in US dollar and related currencies customer base: the development of a new generation of our proprietary this has a material effect on the Group in translation of our local actuation control system, which even in the era of open systems, currency profits into sterling.
In addition, the effect of transaction remains the most cost effective and robust means of monitoring and costs for our customers, and our own companies in US dollar driven controlling actuators in the field: and work on a major new range of economies around the world buying from the UK factory, is to dilute actuators which will extend the capabilities of our products into new margins in territories where we have to maintain a local currency business areas.
Our Innovation Programme has provided us with a number of Our weighted average rates for translation of the dollar over the last interesting approaches to the development of our products and three years have been: services which are being pursued as either stand alone developments 2004 - $1.83 2003 - $1.66 2002 - $1.52 or as part of existing development programmes.
The euro representing around 20% of our income streams in the year Quality has had a mitigating effect overall.
Our euro rates for translation The main Bath site underwent a very successful LRQA re-certification comparable with the above were: audit against ISO9001:2000 in February 2004.
The scope of approval 2004 - 1.46 2003 - 1.44 2002 - 1.58 was amended to underscore the suitability of Rotork products for use in potentially hazardous environments.
LRQA noted an evident As a guide, a one cent average annual appreciation or depreciation commitment to improvement.
Numerous customer audits, often of the US$ can have around a 140k effect on operating profit over geared to specific product or end-user requirements, have also noted a year and one cent movement in the euro can have a 120k effect the effectiveness of Rotorks well-established Quality Management on profit over a year on the same basis.
These figures are based on System.
the current geographic spread of the business and will vary from year to year depending on the dynamics of business around the world.
Rotorks performance at the giant Rotork control the safe movement of Corus Steel praised.
millions of tonnes of seawater during Rotork retrofits contract involved the flooding and emptying of the dry changing actuators in a two week docks at Portsmouth.
The 350 acre site period following the reclassification has four locks and twelve dry docks.
of the Gas Booster plant as a hazardous area by Coruss ATEX team.
12 Rotork Operating and Financial Review Annual Report 2004 continued An increasingly important relationship to us is the euro-dollar due to 5 million.
Total cash distributed to shareholders in dividend was the increased amount of Rotork Fluid System product shipped from 17.8 million in the year.
An additional contribution to the UK defined our factory in Lucca, Italy to the US.
We have mitigated this to some benefit pension fund of 5 million was made in March.
The Deanquip extent by increasing the number of Fluid System products assembled acquisition at the beginning of the year also consumed a modest in the US.
Purchase of components into the UK from overseas has increased Pensions over the last few years and now over 25% of our components are The triennial actuarial valuation of the UK defined benefit pension scheme sourced this way.
The production units outside the UK source was undertaken in 2004, and approved by the trustees in September.
primarily in their own currencies.
This provides some natural hedging This is the largest scheme funded by the Group, and has been closed of our currency exposure, and the trend toward Far East sourcing of to new entrants since 1 January 2003.
In addition to being closed to appropriate components is continuing.
The main production facility new members, existing members have generally increased their rate in the US sources from the UK and these transactions are hedged.
of contribution to the scheme from 5% of salary in 2003, to 6.5% Our active policy of currency management has helped defer the from January 2004, and to 8% from January 2005.
There is a defined effects of currency movements in the year.
Only underlying trading contribution scheme in place for people joining after January 2003 transactions are covered, normally using simple forward contract or but this is not managed within the existing scheme trustee structure.
The treasury policy in operation within the Group The actuary states in his triennial report that the funding level for the requires the hedging of a proportion of all actual and reasonably UK defined benefit scheme, which had been 97% at March 2001, expected transaction exposures.
The Group treasury function does had deteriorated to 84% at March 2004.
The company contribution not operate as a profit centre.
The impact of IAS 39 is expected to has therefore been increased from 1 October 2004, and the actuary be negligible for Rotork.
expects this to extinguish the past service deficit in 9 years.
The main reason for the increased deficit is stated in the report as being due to At constant currency the Group turnover would have shown a figure investment returns being significantly below those assumed in the of 153.0m, which is an increase of 13% over the 2003 comparative, 2001 valuation.
The MFR funding level at the 2004 valuation date rather than the 8% shown by the results.
would have shown an improvement of 20% over the prior year in constant currency terms.
As a result of the timing of the actuarial valuation, the Board has decided to adopt the accounting provisions of FRS17 for 2004 onwards.
Cash The 2003 comparatives have been restated which has increased profit Rotork is a cash generative Group converting a large part of its before taxation for that year by 97k.
The size of the deficit under operating profit into cash.
There have however been a number of FRS17 has however increased in the year due principally to the effect issues in the past year which have led to an increase in working of the movement in bond rates on the schemes liabilities.
Shipments in the last two months were very strong which led to the year closing with high receivables, despite a further reduction The accounting provisions of FRS17 take a fundamentally different in days sales outstanding from 67 days last year to a very creditable view of liabilities than the actuarial valuation.
Inventory has increased in the year due in part to the effect of the scheme liabilities under this standard, being dependant on of legacy products in the transition period while introducing the IQT.
average AA bond rates, will show more volatility than would be seen In addition supply shortages disrupted production, increasing our in the actuarial valuation, or under SSAP24.
AA bond discount rates inventory holdings.
The growing Fluid System business has had a used for this calculation are shown in note 23 and have fallen by 0.15% need for higher working capital.
This alone is estimated to have added 2.8m to the theoretical calculation of the scheme deficit under FRS17 since the There have also been two large outflows of cash, both in the first half last annual report.
The charge to the accounts for all pension schemes of the year.
An extra dividend payment was made in May, costing in the Group for the year was 2.0m 2003: restated 1.9m.
Pendinas - Residents to benefit from By use of information from the an improved water supply.
actuators inbuilt data logger and by Rotork electric actuators have been using Rotork Insight software routine installed to control the flow through maintenance to plant and equipment a new water treatment plant built at can be planned in advance.
Pendinas to simultaneously treat the water from three reservoirs to meet the latest EU requirements for water quality.
Rotork has the largest and most up-to-date dedicated manufacturing facilities that maximise efficiency All of our plants are strategically positioned to serve the global valve market Rotork actuators are used by Colorado Rotork Skilmatic self contained electroEnergy Management.
hydraulic actuators in use at Wyoming water treatment plant.
As a member of the UN Global Compact Initiative, Rotork is constantly looking at ways to reduce its impact on the environment Waste minimisation, increasing recycling and reducing CO2 emissions Rotork IQ actuators on radial gates At Highbridge STW, on Somersets coast, regulate the flow of water through Rotork actuators control the flow Northampton, maintaining water levels through two new storm tanks to for the White Water Canoe Course and minimise the risk of untreated sewage River Nene Navigation.
Operating and Financial Review Rotork 15 continued Annual Report 2004 Tax Environment The effective tax rate on profit before goodwill amortisation was 33.3% Rotork remains fully committed to the principles laid down for 2003: 32.1%.
The prior year benefited from the gain on disposal inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index.
The Group Environmental Policy of the property in Luton 597k which was effectively tax free due has been published on the company website since early 2002 and to capital losses brought forward.
Overall 55% of the Groups profits is reviewed annually.
As in previous years, the Group Environmental are earned outside the UK and a number of these jurisdictions have Report, to be published on the website in late Spring 2005, will include higher corporate tax rates than the UK.
We have benefited from global reporting of environmental data for the 2004 trading year.
increasing profits from some lower tax areas in the Far East.
We anticipate the rate of tax in 2005 to be broadly similar to 2004.
Further details of the Groups environmental performance during the year under review are contained in the Corporate Responsibility Dividend Statement.
Shareholders on the register during the whole period of eligibility for the year will receive a total of three dividends.
On 28 May 2004 a Employees special interim dividend of 5.85p was paid.
On 27 September an I would like to make special mention of the dedication and enthusiasm interim dividend of 5.35p was paid, which, taken with the final of of our entire worldwide workforce.
There were many challenging 9.70p to be paid on 27 May 2005 makes an increase of 2% over the issues which had to be addressed on a daily basis in order to achieve dividend paid in 2003 excluding the special dividend.
With the special these results and I very much admire the level of commitment that payment added, the 2004 dividend at 20.9p represents an increase of everyone showed in serving our customers which is the basis of our 42% over 2003. financial success.
International accounting standards We have in place procedures to enable us as required to adopt international accounting standards for the interim results 2005.
We do not anticipate there being significant adjustments as a result of this, but areas that may have some impact and record changes to comparative numbers are: Bill Whiteley Chief Executive Pension accounting note FRS17 adopted this year 1 March 2005 Restatement of 2004 acquisition Goodwill amortisation Share based payments The Interim 2005 results will record the transition to international accounting standards.
IQ DC actuators in remote areas of The fish ladder at Hagestien on the Australia are being used to control river Rhine encourages the return of water levels in a commercial irrigation migrating fish to the Netherlands to project.
The IQ actuators automatically regulate the river flow under changing ambient conditions.
