28 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 Financial Review Net borrowings and Financial year end Taxation The Group changed its financial year The tax charge, before exceptional items balance sheet ratios at the end from April to December with effect from and amortisation of goodwill, of 84m, year end are at levels with the previous financial period.
This is because represents an effective tax rate of 22.5%, which we are comfortable.
much of the business cycle in continental which is 7.5% lower than the standard rate Europe runs on a calendar year basis and of UK corporation tax.
This is mainly caused Net debt at 31 December it also facilitates the reporting of BBH which by non-UK businesses, including BBH 2004 was 2,063m has a December year end.
Results for the where there is a low effective tax rate, the previous period are thus for the eight months release of prior year provisions no longer Gearing was 75% to 31 December 2003. required and the efficient financial structure EBITDA interest cover of the Group.
The tax charge for the eight Goodwill amortisation and for 2004 was 8.4x months to December 2003 was 23.5%.
exceptional items Operating profit interest Amortisation of goodwill was 179m There was tax relief of 25m on the cover was 6.1x compared to 125m in the eight months exceptional charges against operating profit to December 2003. in the UK and International and there was Free cash flow was 220m a tax charge of 8m on the gain on disposal before a special pension Exceptional items charged to operating profit of fixed assets.
amounted to 84m of which 68m arose contribution of 200m in the UK and 16m in International.
In the Cash flow UK 15m related to asset writedowns and Net debt increased from 1,989m at exiting onerous leases and 53m to December 2003 to 2,063m at December restructuring initiatives.
In International the 2004, but this was after making a special 16m was mainly in France and Belgium.
contribution to the pension scheme of 200m.
There were net gains on the disposal of fixed assets of 16m.
Cash inflow from operating activities was 223m but, excluding the special pension Interest payable contribution, the cash inflow was 423m.
Improved working capital contributed 56m, Underlying interest costs decreased year and 59m was spent on reorganisation on year primarily due to lower average debt and onerous contracts.
levels arising from the disposal of Managed Retail in November 2003.
It was also Net interest paid was 73m compared affected by the full year impact of the to 129m in the eight months to December acquisitions of Central fide Cervejas and 2003 reflecting the decreased debt levels Bulmer in 2003 and by the one-off pension following the sale of Managed Retail.
Tax payments The interest charge was impacted by a were substantially reduced because of rise in underlying euro interest rates but tax benefits from the 200m special benefited from a rise in sterling interest rates contribution to the pension scheme where we are net depositors and from and from tax repayments relating to positive exchange rate movements.
payable also includes a charge of 3m in Capital expenditure was 155m and this joint venture companies, principally BBH.
The Groups share of year end debt in joint Depreciation was 119m.
The spend in ventures and associates was 192m.
excess of depreciation was largely on In addition, the net interest cost arising from enhanced brewery capacity, particularly our pension funds was 7m, compared to at the Federation and Caledonian breweries 13m in the previous period.
which were acquired during the year.
Fixed asset disposals generated proceeds of 151m.
This included 75m from the disposal of technical service assets to a joint venture with Carlsberg UK.
There was a net inflow on investments of 47m and this included an inflow of 76m from the partial disposal of the UK loan book to HBOS.
Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 29 The net spend on acquisitions and disposals Foreign exchange Group Finance works within was 74m and this included the acquisition The Groups reported profits, net assets and the new management structure of Mythos and our 36m investment in gearing are all affected by movements in to support local companies Chongqing Beer Company.
foreign exchange rates, particularly the euro.
We have It is Group policy to hedge exposure to cash Dividends paid in the period cost 181m a key role to play in driving transactions in foreign currencies for a range and reflected the rebasing of dividends change and value across the of forward periods but not to hedge exposure following the disposal of Managed Retail.
Group by providing better for the translation of reported profits.
transparency and timeliness In addition, currency assets should be Overall there was a net cash outflow of of management information.
hedged by way of currency borrowings 54m before use of liquid resources where practicable.
The overall level of debt and financing.
Free cash flow excluding Ian McHoul is not sufficient to allow the Group to fully acquisitions disposals and the special Group Finance Director hedge its euro assets.
As a consequence pension contribution was 220m.
of this, the Group has entered into a series Net debt at December 2004 was 2,063m.
of cross currency swaps which effectively Gearing net debt equity shareholders create 0.9bn of euro borrowings offset funds was 75% compared to 69% at by 0.9bn of sterling deposits.
December 2003 and reflects the 200m In addition to euro denominated assets, special pension contribution.
Interest the Group has exposure to assets excluding net interest on the pension denominated in Russian rouble as a result liability was covered 6.1 times in the eight of the acquisition of 50% of Baltic months to December 2003 4.5 times Beverages Holding BBH.
It is not possible by operating profit before amortisation to enter into any meaningful level of hedge of goodwill and exceptional items.
involving roubles and those assets therefore remain unhedged.
The ability to hedge will Group Finance key objectives continue to be monitored by the Group.
The Group Finance function operates within the new matrix management structure, During the 12 months to 31 December working to support local companies and 2004 the euro was on average 3% weaker other functions.
It does this by focusing than the previous 12 months and the dollar on value added activities, driving common was 10% weaker.
Overall, this reduced standards and eliminating duplication across operating profit by 18m and reduced the Group.
Its key objective is to provide better Interest rate management transparency and timeliness of management Interest rate exposure is managed within information.
Specifically, the Group Finance limits agreed by the Board which stipulate function is seeking to provide: that borrowings, where the rate of interest A dynamic integrated planning process is fixed for a period in excess of 12 months, with rolling forecasts.
should account for no less than 30% Insight and decision support to local and no more than 70% of borrowings.
To achieve this the Group enters into Unified Board reports, common data fixed rate loans, interest rate swaps and standard key performance indicators.
Commercial and financial support to S&Ns joint ventures.
After taking account of cross currency interest rate swaps, at 31 December 2004, These all drive better performance 52% of gross borrowings were at rates fixed evaluation, profitability analysis and for periods in excess of 12 months and investment appraisal.
The fixed rate borrowings had a weighted average interest Through its central accounting, treasury, rate of 4.4% and a weighted average tax planning and risk management maturity of 2.3 years.
departments the Group Finance also works to optimise the cost of capital, monitor and manage risk and ensure S&N has access to the funding it requires.
30 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 Financial Review Treasury policy and structure The key accounting policy differences under Risk management Treasury policies are reviewed annually IFRS are: Effective monitoring and management of by the Board and are managed by the Sales will be stated excluding excise duty.
commercial and financial risk is a high priority Group Treasury department which provides Options and other share based payments at S&N.
We have an extensive range of a service to operating divisions.
will require increased charges against processes in place to review financial and profits.
The policies have as their key objective market information and to identify and Goodwill will no longer be amortised, the management of financial risk through monitor the key risks that are likely to but instead goodwill will be reviewed investment, borrowing and foreign exchange preclude the achievement of our corporate annually for impairment.
activities in relation only to the underlying objectives.
The risk management process, Financial derivatives will be included business needs of the Group.
in particular, is facilitated by Group Review in the balance sheet at market value.
& Audit GRA and involves all senior Deferred tax on rolled over gains The Group Treasury department reports business and functional management.
will be included in the balance sheet.
formally on a monthly basis to a Treasury This process is overseen by the Audit The proposed final dividend will not Committee under the Chairmanship of Committee and a key output is a matrix of be accrued in the balance sheet.
the Group Finance Director and quarterly significant risks which is comprehensively to the Board Committee on Treasury which In addition, there will be changes to the reviewed by the Executive Management also includes two non-executive directors.
presentation and layout of the financial Group and the Main Board.
It is subject to regular compliance audits statements.
Three year plan by the Group Review and Audit department The Groups three year strategic and and an annual review by the Groups external Pensions business plan is updated each year and auditors.
During the year the Treasury The triennial actuarial valuation of the main incorporates a risk assessment analysis Department also had an effectiveness S&N pension scheme at 31 October 2003 carried out by each national company review which was undertaken by KPMG.
was completed during the period and, with input from the Group functions.
as anticipated, in line with many UK pension The Groups policy is to maintain a mix of funds, the scheme was in deficit.
The bank and capital market borrowings that Post investment reviews Company agreed with the trustees to make provide sufficient resources to meet its Post investment reviews are conducted by a one-off special contribution of 200m financing requirements over the medium term.
GRA on all Board sanctioned investments and this was paid at the end of April.
covering compliance with Group procedures, This has had the effect of reducing the Net borrowings at the year end are 2,063m robustness of the original justification and net interest charge on the pension liability and balance sheet ratios are at levels with achievement of objectives.
Furthermore, for the full year from an estimated 17m which we are comfortable.
lessons learned are highlighted to ensure to 7m.
returns from future investments are Accounting policies The net pension liability in the balance maximised.
For other lesser investments, UITF38 accounting for ESOP Trusts sheet has fallen as a result of the special post investment reviews are carried out was adopted during the year.
This requires contribution and at December 2004 at a divisional level.
holdings of S&N shares to be deducted the net liability was 262m compared from shareholders funds instead of, as Social, ethical and environmental to 419m at December 2003. previously, being included in investments.
risks SEE The impact of adopting UITF38 is explained The identification, management and The Group remains committed to its in note 1 on page 56. monitoring of SEE risks is undertaken as pension obligations to current and former part of the overall Group risk review process.
employees, and to pensions in general International Financial Reporting This is performed in conjunction with the as a key part of its remuneration package.
Standards Corporate Responsibility Committee, which As required by European Union legislation Dividend policy has particular responsibility for assessing the Group will report under International The Board is recommending a final dividend significant SEE risks, but also involves all Financial Reporting Standards IFRS from payment of 13.75p for the year to 31 senior business and functional management.
The financial statements for December 2004 subject to approval at the Please see pp26-27 for a report on the year to 31 December 2005 will be under AGM on 28 April 2005.
It will be paid on corporate responsibility at S&N.
IFRS with comparative information restated 4 May 2005 to shareholders on the register to comply with IFRS.
Interim results for the on 1 April 2005.
In future, we expect to six months to 30 June 2005 will also be pay interim dividends and final dividends in prepared on an IFRS basis.
Restated the ratio of one third: two thirds as in 2004 numbers for 2004 will be issued in April 2005. and to grow the dividend at least in line with inflation.
