FINANCIAL REVIEW SALES AND PRE-TAX PROFITS FROM Goodwill amortisation and exceptional the changed asset mix of the principal CONTINUING BUSINESSES WERE items are also shown in separate columns schemes at the beginning of the year.
SIMILAR TO THOSE OF LAST YEAR in the Profit and Loss Account and are DESPITE CONTINUED SLUGGISH discussed below.
The pre-tax profit before exceptional GROWTH IN SOME MARKETS AND A charges and goodwill amortisation SUBSTANTIAL WEAKENING OF THE US PROFIT AND LOSS was slightly above the prior year.
STRONG OPERATING CASHContinuing activities before goodwill was a creditable achievement against FLOW AND THE DISPOSAL OF THE amortisation and exceptional items.
a background of adverse exchange POLYMER BUSINESS AND OTHER NONtranslation and, overall, underlying growth 2004 2003 CORE OPERATIONS HELPED REDUCE was positive.
Underlying growth is a m m Change NET DEBT TO 273M AT THE YEAR END.
combination of operational improvements Sales 2,678 2,629 2% and contributions from acquisitions and Operating profit 360 372 3% ACCOUNTING POLICIES lower interest costs, partially reduced by The accounting policies used in these Pre-tax profit 350 349 higher research and development costs.
accounts are consistent with those used EPS 45.9p 45.6p 1% in the 2003 accounts in all respects apart Earnings per share eps from continuing Sales of 2.7bn were slightly ahead of the from a change required to comply with activities before goodwill amortisation and prior year, with growth being derived from a Abstract 38 of the Urgent Issues Task Force exceptional items were 1% ahead of prior combination of acquisitions and underlying UITF 38.
This Abstract requires shares year benefiting from a 0.5% point reduction business, offset by adverse currency held in Employee Share Ownership Plans to in the tax rate to 26.5%.
be treated as a reduction in shareholders funds, rather than as a fixed asset.
The The dividend for the year is 27p which is a Operating profit before goodwill amortisation balance sheet for 2003 has been restated 4% rise on 2003.
With eps from continuing and exceptional items of 360m was 3% to reflect this change, by reducing activities at 45.9p, the dividend is 1.7 times down on the prior year.
This was a result Investments and advances-other and covered by earnings.
The Board normally of higher research and development costs shareholders equity by 5.4m.
considers a dividend cover of twice earnings and an adverse sales mix in Detection, as to be the appropriate level, but in the light lower margin military sales replaced higher PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FORMAT of a positive trading outlook, and in a year margin civil sales including the substantial The Profit and Loss Account of the Company in which free cash-flow per share is almost one-off order last year.
The operating as a whole shows total sales of 2.7bn equal to earnings, a reduced cover is margin was therefore 0.7% lower at 13.4%.
2003 3.1bn, pre-tax profit of 300m considered acceptable.
2003 217m, and earnings per share of Total interest on net debt reduced to 15m.
These results, however, RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER Despite a background of rising borrowing do not present an accurate picture of the EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS rates in both the UK and USA, Smiths has performance of the continuing businesses.
As part of the strategic initiatives arising benefited from the substantial reduction For this reason, Discontinued businesses, from the reorganisation of the business in net debt resulting from the sale of the comprising the Polymer business for the announced at the beginning of the year, Polymer business.
The total interest charge two months prior to disposal, are shown restructuring charges of 31m have was covered 24 times by operating profit before in a separate column in the Profit and been incurred.
These costs, disclosed goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Loss Account in order to show the results as exceptional charges to operating profit, of ongoing activities more clearly.
Interest cover the significant changes being made Other finance income costs retirement is allocated to discontinued businesses in Aerospace, Detection and Medical.
The benefits, representing the financing cost on the basis of net proceeds received.
As a costs relate to systems integration, severance of pensions and post retirement healthcare result, the profit before tax in the Ordinary and site closures.
benefits, were a net credit of 3m 2003 net Activities column is stated on a comparable charge 2m.
This improvement reflected basis between 2004 and 2003.
SMITHS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 19 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued In June, a substantial property asset was sold disclosure as part of discontinued businesses The key exchange rates affecting the Group to an institutional purchaser at a profit of and, accordingly, they have been included are the US dollar and the Euro.
The table 12m and is disclosed as an exceptional item.
as part of continuing operations.
below shows the average and year-end rates for these currencies.
TAXATION GOODWILL 1 US$ 1 Euro The tax charge for the year represented Goodwill on all acquisitions since 1998 is an effective rate of 26.5% on profit of capitalised and amortised over a maximum Average ongoing businesses before taxation, 20-year period.
The carrying value of 2004 1.75 1.46 goodwill amortisation and exceptional acquisitions is formally reviewed at the first 2003 1.59 1.51 items 2003 27%.
full year-end following acquisition and is also stronger weaker 10% 3% reviewed when circumstances require it.
The CASH-FLOW annual goodwill amortisation for 2004 was Year-end We believe that profit performance should 39m 2003 44m.
No impairment charges 2004 1.82 1.51 be underpinned by strong and reliable cash have been made in 2004 2003 137m.
We monitor cash performance stronger weaker 13% 6% by the conversion rate of operating profit ACQUISITIONS The effect of the decline in the average into cash from our operations after taking 219m was spent on acquisitions during value of the US dollar outweighed the account of net capital expenditure and by the year, the largest being the business of effect of the stronger Euro, as would be the generation of free cash-flow at group DGT 56m and TRAK Communications expected from the geographic weighting level.
This year we achieved a conversion 61m.
Acquisitions were completed in of the business.
The net translation effect rate of 91% and free cash-flow of 255m, each division and their details have been was to reduce sales by 137m and operating compared to 90% and 270m last year.
dealt with in the Chief Executives Review.
A movement of 1 cent in The phasing of the acquisitions was the US dollar affects profit by approximately DISCONTINUED BUSINESSES weighted towards the end of the year and, 1.4m.
Exposure on export transactions We continued to focus on core activities and combined, they contributed 29m to sales after hedging is not material.
dispose of non-core businesses during the and 3m to operating profit, well in excess year.
The net proceeds of these disposals of the associated financing cost.
Information on the impact of hedging foreign amounted to 507m.
exchange translation is contained in the TI AUTOMOTIVE Treasury section below.
The principal disposal took place in Smiths continues to hold, at cost, 325m September 2003 when the Polymer of preference shares in TI Automotive, COST OF CAPITAL AND RETURN ON business was sold to Trelleborg AB for which was demerged in July 2001.
No INVESTMENT 483m net of costs.
This gave rise to an preference dividend has been received The Company uses its weighted average exceptional profit on disposal of 12m, or accrued in 2004. cost of capital as one measure to appraise although 137m had been written off in both internally-generated investment respect of associated goodwill in the prior GEOGRAPHICAL SPREAD AND opportunities and acquisitions.
The results of the Polymer business EXCHANGE RATES 2004, the Companys weighted average for the period of ownership are disclosed The geographical analysis of ongoing cost of capital for the year remained at 8%.
in the discontinued businesses column operations is largely unchanged from 2003. in the Profit and Loss Account.
Sales Profits The after-tax return before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items on Other, smaller, disposals were completed United Kingdom 26% 13% average shareholder investment, including during the year which raised 24m in net North America 52% 61% goodwill set off against reserves was 11% proceeds and gave rise to an exceptional loss Continental Europe 15% 19% compared with 12% last year and continues of 4m.
The results of these businesses are Rest of World 7% 7% to exceed the weighted average cost of capital.
not of sufficient size to qualify for separate 20 SMITHS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 RETIREMENT BENEFITS Pension funding company cash contribution Group at short notice.
Local working The Company applies the full accounting decisions are based on the advice of capital needs and capital expenditure requirement of FRS17 to calculate its pension independent actuaries, which takes account requirements are typically funded by local expense.
FRS17 is a more prescriptive of the long-term nature of the liabilities.
In addition, Smiths has accounting treatment than SSAP24, and we funding purposes, the most recent actuarial extensive local and cross-border cashconsider that the greater transparency and valuations of the two principal schemes pooling arrangements, and arms length consistency offered are significant benefits.
were performed as at March and April 2003 intercompany lending through financial in the United Kingdom, and January 2004 centres, to optimise the global deployment Under FRS17, the Groups accounts reflect in the United States.
Contributions to the of funds across its businesses in a tax the net surplus deficit in retirement benefit funded plans were increased to 64m in efficient manner.
plans, taking assets at their market values 2004 2003 46m, as funding deficit payments at 31 July and evaluating liabilities by were made.
Slightly lower contributions are To manage the central funding demands discounting at year-end AA corporate bond expected in 2005. and provide a low cost of debt The interest rates.
Company funding requirements are TREASURY largely driven by acquisition activity and The table below gives an analysis of the Smiths continues to apply centralised met by centrally arranged debt finance.
treasury management over its financial The Company holds term debt, largely in risks operating within a strong control the bond markets, of 692m with average 2004 2003 environment.
The Company uses financial maturity of six years and at an average cost m m instruments to raise finance for its of debt of 4.7%.
Through the use of interest Funded plans operations and to manage the related rate swaps, the Company maintains a Assets 2,558 2,468 financial risks.
There is neither speculation broadly even mix of fixed and floating rate Liabilities 2,686 2,776 nor trading in financial instruments and debt.
The Company seeks to maintain a all funding is properly recognised on the spread of maturity profiles on its debt and Deficit 128 308 balance sheet.
The Board has approved no more than 30% of the Companys net Average funding level 95% 89% the treasury policy, which governs the debt will be held on borrowings due within financial risk profile, and a treasury one year, without firm plans for refinancing Unfunded liabilities 119 145 compliance report is presented annually or repayment.
The 1300m Eurobond 247 453 to the Audit Committee.
matures in July 2005 and currently Smiths Deferred tax 85 145 could retire this debt out of surplus cash The objectives of the treasury function resources.
The credit ratings of the Group Net liability 162 308 remain the same as in previous years and remain at A A3 with Standard & Poors The Profit and Loss Account bears the are explained in further detail below in the and Moodys, respectively, reflecting the cost of providing retirement benefits in context of current developments.
Groups strong financial profile and stable two places.
The actuarially calculated business outlook.
Smiths believes that it cost of the current years benefits earned To deliver the liquidity requirements of the has access to further financial resources is charged against operating profit the businesses cost effectively As referred to cater for all envisaged business service cost in 2004 this was 47m 2003 to earlier, liquidity was strong during the requirements and opportunities.
The interest section of the profit and year.
The Company aims to minimise the loss account is charged with the interest on level of surplus cash balances but where To develop and maintain strong and retirement liabilities and credited with the these arise, such as with the Polymer stable banking relationships and services expected return on pension scheme assets disposal proceeds, tight controls apply Smiths has a core and stable group of in 2004 this was a net credit of 3m 2003 to ensure that they are securely placed ten leading global banks and financial net charge 2m reflecting the improved with highly rated counterparties and are institutions who competitively tender for asset mix at the beginning of the year.
available for redeployment around the treasury business.
Credit exposures to any SMITHS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 21 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued one bank are carefully controlled.
All law suits pending in the United States in The Company has continuous, formalised business is transacted with banks on which plaintiffs are claiming damages business risk management processes consistent terms and is fairly allocated.
arising from exposure to, or use of, operated at each business unit.
The John To provide the Group with reasonable Crane products generally referred to in The internal audit department reviews protection from the effect of foreign these cases are ones in which the asbestos all key business units over a rolling threecurrency volatility Material cross-border fibres were encapsulated in such a manner year cycle and its findings are reported to trading contracts or forecast commitments that, according to tests conducted on behalf the Audit Committee.
All acquisitions are are hedged at inception by appropriate of John Crane, the products were safe.
reviewed within 12 months of acquisition, derivative financial instruments, with the John Crane ceased manufacturing to verify compliance with the Groups Companys core banks as counterparties.
products containing asbestos in 1985. procedures.
Whilst the trends of foreign currency movements cannot be eliminated, this John Crane has resisted every case in Further information regarding the Groups hedging programme reduces the volatility which it has been named and will continue procedures to maintain strict internal on the results and protects the cash-flow its robust defence of all asbestos-related controls over all aspects of risk, including and margins.
Moreover, Smiths largely claims based upon this safe product financial risk, are set out in the Corporate manufactures in countries whose currency defence.
In addition, John Crane has access Governance section of the Directors Report.
is linked to the currency of its sales revenue, to insurance cover which, while it is kept and hence gross transactional exposures under review, is judged sufficient to meet INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING are around 300m annually, before hedging.
all material costs of defending these claims STANDARDS for the foreseeable future.
From August 2005 onwards, in common The Company protects its reserves from with all listed companies in the European foreign currency fluctuations by ensuring As a result of its defence policy, John Crane Union, Smiths will be required to prepare that at least 75% of the total net overseas has been dismissed before trial from cases its consolidated accounts in accordance operational assets are offset, either by involving approximately 95,000 claims over with International Financial Reporting borrowings in the respective currency or the last 25 years.
John Crane is currently a Standards IFRS.
As a result the Financial by currency swaps.
defendant in cases involving approximately Statements for 2004 05 will be the last 180,000 claims.
Despite these large prepared under UK Generally Accepted Smiths overseas earnings are translated numbers of claims, John Crane has had Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
at average currency rates for the year which final judgements against it, after losing smooths the effect of currency volatility.
appeals, in only 39 cases, amounting to For some months now, we have been However, Smiths is increasingly exposed awards of some US$26m over the 25-year planning for the transition from UK GAAP to the US dollar due to its significant North period.
These awards, the related interest to IFRS.
We are currently in the process American presence.
Following the Interim and all material defence costs have been of interpreting the accounting standards results, a short-term hedging contract met in full by insurance.
that will apply from August 2005 onwards, was entered into to protect against setting the future accounting policies further dollar exchange rate volatility No provision relating to this litigation has in accordance with IFRS and identifying on the translation of US earnings for the been made in these accounts.
the detailed accounting and disclosure remaining part of the year.
This contract requirements that will necessitate changes produced a 1.4m profit and cash inflow.
FINANCIAL CONTROLS to our financial information systems.
While our decentralised organisation LEGAL ISSUES delegates day-to-day control to local We are not, as yet, in a position to quantify As previously reported, John Crane, Inc. management, we have comprehensive the effect of the differences between IFRS John Crane, a subsidiary of the Company, systems in place, with regular reporting and UK GAAP on the Groups results or is one of many co-defendants in numerous to the Board.
Based on our work to 22 SMITHS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 date, we believe that the significant Goodwill differences will arise in the areas below: Generally, the carrying amount of goodwill recognised under UK GAAP Research and development costs on past acquisitions will not be revisited Expenditure on self-funded research and under IFRS.
However, in comparison to development is of the order of 140m per UK GAAP, where goodwill is amortised annum.
Such expenditure is prudently over its useful life, under IFRS goodwill expensed as incurred, a policy which we will not be amortised but, rather, will be believe conforms with industry practice.
subject to an annual impairment review IFRS requires development expenditure which may introduce significant volatility meeting certain recognition criteria to in the Profit and Loss Account.
be capitalised on the balance sheet and amortised over its useful life.
This standard Other areas being considered, which could is to be applied retrospectively: hence the have a significant impact on the Companys intangible asset will include amounts results include share options, pensions, expensed in previous years.
Derivatives and hedge accounting Outside the European Union many other A significant element of trading is countries will require or permit companies denominated in US dollars and other to report under IFRS.
Efforts to achieve foreign currencies.
In order to protect convergence between IFRS and US GAAP ourselves from the associated currency are welcome.
volatility, we take levels of forward cover.
We also use derivatives to protect the Company from the impact of changes in interest rates.
Currently, gains or losses arising on these derivatives are taken to the Profit and Loss Account in the same period as the underlying transaction.
IFRS requires all hedges to be strictly designated against specific transactions and the hedge effectiveness tested.
All such instruments are required to be revalued to market values at the balance sheet date.
If the hedging criteria are not achieved, then the change in value is taken to the Profit and Loss Account immediately.
Meeting the strict hedge criteria for all contracts may not be practicable, resulting in potential volatility in the reported Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet.
SMITHS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 23
