4 Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 Operating and financial review Our Communications group, Spirent Communications, is a leading Overview Our performance in 2004 showed a marked improvement as provider of test and monitoring solutions and systems for nextgeneration telecoms equipment and services worldwide.
In 2004 we a result of our investment in and focus on growth markets.
In the Communications group, our Performance Analysis division achieved achieved an improvement in the overall results of our Communications group due to a recovery in the Performance Analysis division, which a substantial improvement in its results, with turnover up 31 per cent in constant currencies and operating profit up materially from has benefited from increased spending on next-generation technologies.
Results for the Service Assurance division were weak due to pressures 4.4 million to 19.7 million due to increased customer spending on next-generation technologies.
Actions have been taken to reinvigorate in its market and we are working to enhance our products to address customers evolving needs.
Turnover for the group was up by 15 per the Service Assurance division, but we are not anticipating a recovery in its performance until the latter part of 2005.
Results for the division cent on a constant currency basis compared with 2003.
As a result of increased volumes, operating profit increased to 19.9 million were affected by market pressures, with turnover down 10 per cent in constant currencies and operating profit at break-even.
The Network representing a 63 per cent increase in constant currencies over the prior year.
Return on sales improved to 7.9 per cent compared with Products group delivered another strong performance, with turnover up 11 per cent and operating profit up 27 per cent in constant currencies.
The movement in the US dollar exchange rate reduced reported In order to be able to meet our customers needs and to secure turnover by 32.8 million, operating profit by 3.2 million and profit our position at the forefront of telecoms technology we have before taxation, amortisation and exceptional items by 2.5 million.
maintained our investment in product development, spending Product development spending in the Communications group was a total of 60.4 million, or 24 per cent of the Communications 60.4 million, 24 per cent of turnover, to secure our position at the groups turnover, in the period 2003 57.8 million and 24 per cent.
Strong cash generation reduced net Total product development spending for the year was split as to debt to 26.4 million at the end of 2004 compared with 57.5 million 43.2 million in the Performance Analysis division and 17.2 million at the end of 2003. in the Service Assurance division 2003 39.4 million and 18.4 million, respectively.
This investment continues to be directed at nextOperating review generation technologies and at maintaining the competitiveness Communications of our products in terms of price and functionality.
Change % Constant During the second half of 2004 we embarked on a number of initiatives million 2004 2003 Reported currency to improve the operational efficiency of the Communications group.
Turnover These initiatives include the further integration of important functions Performance Analysis 176.8 148.7 19 31 such as IT, finance, human resources and group marketing and a Service Assurance 74.7 91.7 19 10 rationalisation of the supply chain.
In addition, management reporting lines have been simplied with certain of our smaller operations being Communications group 251.5 240.4 5 15 integrated into our broadband and wireless activities.
These actions Operating profit will enable the group to make better use of shared resources and Performance Analysis 19.7 4.4 100 100 drive synergies across our various telecoms activities.
A substantial Service Assurance 0.2 9.4 98 95 headcount reduction and certain other actions have also been undertaken in the Service Assurance division.
In total these actions, Communications group 19.9 13.8 44 63 some of which were taken in 2005, are expected to deliver annualised Return on sales % cost savings of approximately 4 million.
Performance Analysis 11.1 3.0 Our strategy for Spirent Communications continues to be to advance Service Assurance 0.3 10.3 next-generation technologies and services, to increase our presence Communications group 7.9 5.7 internationally and to extend our products into the enterprise sector.
We believe we have made progress in delivering this strategy during Operating profit, return on sales and headline earnings per share are used by Headline earnings per share as referred to in the text is based on headline earnings the Group as key measures of operating performance and are stated before as set out in note 12 to the Accounts.
the effect of goodwill amortisation and exceptional items so that period on period comparisons are not distorted.
Free cash ow cash ow before disposals, acquisitions, equity dividends and nancing is also a key measure.
Operating profit and return on sales in the text are stated before goodwill amortisation and operating exceptional items.
In constant currencies or on a constant currency basis means calculated at constant exchange rates.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 5 2004 and, while challenges still remain for us in relation to the Service Our wireless handset test activities, which represent approximately Assurance division, we are confident we now have the corporate 23 per cent of this divisions turnover, grew substantially in 2004 due structure and management with which to drive the group along its largely to increased demand for our industry-leading CDMA-2000 future development path.
Demand has been driven by the deployment of high speed 3G data services and the increased number of new mobile Performance Analysis devices in the market.
There was good growth in sales of our systems Our Performance Analysis division develops solutions for testing the for testing advanced CDMA wireless services such as push-to-talk performance, functionality and conformance of telecoms equipment.
and those utilising mobile IP, reecting an increased focus on testing This is achieved by simulating voice, video and data trafc and largethe applications that run on mobile devices.
We are now a market scale networks and by creating real-world conditions in the laboratories leader in test solutions for mobile devices employing 1xEV-DO of network equipment manufacturers, telecoms service providers, technology, an advanced 3G CDMA technology that was first used enterprises and government departments.
By subjecting equipment in Asia and is now undergoing deployment in the US and Europe.
and networks to impairments and stresses customers are able to During the year we also made initial sales of our wideband CDMA ensure that the equipment or services they are about to launch or handset testing solutions into strategic customers, including systems deploy will withstand real-world conditions thereby reducing the incorporating our leading location-based testing capability using commercial risks inherent in developing or adopting new products.
While overall telecoms capital spending was up modestly in 2004 On a geographic basis we have seen increased turnover worldwide in our Performance Analysis division benefited directly from increased constant currencies with sales particularly strong in the US where a spending on next-generation and 3G wireless technologies by our large number of our major customers are located.
Strong relationships customers during the year.
This trend, which began to emerge towards with important local customers have led to record sales in China in the end of 2003, has largely been driven by the migration from legacy, 2004.
In addition, the move by some of the major global network circuit-switched networks to Internet Protocol IP or packet-based equipment manufacturers to establish quality assurance and research networks by telecoms service providers around the world.
As a result and development facilities in India and China has contributed to turnover in the Performance Analysis division grew by 31 per cent in sales in the Asia Pacic region.
We also delivered growth in our constant currencies in 2004.
Operating profit of 19.7 million was European sales over 2003 due to the continued roll out of advanced up materially over 2003 reecting the operational gearing inherent digital subscriber line DSL services in the region and good demand in this business as volumes increase.
Return on sales recovered to for our VoIP, web applications and wireless handset testing systems.
11.1 per cent for the period compared with 3.0 per cent in 2003.
The results for our Performance Analysis division demonstrate that Our portfolio of leading-edge products, services and solutions is well our strategy of providing solutions that enable customers to develop aligned with our customers needs and in 2004 we grew sales in constant and deploy next-generation equipment and services more efficiently currencies in all of our product groups and across all customer sectors.
and economically has delivered growth.
During 2005 we expect to In particular, we saw good demand for our core broadband access, continue to benefit from further customer spending on technologies metro Ethernet, gigabit Ethernet and IPv6 test systems, driven by the critical to the migration to packet-based networks.
move towards higher speeds of data transmission, increased scalability and the proliferation of high bandwidth applications such as voice, Service Assurance video and data, generally referred to as triple play.
The momentum Our Service Assurance division provides systems that enable telecoms in the voice-over-IP VoIP services sector was behind the increased service providers to test and assure broadband leased line, DSL and IP sales of our market-leading IP telephony test solutions during the services.
Our products include operations support systems software, year.
Continuing concerns in relation to the delivery of mission remote test probes, network access systems and consulting and technical critical processes over enterprise networks and websites resulted services.
We also supply portable systems for fault identication in strengthened demand for our web testing products both from and testing of copper telephone lines in the eld.
Our systems help network equipment manufacturers and enterprise customers.
service providers reduce their operational costs by automating and 6 Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 Operating and financial review continued centralising their network testing and service assurance processes, The global telecoms sector is currently undergoing a migration reducing the need for expensive physical intervention and facilitating from legacy networks towards IP-based networks and services.
These faster responses to customers problems.
new networks and services will require sophisticated monitoring and diagnostic systems to enable network operators to deliver the high The performance of our Service Assurance division in 2004 was quality, reliable telecoms services their customers have come to affected by market pressures with turnover for the division down expect.
We believe the actions we have taken in our Service Assurance 10 per cent in constant currencies compared with 2003.
Operating division will enable us to take advantage of this trend but we are not profit for 2004 was down substantially at 0.2 million compared with anticipating a recovery in its performance until the latter part of 2005.
9.4 million in 2003, after incurring an operating loss of 2.0 million in the second half of the year.
Network Products Change % We continued to supply and support DSL and leased line monitoring Constant systems for major US service providers during the year.
However, million 2004 2003 Reported currency sales of our leased line systems declined faster than anticipated in Turnover 187.8 174.4 8 11 the period as customers increasingly focused their capital spending on advanced IP services.
Service providers continue to seek to reduce Operating profit 20.4 16.7 22 27 Return on sales % 10.9 9.6 the cost of deploying DSL services and we have responded to this trend by re-engineering certain elements of our offering to increase Our Network Products group produces innovative products and the cost effectiveness of our DSL monitoring solutions.
Our hardware solutions for the fastening, identication, protection and connectivity probes remained the largest contributor to sales in 2004 with of wires and cables in electrical and communications networks in a maintenance and support contracts representing just over a quarter broad range of applications.
The group operates under the global brand of this divisions sales in the year.
We have had success in the IP HellermannTyton in 30 countries worldwide and has manufacturing space with initial orders for SmartSight, our recently launched facilities in all the major geographic regions.
IP monitoring and diagnostic system, and we have been encouraged by the levels of customer interest in this range of solutions.
We expect Our Network Products group delivered another strong performance to launch further enhancements to the SmartSight product range in in 2004 with turnover of 187.8 million up 11 per cent in constant 2005.
Our eld test business saw significant growth over 2003 driven currencies over the same period last year.
Operating profit of by the shipment of a major order of portable fault testers to a leading 20.4 million was ahead by 27 per cent in constant currencies over European service provider.
Return on sales improved to 10.9 per cent from 9.6 per cent due to increased operational efficiencies.
As anticipated, results for The future growth of our Service Assurance division will come the second half of 2004 were marginally below the first half due to from the delivery of cost effective DSL monitoring solutions, success the normal seasonality of this business.
Capital expenditure was up in the IP services sector and the broadening of our customer base over 2003 as planned due to the expansion of capacity at our major geographically.
Consequently, over the last six months we have manufacturing sites and we plan to further increase capacity in 2005. taken several steps to realign our resources and reduce operating costs including changing the senior management, reducing employee In Europe our sales benefited from increased automotive production numbers by approximately 15 per cent and redirecting marketing and our ability to increase the number of products per platform on and product development efforts.
We have increased our marketing new models.
Sales in the US were up due to the general economic efforts outside the US and, in particular, have adopted a direct sales recovery as well as our increased penetration of the automotive and strategy in China which involves exiting our joint venture, Spirent DM, telecoms markets and successful new product introductions.
Sales in and creating a direct sales force based in Beijing.
We are currently Japan through our associate company showed good growth and we actively working with a number of non-US customers to help them made progress in China due to the increasing OEM and automotive define their future strategy for DSL and IP service assurance.
production levels in the region.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 7 We were successful in growing sales to the automotive sector, which 69 per cent, respectively, in constant currencies compared with 2003. represents the largest proportion of this groups turnover, with increased Return on sales reduced to 6.1 per cent compared with 16.1 per cent cabling in cars driving demand for our cable management and fastening in 2003.
We have had some success in reducing our exposure to products.
In addition, with the increasing trend among volume car the US dollar:sterling exchange rate by increasing the number of manufacturers to move production to emerging economies, our ability components purchased in US dollars.
We have also moved some of to supply customers directly in these regions has helped increase our production to China to reduce the logistical costs of supporting sales.
Sales to the heavy vehicles market were good in all regions our activities in the Asia Pacic region.
but particularly in the US where heavy truck manufacturers increased Continuing constraints in US government healthcare funding for their manufacturing volumes in the year.
We increased sales in our powered wheelchairs dampened demand for our wheelchair systems next largest market, the electrical wholesalers and catalogue houses, during the year.
Due to the competitiveness of our established although their end markets continue to be difficult.
We saw growth VSI, S-Drive and TRIO products we were, however, successful in in sales of our connectivity systems but the communications market increasing customer penetration in both the mobility and our new remains very price competitive and we took actions during the year to industrial vehicles markets during the year.
In 2005 we are planning reduce the cost base.
The RapidNet pre-terminated structured cabling to launch several new products that will enable us to strengthen system launched last year has received increasing acceptance and our position in both our addressed markets.
we have secured several important installations in the enterprise and public sector markets.
We also secured further deployments for While results for this group are currently being affected by the weak Autotools, our market-leading automated bundling systems, at major US dollar and reduced US government healthcare funding, longer automotive and white goods harness makers worldwide during the year.
term prospects for our main mobility vehicle market remain positive, as we anticipate that increasing afuence and the desire for mobility Our strong customer focus, technical leadership and world class will increase the demand for powered medical vehicles.
operational excellence have enabled us to capitalise on our marketleading positions in Europe, South America and the Asia Pacic Financial review region during 2004 and we expect to continue to make further Results progress in 2005.
Change % Constant million 2004 2003 Reported currency Systems Change % Turnover 475.0 466.2 2 9 Constant million 2004 2003 Reported currency Operating profit 42.8 36.0 19 28 Return on sales % 9.0 7.7 Turnover 31.3 37.9 17 14 Operating profit 1.9 6.1 69 69 Reported turnover for 2004 of 475.0 million was up 2 per cent and Return on sales % 6.1 16.1 operating profit of 42.8 million was up 19 per cent compared with Figures in the above table relate to PG Drives Technology only.
In constant currencies turnover was up by 9 per cent and operating contributed 4.4 million of turnover and 0.6 million of operating profit in 2004 profit was up by 28 per cent compared with 2003.
Return on sales for and 13.5 million of turnover and a 0.6 million operating loss in 2003. the Group improved to 9.0 per cent from 7.7 per cent in 2003.
After the sale of our last remaining aerospace business in August 2004, Reported results have been affected by the weakness of the US dollar the Systems group now comprises PG Drives Technology, a leading relative to sterling with an average US dollar:sterling exchange rate supplier of power control systems for powered medical and small of $1.83: 1 in 2004 compared with $1.64: 1 in 2003.
The continued weakness of the US dollar has currency translation reduced turnover by 32.8 million, operating adversely affected the trading performance of PG Drives Technology profit by 3.2 million and profit before taxation, amortisation and with the transaction effect reducing operating profit by approximately exceptional items by 2.5 million.
Turnover and operating profit were down 14 per cent and 8 Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 Operating and financial review continued Turnover by source grew in constant currency terms in all geographic covenant tests, with covenants of net interest cover of not less than regions during 2004.
Turnover by market grew in constant currencies 3.0 times and net debt to EBITDA of not more than 3.0 times, and in all regions except the Asia Pacic region, where growth from the certain other restrictions within our borrowing terms will be relaxed.
Network Products group and Performance Analysis division was We were granted an order of the High Court in November 2004 offset by lower demand for our Systems groups products.
Operating conrming the cancellation of the share premium account and profit by source in North America grew by 64 per cent in constant capital redemption reserve in order to eliminate the deficit in the currencies compared with 2003.
Operating profit also grew in the Companys distributable reserves.
Asia Pacic region but reduced by 4 per cent in constant currencies in Europe due to the effect of the weak US dollar on trading.
Exceptional items Product development spending for the Group in 2004 was 67.3 million, Operating exceptional items of 2.9 million have been charged or 14 per cent of turnover 2003 66.0 million and 14 per cent, the in 2004 which related to restructuring costs within our businesses large majority of which was invested in the Communications group.
and the exit from our joint venture company, Spirent DM.
A 0.7 million loss from interests in joint ventures in 2004 relates to Total non-operating exceptional items in 2004 were a net loss of our share of the losses in our joint venture company in China, Spirent 0.9 million.
In August 2004 the remaining aerospace maintenance, DM.
Income from interests in joint ventures reported in 2003 included repair and overhaul MRO business was divested for a net loss our share of profits from WAGO which was divested in April 2003. of 2.5 million after charging 4.9 million of goodwill previously written off to reserves and now reinstated in accordance with Net interest payable, excluding the exceptional interest expense, Financial Reporting Standard 10.
Provisions on vacant property reduced to 6.8 million in 2004 compared with 9.3 million in 2003 and accrued expenses related to prior year disposals of 1.6 million due principally to the continued reduction in net debt during 2003 have been released.
A make-whole amount of 0.5 million has been charged as an exceptional profit before taxation, amortisation and exceptional items was interest expense in 2004.
In 2003 we reported an exceptional interest 37.4 million compared with 30.0 million in 2003.
Reported profit expense of 16.1 million in relation to the make-whole amount on before taxation was 24.0 million compared with 0.3 million for 2003. the partial prepayment of our senior notes and related bank fees.
The effective rate of taxation for 2004 was 24.1 per cent compared with 27.7 per cent for 2003 as a result of the utilisation of tax losses.
Financing We anticipate that the effective tax rate for 2005 will be approximately During 2004 we prepaid a total of $19.4 million 10.6 million of 25 per cent.
Following this $124.8 million 65.0 million of notes remained outstanding at 31 December 2004.
Our 30 million Headline earnings per share of 2.99 pence increased by 29 per cent bank facility remained nil drawn at the end of 2004 at which point over 2003.
The weighted average number of shares outstanding at we had cash at bank and in hand of 51.7 million.
A new 30 million the period end was 939.2 million 2003 929.3 million.
After charging bank facility was put in place in February 2005 and this facility has goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, basic earnings per share a 364-day term and a 12 month term-out option.
Further details of our treasury management and financial instruments Net debt has reduced signicantly to 26.4 million at 31 December 2004 can be found in note 29 to the Accounts.
from 57.5 million at the end of 2003.
The effect of translation has reduced net debt by 5.4 million due principally to the weak US dollar.
Cash ow Our borrowing covenant ratios at the year end were net interest In 2004 we were cash generative in all our operating groups.
Operating cover of 5.8 times covenant ratio: greater than or equal to 2.5 times cash ow for 2004 was down by 12 per cent at 60.3 million compared and net debt to EBITDA of 0.5 times covenant ratio: less than or with 68.2 million in 2003 due largely to the pension payments equal to 2.25 times.
Having met the financial covenant requirements referred to below.
under the terms of our borrowings, we will revert to semi-annual Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 9 Cash ow before disposals, acquisitions and nancing, or free cash ow, Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards for 2004 was 23.0 million compared with 38.2 million in 2003.
Net Spirent is required to comply with International Financial Reporting capital expenditure increased to 24.8 million as planned compared Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU with effect with net 15.8 million in 2003.
We expect capital investment to from 1 January 2005.
For the Spirent Group the main areas on increase to approximately 35 million in 2005 due to investments in which we expect IFRS to make an impact will be the reporting and IT within our Communications group and the expansion of capacity treatment of goodwill and intangible assets, share-based payments, within the Network Products group.
financial instruments and profit or loss on disposal of operations.
The adoption of IFRS will not affect our position under existing borrowing Net cash payments of tax of 3.1 million were made in 2004 compared covenants as they are calculated under UK GAAP as it existed at with a net inow of 8.9 million in 2003 when we had the benefit of 31 December 2002 nor will IFRS change the cash ow, risk prole a carry back of tax losses, principally in the US.
or economics of the business going forward.
In 2004 we made our first additional annual cash contribution of Spirent is expecting to report two years of comparative data in 3.5 million to our dened benefit UK pension plans and we will accordance with the requirements for US listed companies and make a similar contribution to the schemes in the first half of 2005. as a consequence the IFRS transition date for Spirent will be We also settled the liability of 3.7 million due to Nicholas Brookes, 1 January 2003, being the start of the earliest period of the the former Chief Executive of the Company, on his retirement in comparative information required.
respect of his unfunded unapproved retirement benefit UURB.
We discuss below the areas that will be affected by the adoption Excluding the make-whole amounts, net interest payments of of IFRS compared with UK GAAP, based on IFRS expected to be in 7.2 million in 2004 were below the 9.5 million paid in 2003. force at 31 December 2005.
These are subject to ongoing review and In 2004 we paid make-whole amounts of 2.3 million, including endorsement by the EU and interpretive guidance by the International 1.8 million accrued in 2003, on the prepayment of senior notes Accounting Standards Board IASB and are therefore still subject compared with 13.7 million paid in 2003. to change.
All information provided below is for illustrative purposes only and is subject to further management review and external audit.
Disposals and acquisitions We divested our MRO aerospace business for net cash proceeds of IFRS 3 Business Combinations prohibits amortisation of goodwill and 2.5 million in August 2004.
During the year we acquired the minority requires that it be carried at cost with impairment reviews undertaken shareholdings in two of our Network Products subsidiaries for a cash annually or when indicators of impairment exist.
The Spirent Group consideration of 1.1 million.
did not make any major acquisitions in either the 2003 or 2004 accounting periods and we will apply IFRS 3 prospectively from the Pension fund transition date.
Goodwill amortisation charged under UK GAAP for At the end of 2004 the pension liability reduced to 27.0 million 2003 and 2004 was 9.7 million and 9.1 million, respectively, and 31 December 2003 35.2 million, net of deferred taxation of these charges will be reversed in the restatements under IFRS.
The assets in the schemes have In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment a charge will increased during the year as a result of the performance of the equity be recognised for the fair value of employee stock options granted.
markets and the Companys contribution of 3.5 million to the dened The fair value will be calculated using a binomial model and will benefit UK pension plans.
The Company will make a further contribution include all options granted since 7 November 2002 which are not of 3.5 million to the dened benefit UK pension plans in the first vested at 1 January 2005 as allowed by the standard.
The UURB liability of 3.7 million was settled in 2004. which does not affect cash ow, will consequently build up over time.
It is expected to be minimal for 2003 and in the region of 5 million for 2004.
10 Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 Operating and financial review continued IAS 19 Employee Benets permits a number of different approaches Dividend for the accounting treatment of dened benefit pension plans.
Spirent In November we completed the process required to eliminate the expects to adopt the approach which is similar to the UK standard deficit in the Companys distributable reserves.
Although we are now Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 Retirement Benets.
Spirent in a position to rebuild distributable reserves through retained profits, adopted FRS 17 for UK GAAP reporting in 2003. out of which dividends may be paid, no decision to resume dividend payments has been taken by the Board.
Spirent will apply IAS 32 and 39 Financial Instruments prospectively, that is with effect from 1 January 2005, and hence no adjustments The Board and senior management for financial instruments will be required in the profit and loss In August 2004 Anders Gustafsson was appointed Chief Executive restatements for 2003 and 2004.
The principles of IAS 39 require after the retirement of Nicholas Brookes on 30 June 2004.
After that financial instruments be measured at fair value.
Spirent uses joining the Group, Anders Gustafsson took over direct responsibility derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to uctuations for Spirent Communications.
In September 2004 My Chung, Executive in interest and foreign exchange rates.
In general the number and Director of Spirent and President of Spirent Communications, resigned fair value adjustments of these transactions is relatively small and from the Board and we would like to thank him for his contribution we would therefore not anticipate a significant effect on our results to Spirent and wish him well for the future.
In November William in respect of IAS 39 unless our activity in such instruments increases.
Burns was appointed President of the Service Assurance division of Goodwill written off to reserves and arising prior to 1 January 1998, Spirent Communications.
which is reinstated under UK GAAP, is not reinstated in the calculation In December we were delighted to announce the appointment of of the profit or loss on disposal of subsidiaries under IFRS.
Furthermore, Kurt Hellstrm as a non-executive director.
He was formerly President IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates requires the and Chief Executive officer of Ericsson and has exceptional experience cumulative exchange differences on foreign operations to be included of the telecoms industry, particularly in wireless communications and in the calculation of profit or loss on disposal.
These combined the Asia Pacic market.
Richard Moley will retire from the Board with requirements will increase the profit reported on our disposals in 2003 effect from the date of the 2005 Annual General Meeting and we would by 5.0 million to 8.6 million and restate the loss reported in 2004 like to thank him for his valuable contribution during his tenure as a by 4.9 million to a profit of 4.0 million.
There will be other less significant differences between IFRS and UK GAAP and some changes to the presentation of our financial results Outlook required as a result of the restatements under IFRS.
During 2005 we expect our Performance Analysis division to benefit from further customer spending on technologies critical to the We expect the net effect of the above adjustments will be to migration to packet-based networks.
In our Service Assurance division increase the reported level of earnings in respect of the 2003 and we have taken actions to cut costs and reinvigorate the business, but 2004 financial years under IFRS compared with UK GAAP.
This is we do not anticipate seeing a recovery in its performance until the principally because the reversal of the goodwill amortisation charge latter part of 2005.
Our Network Products group is expected to and the adjustment in respect of the profit or loss on disposals both continue to make further progress in 2005. excluded for headline earnings calculations, in any event, will exceed the share-based compensation charge arising under IFRS 2, the latter As expected, we have had a satisfactory start to 2005 and looking being a non-cash item.
ahead we anticipate further progress as we pursue our strategy of growing our communications business.
Restated gures for the 2004 interim and 2004 final results will be made available before the publication of the 2005 interim results.
