Chairmans statement TNS is now the worlds largest custom research company and a major worldwide supplier of syndicated services.
Over the past two years, we have grown our revenues by over 50 per cent and operating profit by over 70 per cent.
As you will see described in other we appoint non-executive directors, sections of this report, the group we look for people who have the performed well in 2004, in both experience to help us with the new, financial and non-financial terms.
This has been We successfully completed the key to our recent search for appropriate integration of our custom businesses.
people to replace Stephan Buck and Neil We also moved ahead strongly in the Cross, both of whom will retire from development of our syndicated the board at our AGM in May.
operations, with the introduction of a Stephan has played an important role in number of expanded and new services, the development of our group.
He and more are planned this year.
Our joined AGB in 1962 and the TNS board communication to management has in 1992: he has been instrumental in the emphasised the importance of development of our consumer and implementing our strategy faster, to media panel services.
An Honorary ensure that we capitalise on the strong Fellow of the Market Research Society, platform for growth we have created.
Stephan was recently awarded the MRS When a business is growing as quickly Gold Medal, to celebrate an outstanding as TNS, it is important to keep lifetime contribution to market structures, systems and Corporate research.
Neil has been a valued board Governance procedures under review: member since 1996 and has chaired the they need to develop in line with the audit committee for the past three years.
changing needs of the company.
Both Stephan and Neil have made a significant contribution to the boards Management structure deliberations through this period of Ours is a complex business that rapid growth for TNS.
On behalf of operates on a global scale.
Our industry shareholders, I thank them for their continues to consolidate and TNS wise counsel and the enthusiasm they continues to be at the forefront of that have always had for the company.
Our acquisitions have I am pleased to report that Alice Perkins brought new, capable management into joined the board as an independent the group and we have benefited from non-executive director on 2 March this.
Following the merger with NFO, 2005.
She is Director General of the we reorganised our management Corporate Development Group in the structure to one that is appropriate for Cabinet Office and her understanding the enlarged group and makes the best of how governments work will be of use of the considerable talent we have in great value to our Polling & Social the combined business.
We will also benefit from her The board substantial experience of organisational As the business continues to grow, so change and people issues.
We are the group needs to balance and currently in the process of recruiting strengthen the board and ensure a good another non-executive director.
mix of skills and backgrounds.
When 20 the sixth sense of business Corporate Social Responsibility People and stimulating environment, enabling With operations in 70 countries, we are In the past 18 months we have managed them to contribute to TNS future increasingly aware of our responsibilities an extensive merger process in over progress, the success of which will also as a corporate citizen.
This involved not just benefit clients, shareholders and the the end of 2004 brought this into sharp bringing together two large businesses communities in which we work.
focus, as the tsunami in South East Asia but also implementing a strategy 2004 was another exciting year for the devastated parts of a region in which appropriate for the enlarged group, group and one in which we asked a great TNS has a strong presence.
The group is while at the same time maintaining deal of our people: once again, pleased to be able to help by making a client focus.
To support senior employees responded magnificently.
donation of $250,000 to UNICEF, to management through this challenging I thank them for their continued be used to support their efforts in period, we developed an innovative, enthusiasm and creativity and I thank education and child protection in the Leading Change programme.
This was both clients and shareholders for their affected areas and we will be supporting delivered to over 275 senior managers continued support.
The around the world in 2004 and response to this from our employees contributed to the success of the largest has been wonderful and we know they merger of its kind in the history of will contribute actively to the project, our industry.
as well as to the many community We now employ over 13,000 people initiatives that they have themselves around the world and have been put in place, around the group.
Tony Cowling working to harmonise the way we Chairman We are increasingly committed to conduct our business, to ensure that contributing our knowledge and we provide our clients with a expertise to the collection of consumer consistent, high quality service across opinions and information on social our entire network.
To unite our issues of global concern.
For example, workforce behind this aim, we in association with the Gallup increasingly focus on  Association, twice a year linked rewards.
We must ensure that we run the Voice of the People survey we can attract and retain the talented in more than 60 countries.
This gathers people we need.
We believe in our own the views of citizens around the world services, so this year we are conducting on issues such as poverty, democracy, an employee commitment survey across corruption, health, the environment the whole group, using our TRI M and human rights.
For the past two stakeholder management product.
years we have worked closely with the We know this clear demonstration to World Economic Forum.
At its annual employees of their importance to the meeting in Davos we have presented success of TNS will help to develop and the results of Voice of the People to grow our total business.
politicians, global business leaders and As a board, our responsibility is to NGOs, to ensure that the views of strike a balance between serving our key ordinary citizens on these issues are stakeholders.
We must ensure that we heard by those who can influence offer our people the opportunity to the world.
grow and develop within a supportive 21 the sixth sense of business Chief Executives statement In 2004, TNS passed a significant milestone by successfully completing the largest integration of its kind in the market information industry.
In this first full year of trading for the number of significant developments combined group, we have increased right across our business.
All of these underlying revenues by 4.1 per cent, developments are designed to help us despite the significant internal focus to build sustainable competitive required by the integration process.
During 2004 we began to benefit from Looking at our globally managed revenue synergies delivered by the sectors, we have been quick to respond integration.
These more than offset the to changes in these specialist markets expected one-off items of revenue and more initiatives are planned in leakage, without which underlying 2005.
In our syndicated consumer revenue would have increased ahead of panels business, Worldpanel, we the estimated rate of market growth.
have announced a wide range of developments across a number of Our markets countries.
We will increase sample size 2004 was a year of gradual improvement for nine existing panels, including UK, in the demand for market information which will rise to 20,000 homes by the worldwide.
Syndicated and continuous end of 2005 and to 25,000 in 2006. services continued to grow steadily.
We will introduce nine new panel Growth in the market for custom services, including a new national panel research was more varied by region and in China.
We have already launched a evidence of this can be seen in the new household panel in Mexico.
In groups performance by geography in addition, we are investing in enhanced 2004.
In general, the more mature methodologies to improve the speed markets of North America and Western and accuracy of the data we provide.
Europe are seeing slower growth than the developing economies of Central In our Media Intelligence business, and Eastern Europe, Latin America and we have expanded the range of Hispanic Asia Pacific.
media monitored in the US.
We have also significantly enhanced our US Asia Pacific remains the fastest growing service offerings.
This includes a region in which we operate.
It was the system-wide upgrade of our industryfirst of our regions to complete the leading television monitoring system, integration process.
We now have the MediaWatch, to give increased accuracy areas largest custom business outside and full motion colour capture.
Japan and are well positioned to take In TV Audience Measurement we have advantage of the positive trends in the extended our services in growing market.
markets such as Russia and China, where demand from advertisers for Developments in specialised insights into viewing habits continues sectors to increase.
As well as successfully completing the integration process and delivering on In Healthcare, the worlds largest our key financial performance metrics, pharmaceutical companies are the past twelve months have seen a increasingly focusing their marketing 22 the sixth sense of business activities on the ongoing performance Latinpanel, into 14 countries, in March Outlook for 2005 of their existing brands and not just the 2005 we announced the acquisition of In Europe, our largest region, we expect launch of new products.
Run as a Interscience, the highly regarded to achieve steady improvement in globally managed sector for the first custom market research organisation in underlying growth, with some regional time in 2004, our Healthcare business Brazil, thus filling the last remaining variation.
We also anticipate steady has successfully responded to these significant gap in our international improvement in the Americas, with the developments and won incremental network.
TNS is now even better access panel once more being a key business from our key accounts, positioned to satisfy the demand for driver.
Asia Pacific should again be the including the worlds five largest multi-country research from fastest growing part of our global pharmaceutical companies.
international clients in developing network, with continued strong markets.
In the digital world, many of our IT and Telecoms clients have entered into new By sector, we expect the demand for Building competitive advantage markets and joint ventures.
We have research in the Consumer sector to As a result of bringing together TNS and responded to this convergence between remain robust and that sector should NFO, we have successfully attained IT and Telecoms by merging these grow ahead of the market in 2005. significant cost synergies.
We continue divisions to form one combined The strength of our innovation in both to manage costs diligently and look for Technology sector.
Clients such as Sony Media Intelligence and TV and Radio more efficient ways to operate the Ericsson are now able to take better Audience Measurement should help our business.
For example, we have been advantage of our expertise in both areas.
Media sector also to grow well.
able to close 17 telephone call centres We were also recently named as one of A resumption of growth is expected in since the merger.
We have also Samsungs preferred suppliers of Business Services, albeit at a modest substantially increased the capacity of market research.
Cautious levels of commitment in our IT support, data processing and corporate IT spend and the competitive software development offshoring Managed access panel roll out nature of the US healthcare market will facility in Hyderabad.
On the custom side of the business, have some effect on Technology and we completed the work required to The main purpose of bringing together Healthcare.
Reasonable rates of growth launch our European access panel, TNS and NFO was to create a platform are anticipated in both sectors in 2005.
Evidence of this can be seen There remain some uncertainties in the will be managed from a central hub in in the many contracts we have won in global economy but, assuming Amsterdam.
Customers will now be the past twelve months.
These include favourable economic conditions, we able to take advantage of quicker and the Standard Eurobarometer, the largest expect that the demand for market more consistent information collection survey of public opinion in the world.
information worldwide will continue to in France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, As we look into 2005 and beyond, improve steadily.
We believe the market Spain and the UK, with more countries each of the aspects outlined above will will grow by around 4 per cent in 2005, to follow in the next phase.
We provide our business with an element and expect TNS underlying revenue continue to build on our market leading of competitive advantage: our global growth to be ahead of that.
position in high-quality managed access network, our specialist sector panels and we will be first to market Mike Kirkham knowledge and our experience in with the launch of our extensive access Chief Executive managing high quality access panels.
panel in Asia Pacific later in 2005.
It is the unique combination of these elements that we have put in place in Focus on developing markets the past 18 months that will be the basis In addition to Asia Pacific, we have also of building sustainable competitive focused our attention on other advantage in custom research.
developing regions in the past twelve months.
We have continued to invest in It is this sustainable competitive both syndicated and custom research advantage that will help drive margin services in countries in Central and improvement.
Assuming the Eastern Europe, such as Russia, Poland continuation of favourable market and the Czech Republic.
In Latin conditions, the group aims to achieve America, as well as the extension of our margin improvement of around 50 basis household panel joint venture points in 2005.
23 the sixth sense of business
