THUSs business, objectives With the delivery this year of positive free EBITDA margin expanded from 9% and strategy cash flow, it is now time to replace EBITDA, to 13% and capital expenditure fell from THUS aims to be the leading alternative a primary measure which was strongly 15% to12% of turnover, with approximately provider of telecommunication and linked to our access to financing, with our 55% of capital expenditure now driven Internet services for business customers next key milestone of operating profit.
We have set out a series of longer-term For an alternative carrier to sustain We believe we can deliver this aim targets based on asset utilisation and profitable growth, we believe the ratio on the back of the large scale investment profit margin to ensure we achieve our of increase in turnover to capital we have made in previous years.
We built goal of delivering a return to shareholders expenditure must exceed 1:1 in order and developed our own advanced service above our weighted average cost of to deliver the scale required to provide capability, including 8,000km in total capital.
To achieve this, we believe that a proper return on invested capital.
During of network linking the major industrial and our Company will have to approximately the year, we achieved this we believe commercial centres throughout the UK.
double its turnover by the end of the we are the first alternative carrier This allows us to control the quality of our decade 2009.
This will provide to do so.
This represents another important services, to innovate more quickly with additional scale to expand operating validation point for our business model.
new and differentiated services, and margins, leveraging our low operating We have continued to grow business to protect margins against competitive cost base and existing investments.
Given with existing customers and to win new pressures.
As more of our major corporate our focus on customers, our strengths in customers.
Millions of consumers in the customers become directly connected, a range of services and consistent quality, UK now use our services daily, without we become increasingly efficient by we believe that this is a realistic and knowing about THUSs key role.
carrying a greater proportion of their achievable target which, representing This is illustrated by the large and traffic over our own network, minimising less than 5% market share of the UK diverse customer bases of, for example: delivery costs and reducing payments telecommunications market, leaves plenty to other operators.
of potential for longer-term growth.
Sky Active through the red button, and SkyTalk: This year has been another successful Overview of the year Amstrad, via the Amstrad year in delivering our targets, set over THUS made good progress against e-m@iler: and a decade, as our Company grows to its objectives during the year.
We grew Tele2, through its residential maturity from its flotation on The London turnover by 14%, representing, we believe, voice resale services.
Stock Exchange in November 1999. more than double the market growth rate, leading to reduced operating losses of This approach of supporting the growth The heavy investment made between 1999 21.2 million from 50.8 million last year.
of our corporate customers, but not having and 2001, putting our UK-wide capability This puts us on track to go operating profit to directly support or market to large into place, depressed our headline profit positive in the second half of the financial consumer bases, remains one of four key and cash flow metrics.
Since then, THUS year ending 31 March 2005. legs in the delivery of our business model.
has delivered sustainable positive EBITDA It complements our direct sales to UKand, now, sustainable positive free cash Cash flow was also positive in the second centric corporates and SMEs, as well 1 flow, with operating and pre-tax losses half of the year.
We believe that we are as our active reseller channel.
Our continued the first infrastructure based altnet in the 1 progression will be tracked by three key UK to have achieved this on a sustainable Cash flow after returns on investments and servicing of finance and capital expenditure and financial investment.
financial measures turnover, operating basis, realising a key validation point profit and cash flow.
John Maguire, Operating and Chief Financial Officer Financial Review 7 Segmental analysis of turnover in a technology that we believe has dial-up base but we have migration plans Data and telecoms, including facilities compelling advantages to corporate users in place and expect the churn to greatly management of more traditional telecoms data services.
Turnover in these services grew by 24% New users in the year include Imperial UK broadband customers more than to 198.6 million, and was the main College London, the Scottish Executive and doubled year on year to 58,000, attracted engine of growth for THUS.
TOTAL E&P UK, part of the TOTAL Global by our wide and expanding range of Energy Company.
The expansion of voice volumes was product options, competitive pricing and particularly robust, due to Carrier We also continue to make advances targeted marketing promotions to business Pre-Select Services CPS which improve with MPLS data services, including the customers under the Demon brand.
the capture of indirectly connected provision of a managed network for GWR For ADSL services we typically wholesale customer calls by automatically routing Group, enabling it to become the first from BT but add enhanced features and this traffic over THUSs network.
Changes radio broadcaster in the UK to multicast functionality for our customers.
ADSL by the regulator have enabled THUS live commercial audio broadcasts over is gross margin dilutive, but operating to move voice services from BT without MPLS.
This builds on THUSs success profit expansive due to low incremental requiring the customer to use special with Capital Radio and our expansion operating and capital costs.
We continue equipment or the inconvenience of access into data services for main national radio to review options to expand the margin codes.
We are also able to provision operators outside the BBC.
profile of this growing customer base, these services more effectively than before.
Facilities management represents including local loop unbundling, once the While CPS was introduced in its current an expanded area this year.
Previously economic case justifies this investment.
form in 2002, this year has seen more this has largely represented trading widespread adoption of the service.
Our UK broadband success was replicated with our former parent company, in Demon Netherlands, which grew its CPS has also been used to support the ScottishPower.
Contracts qualifying for ADSL customer base five-fold to 38,000, retail telephony products of other operators, inclusion in facilities management are reflecting a higher consumer content.
including Tele2s launch into the UK in the typically of longer than average duration While THUS continues to focus on the second half of the year.
Tele2 is Europes and involve a range of services requiring UK, the Netherlands operation, at 4% largest supplier of indirect voice telephony a dedicated THUS team for their of turnover, remains a growing and to consumers, and its choice of THUS implementation.
Our recent contract successful core adjunct to existing activities.
to carry its UK services is a reflection win of Southern Water and our award of our scale and the class-leading quality of preferred bidder status with Glasgow New innovations to our broadband of our facilities and services.
City Council illustrate our scale and product portfolio were implemented, capability in this area.
For example, including a range of high-speed, costCPS will remain an important source the Glasgow City Council contract will effective, self-install options and the of growth in the next year.
Whilst, in the run for a minimum of six years with addition of private access DSL that allows short-term, it may dilute our gross margin, an estimated value of 42 million.
customers to use broadband as a secure the low level of incremental operating connection into private networks.
and capital costs required to support Internet this scalable service makes it a strong Internet turnover grew by 10% to 99.1 Contact centre services contributor to operating profit progression.
During the year, the rapid market Contact centre turnover for the full year growth in the development of broadband fell to 21.7 million from 24.6 million.
In data services, wide area Ethernet Internet access via Asymmetric Digital Although turnover in the first half fell services grew strongly.
With over Subscriber Line ADSL services continued.
below that in the previous year following 2,000 circuits now provisioned, THUS This strong growth was partly masked the loss of the Microsoft account, the has a strong first-mover advantage by continued churn in our narrowband 1 Fixed asset turnover Operating profit margin EBITDA margin Capital investment turnover year ended 31 March year ended 31 March year ended 31 March year ended 31 March times % % % 0.80 13 29 0.67 0.57 9 15 12 19% 4% 3% improvement improvement improvement 2 1 02 03 04 02 03 04 02 03 04 02 03 04 11% -6 improvement -17 1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation -24 and amortisation.
8 Productivity Day in, day out, we constantly strive to increase our effectiveness by utilising all of our resources, people, technology and knowledge to generate shareholder value.
9 Profit Our focus on generating value and quality services for our customers leads to profitable growth for our Company.
This enables us to deliver on our promises and consistently achieve strong financial performance.
10 division recovered ground in the slightly to 21% after these items.
Given our Statutory gross profit increased 8% to second half, as indicated at the Interim change in product mix with strong growth 69.5 million after depreciation included results, principally through the expansion in CPS and broadband DSL, we do not within cost of sales, with a margin of existing accounts and the successful expect any progression in gross margin of 21%, and the operating loss reduced renewal of our major contract with during this financial year.
Whilst, in the from 50.8 million to 21.2 million.
Our focus remains short-term, CPS and broadband DSL may Net interest fell from 6.9 million on the top end of the market, providing dilute our gross margin, the low level of to 5.3 million.
support for customers who have complex incremental operating and capital costs needs and whose operations must required to support these scalable services The loss before tax showed significant be based in the UK.
make them strong contributors to operating improvement, down 57% from 58.8 profit progression in line with our business million last year to 25.0 million.
We view this as an opportunity Turnover for the Interactive division, Earnings per share and dividends for growth and as part of the service providing premium rate services and The basic loss per ordinary share reduced transition that is currently taking place competition formats, declined by 18% by 57% from 4.44p per share to 1.90p.
to 13.0 million, reflecting a steep decline Given our Companys stage of development in turnover in the second half of the year, S, D&A selling, distribution and and the accumulated losses from the resulting from a marked increase in administration costs, excluding network deployment, the Board is not competition.
Although turnover has fallen, depreciation and amortisation but yet able to recommend a dividend.
this division contributes both operating including other operating income, fell Capital investment profit and positive cash flow for the Group.
from 28% to 22% of turnover and by Capital investment continued to be tightly 10% in absolute terms to 73.1 million.
Margin expansion and progress to profit managed and was 41.1 million The year saw the benefits of the full With the achievement of positive cash compared with 44.9 million last year, annual impact of actions taken in the prior flow in the second half of the year, our falling to 12% of turnover from 15%.
period, as well as rationalisation of the focus with respect to margin is now Approximately 55% of capital expenditure back office billing platforms.
Operating losses was tied to turnover growth either through more than halved to 21.2 million and Combining turnover growth and cost customer connections, product development we are on a solid trajectory to achieve efficiencies, EBITDA grew strongly or platform capacity upgrades.
Non operating profit in the second half of the to 43.6 million compared with 27.1 turnover-growth capital expenditure next financial year ending 31 March million in the year ended 31 March 2003 includes billing platform replacements 1 2005.
The contributors to operating profit and 3.1 million in the year ended and other back office functions.
No individual project accounted for more Gross profit, excluding depreciation Depreciation and amortisation for the than 10% of the total spend, reflecting and amortisation, showed good absolute year at 64.8 million was 13.1 million the diverse and customer-linked nature growth, up 8% to 116.7 million.
Excluding lower than the previous years charge.
of our investment programme during the the Contact Centre and Interactive divisions, This mainly reflected lower impairment year.
Capitalised labour and overhead underlying gross profit increased 13%, charges of 8.6 million year on year.
costs required to deliver this programme broadly in line with turnover growth.
There was an impairment of 4.8 million amounted to 8.7 million in the year.
in the year, mainly reflecting accelerated 1 Excludes 3.2 million exceptional restructuring costs.
Gross margins, excluding depreciation depreciation on the 300km out of and amortisation, fell 2% to 35%, 6,100km of trunk network which compared with 37% last year, and down was provisioned on overhead cable.
Operating and Financial Review 11 Tax of finance and capital expenditure and our UK-wide deployment of capability A small tax charge of 0.2 million arises financial investment was positive in the and are consequently deriving significant from trading activities in the Netherlands.
second half of the financial year on a benefits of scale.
Our quality and service UK trading losses give rise to a deferred sustainable basis.
innovation are class-leading and well tax asset of 7.2 million with accelerated respected.
At the year end, net debt stood at 35.4 capital allowances and other timing We believe we are also the only alternative million compared with 32.7 million differences of 37.8 million giving a carrier to have a strong ISP inside with last year and gearing was 16%.
Our total deferred tax asset not recognised the Demon brand, merging the best of drawdowns under our 60.0 million loan of 45.0 million.
facility stood at 57.0 million, which As disclosed in our Open Offer document converted to an amortising term loan on We believe these factors position us well to to shareholders during our demerger 1 April 2004.
Repayments commence on withstand the continued sector turmoil and process from ScottishPower in 2002, 31 March 2005 and are complete on 31 enhance our ability to address concerns if our Company trades during the period March 2008, with a balloon repayment relating to growth and competitive intensity.
from 19 March 2002 to 30 September profile.
The loan continues to be governed Our model implies that we need 2005 on a material and non-commercial by standard covenants.
to approximately double in size to develop basis with members or former members With a cash balance of 26.4 million, the scale to deliver an attractive return of the ScottishPower Group, our former a positive cash flow operating business on capital.
With a growing business parent company, a tax liability of up to and stable financing, THUS has the telecoms market in the UK which 570 million may be triggered arising capacity and financial resilience to meet we believe to be in excess of 10 billion from the original flotation of THUS in the requirements of large new business per annum, this is a sufficiently sized 1999.
This payment would fall on THUS opportunities or unforeseen external opportunity for us to grow into.
THUS has under Section 179 of the Taxation of economic shocks to the sector hit critical mass in key areas, allowing Chargeable Gains Act 1992.
Any trigger or national economy.
us to benefit from architecture decisions caused by events prior to 19 March 2002 that support a full range of activities is covered by an existing indemnity with Statement of recognised gains and losses and enable a doubling of network capacity ScottishPower.
A strong control regime is The main movement in prior years, apart for just 5% of the original cost.
in place to manage this remote risk.
from trade losses, has related to gains from the sale of capacity under IRU There is no doubt that the market remains Cash flows Indefeasible Rights of Use agreements.
extremely competitive, with a large number Net cash flow from continuing operating The market for IRUs has contracted since and variety of operators still active in the activities was positive at 37.4 million 2002, and consequently there continues marketplace.
However, with a strong compared with 26.1 million last year.
to be limited activity in this area.
service development capability, we are Underpinning this was EBITDA of 43.6 able to develop and launch higher value 1 million.
Cash flow before financing costs THUSs differentiating factors services in market segments in which was positive at 0.8 million for the first and operating environment few competitors operate.
This also allows time in our Companys history, compared THUS is firmly focused on the UK us to differentiate at the commodity end with an outflow in the prior year of 28.3 market without the distraction of major of services, where the capability to offer million.
In addition, cash flow after international investments or foreign a migration path to higher value products returns on investments and servicing regulatory regimes and operating environments.
We have completed Operating and Financial Review 12 is important.
This gives customers such Accounting Policies Under UK GAAP, the Urgent Issues as Amserve the confidence to renew The major event of the year relates Task Force issued UITF 38 Accounting and grow services on major long-term to the introduction of International for ESOP Trusts.
This does not come into contracts in their case until 2009.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS effect until June 2004 but, while early from 31 December 2005 year ends adoption is recommended, due to the We also have to grow our margins.
onwards, mandated by the European unique nature of events during the Leveraging increasing revenues Union for all listed companies within telecoms bubble when most of these on our scalable network and operating the EU.
At the moment, and for the year shares in THUS were purchased, early platforms provides a powerful driver ending 31 March 2005, THUS reports adoption is not appropriate for THUS.
for our new focus on operating profit.
Guidance notes were also issued on Our Companys activities are affected THUS intends to publish its first Financial Reporting Standards Reporting by the rulings and actions of Ofcom, IFRS results at the half year ending the Substance of Transactions FRS 5 the industrys regulator.
This requires relating to revenue recognition, but these has taken on the role of Oftel and initiated comparatives for the prior year including, have not changed the interpretation of a review of the market.
European therefore, a 31 March 2004 IFRS balance THUSs accounting policies in these areas.
regulation also plays an important role sheet.
Consequently, during the year in promoting and defining the framework Outlook we have been reviewing our position under which Ofcom operates and this The strategy we outlined at the time with staff training and a diagnostic review is likely to increase.
THUS continues to of our listing has enabled us to deliver to highlight key points of difference raise specific areas of concern with Ofcom.
our business model to date, scaling between IFRS and UK GAAP.
We are and flexing our business according Policy issues currently quantifying these areas, and to changing market conditions.
Assuming Treasury in March 2004 the Audit Committee met the macro environment remains broadly THUSs treasury policy aims mainly to to consider our IFRS accounting policies.
unchanged, we remain comfortable with manage financial risks arising from limited New and revised versions of IFRS our short-term goal of becoming operating foreign currency exposure from our small have been issued up to March 2004 profit positive in the second half of the new Netherlands operation and limited supplier as standards have evolved.
In addition, financial year and our longer-term goal payments in US Dollars and Euros.
a convergence project for revenue of at least returning our cost of capital.
Hedging in the form of a cap is in place recognition between US GAAP and IFRS 1 to minimise interest rate exposure on our Representing cash outflow before financing of 2.6 million is under way and due to report in 2005.
2003: 36.7 million and returns on investments and loan facility, where drawdowns are servicing of finance of 3.4 million 2003: 8.4 million.
This has the potential to change the way charged at LIBOR plus 3.5%.
all European companies account for Tight control exists over treasury activities, certain aspects of revenue recognition.
and any non-standard instruments require Consequently, as THUS looks at its key approval from the Chief Financial Officer measures of turnover, operating profit and or Board.
THUS has no off balance sheet cash flow, detailed guidance on possible financing or special purpose vehicles, changes cannot be made at this point.
and maintains a simple and transparent The key primary measure of cash flow corporate structure.
is unaffected by the adoption of IFRS.
