Corporate governance continued Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Evaluation of Board and Committee effectiveness The Board has overall responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control procedures throughout the The Directors conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Main Board and its sub-committees during the year, in Group, although the Audit Committee monitors the internal financial control procedures that are operated by the accordance with the recommendations of the Code.
This review was carried out with the assistance of external consultants Group and their effectiveness.
and was based upon a questionnaire that was completed independently by all members of the Board.
The scope of the review covered the Board structure, processes and administration, together with the effectiveness of information During 2004 the Audit Committee has comprised Andrew Walker, senior independent non-executive Director, Ian Griffiths dissemination.
The results were communicated to the Directors in a written report.
This was considered at a dedicated and Peter Macfarlane.
Mr Walker was appointed Committee Chairman with effect from January 2004.
Mr Macfarlane has meeting and a number of actions were agreed as a result.
Progress on previous actions will be monitored by the Board been a member of the Committee for a number of years and was the Chairman until 2003.
The Board decided that he annually and the review process will be repeated on a regular basis in the future.
should continue as a Committee member even though he is the Chairman of the Group and this is not consistent with the provisions of the Code.
He is a qualified accountant and was Finance Director of Allied Domecq until the late 1990s.
This Directors re-election experience has given him wide ranging financial expertise invaluable to the Committee, where he plays an important role Christopher Bailey is standing for re-election to the Board, having been appointed by the Directors in January 2005. in monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the overall financial performance of the Group.
The Julian Blogh and Frank Hope are retiring by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and are standing proposed new non-executive Director, Mr Bailey, was Group Finance Director of Aggregate Industries plc for seven years for re-election.
Although not standing for re-election this year, Andrew Walker has served as a Director for more than until his retirement in 2004.
It is the intention of the Board that he will replace Mr Macfarlane as a member of the eight years.
Given the complexity of the Groups activities, his previous experience as an executive director of several Committee, where his recent financial experience will be of great benefit to the Board.
major groups and his extensive knowledge of Ultra mean that he is well qualified for his current position on Ultras The Committee met three times during the year and the main topics considered during the meetings were: Board.
The Directors are convinced that Mr Walker remains highly effective in his role as senior non-executive and that it is in the best interests of the shareholders for him to continue.
agreeing the strategy and scope of planned internal and external audit activities: reviewing the outcome of internal and external audits carried out and agreeing upon the necessary actions: Meeting attendance reviewing the financial results of the Group and the formal external announcements relating to them: and Main Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee monitoring the independence and effectiveness of the internal and external audit functions, both of which are Number of meetings 11 3 2 5 carried out by professional accounting firms on behalf of the Group.
J. Blogh 11 - 2 - It is the policy of the Group that non-audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Groups external auditors, D. Caster 10 - - - be normally restricted to regulatory reporting, due diligence assignments of potential acquisition targets and other I. Griffiths 11 3 2 5 attestation work.
In connection with due diligence assignments, the Board believes that Deloittes familiarity with the A. Hamment 11 - - - specialised accounting techniques that are involved in the Groups long-term contracting activities serves them well in F. Hope 11 - - - carrying out effective due diligence reviews of other similar companies.
1 D. Jeffcoat 11 3 2 4 P. Macfarlane 10 3 2 4 Nominations Committee A. Walker 922 5 The Nominations Committee comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
The Committee is chaired by Peter Macfarlane and met twice during 2004.
The key responsibility of the Committee is to review all main Board 1 Mr Jeffcoat is secretary to the Board and all three sub-committees.
He attends all Committee meetings in that capacity.
The main actions taken by the Committee during the year were to recommend the appointment of Julian Blogh as Chairman as successor to Peter Macfarlane and to recommend the appointment of Internal controls Douglas Caster as Chief Executive as successor to Dr Blogh.
The Combined Code states that Directors should review the effectiveness of the Groups entire system of internal controls, covering business risks associated with strategic, operational, financial and information technology matters.
In addition the Committee initiated the process for the recruitment of Christopher Bailey, a new non-executive Director.
The process used to recruit Mr Bailey involved preparing a job description and candidate profile, appointing Ultras internal controls are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
In this executive search consultants to recommend a shortlist of potential candidates and conducting a series of interviews context the controls can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The with them before selecting Mr Bailey as the most suitable.
The Board is confident that this process has resulted in the key features of the internal control system that operated during the year are described below.
appointment of a Director who will bring to the Group the benefit of his extensive financial management experience Control environment in a long-term contract environment that has many similarities to Ultras core business.
Ultras organisational structure has clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authorities, which have been Remuneration Committee reviewed by the Board during the year to ensure that they are still relevant given the current size and structure of the The Board Remuneration Committee consists of Andrew Walker - Chairman, Peter Macfarlane and Ian Griffiths.
Ethical values and control consciousness are communicated to managers and staff via performance appraisal five times during the year.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance of the executive Directors, and development and training programmes.
including the Chief Executive, and for setting their levels of remuneration.
It also meets without the Group Chairman All businesses are required to maintain written financial procedure manuals that are consistent with the control being present to agree his remuneration.
A Remuneration report is included on page 34, together with details of the principles and policies that are set out in the Ultra Group Finance Manual.
Acquisitions, major capital investments and Directors pension entitlements, long-term incentive share awards and shareholdings.
It is intended that Mr Bailey will bids above a defined value require Board approval, with smaller investment decisions delegated to the Chief Executive.
replace Mr Macfarlane as a member of the Committee following his retirement.
30 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 31 Corporate governance continued Corporate governance continued Risk management Going concern continued Management has a responsibility for identifying the risks facing Ultras businesses and for putting in place procedures to resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Board recognises that the Groups banking monitor and mitigate such risks.
Strategic risks are formally assessed by the Board during the annual strategic planning facilities will fall due for renewal in December 2005.
Initial discussions with the Groups bankers have taken place and process and steps are taken following this process to ensure that all such risks are minimised throughout the year.
there is a strong indication that the facility will be renewed without undue difficulty, given Ultras strong credit standing.
For these reasons, the Board continues to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Operational risks are monitored as part of the Groups monthly business performance review process.
Business units are required to report on all key areas of risk, indicating situations that are not compliant with normal controls.
Remedial Statement of responsibilities actions must be proposed and such situations are then monitored until a satisfactory conclusion is reached.
All significant Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the deviations are reported to the Board by the responsible Director twice annually.
state of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss of the Group and its cash flows for that period.
In The Board has established an Internal Audit process, carried out by Ernst & Young LLP, to review financial and preparing those accounts the Directors are required to: information systems control procedures throughout the Group.
All business units are audited at least once every two select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: years and those judged to represent a higher risk are reviewed more often.
In addition all newly acquired businesses make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and are audited within six months of the acquisition date.
Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed.
and presents its findings to the Committee twice annually.
Follow-up actions to deal with any control weaknesses are The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any reported to the Committee every six months and Internal Audit confirms that satisfactory progress has been made time the financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the during its next visit to the business concerned.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence for In addition the executive directors take an active role in identifying and assessing potential risks in all areas of the taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
This is achieved both through the normal monthly business review programme and also through day-to-day management contact.
Financial reporting systems The Group has a comprehensive system of financial reporting covering key performance indicators such as sales, profits and cash flow.
The annual budget and five year strategic plan for each business are approved by the executive Directors and the Board approves the Groups budget and plan.
The actual results for each business and variances against budget are reported monthly to the Board, normally during the third week of the following month.
Revised forecasts for the half-year and full-year are prepared monthly for each business unit, and for the Group as a whole, and also presented to the Board.
Shareholder communication The Group encourages two-way communications with both institutional and private investors and endeavours to respond promptly to queries received.
Ultras website provides detailed financial and business information about the Group.
Meetings between Directors, institutional shareholders and other market professionals are held regularly as a part of Ultras investor relations programme.
Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting, to ask questions during the meeting and to meet individual Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
Documentation relevant to Ultras governance framework will be available for inspection before the Annual General Meeting, including the terms of reference of the Board and its sub-committees and the Directors contracts of employment.
The terms of reference can also be found on the Group website.
Effectiveness of controls The Board accepts overall responsibility for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework on a regular basis: internal procedures are reviewed and updated where necessary.
The Board has performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report, including the work of Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Going concern After making enquiries the Directors have established that the Groups forward order book provides satisfactory cover for trading in the year to come and have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate financial 32 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 33 Remuneration report continued Remuneration report UNAUDITED INFORMATION Annual bonus scheme Composition and role of the Remuneration Committee the Committee Bonus payments are based upon the achievement of operating profit and cash flow targets.
The maximum bonus for The Company complies with the relevant conditions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance relating to Directors 2004 was 50% of base salary, of which 10% related to the achievement of a 39,420,000 profit before tax and goodwill remuneration as published by the London Stock Exchange and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. amortisation and 40% to achieving an operating cash flow of 42,231,000 after capital expenditure and purchase of Long-Term Incentive Plan shares.
The actual results for the year led to a bonus pay-out of 47.4%.
The pay-out was Andrew Walker is the Chairman of the Committee and the other members are Peter Macfarlane and Ian Griffiths.
All below the maximum despite the above target full year results because of higher working capital levels during the year.
three members are non-executive Directors.
The performance measures for bonus payments are reviewed annually by the Committee to ensure that they are The task of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the framework of executive remuneration, appropriate to the current market conditions and position of the Group and, therefore, that they continue to remain and to determine annually the individual salaries, annual bonuses payable if any and other terms and conditions of challenging.
It is the opinion of the Committee that the use of operating profit and cash flow targets remains employment of the executive Directors and other senior executives.
The Committee also approves the terms of any appropriate for the 2005 bonus scheme.
discretionary share schemes in which executive Directors and senior executives may be invited to participate, and the terms of the Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme and All-Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Long-Term Incentive Plan In April 2002, shareholders approved the establishment of the Ultra Electronics Long-Term Incentive Plan 2002-2007 The Committee consulted Dr Julian Blogh, Chief Executive, with regard to the remuneration and benefits packages the New LTIP to replace the previous Ultra Electronics Long-Term Incentive Plan the Old LTIP that had expired.
The offered to executive Directors and senior executives during the year, except in relation to his own remuneration and Committees current policy is for the New LTIP to be the sole vehicle through which long-term incentives are provided benefits package.
to executive Directors and that executive Directors who participate in the New LTIP will not be granted options under In addition, wholly independent advice on executive remuneration and share schemes was received from New Bridge either the Company Share Option Plan or the Executive Share Option Scheme which are share schemes operated by the Street Consultants who were appointed by the Company and who provided no other services to the Company during Company for the benefit of less senior executives and certain key employees.
the year, save for ongoing advice in connection with the operation of the Companys share schemes.
Under the New LTIP, a participant may be granted an award over ordinary shares worth up to 100% of gross base salary each year.
The vesting of awards is dependent on the extent to which genuinely stretching Earnings Per Share EPS Remuneration policy based performance conditions are met over the three-year period following grant.
The Committee believes that the The policy of the Committee is to reward senior management competitively, enabling the Company to recruit, motivate most appropriate approach to determine the extent to which these performance targets are achieved is for the relevant and retain executives of high calibre, whilst avoiding paying excessive remuneration.
Further details of the remuneration calculations to be undertaken by an independent third party.
For the purposes of the performance targets, the policy followed by the Committee are set out below.
The remuneration practices adopted by a group of like companies Companys EPS will be calculated before goodwill amortisation but after exceptional items.
that, in the opinion of the Committee, face similar remuneration issues to the Company are considered, with guidance from the remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
The size and nature of each key element of the More particularly, the Committees current policy is for vesting of awards to be dependent upon the Companys EPS remuneration package of executive Directors has been determined following this analysis.
growth over this three-year period relative to the EPS growth of the following group of companies: It is the aim of the Committee to encourage and reward high performance.
It is the opinion of the Committee that Alba plc Domino Printing Sciences plc Smiths Group plc shareholders' interests are best served by setting a moderate level of fixed pay, while providing competitive potential Amstrad plc Halma plc Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc levels of total remuneration through short and longer term incentive arrangements which require the satisfaction of BAE Systems plc Hampson Industries plc Telemetrix plc challenging performance conditions.
Therefore, a significant proportion of the executive Director's remuneration is Charter plc Meggitt plc TT Electronics plc performance-linked.
Chemring Group plc Pressac plc Vitec Group plc Chloride Group plc Rolls-Royce plc Volex Group plc Salaries Cobham plc Rotork plc VT Group plc Salaries of executive Directors are reviewed by the Committee annually.
In addition to an analysis presented by New Delta plc Senior plc Whatman plc Bridge Street Consultants, the Committee uses published salary surveys and information available in the annual Vesting commences at 20% for median performance, rising on a straight-line basis so that the award vests in full for reports of similar companies as sources of market information.
The Committee takes account of pay and employment upper-quartile performance.
To the extent that the targets are not met at the end of the three-year period, the award conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining annual salary increases.
Ultra achieved third quartile EPS growth performance during the period 2001-2003 and therefore the 2001 award Specific factors taken into account by the Committee when determining each executive Directors base salary are: vested at 84%.
the median level of base salary for a similar position within a like group of companies: The Committee believes that the appropriate performance measure for New LTIP awards is comparative EPS, because this the individual Directors performance: and measure ensures that the Companys earnings growth must be at the upper-quartile of a group of similar companies the responsibilities of the respective Director.
before awards vest in full.
Such earnings growth performance, sustained over the medium to long-term, should ensure above average share price growth, and hence out performance against market benchmarks in creating shareholder value.
The Chairmans remuneration is set by the Committee, which meets without him for this purpose.
The remaining non-executive Directors fees are set by a Committee comprising the executive Directors.
In all cases the remuneration The executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Companys Inland Revenue approved Savings Related awards are based upon published salary surveys, taking account of individual responsibilities.
Mr Walker is Chairman Share Option SAYE Scheme and All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
Under the SAYE Scheme, participants of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and receives additional remuneration as a result.
In his capacity as open an approved savings account.
When the saving starts, options are granted to acquire the number of shares that Company Chairman, Mr Macfarlane is also Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
the total savings plus bonuses payable will buy when the contract matures.
34 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 35 Remuneration report continued Remuneration report continued Long-Term Incentive Plan continued AUDITED INFORMATION Under the AESOP, employees in the UK are offered the opportunity to buy shares up to the value of 1,500 per year from Directors pension entitlements pre-tax salary.
Shares are then held in trust on behalf of employees until the maturity date or until they leave the Company.
The Company operates a contributory pension scheme for current executive Directors.
A pension equal to two-thirds of salary at retirement is provided at the normal retirement age of 63 years.
Where pensionable service is less than Total Shareholder Return performance graph 20 years, the pension is calculated at one-thirtieth of the retirement salary for each year of service.
With the The graph below shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR performance of the Company in comparison to the Companys consent, executive Directors may retire from age 50.
After age 58, Company consent to early retirement is FTSE Mid 250 over the past 5 years.
The graph shows the value at the end of 2004 of 100 invested at the end of 1999, not required.
Pensions are reduced in the event of early retirement.
Death-in-service cover is a lump sum of four times in the Company and in the Index.
In addition, a spouses pension of 33% of pensionable earnings is payable, together with an allowance for dependent children up to a maximum of 33% of pensionable earnings where relevant.
On the death of The Committee considers the FTSE Mid 250 index a relevant index for TSR comparison as the index members represent a retired Director, a spouses pension of 50% of the Directors pension is payable.
Once the pension is in payment, the a broad range of UK quoted companies.
part of the Directors pension above the Guaranteed Minimum Pension will be increased each year in line with the Total Shareholder Return increase in the retail price index, capped at 7.5%, above which increases are at the Trustees discretion.
Source: Datastream 200 The table below sets out the pension benefits earned by executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2004: 180 Accrued Increase Transfer Accrued Transfer Movement benefit at in period value of benefit value at Transfer in transfer Age at beginning net of increase at end beginning value at end value during 160 year-end of period indexation in period of period of period of period period 140 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 J. Blogh 61 147 33 499 185 2,152 2,842 675 120 D. Caster 51 56 17 154 75 521 736 202 100 A. Hamment 50 43 31646 366 424 50 F. Hope 50 27 32030 228 276 41 80 D. Jeffcoat 54 11 32915 122 172 40 60 31 December 99 31 December 00 31 December 01 31 December 02 31 December 03 31 December 04 Less Directors contributions.
Ultra Electronics FTSE Mid 250 Index Directors remuneration Directors service contracts Directors emoluments are detailed below: The service contracts of executive Directors have a notice period of one year, which the Committee considers Annual appropriately reflects both current market practice and the balance between the interests of the Company and each Basic Other cash performance 2004 2003 salary emoluments Fees bonus Benefits Total Total executive Director.
In the event of early termination, it is the Committees policy that the amount of compensation 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 paid to executive Directors will be considered in the light of all the relevant circumstances, subject to the overriding conditions that: P. Macfarlane - - 70 - - 70 66 the Committees aim will be to avoid rewarding poor performance: J. Blogh 220 1 - 104 19 344 401 the duty of the relevant executive Director to mitigate his loss will be taken into account: and D. Caster 188 - - 89 20 297 244 I. Griffiths - - 27 - - 27 19 no compensation payment can exceed one years salary.
A. Hamment 123 11 - 58 2 194 197 The following table provides more information on each Directors service contract: F. Holroyd ------ 14 Name Date of contract Notice period F. Hope 161 - - 76 19 256 233 C. Bailey 28 January 2005 N A D. Jeffcoat 162 11 - 77 7 257 242 J. Blogh 25 September 1996 12 months A. Walker - - 32 - - 32 26 D. Caster 25 September 1996 12 months 854 23 129 404 67 1,477 1,442 I. Griffiths 1 April 2004 N A Pension contributions to Directors of 118,600 2003: 104,500 were paid by the Company, including 33,075 2003: 34,400 A. Hamment 1 July 2000 12 months in respect of the highest paid Director.
Other benefits of executive Directors comprise a car or allowance, provision of F. Hope 1 January 1999 12 months fuel and insurances for life, personal accident and family medical cover.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible for D. Jeffcoat 10 July 2000 12 months pension scheme membership and do not participate in any of the Groups bonus or other incentive plans.
P. Macfarlane 1 January 2004 N A A. Walker 1 January 2004 N A No executive Directors have provisions in their contracts for compensation on early termination other than the notice period.
The non-executive Directors have fixed twelve-month contracts with no notice period.
There are no provisions in their contracts for compensation on early termination.
Christopher Bailey was appointed as a Director on 28 January 2005.
Mr Bailey received no emoluments or benefits for 2004 and holds no shares in the Company as at 21 February 2005.
36 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 37 Value
