Operating and Financial Review Revenue overview in France, offset by our yielding strategy Corporate % in Spain.
Corporate revenues were up 4%, with million 2004 2003 change a limited increase in the second half as Avis at constant currency 1,140 1,135 0.5 Within the four customer segments we overlapped strong comparatives in all Currency translation 2 leisure represented 35%, replacement countries, especially the UK, Spain and Avis at actual rate 1,142 1,135 0.7 24%, corporate 22% and premium 19%.
Whilst we have seen some limited Budget 34 22 Leisure pricing improvements in certain markets, Centrus 1 12 Overall leisure revenues were 2% lower these have been offset by continued Revenue 1,177 1,169 0.6 than 2003, with good increases in revenue pressure in France.
per day offset by a reduction in volume in In 2004 Group revenue was 1,177 million, Replacement intra-European business and continued including 34 million from the Budget Replacement revenues were up 2%, with low inbound demand from the US.
business and 1 million from the now lower growth in the second half, against exited Centrus claims management Domestic leisure 29% of the segment significant account gains in France and operation.
The impact of currency was 1% lower with a good volume Germany in the prior year period.
increase offsetting very competitive Premium pricing conditions, particularly in France.
Avis corporate revenue Premium revenues were at year-on-year In this section, in order to demonstrate Intra-European leisure revenue 44% but negative in the second half with lower more clearly the underlying business trends, of the segment was 1% lower, largely volume in Spain together with inbound all revenue comparisons, except where driven by lower tour operator business US travellers overlapping a stronger otherwise stated, are at constant exchange into mainland Spain and Portugal and comparative.
rates and exclude Budget and Centrus.
our successful yielding strategy in the Partnerships retail business for these markets.
France On this underlying basis the increase in We achieved above average rental and Italy enjoyed significant increases in full year revenue was 0.5%, with revenues growth in a number of our partnership volume with Italy benefiting from additional in the second half below prior year as arrangements in the year and have business via intermediaries and tour stronger comparatives were overlapped.
renewed agreements with Lufthansa, operators, whilst France enjoyed strong KLM now part of Air France and Both volume in terms of billed days retail growth.
In August 2004 we extended our and price in terms of revenue per day International leisure business 27% of partnership portfolio outside travel with were broadly at.
Volume increases in the segment declined by 4% with no the launch of an exclusive three-year corporate and replacement were offset by recovery in inbound US demand, but partnership with Tesco, the largest UK a reduction in leisure business, primarily with limited growth from other inbound supermarket chain, relating to their due to adopting a yielding strategy in long-haul markets.
Price was held back by competitive market conditions particularly 4 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Murray Hennessy Operating profit overview Budget operating result % Chief Executive Budgets underlying operating loss of million 2004 2003 change Martyn Smith 8.1 million was better than anticipated Avis at constant currency 122.8 137.8 10.9 Group Finance Director with lower than expected revenue from Currency translation 0.7 the corporate markets more than offset Avis at actual rate 123.5 137.8 by efficiencies in network support costs Budget 8.1 5.3 and improved revenue and collection Centrus 9.7 from licensee fees.
Group operating profit 115.4 122.8 6.0 We continued to achieve cost synergies Avis operating margin % 10.8 12.1 1.3 pts with Avis, including the relocation of before goodwill amortisation and net exceptional charges.
the French headquarters, opening of new Budget locations operated by Avis Group operating profit before net franchisees and joint purchasing of eet exceptional charges and goodwill in certain markets.
amortisation was 115.4 million, including an 8.1 million loss from Budget 2003: Recovery strategy progress 5.3 million loss from nine months In September the Group announced ownership and the benefit of currency plans for a multi-phase recovery strategy.
After adjusting We have now increased the planned 2005 for both Budget and currency translation, investment for phase I from 7-10 million Avis underlying operating profit was announced at the Interims to some 122.8 million compared to 137.8 million 15 million for further targeted initiatives.
Operating costs, excluding goodwill amortisation Recovery strategy phase I and net exceptional charges, increased The first phase is focused on targeting Avis licensee revenue by 15 million or 1.4% to 1,062 million.
spend against specic initiatives to develop Overall revenue from Avis licensee revenue, improve margins over the mediumcountries grew by 7%, with broadly After net exceptional charges of term and enhance customer service in similar trends across the main regions 73.4 million 2003: 50.7 million and the Avis business, implementing a new of Scandinavia and Central and Eastern goodwill amortisation of 2.6 million 2003: approach to Group systems and returning Europe, Africa, the Mediterranean and the 4.8 million, the Groups operating profit the Budget business to profitability.
Middle East and above average growth in was 39.4 million 2003: 67.3 million.
some of the smaller emerging countries Revenue development Avis operating result in Asia.
The Groups initial revenue development Avis underlying operating margin at During 2004 the Slovak Republic, Slovenia initiatives are focussing targeted investment 10.8% was 1.3 percentage points lower and Guam successfully implemented the against customer channels, driving greater than prior year, largely due to the broadly Wizard system and Avis China opened reservation trafc between the Avis at revenue per day and continuing cost its first location in Beijing thus extending networks and developing enhanced ination.
Operating costs, excluding goodwill operations to cover the cities of Shanghai, leisure products.
We have increased amortisation and net exceptional charges, Beijing, Guanzhou, Shenzen and Suzhou.
investment in on-line advertising and increased by 22 million, or 2.2% from invested in additional people to support 997 million to 1,019 million.
This increase Budget corporate revenue growth in some key partnerships.
We was driven by general cost ination, initial Revenues of 27 million from the corporate continue to achieve substantial growth in spend on phase I strategic initiatives and markets of France, UK, Austria and internet bookings with average penetration certain one-off items, including the backSwitzerland were higher than last years for the year of 17.7%, up 50% on prior year.
ofce IT restructuring project and a net 17 million in nine months ownership, In January 2005 internet bookings were accrual release in the prior year all within but were below expectations primarily 22.5%, up 53% on the comparative month.
In particular, due to difficult market conditions.
staff costs of 263 million were up by 4.4%, Margin improvement Budget licensee revenue partly because productivity declined A number of initiatives are being introduced Licensee revenue growth of 30% marginally due to the parallel running to improve both distribution and eet costs, was primarily due to the comparative in the start-up phase of the Budapest whilst enhancing yield and utilisation.
representing only nine months post shared service centre and investment acquisition, together with significant In October 2004 the Group announced in operational staff to support the new effort in improving licensee relationships that commission will no longer be paid to hand-held check-in device.
Franchise agreements with travel agencies and on-line agencies on increases were partially offset by a 2.4% 10 countries were renewed during 2004. corporate contracted rentals from 1 April reduction in eet costs to 391 million, 2005.
This new commission structure driven by an improvement in utilisation applies to reservations made anywhere of 0.8 percentage points to 69.5% and in the world for rentals in the majority of a decrease in eet cost per unit of 1%.
Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 6 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Avis is dedicated to achieving leadership in customer Faster check-ins, service.
Developing new services is one of the ways we can continue to make improved customer gains.
This year we launched a car-side check-in device that reduces return times satisfaction and to just 90 seconds and is delivering significant customer satisfaction improvements.
greater operational When fully rolled out the system will carry out more than 2.5 million check-ins efficiency a year, delivering significant operational efficiencies.
corporate countries, as well as some Our commitment to customer service was and the development of sales channels.
recognised during 2004 with a number of Key priorities include eet systems, further industry awards, including the TTG British development of the hand-held check-in Fleet optimisation and logistics systems Travel Award for Best Business Car Rental device, internet and self-booking tools.
are being developed by certain corporate Company and Best Leisure Car Rental operations and vehicle re-marketing Budget Company.
This is the first time any car measures are also being strengthened in Budget, which was largely acquired out rental company has won both awards at a number of markets.
A number of yield of Chapter 11 in early 2003, is largely a the same time.
In addition to a number of initiatives are being piloted and will be franchised business with limited corporate best car rental company awards across the rolled out across a number of corporate operations.
It currently incurs losses, largely network, the Group also won awards for countries in 2005. driven by a history of under-investment best call centre workplace, best Human and a lack of revenue scale.
However, Customer service enhancement Resources strategy in line with business Budget is one of only three truly global car Customer champions are being recruited and effective environmental management.
rental brands and the Groups objective in our key markets to reinforce our existing Systems is to ultimately enhance its strategic value strong culture, implement greater use of In October the Group announced by improving financial performance and key performance indicators and focus on the termination of a new ERP system, developing the business.
understanding and reducing the sources which was being developed to support of potential customer complaints.
In 2004, In September we communicated a threethe centralisation of back-ofce and Avis became the first car rental company part strategy to return the business to administrative processes to Budapest.
The to achieve the CMSAS 86:200 standard profitability.
Our expectation for 2005 is for termination of an associated restructure for customer complaint management.
a loss of some 7 million after investment of the IT function was also announced.
of some 2-3 million in additional sales During 2004, a car-side check-in service, The project to transfer certain back-ofce and marketing.
The strategy comprises using hand-held computers connected to activities using existing systems to the targeted actions to turnaround the business our core rental system, was progressively shared service centre in Budapest is in France and the UK: development of rolled-out across major rental locations progressing well, and will continue to overall network revenue: and expansion in Europe.
Currently the system is fully be implemented progressively across of the licensee network to key European operational at nearly 100 locations where all major markets.
significant improvements in customer Germany, UK and the Head Ofce have satisfaction and revenues are being tracked.
In the UK significant operational progress already successfully transferred.
In 2005 it is planned to roll the system out has been made with the expansion of the to a further 40 locations across the Group.
To support the Groups recovery strategy downtown network with a new franchisee the IT function has been signicantly in the North West and the corporate Further projects are under way to deliver reduced in size and restructured to focus reopening of operations at Heathrow, customer service improvements such as on lower cost and faster implementation where Budget now has representation clearer rental documentation and a faster of solutions to support core operations in all four terminals.
The roll-out of a new and more streamlined rental process.
Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7 2004 saw us expand the network in the North West Network of the UK and in Paris, to be followed by key leisure cities in France, including expansion Cannes, Nice and Antibes.
At the beginning of 2005, we reopened operations at for Budget London Heathrow, a major network hub.
Representation in all four terminals gives us significant access to important corporate and leisure customers.
front-ofce system to support the UK Financial review transactions are only undertaken to business is under way and investment in Interest reduce exposures arising from underlying sales and marketing has been increased commercial transactions and at no time million 2004 2003 signicantly.
are transactions undertaken for speculative Adjusted net interest payable 59.2 60.8 reasons.
Average net debt 1,117 1,178 In France, new corporate Budget locations Average interest rate 5.3% 5.2% have opened in Paris and three new Foreign currency risk Includes capitalised interest of 0.7 million 2003: 0.6 corporate locations are being acquired The majority of the Groups business is million, but excludes interest on deferred consideration of in the key leisure cities of Cannes, Nice transacted in euros, sterling and US dollars.
2.6 million 2003: 2.6 million and exceptional income in and Antibes.
A common system has been 2003 of 3.6 million.
The principal commercial currency of the implemented across the network and Group is the euro, however dividends are Adjusted net interest payable fell yearsales and marketing investments have payable in sterling.
The Group seeks to on-year, largely as a result of the reduced again been increased.
manage currency exposure wherever level of average net debt required to fund possible.
The average interest rate Internationally, we have invested in the rose slightly from 5.2% to 5.3%, largely launch of an award winning website, In each country of operation the Group due to the impact of the 266 million which is being rolled out across the generates revenues and incurs costs equivalent senior unsecured medium-term network and is now live on eight country primarily in local currency, providing a notes issued in June 2004. sites.
UK internet bookings represented natural currency hedge.
In addition, intra- 45% of rentals in 2004 and there are Group trading transactions are netted Treasury plans to increase this even further and settled centrally.
Any remaining Policies and controls with investments in on-line marketing.
material foreign currency transaction The Groups treasury policy is designed exposures are hedged as appropriate.
Recovery strategy phase II to reduce the financial risks and exposures We are progressing the second phase facing the business regarding changes in With regard to translation exposures the of the recovery strategy for the Group.
interest and foreign exchange rates, and policy is to match the average assets We are presently developing a deeper to ensure constant access to sufficient to the equivalent average liabilities in understanding of the changes in the liquidity.
To achieve this the Group each major currency and thus minimise customer segments we serve, their undertakes an active hedging policy, any impact on the Group.
To the extent profitability to us and the competitors we including the use of derivatives interest that this does not naturally occur, both face when we serve them, including our rate and foreign exchange swaps, options, foreign currency borrowings and forward relative cost position.
Once completed, forward rate agreements and caps and exchange contracts are used.
Long-term this will enable us to focus on targeted collars, which are only entered into under US dollar borrowings undertaken to customers and channels to improve policies approved and monitored by a benefit from the liquidity of the US dollar returns.
The preliminary findings of this sub-committee of the Board, chaired denominated capital markets are swapped detailed research are encouraging.
by the Group Finance Director.
8 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 9 10 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Avis has over 70 international partnerships more than any Partnerships of our competitors.
Partnerships are one reason why on-line sales, our most efficient support internet channel, are increasing.
New tailored on-line booking tools can automatically generate growth and car rental quotes following ight or rail reservations.
Participation in Tescos enhance brand Clubcard scheme now gives us exclusive access to some 11 million active members and awareness valuable exposure outside the travel sector.
Interest rate risk year of 1,117 million.
Consequently, the and a 137 million 364-day tranche: The Group has an exposure to movements Group ensures that it has a core level of 674 million equivalent of senior unsecured in interest rates, principally in euro and long-term funding in place, with maturities notes maturing between 2005 and 2014: sterling.
To manage this risk, operations spread over a wide range of dates, and various finance lease facilities are nanced through a combination of supplemented by shorter-term facilities amounting to 435 million.
The weighted fixed and oating rate facilities and various to cover requirements through the year.
average remaining life of these committed derivatives are entered into.
The policy is facilities was 3.1 years at the end of 2004 During the year the Group issued to ensure that the proportion of xed rate 2003: 2.8 years.
further senior unsecured notes totalling debt to net debt dened for this purpose 265.8 million, maturing between 2011 and Subsequent to the year end the Group to include the net book value of eet 2014, in line with the policy of maintaining arranged additional committed nancing under operating leases at the next yearcore long-term funding.
In addition, once amounting to 190 million, which is end date will be maintained in the range again the 364-day tranche of the multicurrently due to expire before the end of of 40-60%, with a current expectation currency facility was renewed for a further 2005.
In addition, the Group has available of around 55% in December 2005. period with the one-year term-out substantial local bilateral banking and Liquidity risk remaining in place, and a tranche leasing facilities and a domestic Belgian The seasonal nature of the business of the US dollar senior unsecured commercial paper programme.
In total, the necessitates higher eet levels in the notes was repaid at maturity.
The key Group has available nancing amounting summer months and hence higher debt committed facilities at the end of the to some 2.7 billion, of which 1.9 billion requirements.
The peak debt during 2004 year are therefore a multi-currency facility is committed.
was 1,380 million at the end of July with a syndicate of banks, comprising Counter-party risk and compares to an average during the a 385 million tranche maturing 2007 The Group controls this risk from a Treasury perspective by only entering The Groups gross debt as at 31 December 2004 can be analysed as follows: into transactions involving financial Weighted Weighted instruments with authorised counteraverage average parties of strong credit quality, and xed period for interest which rate such positions are monitored regularly.
Floating Fixed Fixed rate is xed million million % % years Insurance Euro 337.2 613.6 65 5.9 2.8 The Group is legally obliged to provide Sterling 40.7 57.8 59 6.5 3.5 all customers with sufficient insurance Other 30.7 against accidents caused to third parties 408.6 671.4 62 5.9 2.9 and cover is also offered against theft and personal accident.
Additionally the The above table excludes deferred consideration and forward start swaps detailed in Group covers various risks arising in the Note 24 to the Financial Statements.
Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11 Operating and Financial Review Taxation normal course of its business, including Net debt has reduced at the year-end damage to property and general liability.
Net cash inow from Cover is arranged with a number of major operating activities has reduced to Taxation pre goodwill and insurance companies of strong credit net exceptional charges 13.5 14.0 454.3 million, largely because of the quality using the Groups captive insurance expenditure of 21.0 million relating to the Taxation on goodwill 0.4 0.3 companies where appropriate to help current and previous period exceptional Taxation on net exceptional spread the risk cost effectively and charges partially offset by an improvement charges 16.0 9.9 access the global reinsurance markets.
A further Total taxation credit charge 2.9 3.8 exceptional item cash outow of circa Net exceptional charges The effective tax rate for 2004 pre goodwill 17 million in respect of current year Net exceptional charges of 73.4 million and net exceptional charges was 25%, charges is anticipated in future periods, have been incurred in the year, summarised which continues to be less than the rate primarily in 2005. as follows: of UK corporation tax.
As in previous Average owned eet levels were lower, million years, the Group benets from utilisation year-on-year, giving decreased costs IT Projects of UK brought forward tax losses.
reected in lower depreciation and Restructuring 9.6 Shareholders funds adjustments on disposals.
Total eet cash Project termination costs 44.4 At the end of the year, shareholders expenditure in 2004 is 197.2 million, 54.0 funds were 18.3 million compared 6.0 million below prior year, benefiting Goodwill impairment charges with 15.4 million at the start of the year.
from a positive eet working capital Budget 30.7 Principal movements were the retained loss movement of 98.2 million, arising from France licensees 5.4 of 30.2 million, driven by the exceptional the timing of purchases and sales at the 36.1 charges and exchange movements of year-end.
Non-eet capital expenditure Centrus receivables provision 16.7 3.9 million.
increased over the prior year mainly as Total 73.4 a consequence of expenditure on the Goodwill project to re-engineer back-ofce IT Restructuring costs of 9.6 million were Capitalised goodwill of 7.2 million and hand-held check-in device projects.
incurred in respect of the IT back-ofce relates to amounts brought forward The above reconciles to the net capital project and further restructuring costs in from previous years in respect of the expenditure inow in the Accounts of connection with a software development business in Greece.
The reduction in 509.4 million 2003: 473.3 million project, curtailed in the prior year.
carrying value from 45.4 million in the by adjusting for new finance leases of prior year is attributable to the amortisation As a result of the Groups decision to 753.5 million 2003: 719.0 million, of goodwill brought forward, exchange terminate the agreement with the principal resulting in total capital expenditure of movements and the recognition of contractor on the IT back-ofce project, 244.1 million 2003: 245.7 million.
termination costs of 44.4 million have Goodwill of 1,080.4 million arising on Interest and dividend payments are similar been recognised.
The Group continues to acquisitions before 28 February 1998 to the prior year, with higher interest in part take mitigating actions against these costs, is written off against the profit and being due to the prior period exceptional which may lead to a recovery of some of loss reserve.
interest income being offset by the cash this amount in future accounting periods.
effect of a lower 2003 final dividend.
Cash ow Impairment provisions of 36.1 million Acquisitions and other outows in the million 2004 2003 have been recognised consequent to current year represent largely deferred Net cash inow from the restrictive requirements of FRS 11, consideration on acquisitions and foreign operating activities 454.3 463.9 Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill, exchange movements.
The comparative Net eet capital expenditure 197.2 203.2 against all remaining goodwill of the period included the acquisitions of Budget Net non-eet capital expenditure 46.9 42.5 Budget business and in respect of certain and a licensee business in France, and acquired licensees in France.
This is Taxation 30.2 25.6 the joint venture interest in China.
due to a reassessment of the long-term Interest and dividends 94.2 98.1 business plan for Budget, following Acquisitions and other 5.9 59.9 Net debt the completion of its integration, and Reduction in net debt 79.9 34.6 million 2004 2003 a downturn of profitability of our Net eet capital expenditure analysis: Current asset investments and cash 114.3 152.5 operations in France.
Depreciation and adjustments Debt due within one year 144.7 169.0 on disposal 308.1 315.4 The collection of receivable amounts at Debt due after one year 664.7 778.5 Change in closing eet 10.3 0.9 Centrus proved more successful than Finance leases 270.6 250.6 Movement in eet working capital 98.2 109.7 previously anticipated, such that a reversal Total net debt 965.7 1,045.6 Exchange and other acquisitions 2.4 3.4 of 16.7 million from the brought forward provision has been recognised in 2004.
197.2 203.2 Including new finance leases of 753.5 million 2003: 719.0 million.
12 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Goodwill impairment reviews The Group continues to hold significant cash line with UK accepted practice generally, As required by UK accounting standards, balances and investments, 114.3 million but the application of different assumptions the Group regularly monitors the carrying at 31 December 2004, primarily due to cash could have a significant effect on the value of its tangible and intangible xed collateral used to secure cost effective amounts reected in the profit and loss assets, including goodwill.
Gross debt has reduced account and balance sheet in respect of compare the carrying values to the by 118.1 million to 1,080.0 million, post employment benets.
The Financial present value of future cash ows that benefiting from a focus on capital Statements comply with the transitional are derived from the relevant asset.
These management in 2004. disclosure requirements of FRS 17. reviews therefore depend on management Pensions Provisions estimates and judgements, in particular There are two material Group dened The Group continues to carry balance in relation to the forecasting of future benefit pension schemes, one in the UK, sheet provisions in a variety of areas cash ows and the discount rate applied which is a funded scheme, and a second against exposures that arise in the normal to the cash ows.
The outcome of these in Germany, which is unfunded.
These provisions cover reviews is set out in the notes to the areas such as insurance reserves, Financial Statements.
On a SSAP 24, Accounting for Pension termination and reorganisation activities Costs basis, there was a deficit at Operating exceptional charges and property dilapidation reserves.
31 December 2004 in respect of the UK Operating exceptional charges are those Judgement is involved in assessing the scheme of 13.5 million 31 December that, by virtue of the size or incidence, exposures in these areas and hence in 2003: 13.3 million.
On a FRS 17, should be separately disclosed if the setting the level of the required provision.
Retirement Benets basis, the deficit Financial Statements are to properly reect between the market value of the assets Adoption of International Accounting the results for the period.
The determination in the UK scheme and the actuarial value Standards of which items should be separately of its liabilities was 44.8 million 2003: The supplementary information included disclosed as operating exceptional charges 42.0 million.
At the time of the last in this Report sets out the Groups requires a significant degree of judgement.
valuation, in December 2003, the Financial current position on the transition from Vehicles Statements included a balance sheet UK Accounting Standards to International Given the nature of the Groups business, provision of 22.7 million for the German Financial Reporting Standards.
the main asset in the balance sheet is scheme compared with past service the vehicle eet.
The majority of eet liabilities of 23.7 million.
is held under manufacturer repurchase The charge in the profit and loss arrangements, which guarantee a disposal account for dened benefit schemes value at the end of the holding period.
is 8.9 million 2003: 9.8 million, However, a proportion of eet has no based on the requirements of SSAP 24. such contractual protection and therefore The Group has chosen not to adopt the end of rental life value will depend FRS 17 early but had it done so the profit on the market for these vehicles at the and loss account charge for the same time of disposal.
Judgement is therefore schemes would have been 11.4 million required in the estimation of disposal 2003: 10.0 million.
Depreciation rates are set to writeoff the difference between the purchase Accounting standards and policies price and the anticipated disposal value The Groups accounting policies are set of a vehicle, or class of vehicle, over the out in the Financial Statements.
All the holding period and vary between 12% policies adopted are consistent with and 40% per annum, depending on the those used in the prior year, with the type of vehicle.
exception of the change in accounting treatment for own shares.
As explained Post employment benets in the notes to the accounts, this has The Group accounts for post employment been changed following the introduction benets under Accounting Standard of UITF 38, Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
SSAP 24, and provides additional disclosures in accordance with FRS 17.
Critical accounting policies Application of SSAP 24 required the exercise The preparation of Financial Statements of judgement in relation to assumptions requires management to make estimates for future pay rises in excess of ination, and judgements.
The following policies are employee demographics and the future considered to be of greater complexity expected returns on assets.
The Group and or particularly subject to the exercise determines the assumptions to be of judgement.
adopted in discussion with its actuaries, and believes these assumptions to be in Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 13
