Through its leakage controls and domestic metering programme, Anglian Water has achieved one of the best records in demand management in the UK.
Demand management An Anglian Water engineer updating information of the underground pipe network using Strumap, a geographical information system developed by Geodesys, part of the AWG group.
Strumap enables Anglian Water to store and update information on its network of pipes.
The database is accessible 24 hours a day 6 AWG Plc to local authorities and other utilities.
Operating and financial review Trenchless, directional drilling technology was used by the Anglian Water drilling crews to install the new sewer system near Grimsby.
As well as cost and time savings, the work has been carried out with minimal disruption.
Following the success of the project, it is planned to continue this approach in the future.
Introduction Operating and financial review The following Operating and Financial Review describes AWGs operations and structure, as well as providing a commentary Financial performance on the groups financial performance for the year ended Turnover, including the groups share of joint venture turnover, 31 March 2004. improved in the second half and ended slightly ahead of the previous year.
Reduced turnover arose from the harvesting Its aim is to give the reader a broader understanding of AWG strategy within AWG Property formerly Developments and by describing the nature of the markets in which AWG operates, Commercial Services, together with international disposals as well as how wider social, economic and political change can completed part way through the year, but this was offset impact upon the group.
by increases in Anglian Water and the IMB.
Business overview Total operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill AWG principally comprises two divisions: Anglian Water, amortisation was 341.6 million 2003: 325.9 million.
Total and an Infrastructure Management Business IMB.
exceptional charges before tax for the group were 144.2 million.
This comprises 88.3 million in respect of the losses on disposal of Anglian Water is a regulated water and wastewater company businesses in Chile, the Czech Republic and Sweden, 33.2 million based in the east of England.
The IMB builds and maintains on other disposals and business closures, a 10.0 million charge public infrastructure through private financing, construction and against the property portfolio and other items of 12.7 million.
The IMB operates primarily in the utility, urban regeneration, health, education and transport sectors.
Anglian Goodwill amortisation in the year was 13.5 million Water contributes 40.6 per cent of the groups turnover 2003: 13.8 million.
including joint ventures and 93.4 per cent of its operating Total operating profit, including the groups share of operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
profits in joint ventures, after exceptional items and goodwill Anglian Water manages the infrastructure it owns and provides amortisation, was 305.4 million 2003: 248.7 million.
Net services directly to customers.
By contrast, the IMB provides interest payable was 263.7 million 2003: 289.9 million which services to clients that own, or wish to own, assets or included 70.0 million of exceptional interest charges in relation infrastructures.
The IMB also manages a number of PFI projects, to the refinancing of Anglian Water.
Profit before tax, exceptional some of which are not held for the long-term and will be sold items and goodwill amortisation was 77.9 million 2003: 106.0 when the Directors believe the optimum gain can be realised.
After exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, the loss before tax was 79.8 million 2003: 42.4 million.
Infrastructure management skills are common to both sides of the business.
Such skills require a detailed understanding The tax credit before exceptional items was 4.3 million 2003: of the characteristics and capabilities of an asset in order to take 37.5 million charge.
There was a tax credit on exceptional items decisions that will result in the optimum balance of performance, of 4.2 million 2003: 27.8 million, resulting in an overall tax efficiency, and cost over its lifetime.
credit of 8.5 million 2003: 9.7 million charge.
This includes a credit of 10.1 million 2003: 20.0 million charge for deferred The group also owns a property business and a small number of tax, which principally results from changes in discount rates.
international water and wastewater contracts.
Over the past two years, a large proportion of the property portfolio has been sold Earnings per share, before exceptional items and goodwill to realise cash and the future strategy of this division is currently amortisation, were 50.6 pence 2003: 25.0 pence.
The remaining international contracts are those improvement reflects the tax credit and the reduced number that have yet to be sold or closed, following the groups decision of ordinary shares in issue following the share consolidation on to exit the international market in order to focus on the UK.
After exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, the loss per share was 52.0 pence 2003: 26.4 pence.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7 Operating and financial review continued Anglian Water manages the infrastructure it owns and provides services directly to customers.
By contrast, the IMB provides services to clients that own, or wish to own, assets or infrastructures.
Shareholder return AWG made additional pension contributions totalling 9.1 million in the year 2003: 6.7 million.
Future contributions to the A 1.00 per share return of capital was made in July 2003 at a AWG Pension Scheme will continue to be made in line with cost of 169.4 million.
The board proposes a final payment to actuarial advice.
shareholders of 33.2 pence per share, which equates to 47.4 million 2003: 57.5 million.
Together with the interim payment During the year, an approximate funding update was carried out of 14.0 pence per share, this makes a total payment of 47.2 for the purposes of assessing the cash requirements of the AWG pence per share 2003: 46.0 pence, up 2.6 per cent on the Pension Scheme for the regulatory periodic review.
a full actuarial valuation and not constituting a later formal review as defined by SSAP 24 this indicated an actuarial deficit The further payment will be made in the form of redeemable after tax of 145.0 million at 31 March 2003.
The record date for the final ordinary payment will that the appropriate level of pensions costs will be an important be close of business on 18 June 2004 and the shares may part of the forthcoming regulatory settlement.
Treasury management Cash Group financing, including debt, interest costs and foreign The cash flow from operating activities increased by 50.2 million exchange, is substantially directed by a central treasury team to 515.3 million 2003: 465.1 million.
This was largely reporting to the Group Finance Director.
Treasury policy continues attributable to the improved operating profit in Anglian Water to be focused on the efficient and effective management of cash and the contribution from the ongoing disposal of the property and financial resources within the group.
function actively seeks opportunities to: Net debt secure funds and invest temporary surplus cash to best Net debt fell by 30.5 million to 3,190.6 million 2003: advantage at minimal risk 3,221.1 million, which reflects the proceeds from business actively protect the groups foreign exchange and interest rate disposals, net of capital expenditure, payments to shareholders, exposures and the year-end emphasis on cash.
maintain an excellent reputation with providers of finance and rating agencies Pensions improve cash management techniques and systems throughout AWG continues to account for pensions in accordance with the group.
Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 SSAP 24.
AWGs board, through the treasury advisory group, regularly Applying SSAP 24 results in the company having for its group reviews treasury policy, organisation and reporting to ensure pension schemes a net pension prepayment at 31 March 2004 continued effectiveness and relevance.
This compares with the FRS 17 pension deficit of 166.6 million which includes a deficit of 8.0 million in Liquidity respect of the AWG Pension and Life Assurance Plan not The groups objective is to maintain flexibility, diversification and previously reported under FRS 17.
One of the reasons for the continuity of funding through access to different markets and difference is that SSAP 24 recommends that the pension scheme debt instruments.
At the year-end the group held cash, deposits is valued at least once every three years, with the last valuation for and current asset investments of 755.4 million 2003: 414.2 the two main schemes being 31 March 2002.
Under FRS 17 the million and had undrawn committed multi-currency facilities valuation is updated every year.
In addition, the assumptions used of 654.0 million 2003: 633.0 million.
These resources are under FRS 17 are different from those in SSAP 24.
Under FRS 17 maintained to ensure liquidity and the continuation of the the discount rate used for calculating scheme liabilities is the yield investment programme of the group.
The maturity profile of the on AA corporate bonds, whereas SSAP 24 uses a higher discount groups borrowings is set out in note 20 on pages 59 to 62. based on the expected return on scheme assets.
8 AWG Plc River water quality in Anglian Waters region remains the best it has been since records began.
Anglian Waters draft business plan for 2005 to 2010 would see nutrient removal at as many as 85 treatment works, to further improve habitats such as the Broads and the Wash.
Borrowing covenants Off balance sheet financing With the exception of asset-based funding in Anglian Water, all In accordance with current accounting standards, assets and group borrowings are raised or guaranteed by AWG Plc, AWG liabilities within certain joint venture investments in the Group Limited and, in certain instances, its subsidiary companies.
Government Services and Property divisions are not included on The group treasury function monitors compliance against all the groups balance sheet.
This is because the joint ventures are financial obligations and it is group policy to manage its accounted for on an equity basis and are not consolidated.
businesses so as to ensure operation within covenanted AWG Project Investments, part of the Government Services restrictions.
division, has an equity investment in nine projects, seven of which Interest rates are joint ventures and two are trade investments.
The groups The groups policy, as agreed by the board, is to achieve an share of the debt within its joint venture companies is 114.7 optimum mix of funding at indexed, fixed and floating rates of million at 31 March 2004. interest, including the use of interest rate swaps, to manage the AWG Propertys formerly Development and Commercial Services groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
At the year-end, share of the debt within its joint venture companies at 31 March taking into account interest rate swaps, 32.1 per cent 2003: 30.1 2004 is 125.9 million.
per cent of the groups borrowings were indexed to inflation, 62.3 per cent 2003: 68.6 per cent were at fixed rates and 5.6 The group has guaranteed obligations of joint ventures and per cent 2003: 1.3 per cent were at floating rates.
32.4 per cent associates totalling 54.7 million 2003: 84.6 million.
2003: 28.3 per cent of the Anglian Water Services groups gross International Financial Reporting Standards borrowings at 31 March 2004 were indexed to inflation, with a An International Accounting Standards Regulation was adopted further 62.6 per cent 2003: 71.5 per cent at fixed rates and by the Council of the European Union EU in June 2002.
5.0 per cent 2003: 0.2 per cent at floating rates.
This regulation requires all EU companies listed on an EU stock exchange to use endorsed International Financial Reporting Foreign currency Standards IFRS published by the International Accounting The group has currency exposures resulting from overseas Standards Board IASB to prepare their consolidated financial investments and foreign currency purchases and sales.
The adoption of IFRS will first apply to the year uses a range of instruments to hedge such exposures.
All hedges ending 31 March 2006 and hence to the groups interim financial are undertaken for commercial reasons with the objective of statements for the half-year ending 30 September 2005. minimising the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on net assets and profits.
A project team is in place to co-ordinate the transition to IFRS and since 2003 has been following a three-phase transition plan: The groups foreign exchange exposure management policy, as agreed by the board, is to hedge material transactional exposures Preliminary assessment against the reporting currency by means of forward foreign Completed by the end of 2003, this stage involved identifying UK exchange contracts.
accounting differences to date and ranking the potential impact Net assets are held in a number of currencies and translated of each IFRS.
at prevailing year-end exchange rates.
The resulting exposures are monitored and, at certain thresholds, are hedged by currency Detailed impact study borrowings, cross-currency swaps, options or forward exchange This phase began in mid-2003 and is currently ongoing as new contracts.
standards and amendments to existing standards are issued.
The group is intending to complete its analysis of IFRS during 2004 05 and will continue to monitor developments at the IASB.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 9 Operating and financial review continued Anglian Waters excellent demand management record is maintained through continual research and development.
An Anglian Water engineer installing an automatic metering device, which Anglian Water developed as part of a joint venture.
The device sends automatic readings every 15 minutes from commercial customers premises to Anglian Waters computer network.
Implementation process The summer demonstrated the benefit of a customer base where more than half the domestic customers are metered.
At a local Due to begin by mid-2004, the implementation will include level however, it also highlighted hot spot growth areas where the running of a separate IFRS financial reporting consolidation further investment is required in the supply network over the next system, followed by a conversion to IFRS financial reporting five years.
These issues are being addressed with Ofwat, the systems throughout the group from 1 April 2005. industry regulator, as part of the price review process.
It is a complex task to assess the differences between current Operating expenditure excluding depreciation for the full year accounting policies and IFRS, particularly given that many of the was 291.7 million 2003: 282.5 million before exceptional IFRS have only recently been revised.
The adoption of IFRS will charges of 18.6 million, 10.0 million above the regulatory have an impact on the groups results and its financial position: determination, reflecting 4.7 million of redundancy costs and however, it is too early to quantify the impact accurately.
Capital expenditure for the full year The key areas of difference between current UK accounting continued to show outperformance against the determination practices and IFRS which affect AWG, are set out below: at 276.9 million 2003: 263.3 million.
Fixed asset accounting Service quality Derivative instruments and hedging activities Anglian Water continued to perform well against service and Pensions and other post-retirement benefits water quality standards.
Drinking water quality remained high, Deferred taxation with 99.7 per cent of all water quality tests performed in the Goodwill amortisation.
2003 calendar year complying with the regulatory standards 2002: 99.6 per cent.
Overall microbiological compliance for Operational Review the period is at its highest-ever level.
Group operational results In addition to delivering a quality product, Anglian Water has further improved the quality of its service delivery.
The number of Anglian Water properties experiencing low water pressure has been reduced, as Anglian Waters turnover increased 5.5 per cent in the period to have interruptions to supply.
Anglian Water has also reduced the 766.6 million 2003: 726.8 million, while operating profit after proportion of customers experiencing sewage flooding.
Serious exceptional items was up 18.4 per cent to 318.9 million 2003: pollution incidents have been reduced and sewage treatment 269.4 million.
compliance with Ofwats key criteria improved.
The additional revenue arose principally from the regulatory All 46 designated bathing waters in Anglian Waters region 1 pricing formula of Retail Price Index K, together with 8.0 passed the mandatory coliform standards of the Bathing Water million extra turnover generated in the first half as a result of Directive.
This is the fifth time in the past seven years that 100 per additional demand from metered customers during the cent compliance has been achieved.
In addition, 35 of the exceptionally dry summer.
Despite the extreme conditions and the regions bathing waters 76 per cent also passed the guideline regions low rainfall, Anglian Waters resources remained standard of the Directive.
River water quality in the region remains satisfactory throughout the period and have recharged to normal the best it has been since records began.
levels during the wet winter months.
Ofwats report shows that Anglian Water has the lowest water 1 Ofwat defines K as the amount by which a company can increase, or must 2 leakage rate in England and Wales.
Its leakage of five cubic decrease, its average charge above or below inflation each year to finance its metres per kilometre of water pipe per day is less than half the services and meet its legal obligations.
When inflation is included, this is 2 commonly referred to as the price limit.
Combined with the proportion of our 2 customers on metered supplies at 54 per cent, the low leakage Ofwats Security of supply, leakage and the efficient use of water rate was a significant factor in preserving water resources while 2002-2003 report a very high level of demand was experienced in the hot summer.
Anglian Water met Ofwats leakage target for 2003 04.
10 AWG Plc In 2003, 99.7 per cent of the 235,570 regulatory water quality tests complied with the required standards.
Water quality testing Staff at Anglian Waters purpose-built laboratory in Cambridgeshire perform around two million tests every year to measure quality at all stages Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11 of treatment and distribution.
Operating and financial review continued IMB performance 2004 Utility Government Construction Total 2003 Utility Government Construction Total Services Services Services IMB Services Services Services IMB Turnover 280.1 219.8 385.8 885.7 Turnover 278.6 119.9 391.8 790.3 Operating profit pre bid costs 9.6 17.8 0.9 26.5 Operating profit pre bid costs 11.5 13.1 5.1 29.7 Bid costs 1.4 3.0 6.2 10.6 Bid costs 1.3 3.1 4.5 8.9 Operating profit loss post bid costs 8.2 14.8 7.1 15.9 Operating profit post bid costs 10.2 10.0 0.6 20.8 Exceptional items - 0.9 2.5 3.4 Exceptional items 0.9 5.5 0.9 7.3 Goodwill amortisation 2.5 4.5 5.2 12.2 Goodwill amortisation 2.5 3.0 5.2 10.7 Profit loss before interest 5.7 9.4 14.8 0.3 Profit loss before interest 6.8 1.5 5.5 2.8 Before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Regulation Operating profit for the IMB as a whole, excluding bid costs, As part of the regulatory review process, Anglian Water submitted exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, reduced to 26.5 its final regulatory business plan for the review period 2005 to million 2003: 29.7 million.
The profit before interest was 0.3 2010 to Ofwat in April 2004.
The final business plans capital million 2003: 2.8 million.
investment programme was significantly reduced from Utility Services operating profit excluding bid costs, exceptional the draft submission in August 2003. items and goodwill was 9.6 million 2003: 11.5 million.
Profit In preparing the plan, the company confronted the hard choices before interest was 5.7 million 2003: 6.8 million.
The year-onthat needed to be made between investment, service and quality year reduction was as a result of margin pressure highlighted in improvements and the impact that these have on prices.
This pressure was somewhat alleviated in the second half.
Utility Services excellent client list and client retention rate The plan proposes a capital investment programme of 1.8 billion give it a good platform from which to improve its performance over the five-year period, which would result in lower bill in 2005. increases for Anglian Water customers than for any other water and wastewater company in England and Wales.
Government Services operating profit excluding bid costs, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased by 35.9 If accepted, this plan would see the average customer bill rise by per cent to 17.8 million, due to the acquisition of facilities 47 over the five years at 2002 03 prices, or an average of 3.3 services contracts in Birmingham and London, organic growth per cent each year.
The average K factor over the period would and the development gain of 4.3 million from the sale of the be 4.6 per cent.
Recognising the concerns of customers, Anglian Tay wastewater PFI project.
Profit before interest was 9.4 million Water has evened out price increases across the new asset 2003: 1.5 million.
The IMB includes a project investments business that holds Ofwat plans to publish its draft determination in August.
This will interests in seven joint ventures and two trade investments with an be followed by a further period of consultation before a final aggregate book value of 15.2 million.
The groups contribution determination in December 2004. to these projects varies, but often includes responsibility for the construction and operational phases.
The group tends not to hold Infrastructure Management Business IMB PFI investments for the long term if it only retains responsibility for The IMBs results in the former divisional structure, that is Utility the construction phase and therefore takes development gains Services, Government Services incorporating PFI and shortly after the construction phase is completed.
Construction Services are reported above.
Construction Services operating loss excluding bid costs, AWG Property formerly Developments and Commercial Services, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was 0.9 million the groups property division, has been separated from the IMB 2003: 5.1 million profit.
The loss before interest was 14.8 in order to improve the financial transparency of the IMBs core million 2003: 5.5 million.
The year-on-year reduction was due operating divisions and is reported separately.
to an adverse adjudication on the Rockingham speedway contract The IMB now comprises Support Services Utility Services highlighted in the first half and the reassessment of costs to and Government Services, Construction Services and Project complete on a number of large contracts.
Over 80 per cent of Investments.
Construction Services work has been booked for next year.
Turnover for the IMB was 885.7 million 2003: 790.3 million, Bid costs for the IMB increased in the period to 10.6 million an increase of 95.4 million.
The primary reason for this was the 2003: 8.9 million.
The increase was principally in the 99.9 million increase in Government Services to 219.8 million Construction Services division and reflected the bidding activity 2003: 119.9 million, principally due to the acquisition of for utility framework contracts and costs on construction projects facilities services contracts in Birmingham and London.
of a scale that are unlikely to be undertaken in the future.
12 AWG Plc Partnership with clients is central to AWGs approach.
Working alongside clients teams enables greater understanding of all aspects of service delivery and provides a basis for achieving continual improvement.
This approach is demonstrated in the Derby City Council highway maintenance contract that commenced in August 2003.
IMB order book Net operating assets reduced to 88.8 million from 159.9 million The IMB order book at 31 March 2004 was 1.77 billion.
at the previous year-end, which reflects the harvesting strategy and The comparative amount at 31 March 2003 was 1.86 billion the write-down of certain properties to expected net realisable excluding the Tay wastewater PFI of 180.0 million.
The breakdown was: The review of Developments and Commercial Services now underway is expected to be completed in the first half of this year.
m Utility Services 337 Other Government Services incl.
335 million for PFI 931 During the year the Powermarque vehicle leasing business was sold, Construction Services 504 resulting in a net cash inflow of 13.6 million, and the closure of Total 1,772 the rail business was announced.
The exceptional loss arising from these was 9.8 million.
The annual breakdown is as follows: International m During the year the group moved further towards a UK focus, with the sale and closure of most of its international businesses.
2004 05 662 The realisation of cash from the sale of AWGs international 2005 06 311 interests is now substantially complete.
The process has generated 2006 07 143 103.0 million in cash and has incurred exceptional charges of 2007 and beyond 656 118.5 million.
Of this amount, 88.3 million relates to the sale of the businesses in Chile, the Czech Republic and Sweden.
Up to the The order book is defined as signed orders from customers, less date of the disposals, the businesses in Chile, the Czech Republic any turnover taken on those contracts.
It also includes an estimate and Sweden contributed 17.0 million of operating profit.
of the fair value of work due to be completed under framework The following table sets out the results of the international business: contracts.
2004 2003 m m Optional extensions to framework contracts are excluded until the client confirms them in writing.
With regard to PFI concessions, Turnover 117.9 209.5 the order book recorded is the group share of future concession income for the remaining life of the concession.
All intra-group Operating profit before exceptional orders are eliminated upon consolidation.
items and goodwill amortisation 14.0 26.2 Exceptional asset impairments 7.7 7.0 AWG Property formerly Developments and Loss on disposal closures of: Commercial Services - Continuing businesses 22.5 1.5 Turnover in Developments and Commercial Services fell to 143.9 - Discontinued businesses 88.3 - million 2003: 181.2 million.
Operating profit before exceptional Goodwill amortisation 1.3 3.1 items increased to 4.8 million 2003: 2.1 million during the Loss profit before interest 105.8 14.6 year.
This was primarily as a result of the sales of Great Northern Warehouse and Ocean Point office development.
The sales of Of the 14.0 million operating profit before exceptional items and property in the year contributed 94.5 million to cash.
After goodwill amortisation, 11.8 million arose in the first half of the exceptional items of 10.0 million, the loss before interest was year reflecting the contributions from the Czech and Chilean 5.2 million 2003: 0.6 million profit.
businesses prior to their disposal.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 13 AWG is expanding its presence across the UK by serving additional clients from a number of regional operational centres.
Local Authority outsourcing The CityCare joint venture requires a wide variety of skills.
Here a craftsman restores a decorative Norwich park gate.
Other primary operational centres include North Lanarkshire, London and Birmingham.
CityCare is a joint venture between AWG Facilities Services 14 AWG Plc and Cleanaway in partnership with Norwich City Council.
Operating and financial review continued Serving new clients from an existing regional base Norwich City Council outsourced many of its Bayer Crop Science Civils and maintenance maintenance services to CityCare, an AWG Bovis Lend Lease consortium Highways work 2 joint venture.
AWG has since won three more and roads connection for shopping centre contracts as a direct result.
Health centre refurbishment of doctors clinic Norwich CityCare Boston - Mayflower Housing Association 1 2 4 1 Housing repair Norwich City Council Housing repair, highways, Cambridge - County Council 3 grounds maintenance and refuse collection Mainly gas repairs Norwich Private sector Great Yarmouth - Borough Council 4 3 Britvic refurbishment of warehousing Housing repair The transactions in the Czech Republic and Chile all received Regulatory environment competition approval and were completed in the second half.
Legislative changes The group has a limited number of remaining projects or Anglian Water operates within a highly regulated environment.
contracts that are expected to complete or close over the next Various regulators, as well as UK and European legislation, govern two years.
These include projects in Thailand, New Zealand, its operations.
The principal regulator, Ofwat, sets price limits Argentina and three projects in China.
The review currently underway will set prices for 2005 to 2010. Business dynamics Other Government bodies - the Environment Agency, Competitive environment English Nature and the Drinking Water Inspectorate - monitor environmental impacts and the standard of drinking water quality.
Water and wastewater Anglian Water works closely with regulatory and consumerAnglian Water supplies water and wastewater services in the east interest bodies to balance optimum operational performance with of England.
Some customers receive both services while others regulatory compliance.
will receive water or wastewater services only.
This is because those services are provided by other water only or water and Legislative changes and changes in Government policy can affect wastewater companies.
the IMB in different ways.
Public Private Partnerships PPP and PFIs have been two of the ways in which the current Government Depending upon their location and consumption levels, some has sought to deliver improvements to public sector schools, larger commercial customers can be supplied under competitive hospitals and roads.
arrangements by other water companies.
In the water sector it is the industry regulator Ofwat, rather than market forces, that The IMBs Facilities Services business has been closely involved determines price and service delivery levels.
with PPPs since its inception and continues to bid for new contracts.
Facilities Services now provides the outsourced facilities Infrastructure management services of a number of local authorities.
The IMB operates in a highly competitive environment, When staff are transferred from the public to the private sector, the intensity of which varies from market to market.
their existing terms and conditions, including pensions, are The IMB faces competition both from companies that offer covered by TUPE Transfer of Undertakings Protection of a similar range of services and from those that specialise in Employment Regulations.
The terms on which staff are particular disciplines.
Where skills gaps exist, or particular transferred and the financial implications of TUPE Regulations strengths are required for a particular bid, competitors can are carefully considered by AWG during contract negotiations.
In 2003 the Government announced that 200,000 new homes Some markets, such as service provision, tend to be highly are to be built in southern England to tackle housing shortages.
competitive and sensitive to price.
In other markets, such as For the IMB, such schemes and other urban regeneration Private Finance Initiatives PFI, competition tends to be limited initiatives can represent opportunities for its skills in land due to the technical and financial barriers to entry.
PFIs are remediation, construction or utility contracting work.
a good example of contracts that employ a range of AWGs infrastructure skills, from managing the concession to construction and facilities management.
AWGs construction business operates in three parts of the infrastructure market - building, regional civils work and framework contracts for private sector clients - for example the water utilities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 15 Operating and financial review continued AWGs expertise in utility contracting is demonstrated during an overhead electrical line refurbishment project for United Utilities.
Four overhead line teams climbed more than 350 poles on the 34-kilometre stretch near Barrowin-Furness, Cumbria.
Macro-economic environment and provide the basis for hygienic practices in all the company The economy continued to meet the Governments growth does.
All aspects of water supply are covered, from abstraction at targets in 2003 4, despite the global recession, faring better than the source through to delivery of drinking water to the customer.
many countries in Europe and elsewhere.
Globally, economic This includes well-rehearsed practise for implementing growth now appears to be improving.
The United States GDP contingencies to mitigate any impact should there be any growth strengthened in the first quarter of 2004, which is deterioration in the quality of water supply.
In the financial year expected to have a beneficial effect on the UK and potentially Anglian Water was prosecuted by the DWI for supplying water the markets in which AWG operates.
The prosecution resulted from a discolouration and taste event in April 2002 that occurred during In the private sector, upgrades to water and electricity networks, routine mains flushing work.
either in response to customers, quality or environmental directives, are expected to continue.
In the case of the electricity Demands on water supplies industry, this may be a direct response to recent network failures Anglian Water operates in one of the driest regions in the country, in the UK.
This planned increased expenditure may benefit Utility serving a highly dispersed, but rapidly growing, customer base.
Services, which operates in the water, gas, electricity and Its water is supplied through a combination of reservoirs, telecommunications markets.
Risk Anglian Water The company ensures that water resources keep pace with demand in a number of ways: by minimising network leakage, Drinking Water Quality encouraging use of domestic water meters, and educating Every day, Anglian Waters 4.7 million drinking water customers customers in ways to be water efficient.
use more than 1,200 million litres of water, treated at 142 water treatment works and supplied through 36,800 kilometres of The environment water mains.
It is Anglian Waters responsibility to ensure that the Anglian Water treats approximately 1,800 million litres of water it supplies consistently meets the requirements of the Water wastewater each day.
After a process of filtration and purification Supply Water Quality Regulations 2000 enforced by the Drinking at one of the 1,076 treatment plants, the water is returned to the Water Inspectorate DWI.
regions watercourses and the sea.
Overall in 2003, 99.7 per cent of the 235,570 regulatory tests One of the results of the 4 billion investment in the region since complied with the Governments standards.
Anglian Water privatisation in 1989, is the quality of the water returned to the achieved this through a comprehensive monitoring programme environment is of consistently high quality.
River water quality is that is in place to assess water quality throughout each of the currently the best it has been since records began, and all 46 of treatment and supply stages.
Continuous monitoring at treatment the regions bathing waters have passed the mandatory coliform works and other key sites is complemented by extensive standards of the EU Bathing Water Directive.
The company has a purposebuilt regional laboratory in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, and a Given the scale of Anglian Waters operation, there can be satellite laboratory located at Lincoln which provides additional instances where the quality of the water it returns to the microbiological analysis.
environment falls below the required standard.
Regrettably, a prosecution by the Environment Agency was upheld during The company has translated all regulatory requirements and the year.
This was due to a pumping station failure.
internal standards into detailed policies, standards and methodologies for water supply hygiene.
This ensures the quality The company works hard to protect and enhance the of water supply remains the highest priority by defining targets environment and regrets any such incident and is working hard and processes in order to maintain the wholesomeness of supply to avoid any further occurrences.
16 AWG Plc Leakage has been significantly reduced since privatisation in 1989 to its current level of five cubic metres per kilometre of water pipe per day.
Raw materials Anglian Water is already working to the spirit of the draft sludge Anglian Waters business is founded on the management of regulations that are due to take effect in 2005, and has put an essential raw material - water.
The east of England region additional control and monitoring processes in place, such as is one of the driest in the country, with a geographically hazard analysis and critical control points.
Its biosolids recycling dispersed, but rapidly growing, population.
It therefore requires operations are also accredited to BS EN ISO 9001:2000 and BS EN sustainable water management to ensure consistent supplies ISO 14001:1996 quality and environmental standards respectively.
Risk Infrastructure Management Business This supply can be affected by a significant increase or decrease in the rainfall patterns in the region.
The summer of 2003 was Contract management particularly dry, which increased the pressure on water supplies.
Both Utility Services and Government Services provide contracting Despite the additional demand, water resources remained services, to the utility and public sectors respectively.
The private satisfactory throughout the year and quickly recharged to sector, and increasingly the public sector, recognise the potential normal levels.
value of outsourcing parts of their operations.
It is common practice for the employees who previously undertook the work This was a result of a successful twin-track approach to demand to transfer with the contract.
management: the widespread use of metering and control of leakage.
54 per cent of Anglian Waters customer base is metered.
These markets represent an opportunity for AWGs IMB.
However, Around 50,000 new meters are installed each year, both at outsourcing also involves the recognition and management of customers request, and as standard in new houses.
Risk is contained in the requirements of the client and any been significantly reduced since privatisation in 1989 to its current penalties for not meeting agreed service levels.
It is also contained level of five cubic metres per kilometre of water pipe per day.
in the costs associated with the transfer of staff.
AWG works closely with partners to understand fully all risk-related issues During the past five years Anglian Water has also had to manage before accepting work.
and protect its assets and those of customers from flooding caused by exceptionally heavy rainfall.
The company has been New local authority outsourcing opportunities have risks of working with other parties, including the Environment Agency a similar nature, particularly in providing appropriate employee and local authorities, to see how this multi-organisational terms.
Also, the creation of additional value to support problem can be best managed in the future.
outsourcing arrangements presents varied risks, which AWG is experienced in managing in other contexts, such as facilities Whatever the rainfall pattern, however, Anglian Water consistently management and PPP PFI work.
promotes water efficiency to its customers.
Construction Biosolids Long-term success in the construction sector requires the manageAnother key issue facing Anglian Water is the management of ment of a number of inherent risks.
The primary risk is financial: sludge, a by-product of the wastewater treatment process.
As construction projects are often mediumto long-term, high wastewater treatment standards have tightened and regulations turnover activities commanding relatively low margins.
Changes have become more stringent, so the amount of sludge requiring to project specification, deadlines and budget, whether caused management has increased.
by clients, revisions by AWG, or external factors such as economic Treated sludge, known as biosolids, is now predominantly recycled climate or weather, can impact on a projects profitability.
to agricultural land, with significant environmental benefits.
It is AWG balances these risks across a portfolio of three different important, therefore, that the company and the UK water industry aspects of construction activity selected building projects, as a whole works to justify and retain the trust of farmers and regional civils work and framework services for utility and consumers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 17 Anglian Water is investing in technologies that deliver energy efficiency and help to reduce emissions that contribute to climate change.
Renewable energy Alongside investment in wind turbines, the company has a programme to install up to 12 combined heat and power units fuelled by bio-gas gas produced from wastewater treatment over the next three years.
The first four of these units are already in place at Lowestoft, Northampton, Norwich and Dunstable pictured.
18 AWG Plc Operating and financial review continued Volunteers from AWG Construction Services took part in the Community Service Volunteers Make A Difference Day, helping to refurbish the school play area and create a new sensory garden for children with special needs at the Sketchley School, Burbage, Leicestershire.
1 Sustainable development AWG Principles of Sustainable Development Principle 1: Compliance Business context We will ensure that all our activities meet relevant regulation and Sustainable development has a significant influence on the legislation at an international, national and local level.
Where no context in which AWG does business.
regulations exist, we will endeavour to set our own appropriate standards.
It has helped shape the regulatory environment for Anglian Water since at least the early 1990s.
In April 2006 the regulator Ofwat Principle 2: Products and services will become subject to a statutory requirement to carry out We will ensure that environmental, social, economic, health and its duties in a manner best calculated to contribute to the safety impacts associated with assets, products, processes and achievement of sustainable development.
However, Ofwat services are assessed and addressed over their full life cycle.
already operates to the spirit of the requirement.
Principle 3: Corporate engagement Public infrastructure is an important aspect of sustainable We will communicate key sustainability issues and seek development, contributing to the quality of life.
Many sustainable innovative solutions and alternatives: we will talk to, Infrastructure Management Business clients have obligations and forge relationships with, all those who have an interest in our relating to sustainable development.
business, including employees, shareholders, investors, customers, appropriate authorities, local communities, suppliers and other AWG has therefore made sustainable development central to the organisations.
This helps manage risks and adapt to regulatory change more effectively, reduce costs and add value to the Principle 4: Contractors, suppliers and joint ventures services offered.
We will work with, learn from and educate clients, consultants, suppliers, contractors and subcontractors through partnerships Principles and policies designed to develop sustainable activities and best practice.
AWG defines its contribution to sustainable development as: Principle 5: Employees Working in a way that improves the quality of peoples lives, We will respect all employees and encourage their development respects the natural environment and contributes to prosperity.
and training, and ensure they act with integrity, honesty and fairness in all aspects of our operation.
We will encourage all our AWG has 10 Principles of Sustainable Development see right employees to balance their work and home life.
We will and over with indicative standards and targets for each.
encourage all employees to develop relationships that allow them to play an active part in making AWG a sustainable organisation.
Principle 6: Community openness and transparency We will contribute to and promote the wellbeing of communities by behaving in a socially responsible manner, by maximising sustainable benefits and opportunities available to our host communities and by acting with a local face.
1 This section is a summary of AWGs 2003 04 sustainable development performance for the reporting year 2003 04.
A full account of that performance is published on the website: www.
Enviros Consulting Limited has verified the full Sustainable Development reporting system and confirms that the information contained in this section is both materially accurate and a balanced summary of the full account.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 19 Operating and financial review continued The companys strategy helps to combat climate change and also to reduce exposure to energy price changes.
Principle 7: Environment and resource use incident noted on page 16: one was brought under drinking We will demonstrate that the development and provision of water legislation also noted on page 16 and the other under products and services has no undue environmental impact, that health and safety legislation.
they are safe in their intended use, are efficient in their consumption of energy and natural resources and can be Stakeholders, public policy and sustainable development re-used, recycled or disposed of in a safe manner.
Stakeholders views help shape AWGs contribution to sustainable development.
Principle 8: Sustainable profits We will promote economic stability and create an efficient and In January 2004 AWG canvassed stakeholders views on equitable organisation.
We will ensure that profits for the sustainable development and AWG.
The majority said that organisation are derived in a sustainable manner increasing sustainable development would become more important for the financial, social and natural capital.
Through this leadership we group over the next five years: none said that it would become will deliver shareholder value and ensure that the organisation is less so.
an attractive long-term asset to a diverse global investment Much of AWGs business is driven by UK public policy and its community.
The company engages with Principle 9: Reporting suitable organisations, think-tanks, policy-makers and regulators We will set out clear governance that reviews and measures that shape such policy and is adopting best practice governing performance.
In this process we will make assessment of the transparency of companies influence on public policy.
compliance with legal requirements, company requirements and these 10 principles.
We report progress to the board-level Investing in the community: developing employees Sustainable Development Committee, to all our stakeholders, The companys approach to community investment is based at least annually, and to the public.
predominantly on practical involvement of employees in community activities, give me five.
Principle 10: Continuous improvement We will develop a framework for continual improvement by conducting regular audits, to assure progress and management give me five commitment.
We will take into account the latest technical AWGs give me five scheme allows employees to take up to 30 development, scientific understanding, customer and client hours of work time a year, matched by their own time, to get needs and community expectations.
We will ensure that all involved in community activities.
The scheme is intended to assist group policies are reviewed regularly to reflect the principles personal development by linking the skills and experience derived of the strategy for sustainable development.
through volunteering with the employees annual appraisal and personal development plan.
Overall performance - highlights Participation in give me five has continued to grow.
More than The key objective for 2003 04 was to improve adherence to the 600 employees have made much-appreciated contributions to the internal, indicative standards that define each Principle.
This community and fulfiled personal skill development objectives.
The Indicative Standards are now Around 100 employees took part in the Community Service met or largely met in every part of the group.
Volunteers Make a Difference Day in October.
Overall, there were three prosecutions upheld during the year Direct financial support is also given in certain well-defined areas.
One was for the environmental Through give me five and donations, AWG continues to meet 1 Business in the Communitys Per Cent standard.
1 The standard for companies contributing at least one per cent of pre-tax profits in cash donations, staff and management time and gifts in kind.
20 AWG Plc One of the initiatives introduced by AWG in 2003 was the use of Envirokerb, a composite kerb drain made from recycled materials.
Envirokerb was used for the first time on public roads as part of highway improvement schemes for Broxtowe Borough Council in May 2003.
Environmental performance AWGs overall accident frequency rate AFR for the year was Energy use is measured group-wide.
About three-quarters of the 0.40 against its target of 0.45.
Divisional AFRs ranged from 0.46 groups carbon dioxide emissions are attributable to operational by Anglian Water against a target of 0.36, to 0.31 achieved by energy consumption in Anglian Water: the balance arises from Construction Services against a target of 0.36. transport, energy use at the IMBs permanent sites and offices, Utility Services has again been nominated for a major construction and from the groups remaining international water and industry safety culture award.
Construction Services AFR is wastewater contracts.
currently among the best of the Major Contractor Group, an Anglian Water derives 11 per cent of its energy from renewable organisation that represents the top construction companies in sources and is on target to deliver, by 2010, its planned five per the UK.
The IMB endeavours to transfer skills and best practices cent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions compared with 1990. from its Safety-case driven environments in Utility Services to The companys energy strategy helps to combat climate change improve safety results in local authority work.
and also to reduce exposure to energy price changes.
The introduction of annual statements of intent, which are IMB clients are increasingly interested in energy issues: energy designed to focus on key success factors in health and safety, management services are now part of the package provided in have ensured a continuing improvement in AWGs ownership and social housing contracts.
management of health and safety issues.
Utility Services and Anglian Water have sustained last years Skills achievements in respectively reducing their use of virgin aggregate AWG is addressing skills shortages by investing in ways to and reducing the proportion of waste going to landfill.
Such develop, broaden and safeguard its skills base.
achievements help to offset rising waste disposal costs.
Utility Services is again running two schemes in conjunction with Environmental management systems conforming to ISO14001 are its client, National Grid Transco, to provide employment in place covering approximately 40 per cent by turnover of the opportunities for young offenders and people currently on the groups operations.
Future plans and further information Construction Services success depends on attracting and Each business is now working to a sustainable development developing a first-class skills base and has set up its own NVQaction plan for 2004 05.
Longer-term plans are being established accredited training centre, which tailors courses to staff rather for 2005 onwards.
More information, including a full, than adapting existing services from external suppliers.
It also independently verified account of sustainable development runs an apprentice scheme.
performance, is available on the AWG website www.
Government Services has developed learning centres in its established businesses to raise the skill levels of employees Investment for the future transferred in to the business from local authorities.
Safety Outlook The health and safety of AWGs employees is paramount and the The principal focus for the current year is the regulatory review, company strives to achieve an incidentand injury-free which will be completed in December 2004.
The groups environment wherever it operates.
immediate objective is to continue to seek a satisfactory AWGs health and safety performance has continued to improve determination and prepare the group to meet the challenge.
during the year, with no fatal injuries being sustained.
The AWG will continue to strengthen its management team and company is committed to the target set by the Government in improve the operating performance in the IMB.
2000 of reducing fatal and major injuries by a minimum of 10 per cent per annum and reducing work-related ill health by 50 per cent by 2009 10.
