Finance directors review Operating profit grew by 6.7%.
Profit margin increased from 14.0% to 14.8%, while return on capital employed increased from 9.4% to 10.1%.
These financial statements show the benefit of the groups focus on: achieving sales, profit and margin growth from existing businesses: improving return on capital employed: and cash generation.
Unlike previous years, the figures are no longer impacted by the demerger of Pubs and Bars or major business disposals.
Operating profit, profit margin and return on capital employed figures referred to in this review are stated before exceptional items see note 4 to the accounts.
Like-for-like sales figures exclude sales of outlets first opened or disposed of during 2002 3 or 2003 4.
Year end date The company is in the process of implementing a group-wide enterprise resource planning ERP system.
This implementation has enabled all Operating profit Interest subsidiaries to conform to a common Operating profit grew by 6.7%.
The net interest charge before exceptional end of week day.
Our year end is now Marriotts profit was constrained by costs declined by 8.8 million to the Thursday nearest to 1 March, the depressed four-star hotel market.
52.2 million as a result of a lower level a formula that gives 4 March for 2004 All other divisions recorded strong of net debt and lower interest rates.
and 3 March for 2005. profit growth.
Net interest, before exceptional costs, Accounting polices Profit margin increased from 14.0% to was covered 5.6 times by operating profit.
14.8%, while return on capital employed As explained in note 1 to the accounts, 3.3 million of the interest charge for increased from 9.4% to 10.1%.
Once the Urgent Issues Task Force UITF the period relates to financing costs again these improvements reflect the abstracts 17 as amended Employee associated with the realisation of tax continued focus on cost control and Share Schemes and 38 Accounting for losses not previously recognised in the asset management.
ESOP Trusts were adopted in the year.
These costs have been treated The comparative figures have been as exceptional, in line with the Exceptional items restated to comply with these extracts treatment of the associated tax credit.
although the changes are not material.
Exceptional costs before interest and Tax All the other accounting policies adopted tax amounted to 25.8 million.
This in preparing these accounts are consistent amount is analysed in note 4 to the The charge of 77.1 million against with those used in the previous year.
The impairment charge of profit before exceptional items 15.5m represents the diminution in represents a rate of 32.0%.
The factors Turnover the values of four Marriott branded affecting the tax charge are explained hotels and one site held for development.
Turnover grew by 2.7% on a like-for-like in note 9 to the accounts.
The net loss of 10.3 million on the basis.
Comparable divisional turnover disposal of fixed assets relates primarily The exceptional tax credit of 30.2 grew by 4.8%.
Headline reported turnover to book losses on the sales of pub million reflects: the realisation of tax was up by 0.6%.
Last years figure included restaurants and the Swallow hotels.
losses not previously recognised: sales of the Pelican high street business These amounts are all non-cash items.
deferred tax relating to the charge for up to 31 May 2002 and sales for the full impairment and the sale of the Swallow year of the residual beer production hotels: and a repayment of tax to the activity, which ceased in April 2003.
Swallow companies relating to periods prior to their acquisition by Whitbread.
page 7 Finance directors review Capital expenditure m 2003 4 2002 3 Hotels Marriott 41 27 Travel Inn 37 65 Restaurants Pub restaurants 60 47 High street restaurants 16 15 Sports, health and fitness 59 54 Other 17 10 230 218 including 21m to acquire the Cannons health club business in the Netherlands Shareholder return Cash flow In line with our aim to be the Employer of Choice, the board announced in Basic earnings per share EPS were The net cash inflow before use of liquid April 2003 that the company had signed 55.74 pence, while adjusted basic resources and financing was 137 million.
an agreement with Whitbread Pension EPS was 58.22 pence an increase This compares with a net inflow of Trustees Limited.
Under that agreement, of 10% year-on-year.
The underlying the company has undertaken to fund EPS excludes exceptional items and cash inflow after adjusting for business the pension scheme for a period of up goodwill amortisation.
acquisitions and disposals, the cost of to 15 years and has given undertakings acquiring and developing new sites and The total dividend for the year of to the trustees similar to some of the the disposal of hotels and restaurants 22.30 pence per share represents an covenants provided in respect of its was 122 million 2002 3 101m.
The dividend payment banking agreements.
The companys is 40% of post-tax earnings before The decline in tax paid reflects the cash liability under these undertakings is exceptional items cover of 2.5 times.
impact of the exceptional tax credits of capped at 300m.
As a consequence The final dividend of 16.15 pence per the last two years.
of this agreement, payments are being share will be paid on 16 July 2004 to all made into the fund for each of three The increase in the proceeds from sales shareholders on the register at the close years, starting in 2003 4, at a rate of property and plant, up from 29 million of business on 14 May 2004. of 15 million above the anticipated to 112 million, reflects the sales of the SSAP 24 charge.
There will be no The companys share price opened the Swallow hotels and pub restaurants change to the charge to the profit and financial year at 521 pence and closed it referred to earlier.
loss account, as a consequence of this at 740 pence.
Net asset value per share We are considering ways to improve the agreement, before the next triennial increased over the year from 668 pence return on capital employed of our Marriott valuation in March 2005. to 703 pence.
As explained in note 14 to business and whether the level of capital the accounts, the last revaluation of the Financial position commitment is in the best interests of groups properties was carried out in shareholders in the current, strained 1998 9.
Consequently 1.8 billion of Net debt at the year end amounted to market conditions for four-star hotels.
tangible fixed assets are carried at cost.
793 million, resulting in a balance sheet gearing ratio of 38%.
Net interest Pensions Capital expenditure was covered 5.6 times by operating The pensions charge to the profit and profit before exceptional items.
230 million was invested in property loss account continues to be based on and plant, including the business At the year end, 523 million of the SSAP24.
The charge reflects the 2002 acquisition of five health clubs and two committed credit facilities were unused.
triennial valuation of our defined development sites in the Netherlands, In March 2004 a 475 million committed benefit schemes, which resulted in compared with 218 million last year.
credit facility, which expires in April deficits on the funds of 64 million.
The Of this amount, 96 million 2002 3 2005, was reduced by 200 million.
schemes were closed to new members 114 million related to the acquisition on 31 December 2001.
Going concern and development of new sites.
This is lower than we had intended, particularly The third stage of the FRS17 Retirement The directors have a reasonable in David Lloyd Leisure and Travel Inn.
Benefits transitional arrangements has expectation that the company has However, the development programmes been adopted and the disclosures adequate resources to continue for these brands have now been required are included in note 7 to the operating for the foreseeable future.
At the end of 2002 3, there For this reason, the going concern basis includes 17 million on acquiring and was an FRS17 pension fund deficit of continues to be adopted in preparing implementing a group-wide enterprise 420 million.
The net deficit, after tax, the accounts.
At the end of 2003 4, the net deficit had fallen to 256 The current forecast is for capital million.
It should be noted that the expenditure in the range of 250-275 FRS17 calculations are susceptible to million in 2004 5.
The majority of changes in interest rates on the value expansionary capital expenditure will of liabilities and to short term be directed at developing new Travel movements in equity values.
Inns and David Lloyd Leisure clubs.
page 8 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 Strong cash flow 137 million net inflow Financial risks and treasury policies Foreign currency risk management the requirement to incorporate the market values of financial derivatives The main financial risks faced by the At the year end, foreign currency into our balance sheet.
Where such group relate to: the availability of funds borrowings amounted to 72 million.
derivatives can be demonstrated to to meet business needs: fluctuations in These borrowings provide a partial have operated as an effective hedge interest rates: and the risk of default by hedge against overseas investments.
against all or part of certain underlying a counterparty in a financial transaction.
Transaction exposures resulting from financial instruments which would The Treasury Committee, which is purchases in foreign currencies are normally be their intended purpose, chaired by the finance director, reviews normally hedged by forward foreign the value of those instruments will and monitors the treasury function.
The currency transactions and currency also be adjusted in the balance sheet.
undertaking of financial transactions of options.
The year on year movements in the a speculative nature is not permitted.
market values of pension fund assets International Accounting Standards The group finances its operations by a and liabilities and certain unhedged combination of internally-generated Whitbread will be required to adopt financial derivatives will be reported in cash flow, bank borrowings and International Accounting Standards the income statement the IAS equivalent long-term debt market issues.
The IAS when preparing its group accounts of the current profit and loss account group seeks to achieve a spread in for 2005 6.
In preparation for this, all and statement of total of recognised the maturity of its debts.
existing IASs have been reviewed in gains and losses.
detail so as to assess their likely impact Interest rate swaps and interest rate Our opening IAS balance sheet will also on our reported figures and the actions caps are used to achieve the desired be impacted by the requirement to required to collect the necessary data.
mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
account for deferred tax on gains on The groups policy is to fix or cap a Progress and clarity to date has been sales of property rolled over into new proportion of projected net interest hindered because most of the key assets and on previously reported gains costs over the next five years.
This policy standards have only recently been on the revaluation of properties.
reduces the groups exposure to the finalised.
Consequently, while it has Britannia Soft Drinks consequences of interest rate been possible to reach some high level fluctuations.
conclusions, more time is needed to In March 2004, we announced that the complete calculations and have these existing shareholders in Britannia Soft Interest rate risk management reviewed by our auditors.
This activity Drinks Limited BSD had signed an has now commenced with a view to At the year end, 422 million 57% of agreement with PepsiCo which creates agreeing the opening adjustments for group net sterling debt was fixed for a an opportunity to undertake an initial IAS reporting before the end of 2004 5. weighted average of 7.5 years, using public offering IPO of BSD.
In conjunction We intend to publish these adjustments, fixed rate borrowings and interest rate with the other shareholders we will with supporting narrative, well before swaps.
The average rate of interest on determine the best time to realise this we present our first IAS figures, which this fixed rate sterling debt was 6.8%.
opportunity but it is unlikely to be will be for our 2005 6 interims.
Whitbread Based on the groups net debt position aiming to start collecting data on a has a 23.75% shareholding in BSD.
at the year end, a 1% change in interest dual basis UK GAAP and IAS with rates would affect costs by approximately effect from the second half of 2004 5.
4 million, or around 1.5% of the 2003 4 Adoption of IAS, with its focus on the operating profit before exceptional items.
balance sheet and the incorporation of fair value accounting, will increase the volatility of reported profits.
The main causes of this increased volatility will be: David Richardson the requirement to account for the Finance director surplus or deficit on our pension fund in our balance sheet and the fact that 4 May 2004 the values of the assets and liabilities of the fund will be based on market values at the balance sheet date: and page 9
