William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review existing supplier of casino software Operating environment Cryptologic Inc.
It also introduced Boss Historically, the Groups business has proven to Nature, objectives and Media AB as a second supplier of casino be less exposed to the economic cycle than strategies of the business software, launched a Euro denominated many other consumer facing industries.
casino and started to offer an integrated Economic conditions in the UK were generally sportsbook and casino account to customers.
favourable throughout 2004 and remain so.
The Group delivers its betting and gaming In autumn 2004, the business launched a products to customers through three television channel William Hill TV on The business is defined and constrained by principal channels: channel 425 on the Sky interactive digital legislation and at the present time the television platform and further enhanced its Government is seeking to modernise the law as Retail comprises a nationwide network of online offering through improvements to the it relates to betting and gaming in the UK.
The over 1,600 outlets, making William Hill the functionality of the sportsbook and the Group has lobbied both directly and through its second largest operator of LBOs in the UK.
launch of Greek and Turkish language industry association for reform of the current The LBO estate is of high quality reflecting casinos.
As at 28 December 2004, the law to remove restrictions on licensed betting sustained investment and approximately business had 292,000 active accounts office trading hours, ensure proper regulation 45% of the units are located in London and 30 December 2003 247,000. and taxation of betting exchanges, and ensure the South East.
The scale of the network the inclusion of FOBTs in a future legislative gives William Hill a significant competitive The Group also operates two greyhound framework.
The Group expects that the scaling advantage in terms of brand recognition and stadia situated in the North East.
down of proposals in the Gambling Bill for allows central costs to be spread across a reform of the land based casino and bingo William Hill continues to pursue a strategy large estate.
industries will help to preserve the current aimed at delivering sustainable earnings competitive landscape to the benefit of the Telephone betting, in which the directors growth and value for shareholders.
believe that William Hill is the market elements of the strategy are to: leader, has the capacity to operate Each customer must take responsibility for Continue to enhance traditional earnings approximately 600 telephone bet capture complying with local laws in respect of betting and maximise organic growth opportunities: positions at call centres in Leeds and and gaming that differ across jurisdictions.
As at 28 December 2004, the Profitably exploit new platforms: Groups businesses are properly licensed in the business had 184,000 active accounts UK to accept sports and other bets and in the Capitalise on opportunities from regulatory, 30 December 2003 171,000.
Netherlands Antilles to operate online casino fiscal and technological change: and and poker sites.
The directors periodically Interactive betting comprises a profitable Selectively pursue value-enhancing obtain independent legal advice concerning the and growing online sportsbook including acquisitions.
state of betting and gaming law in particular arcade games www.
com The directors believe that the significant growth and an online poker site in the Groups profitability and appreciation in The Group closely monitors the development of www.
The Group the share price during the year demonstrates tax policy by the Government in relation to accepted its first bet via the Internet in 1998 the soundness of this strategy.
It seeks to lobby since when its sportsbook and casino have Government to ensure a fair and equitable experienced significant growth in the UK approach to the taxation of different platforms and internationally, attracting customers and to minimise the likelihood that the regime from over 150 countries.
The offering was for gross profit tax might be changed to the enhanced by the introduction of arcade detriment of the Group.
games in 2002 and the launch of a dedicated poker site in January 2003.
In autumn 2003, the Group took in-house a number of back office functions previously outsourced to its 7 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review The Group in conjunction with other GPT, levies, VAT, royalties and other costs of Current and future development bookmakers continues to make a variety of sales excluding pay-outs to customers and performance statutory, voluntary and commercial payments increased 12% to 160.7m and includes gross The Groups gross win was 722.1m to various sporting bodies.
In addition, the profit tax paid to Customs & Excise, levies paid representing a 10% increase over the Group makes commercial payments through to the horse and greyhound racing industries, comparable period.
Bookmakers Afternoon Greyhound Services VAT and licence fees incurred in respect of Limited BAGS for the right to screen pictures AWPs, and various royalty payments to Growth in gross win reflected a number of from various horse and greyhound racetracks suppliers of FOBTs and certain services in factors including: in licensed betting offices the in licensed betting offices.
As explained in the respect of the online casino and poker sites.
expansion of trading hours, development of Chief Executives Review, the Group does not the retail estate and roll out of additional The total amount of gross profit tax paid has expect any significant increase in the cost of FOBTs: in the telephone channel an increase in increased by 12% due to the increase in gross such arrangements in the foreseeable future.
the popularity of betting in running on live win from betting activity including that events: and in the interactive business the generated from FOBTs.
Levies have increased Key performance indicators development of the arcade, casino and poker by 2% due to an increase in the voluntary levy sites combined with strong underlying growth.
The directors monitor a number of financial paid to the greyhound industry net of a small metrics and key performance indicators decrease in payments under the statutory Across all three channels, performance in the KPIs including: horseracing levy due to unfavourable results first half of 2004 benefited from favourable and lower margins due to betting exchanges.
results for UK horse racing and football Gross win rather than turnover or gross Royalties paid to various suppliers of FOBTs including the Euro 2004 football win percentage : have increased due to the roll out of additional championship.
In contrast, performance in the The number of winning favourites and terminals although the percentage of gross second half of 2004 was adversely affected by betting margins for major sports only : win paid as royalty has fallen in the period.
less favourable horse racing results and Similarly, royalties paid to Cryptologic Inc. and significantly poorer results in respect of Net operating expenses in aggregate and Boss Media AB, suppliers of casino and poker domestic and international football since the for major line items: software, have increased in absolute terms due start of the current season.
This trend, which to the continuing success of these products.
Earnings before interest and taxation: is consistent with normal variations in sporting results, continued to prevail in the closing Gross profit, representing gross win less GPT, Interest and tax costs: weeks of the year.
levies, VAT, royalties and other costs of sales, Earnings: amounted to 561.4m, a 10% increase over Margins for horse racing and to a lesser extent the comparable period.
football continued to remain under pressure Net cashflow from operating activities: and due to the adverse impact of betting Net operating expenses increased to 332.5m, Capital expenditure and other investments.
As described in the Chief an increase of 6% over the comparable period.
Executives Review, the bookmaking industry The directors receive monthly information on is lobbying the Government to implement Associate income represents the Groups 19% these and other metrics and KPIs for the Group an equitable tax treatment for layers on share of profits of its associate company, as a whole and where appropriate for each of the exchanges.
Net interest payable fell to 26.7m, a decrease In addition, the directors receive information of 14% against the comparable period.
on non financial metrics such as the number of new accounts opened for each of the remote businesses, the number of slips processed, and the ratio of slips processed to staff employed in licensed betting offices.
8 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review Tax on profit on ordinary activities relates Resources Risks and uncertainties primarily to the current year and as the Group The Group seeks to exploit a number of assets The directors are seeking to build an earns its profits in the UK is calculated at 30% and resources that are not necessarily reflected increasingly profitable business by exploiting of taxable profits being the current rate of UK in its financial statements including: the above mentioned strengths and, at the corporation tax.
The Groups effective rate of same time, carefully managing the risks to the tax was 27.8%, as compared to 26.7% in the A market leader in all major betting operation.
Such risks include: the potential comparable period, due to relief for brought channels in the UK with an established impact of legislative changes in the UK and forward tax losses for which deferred tax international presence: overseas on the Groups scope and conduct of was not previously recognised and prior operations and ability to accept bets: the A long established and widely recognised year adjustments.
potential impact of changes to the UK fiscal brand, with a strong reputation for quality: environment: the ability of the Group to Basic earnings per share were 36.2 pence, a An extensive and high quality estate of manage its bookmaking risk: the relationship 22% increase over the comparable period and betting shops which benefit from significant with key suppliers, most notably the horse and diluted earnings per share were 35.5 pence, a sustained investment and ongoing greyhound industries: the payment of levies 21% increase over the comparable period.
refurbishment and improvement: and fees to certain sporting bodies under The Group generated net cash inflow from various arrangements: the potential threat An effective risk management system and operating activities of 247.3m, an increase of represented by competitors based in the UK significant bookmaking experience: 10% over the comparable period.
Out of this and overseas: the risk that key technology or cash flow the Group paid 23.3m in net debt A focus on sustainable and profitable growth information systems could fail: the impact of service costs, paid 57.4m in corporation tax, and tight management of costs: weather or other factors on the sporting invested a net 27.3 m in capital expenditure, programme: the loss of key personnel: the risk Strong cash flow generation: spent a net 3.8m on acquisitions, paid 59.6m of a prolonged economic recession or other in dividends, spent 145.5m purchasing its geo-political events that may result in a A track record of innovation and profitably own shares and repaid loan notes to the reduction of betting activity: the risk that exploiting regulatory, fiscal and value of 6.3m.
The Group drew down 90.0m intermediaries such as banks refuse to technological change: and under its loan facilities.
Net indebtedness accept credit and debit card transactions increased to 437.0m at the period end A strong management team and workforce connected with gambling: and the risk resulting 30 December 2003 366.1m.
from any inability of the Group to service its debt obligations.
The Group continues to invest in developing The directors believe that such resources help each of its businesses so as to underpin its to secure the Groups position at the forefront of The Board routinely monitors all the above future growth prospects.
It plans to continue to the betting and gaming industry and ensure it risks and appropriate actions are taken to invest circa 20m per annum in the retail is well placed to compete and develop its mitigate the risks or their potential adverse estate and, in addition, has commenced a major business in the future.
The Chief Executives Review investment programme to install electronic further expands on certain issues that fall into point of sale equipment and replacement text the above description of risk factors.
systems in all its LBOs by the end of 2005 at a cost of 45m.
The Group has also earmarked 20m for investment between 2005 and 2007 in new and improved technology platforms and corporate IT systems that will ultimately benefit all three channels.
The directors also consider opportunities to acquire additional good quality licensed betting offices.
All investment and acquisition proposals are evaluated against strict criteria that focus on return on capital and pay back period.
9 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review At flotation, the Board sought to achieve an In order to fund the above proposals and take Returns to shareholders efficient capital structure and ensure adequate advantage of the current favourable conditions The Company paid an interim dividend of headroom within the old facilities to finance in credit markets, the Group has secured new 5.5 pence per share and the directors have the acquisition of additional licensed betting facilities of 1.2bn with a consortium of banks proposed a final dividend of 11.0 pence per offices.
Subsequently, the Group made fewer the new facilities.
On 2 March 2005, 600m share that would bring the total dividend to acquisitions than anticipated and significantly of the new facilities became available and will 16.5 pence per share, a 32% increase over the increased its profits and cash inflows resulting be used to repay the old facilities in March amount paid in respect of the comparable in a reduction in the amount of net 2005.
Subject to the satisfaction of various period.
The proposed level of total dividend indebtedness and the overall efficiency of the conditions precedent, a further 600m of new corresponds to a dividend cover ratio of capital structure notwithstanding the ongoing facilities will become available once the above 2.2 times 30 December 2003 2.4 times.
The share buy back programme.
mentioned scheme is put in place.
All the Company normally aims to pay interim and facilities have been provided on a committed final dividends that represent about one third To improve the efficiency of the capital and underwritten basis with the first tranche and two thirds, respectively, of the total structure, the directors intend to seek the structured as a five-year revolving credit dividend.
approval of shareholders at the forthcoming facility and the second tranche as a five-year Annual General Meeting to a return of 453m The Company obtained authority from term loan.
It is proposed the Group will effect shareholders at the Annual General Meeting a return of capital to shareholders through: The directors believe that the new facilities held in May 2004 to buy back up to 10% of the will be sufficient to meet the projected needs issued share capital.
The Company had bought The insertion of a new holding company by of the Group including the funding of the back 6.5% of its share capital by the end of way of a scheme of arrangement sanctioned return of capital, a 40m special contribution 2004.
Approximately 2.5% of the issued share by the High Court and approved by a over the next three years to address the capital is retained in treasury shares to meet majority in number holding 75% in value of actuarial funding deficit in the defined benefit future awards under the Groups various those present and voting under s425 of the pension scheme, the working capital incentive and share remuneration schemes, Companies Act 1985 the scheme : requirements of the Group, and the funding of and 4% of the issued share capital has been bolt-on acquisitions.
A reduction in capital confirmed by the High cancelled.
The aggregate cost after expenses Court to create distributable reserves in the and stamp duty of the acquired 6.5% of Going forward, the Board anticipates new holding company: and issued share capital was 145.5m.
maintaining an efficient capital structure through a combination of dividends and An issue of B shares carrying the right to a Financial structure and liquidity ongoing share buy backs.
return of capital via a dividend or At flotation in June 2002, the Company redemption at the election of the individual arranged bank facilities amounting to 660m shareholder.
comprising a five year amortising term loan of Full details of the proposal will be sent to 210m and a revolving credit facility of 450m shareholders in a circular to be posted in mid available until 28 May 2007 the old facilities.
The bank facilities are denominated in sterling as the Groups operations are largely based in the UK.
As a result of mandatory repayments in respect of the term loan, the available facilities had fallen to 620m as at 28 December 2004, and further reduced to 570m on 31 December 2004 as a result of a further mandatory repayment.
10 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review The Company has entered into a series of Adoption of IFRS amortising interest rate swaps to fix the The Group is well advanced in its plans to interest costs on a substantial proportion of its adopt International Financial Reporting floating rate debt.
Prior to the return of capital Standards IFRS.
exercise described above, the amortising nature of the swaps resulted in approximately 75% of The Group has prepared its financial statements forecast interest costs being hedged over the for the 52 week period ended 28 December next 12 months, approximately 60% being 2004 in accordance with UK generally accepted hedged in 2006, and 45% being hedged in accounting principles UK GAAP although 2007.
In the coming months, the Group will supplementary information prepared in adjust its interest rate hedging arrangements to accordance with IFRS is shown on pages 69 to fix or cap its interest costs on a substantial 77.
Similarly, for the year ending 27 December proportion of the enlarged amount of floating 2005, the Group will report in accordance with rate debt resulting from its anticipated UK GAAP with supplementary information drawings under the new facilities.
The Board prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The Group will continue to review periodically the will adopt IFRS as the primary basis for borrowing and hedging arrangements to reporting for the 52 week period ending ensure that they remain appropriate to the 26 December 2006. needs of the Group and take account The Group does not expect the adoption of IFRS of changes in market conditions and to have a material impact on the reported business plans.
financial performance as compared to results prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
Furthermore, it expects no adverse impact on its tax affairs or banking arrangements resulting from the transition to reporting in accordance with IFRS.
The above text has been prepared with reference to the Exposure Draft of the proposed UK Reporting Standard on the Operating and Financial Review OFR issued by the Accounting Standards Board in November 2004.
Whilst not mandatory for the accounting period ended 28 December 2004, the Board has voluntarily decided to incorporate some of the required disclosures contained in the new Exposure Draft as it is considered to be the most relevant guidance material in this area of financial reporting.
The Board expects to modify further the OFR in future periods to reflect emerging best practice.
