Financial Review Cash flow and Net Funds At the year-end the Group had net funds of 52.9 million.
Cash generation across the Group remained healthy with a cash inflow from operating activities of 113.0 million, generated predominantly by the profit for the year.
Working capital management continues to be a priority.
Year-end stock was 5.9 Christopher Rogers million higher than the previous year due to a conscious effort to improve availability Finance Director during January and at the start of the new financial year.
Earnings Per During the year the Group took the opportunity to re-finance its core committed revolving Share and Dividend credit facility and in the process rationalised Basic earnings per share its banking group to a smaller club of close relationships.
A new committed revolving was 3.3 pence per share credit facility of 150 million is now in place compared with 1.8 pence with 125 million being a 5 year term and the remainder for 3 years.
Both pricing and other per share in 2003.
Adjusted terms reflect the progress the Group has basic earnings per share made since demerger.
before exceptional items At the balance sheet date the Group had facilities comprising an undrawn, and the amortisation uncancelled 150 million credit facility of acquisition goodwill and, in issue, 100 million of 8.75 per cent Senior Notes due in 2006. was 3.5 pence per share compared to 2.6 pence The net interest charge has further decreased this year to 10.2 million from 10.6 million per share in 2003. in 2003.
Net interest charges were covered 7.8 times before exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 1.14 pence per share making a total dividend for the year of 1.5 pence per share, Treasury Policy an increase of 13.2 per cent on the previous The Groups Treasury Policy is intended to year.
The dividend is covered 2.3 times by ensure that adequate financial resources earnings before goodwill amortisation.
This are available for the development and growth final dividend will be paid on 24 June 2004, of its operations whilst managing its currency, to shareholders on the register at close interest rate and counter-party credit risks.
of business on 2 April 2004, subject to the The Group Treasury strategy, policy and approval of shareholders at the Companys controls are developed centrally and Annual General Meeting.
This is to be held approved by the Board.
The Group does at 11:00am on Thursday 27 May 2004 not engage in speculative transactions.
at the Royal College of Physicians, 11 St Andrews Place, Regents Park, London NW1 4LE.
10 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The main elements of Treasury activity The Group continues to take a reasonably are outlined below: cautious approach to hedging its interest expense.
During the year the Group swapped Funding 30 per cent of its interest obligation, under the 100 million Senior Notes from fixed to The Treasury function ensures that the Group has sufficient secure financial resources to floating rate, to reduce its interest expense.
meet its medium-term business objectives The remaining 70 per cent is a straight fixed whilst arranging a blend of facility maturities rate obligation.
appropriate to its projected needs.
To date, interest payable on drawings from In addition to core financing arrangements, the Groups Revolving Credit Facility has been at floating rates, driven by market conditions, the Treasury function manages trade finance facilities and overdraft facilities associated the relatively short borrowing period that the with its day-to-day banking activities.
Groups business requires each year and the variation in amounts borrowed during this period.
Interest receivable on cash deposits Currency The Groups currency translation exposure has also been at floating rates for short is limited to movements in exchange rates maturities given the seasonality of the Groups cash flows.
Overall, interest receivable to the extent that they affect balances held broadly offsets interest payable on drawings on its currency bank accounts and certain foreign currency assets and liabilities in the from the Revolving Credit Facility providing books of its Hong Kong based product some certainty of exposure going forward.
sourcing company, Woolworths Group Asia Limited.
Foreign currency bank balances are Counter-Party Credit Risk controlled by the Treasury function and are The Group actively manages its relationships actively managed to a level that minimises with a panel of high quality financial institutions.
Credit risk is controlled by the currency translation exposures.
Treasury function setting counter-party credit The Groups main currency exposure is its limits by reference to published rating agency credit ratings.
The Treasury Policy recognises transaction exposure through movements that an exposure to a counter-party arises in exchange rates on its purchases overseas that are not denominated in pounds sterling.
in relation to both derivatives and financial These are mainly imports from Asia instruments.
denominated in US dollars and imports Segmental Analysis from Europe denominated in Euros.
The Group changed the basis of its segmental reporting during the year.
Two segments, Retail The Treasury Policy sets out a framework and Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing through which the Groups foreign currency have been introduced to provide a better transactions, both from commitments and forecasted transactions, are hedged.
understanding of the Groups business and as a result, a better indication of past All committed transactions are hedged up and future performance.
The Treasury function Woolworths, MVC and Streets Online arranges monthly currency meetings with the Groups operating subsidiaries where firm and are included within the Retail segment, with Entertainment UK and VCI making up forecast exposures are identified and hedging Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing.
decisions are made in line with policy.
Interest The Treasury Policy requires that an interest hedging plan for each year is approved by the Finance Director at the time of the annual budget.
The Treasury function is permitted to hedge in accordance with this plan using interest rate products such as swaps, options, forward rate agreements and futures.
11 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Financial Review continued Adoption of New Reporting Standards ending on or after 22 June 2003.
However, The Group has adopted the Amendment full implementation of FRS 17 has now been to Financial Reporting Standard 5 FRS 5 deferred, pending the review of International Reporting the Substance of Transactions Accounting Standard 19 Employee Benefits.
The main impacts of this amendment for The Group, therefore, has continued to the Group are the derecognition of expected account for pension costs under SSAP 24, in sales returns which had previously been accordance with the transitional arrangements provided for on a net basis, and the removal for FRS 17, certain additional information is of gross agency sales and their replacement set out below and in note 30 to the accounts.
A table showing the impact of these can be found The Group has continued to contribute in note 3 to the accounts.
to its defined benefits scheme at the rate of 13.5 per cent of pensionable pay.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards SSAP 24 the pension cost for the year is International Financial Reporting Standards 16.2 million 2003: 17.0 million, which IFRS become mandatory for the consolidated is split into a regular cost of 15.0 million financial statements reported by all EU Listed 2003: 15.7 million and a variation of companies from 2005 onwards.
of greatest impact for the Group have been identified and work is underway to ensure The actuaries have assessed the Minimum the required compliance with IFRS for the Funding Requirement MFR level for the 2005 6 financial year.
The impact assessment Group at the end of the financial year and has identified that changes in accounting it remains above 100 per cent.
treatment for property, goodwill, pensions and deferred tax may have greatest impact Impact of Financial Reporting on the Group.
Standard 17 Retirements Benefits The valuation of the defined benefits Taxation scheme at 31 January 2004, as measured in The effective tax rate for the 52 weeks accordance with FRS 17, was a net pension to 31 January 2004 is 30.9 per cent.
This deficit of 66.1 million 2003: 94.4 million compares to an effective tax rate of 33.4 after the benefit of potential deferred taxation per cent for the prior year, and an effective at 30 per cent amounting to 28.4 million tax rate of 33.5 per cent for the six months 2003: 40.4 million.
to 2 August 2003 six months to 3 August 2002: 36.1 per cent.
The decrease in the deficit over the year is primarily attributable to asset returns and Acquisitions and Disposals membership movements within the scheme.
VCI, one of the Groups principal subsidiaries, acquired an additional 35 per cent holding Had the Group charged pension costs to in 2M Recordings Limited for a non-cash the profit and loss account on the FRS 17 consideration, bringing its investment to basis, then the charge for the year would have 70 per cent.
Entertainment UK acquired been 25.4 million 2003: 10 months, 15.2m, a 26.2 per cent holding in DX3 Technologies compared to a SSAP 24 charge of 16.2 Limited on 12 September 2003.
digital services which enable the online sale and promotional use of music content.
Going Concern The Directors confirm that, after making Pensions enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation Following a detailed review, the Group that the Group has adequate resources announced in April 2003 that it would retain to continue in operational existence for the Woolworths Group Pension Scheme the foreseeable future.
For this reason, WGPS final salary scheme, whilst revised they continue to adopt the going concern terms for the participation of new employees basis in preparing these accounts.
have been introduced, existing members have been asked to increase contributions with effect from April 2004 in order to retain their existing benefits.
Accounting for Pensions Financial Reporting Standard 17 Retirement Benefits FRS 17 was issued in November 2000 to replace Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 Accounting for Christopher Rogers Pension Costs SSAP 24, and was to Finance Director be fully effective for the accounting periods 12 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
