Review of operations Operating and financial he Groups financial performance in the year review more than mirrored the continuing improvement in economic conditions across the globe, with Sector performance even the weakest region, Western Europe, Review of operations picking up in the second half.
2004 reected the positive impact of quadrennial factors such as the US Presidential Election, political advertising in the US pushing up media rates, the Athens Olympics and the European Football Championships.
2004 also marked a switch in client focus to top-line Branding & identity, Healthcare and Specialist communications growth, as corporate profitability, margins and liquidity The Groups Branding and identity, Healthcare and improved signicantly, following cost management in the Specialist communications revenues rose by over 14%.
Corporate profitability is at for-like revenues rose by over 5%.
Operating margins were historically high levels on both sides of the Atlantic.
This up 0.9 margin points to 13.5% on a constant currency basis.
resulted in unprecedented levels of new business activity, The Groups healthcare and direct, internet and interactive which have continued into 2005. businesses showed particularly strong revenue growth.
Network television price ination and declining audiences, Several companies performed particularly well: fragmentation of traditional media and rapid development In Branding & Identity Landor Associates in New York, of new technologies continued to drive experimentation by Cincinnati, the UK, Dubai, Mexico, Japan and Hong Kong: our clients in new media and non-traditional alternatives.
Enterprise IG New York and WalkerGroup in the US, 1998 was really the first year when WPPs marketing Addison Corporate Marketing and Warwicks in the UK: services activities represented over 50% of Group revenue.
Fitch in Columbus and Phoenix in the US and the UK, In 2004 these activities represented almost 54% of Group including PCI Fitch: The Partners in the UK.
In addition, in 2004, our narrowly dened internetIn Healthcare CommonHealth in the US: Sudler & related revenue was almost $400 million or over 5% of our Hennessey in the US including HealthAnswers Education, worldwide reported revenue.
This is in line with over 5% and in Australia.
for on-line medias share of total advertising spend in the US In promotion and direct marketing OgilvyOne in New and approximately 4% share worldwide.
The new media York, Minneapolis and Eicoff in the US, the UK, Sweden, continue to build their share of client spending.
the Netherlands and Austria, Concept in Germany, Italy, the Czech Republic and Mexico : 141 Worldwide in the US, Group financial performance the UK, Italy and Mexico: Wunderman in Detroit Irvine Turnover was up 5.2% at 19.6 billion.
Reportable revenue and Chicago in the US, Burrows and the Automotive Group was up almost 5% to 4.299 billion.
Revenue including in the UK, Germany, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Portugal, associates is estimated to total 5.283 billion.
Belgium, Greece, Brazil, Mexico and Australia.
profit pre-goodwill amortisation and impairment, interest, In specialist marketing resources VML, Einson Freeman tax, investment gains and write-downs was up almost 14% and Pace in the US and EWA, Mando Brand Assurance, to 607.7 million from 533.5 million and up over 21% in Metro, PRISM, Premiere Sponsorship Marketing and constant currencies.
Net interest payable and similar charges including a charge of 9.5 million for the early adoption of FRS 17 fell Manufacturing to 70.7 million from 71.6 million, principally reecting Revenues and profits at the Groups manufacturing division improved average net debt levels, and a lower FRS 17 were down signicantly in 2004. charge, largely offset by higher interest rates.
Headline interest cover remains at a level of over eight times and at almost ten times, excluding the FRS 17 charge.
profit before interest, tax, xed asset gains and write-downs was up 25.6% to 529.2 million from 421.5 million.
The Groups tax rate on headline profits was 25.7%, a similar level to the previous year, reecting the continued positive impact of the Groups tax planning initiatives.
Headline diluted earnings per share were up over 11% at 32.3p.
In constant currency, earnings per share on the same basis were up over 20%.
In 2003, 79 million was taken as an impairment charge primarily reecting accelerated amortisation of goodwill on first generation businesses which suffered in the recession.
Although 2004 was a stronger year than 2003, some first generation businesses continued to suffer and an impairment charge reecting accelerated amortisation of goodwill of 36 million has been taken.
