Financial review This year has been about restoring the balance sheet, delivering cash generation and improving levels of profitability.
All these financial objectives have been achieved.
Turnover Turnover from continuing operations rose from 833.7m to 950.4m.
This was principally due to growth of existing contracts and the general improvement in market conditions as well as the work generated by the Metronet PPP companies.
The Group continues to pursue targeted turnover growth at better margins.
Adjusted profit The table below shows the calculation of Adjusted profit before tax and its relationship to profit before tax: Restated 2004 2003 This year has been Segmental trading operating profit Continuing operations 46.4 20.1 about restoring Discontinued operations 1.1 1.3 45.3 18.8 the balance sheet, Share of Joint Ventures profit before tax 20.6 6.7 Net interest payable and financing charges 6.7 2.1 PFI bid costs excluding Metronet 3.0 4.7 delivering cash Adjusted profit before tax 56.2 18.7 Metronet bid costs 8.4 generation and Amortisation of pension fund deficit surplus 3.4 3.7 improving levels of Amortisation of goodwill 7.8 11.1 Colchester Garrison dilution gain 4.8 Exceptional items 13.5 48.1 profitability.
All these Employee Benefit Trusts 1.3 0.1 financial objectives Profit loss before tax 62.0 45.3 have been achieved.
2003 figures have been restated for UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts and UITF 17, as amended Employee Share Schemes.
Adjusted profit before tax for the year to 31 March 2004 was 56.2m, an increase of 37.5m compared with last year.
This turnaround reflects the strength of the Groups underlying businesses, the continued control of the Groups overheads and the elimination of loss-making contracts and low margin activities.
The Groups trading operating margin on continuing operations before Joint Ventures was 4.9% 2003: 2.4%, demonstrating substantial improvement upon last year and good progress towards achieving the Groups objective of returning to historic margin levels.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 24 Segmental performance On Financial Close the Group received 20.1m in respect of As detailed in the Chief Executives review of operations the recovery of bid costs and a development fee.
This amount has individual segments have all performed well in terms of underlying been capitalised and will be released to the profit and loss account trading, although the results were adversely impacted in over the 30-year concession.
The Group will invest 70m in the Management and Project Services by provisions made against Metronet PPP companies by way of equity and shareholder certain FM contracts.
The provisions were made following detailed subordinated debt over six years in return for a 20% shareholding review of the prospects for these contracts over the remainder of in the consortium.
The equity contributions will be in roughly equal their respective terms.
tranches over the six year period.
The Group obtained Standby Letters of Credit from its banks to support the deferred element Joint Ventures of its equity commitment.
The fees for the Standby Letters of Credit The inclusion of the first years trading on Metronet significantly included an agreement to issue warrants in respect of 4.7m enhanced the Groups share of the profit before tax of its Joint WS Atkins plc shares.
The cost of these warrants 6.9m will be Ventures from 6.7m to 20.6m.
Profit in the year relating to Joint charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the Standby Ventures that were sold during the year amounted to 6.1m.
Metronet Net interest payable Included within Adjusted profit for the year is the Groups interest in, Excluding Joint Ventures, net interest payable has risen from and the results of trading with, the Metronet PPP companies: 2.1m to 6.7m excluding 0.1m Employee Benefit Trusts interest receivable, which includes 4.2m in respect of the Metronet 2004 Standby Letters of Credit.
Going forward, interest and other m charges are expected to reduce significantly as the cash position Metronet PPP companies 10.8 remains positive and the cost of financing the Groups investment Supply chain and other fees including Trans4m Ltd 5.4 in Metronet reduces.
Costs of letters of credit to support equity commitments 4.2 Bid costs 12.0 The results are after charging bid costs of 3.0m 2003: 13.1m on PFI PPP projects, principally Colchester Garrison.
No costs were The Metronet PPP companies and Trans4m Ltd achieved the overall capitalised with respect to PFI PPP bids during the period under budget targets established prior to transfer, but with some variations review.
Cumulative bid costs and development fees of 32.8m to income and costs.
Metronets income from London Underground 2003: nil were received in respect of Metronet, Colchester is subject to adjustments depending on the performance of the Garrison and other PFI PPP projects and, where the shareholding assets.
In its first year, performance abatements resulted in income is retained, will be amortised over the life of the concessions in approximately 10m below budget, although a significant proportion accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
A further 0.8m of this amount remains under discussion with London Underground.
of bid cost recovery on Colchester Garrison will be received in The income shortfall was offset by lower than expected funding and August 2004. administration costs.
There was, however, a slower than anticipated build up in activity and consequently the capital works programme On Financial Close of the Colchester Garrison PFI, the Group is behind schedule.
The Metronet PPP companies are working with recovered 8.4m of bid costs and project development fees.
Due LUL and their supply chains to address these delays.
to the reduction in the Groups interest in the project from 33% to 14%, 4.8m of the amount recovered was recognised as income in the profit and loss account but not included within Adjusted profit, with the remaining 3.6m treated as deferred income.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 25 Financial review continued Pensions Taxation An interim actuarial assessment of the principal defined benefit The Groups effective tax rate in 2004 returned to its normal level pension schemes was undertaken for the Group during the first of 31.5% 2003: 18.7% of Adjusted profit.
The tax charge on half of the year.
This indicated that the principal staff scheme had operations increased to 17.4m 2003: credit 4.6m as the Group an actuarial deficit of approximately 65m at 30 September 2003. returned to profitability.
The disposals made in the year were mainly The pension charge for the year included within Adjusted profit tax free.
Tax payable on disposals and other exceptional items has increased by 2.3m.
The amortisation of the pension surplus was 1.1m.
2003: 3.7m has been replaced by a charge of 3.4m to amortise the estimated deficit not included in Adjusted profit.
The Group Dividends continues to account for pension costs under SSAP 24.
However, The Board has recommended payment of a final dividend of 7.0p if the Group adopted FRS17 the Groups profit before tax would per share, making a total dividend for the year of 9.0p.
Subject be reduced by 6.3m 2003: increase in loss before tax 2.5m.
to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 1 October 2004 to shareholders on the The interim actuarial assessment indicated that additional annual register on 3 September 2004.
As stated in the Interim report, the cash contributions of c. 7m were required with effect from Board wishes to see progression towards a dividend covered around 1 April 2004.
To mitigate the cost to the Group, an increase in staff 2.5 times by cash-backed earnings before amortisation of goodwill.
contributions has been agreed, to be phased in over two years.
Earnings from Joint Ventures including the Metronet PPP companies The Group has increased its cash contributions by 3.5m a year.
and other material PFI PPP type investments, therefore, are only included in our calculation of dividend cover where they are Exceptional items and discontinued operations matched by cash.
The Group announced the sale of its largest US business, Atkins Americas Holdings Inc. formerly Benham on 9 September 2003 EPS and adjusted EPS figures for 11.3m in cash.
Under the terms of the sale agreement the Basic EPS was 38.8p 2003: loss of 41.1p as restated.
Adjusted EPS Group retained contingent liabilities in the form of performance was 39.9p 2003: 16.5p.
A reconciliation between Basic EPS and bonds for two existing projects.
Both projects have now reached Adjusted EPS is set out in Note 11 to the accounts.
practical completion and the warranty period is expected to expire by the end of December 2004.
Cash flow Net cash inflow from operating activities increased by 67.8m in In accordance with the Groups intention to recycle capital invested the year due to increased profitability, further improvements to in mature PFI investments at the appropriate time, the Group has working capital management, advance payments and a number of disposed of its interest in all but one of its PFI schools projects and the cash timing differences.
The cash position also benefited from the Connect Roads PFI projects for a total cash consideration of 17.2m.
reimbursement of bid costs and development fees of 32.8m and disposal proceeds of 37.6m.
The Group also disposed of its interest in Atkins Rebserve Proprietary Tax payments were low during the year as a result of brought Ltd AtReb.
AtReb has an interest in TFMC Proprietary Ltd, which forward losses.
The Group also made a planned equity injection was the company established to undertake the Telkom South Africa of 10.4m to the Metronet PPP companies in the year.
The improved cash flow and disposal receipts enabled the Group to The Group sold the Belfast branch of LSH for 1.6m.
repay in full its Sterling borrowings 47.9m at 31 March 2003 and at 31 March 2004 the Group had unutilised committed borrowing The Groups involvement in Education Services principally the facilities of 59.4m.
Southwark contract ceased in August 2003.
The substantial improvements made to working capital management resulted in a return to normal levels of working capital.
Going forward, working capital is expected to remain at these levels.
Tax payments will increase as the benefit of brought forward losses has been fully utilised.
Capital expenditure is also expected to increase as planned investment in the Groups IT infrastructure is implemented and the Group continues to fund its equity obligations in respect of the Metronet PPP companies.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 26 Treasury Accounting policies The role of Group Treasury is to manage and monitor the Groups The Groups accounting policy has been refined to accommodate external funding requirements and financial risks in support of the the complexity and length of contracts being entered into, including Groups corporate objectives.
The Board reviews and agrees policies those contracts within the Groups major new Joint Ventures, the and authority levels for treasury activities.
Group Treasury is not Metronet PPP companies and Trans4m Ltd. a profit centre and therefore does not undertake speculative trading.
The Group has adopted the revised accounting treatment required The Group funds its ongoing activities through cash generated by UITF Abstract 38 and the revisions to UITF Abstract 17 regarding from its operations and bank borrowings.
The Groups cash flow the accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts.
Corresponding balance is analysed in detail in Note 30 to the accounts.
sheet amounts have been restated to reclassify the Companys own shares as deductions in arriving at shareholders funds at the amount Private Finance Initiative PFI and of the consideration paid for the shares.
Amounts in the profit and Public Private Partnership PPP loss account have also been restated for the comparative periods The Groups PFI and PPP projects involve the Group in arranging presented.
These restatements do not impact Adjusted profit.
finance as part of the overall project service.
Individual projects are undertaken in Special Purpose Companies SPCs in Joint Ventures The Group is required to adopt International Financial Reporting with other parties.
These SPCs contract with end users for the Standards IFRS in its accounts for the year ending 31 March 2006. provision of serviced facilities and also arrange funding, construction, The Group has established a project team, led by the Group Finance facilities management services and, where required, operational Director, to plan for and achieve a smooth transition to IFRS.
The support for the project.
Except for equity commitments, the funding project team is looking at all implementation aspects, including of these SPCs is arranged without recourse to the rest of the Group.
changes to accounting policies and systems impacts.
Although The Groups share of the gross assets and liabilities of these SPCs the Group has not yet determined the full effects of adopting IFRS, is reflected separately in the Group accounts in accordance with our preliminary view is that the major differences from our current the provisions of FRS 9. accounting practices will be in respect of pensions, business combinations, Joint Ventures and associates, and share-based Interest rate and liquidity rate payments.
We expect that the Group will be fully prepared for The Group funds itself using floating rate borrowings.
The Group transition in 2006. has banking facilities which include cash facilities and bonding lines, as well as a Letter of Credit facility in relation to the ongoing equity obligations under the Metronet transaction which is discussed in detail in Note 4 to the accounts.
At 31 March 2004, the amount undrawn under the Groups credit lines was 59.4m.
Foreign currency risk The Group, through its ownership of Hanscomb Inc. has US Dollar Stephen Billingham denominated assets.
To mitigate the effect of currency exposures Group Finance Director for the year ended 31 March 2004 arising from its net investment in the USA the Group has financed 19 July 2004 part of its investment by borrowing US Dollars.
The borrowing is currently at a floating rate of interest.
The Group also has transactional currency exposures.
These exposures arise from sales or purchases in currencies other than Sterling.
It is the Groups policy to hedge the risk, where material, arising from contracts denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
At 31 March 2004 the Group had outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts amounting to the equivalent of 14.1m.
This included forward contracts to mitigate our exposure on the proceeds arising from the disposal of our interest in AtReb.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 27
