10 1 1 Operating and The business, its objectives financial review and strategy Group activities TBI plc is the holding company of an international group of companies.
It is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 350 index.
Our trading companies are almost exclusively in the business of airports: either owning and operating airports, managing airports or providing services to airport customers.
The vast majority of our earnings are generated by the airports we own and operate.
We regard this as being our core business and refer to it as such in the remainder of this Review.
The Operating Review that follows focuses on this core business.
Keith Brooks Analysis of airport EBITDA 2004 Chief Executive % Airport ownership 92% Airport services 3% Airport management 5% Dynamics of the business The key economic driver of our core business is the passenger.
Sales: The more passengers using our airports the greater our revenues.
These revenues are generated from our two customer groups: the airline and the passenger.
The revenue derived from airlines is primarily a fee per passenger.
The passengers also generate revenues indirectly for the airport by spending on retail, food, car parking and other such items.
The businesses that sell to the passengers as they pass through the airport then pay us a rental which is generally based on their sales or profits this is often subject to a minimum guarantee which the airport earns regardless of the performance of the retailer.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 Owned and operated airport turnover m Traffic income Commercial income Tenant income 2004 2003 0306090 120 150 Income per passenger per passenger Traffic income per passenger Commercial income per passenger 2004 2003 0.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00 5.00 6.00 7.00 8.00 Costs: The business of owning and operating airports is usually relatively fixed cost in nature and does not vary to any significant degree with the number of passengers using the airport.
There are, however, still a number of features which can cause costs to rise without necessarily resulting in a trend.
In recent years we have borne major price increases in costs.
For example insurance, security and air traffic control costs in the year to 31 March 2004 increased by some 1.3m over 2002 3, and about 3.0m over 2001 2.
Another example of a price increase was the concession fee we pay at London Luton which cost us overall an extra 1.5m in 2003 4.
Other than price increases we also encounter points in the development of airports where costs increase as a one off step change.
An example of this is Stockholm Skavsta Airport where we estimate that the operational cost of almost quadrupling passenger numbers increased by about 2.9m when compared with 2002 3, of which 0.4m is expected to be non-recurring.
Strategy Our strategy remains consistent: to be an operator of regional airports where we can make a difference.
To the extent that our existing businesses do not fall within that definition shareholders should expect to see divestments over the next 12 to 18 months.
We are also optimistic that opportunities to expand the core business will arise over a similar period.
Our people Our people are loyal, committed and highly skilled.
The TBI team is focused but also has to be sufficiently flexible Caroline Price to accommodate the continual operating and commercial Finance Director changes facing the industry.
That said, after several years of tremendous upheaval within the industry generally, and our business more specifically, there is now the opportunity to reflect and to address the changed environment and our challenge is to think innovatively to develop new ways to look at our changed business.
This challenge is one we are confident that our people will relish and respond to and in doing what is right for shareholders will, in what has become TBI house style, be clear thinking, forthright and continue to enjoy being part of the TBI team.
Once again, a big thank you to our people.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 12 13 Operating and Operating review financial review continued Our customers: the airlines Our airports exhibited Airlines directly generate just over half the turnover of our core business.
We term this type of revenue as tremendous growth of 31% in aeronautical or traffic income as shown in the segmental analysis in Note 2 to the financial statements.
In absolute low cost traffic during the year, terms it represented 77.1m 2003: 76.5m to our business, and an average of 4.40 per passenger of which some 82% was 2003: 5.04.
This change in average aeronautical earnings per passenger arose from the change in predominantly generated by passenger mix between full service, low cost and charter traffic.
In the UK airports less than 7% of our traffic is now three airlines Ryanair out of full service in nature, a 35% decrease in percentage from Stockholm Skavsta and last year.
Yet this reduction has been more than compensated for in terms of the number of passengers London Luton, easyJet out of carried by the low cost airlines increasing flown passengers at our airports by some 2.6m over prior year London Luton and Belfast, levels across the Group.
Passengers of low cost airlines represented some 62% of our Group traffic in 2004. and bmibaby out of Cardiff Our airports exhibited tremendous growth of 31% in low and Belfast cost traffic during the year, of which some 82% was predominantly generated by three airlines Ryanair out of Stockholm Skavsta and London Luton, easyJet out of London Luton and Belfast, and bmibaby out of Cardiff and Belfast.
Looking at each in turn: In April 2003 Ryanair launched its base at our smallest airport, Stockholm Skavsta, more than trebling the number of passengers it carried to or from the airport.
The significant and overnight change of going from one route and no based aircraft to six routes and three based aircraft is vividly apparent in the activity levels of Stockholm Skavsta which increased by over 800,000 passengers, almost 250%, over prior year levels.
This development has cemented Stockholm Skavstas position as Stockholms second airport.
We are also encouraged to see additional operators coming into the airport.
In February 2004 Basiq Air established a daily service to Rotterdam and in July 2004 Wizz Air will establish services to Cracow and to Budapest.
Stockholm Skavsta has demonstrated that passengers know where it is and that it is definitely open for business.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 In London Luton, easyJet announced new services between London Luton and Berlin, Dortmund and Budapest.
Since some of these services were launched during the latter part of this financial year and some were launched since the end of the financial year, the full benefit is not yet reflected in Lutons numbers.
In addition, some existing routes benefited from additional rotations being added.
The increase in Ryanair passengers was simply a full year effect of the Bergamo service which was launched in February 2003.
Belfast enjoyed over 20% growth in low cost traffic of which the lions share was generated by bmibaby services.
Since April 2004 easyJet has also announced new international services to Paris, Nice, Alicante and Malaga direct services to continental Europe which the people of Northern Ireland have welcomed.
This continued growth has resulted in greater choice of destinations and frequency which should allow us to claw back many of the 600,000 passengers from our catchment area who currently fly out of Dublin.
Paul Kehoe Executive Director bmibaby has made a significant difference to Cardiff an Managing Director extra 500,000 passengers compared with the previous London Luton Airport year being the full year effect of the services launched in November 2002.
Whilst the low cost airline passenger numbers went from strength to strength at our airports the full service traffic declined by a further 230,000 passengers with most of the remaining full service passengers flying from our Bolivian airports.
We do not believe this position will change in the foreseeable future.
Taken across the Group, charter traffic appears flat which masks the underlying trend of a decline in charter traffic in the South East of England marginally outweighed by almost 20% growth in Belfast.
However, the difference in aeronautical revenue per passenger in the South East from charter and low cost is minimal.
As we have previously explained, different airlines use our airports in different ways, and as a consequence pay us differently.
Low cost airlines at our airports expect, and manage, to turn around aircraft on the stand within 25 minutes.
A full service airline may expect to be on stand for an hour or so, and as a result we are able to handle more low cost passengers through a constrained facility than we could handle full service passengers: this increases the effective capacity of a terminal without additional capital expenditure or revenue costs being triggered.
Larry Gouldthorpe Executive Director Managing Director Orlando Sanford TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 14 15 Operating and financial review continued Our customers: the passengers We earn approximately 40% of the turnover of our core business indirectly from the passengers who travel through our airports car parking, food and beverages, retail outlets, car hire, foreign exchange outlets and their like all operate at our airports and pay us a turnover based rental, which is usually subject to a minimum guarantee.
Analysis of airport commercial income % Car park 40% Retail 28% Catering 10% Car hire 5% Other 17% Jon Horne The average passenger in our UK airports generates Managing Director revenue of some 6.90 on a round trip basis 2003: 6.61 with the following constituent parts: Cardiff International Airport Average passenger spend in UK airports per passenger Car park Other retail Duty free Catering Banking Car hire Amusements Other 0.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00 5.00 6.00 7.00 TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 Whilst the way in which we earn aeronautical revenues is very much driven by the type of airline the passenger is flying on, the way in which we earn the increasingly important commercial revenues is driven by the reason that the passenger is travelling rather than their mode of transport.
For example, a business passenger behaves pretty much identically regardless of whether they are flying on a low cost airline or on a full service airline.
Car parking represented some 22.3m 2003: 19.4m of our Group turnover.
Given its importance we decided to undertake a tendering process for car park operators at London Luton Airport a 14.0m business to us.
We were delighted to award the concession to NCP on the basis that they pay us a minimum guarantee per passenger using the airport plus a profit share.
This seemed sensible as we take the variable element on passenger generation and NCP earn the variable element of their success in pricing and attracting our passengers into parking.
Duty free and duty paid shops are operated by concessionaires at all our airports other than Stockholm Skavsta.
These concessionaires, taken with our shop in Sweden, generated rents which are generally based on the turnover of the shop of 13.3m in 2003 4 compared with 11.5m in 2002 3, an increase of 16%.
Since the year end we have renewed some of the existing concessions at London Luton and terminated others.
We also expect to add to the retail offer at Belfast during the forthcoming year and, for example, Boots the Chemist is opening a new outlet there within the next month.
At Stockholm Skavsta initial signs are encouraging the enlarged shop and improved passenger flows should help increase penetration and spending levels.
Catering activities undertaken by concessionaires within the terminal buildings generate approximately 4.9m of turnover.
In the main there was little change to catering arrangements or facilities across TBI in 2003 4.
However at Stockholm Skavsta catering facilities have been greatly extended and improved with effect from April 2004.
Albert Harrison Managing Director Belfast International Airport TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 16 1 7 Operating and Operational activities financial review continued Our industry continues to operate throughout a period of immense change in the way that people travel and the technology evolves.
We see that technology and travelling passengers increasing sophistication could fundamentally change the way that the industry operates in sales and processing terms.
First and foremost we must operate a safe business.
Our airports must comply with the regulatory requirements of many bodies and authorities, overlaid with our own Dot Gade Kulovuori in-house standards.
Within that structure we must ensure Managing Director that we meet our airline customers needs for prompt Stockholm Skavsta Airport turnaround times, that our passenger customers are cared for, that our asset utilisation is optimised and that we not Anthony Alicastro only work hard but that we work smart and question what Managing Director may always have been accepted.
Bolivian Airports Again this year we have some tremendous examples of the TBI businesses operating efficiently for all our audiences in sometimes challenging circumstances.
In Stockholm Skavsta we, overnight, almost doubled our staff and more than trebled our passengers, and commenced a terminal extension programme which provided a challenging and exciting year for our Swedish colleagues in every sense.
We are again proud that we were able to support local teams even with great demands being made from elsewhere within the Group support and advice being willingly given and received.
Our support team for Stockholm Skavsta drew upon people from Cardiff, Luton, Belfast and Orlando providing help in operational, commercial and administrative areas.
Between them all they have delivered a first rate product which operates as a modern regional airport should.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 Capital expenditure programmes during the year proceeded to plan.
Mostly this took the form of normal maintenance and investment however a number of projects were notable.
In Sweden we completed the 7.9m project which had straddled 2003 and 2004 the extension of the old terminal building with capacity to handle less than 1m passengers so as to enable it to handle over 2m passengers comfortably.
The end result is excellent efficient and customer-friendly.
In London Luton we completed a new taxiway and three new aircraft stands at a cost of some 7.0m.
These works resulted in the taxiway system at London Luton being tantamount to an enormous roundabout rather than two culs fide sac with all the attendant efficiencies for us and our airline customers.
In Belfast the operations control centre was created which consolidates all aspects of the airport management and has resulted in improved costs and efficiencies.
During the year the Government published its White Paper on the Future of Aviation in the United Kingdom up to 2030.
All our UK airports had participated vigorously in the debate and had promoted their views.
In Wales, the White Paper affirmed Cardiff as the principal airport for Wales, and recommended that surface access improvements should be supported.
We are already beginning to see the fruits of that recommendation with the announcement of the opening of a railway station adjacent to the airport in May 2005, and the Welsh Assembly Government publishing a consultants report to improve road access to the airport.
In Northern Ireland, the White Paper recommended that our Belfast International Airport be allowed to expand within its existing and large footprint.
Perhaps most high profile however was the South East regional study leading to the White Paper we were John Green delighted that London Luton was effectively given the Vice President strategic direction and framework to grow the airport to Airport Management some 31m passengers a year, roughly the equivalent of Gatwick today.
Unless and until additional runway capacity Jack Evans is built then fide facto London Luton is the only airport in the Managing Director South East with capacity to take new traffic.
We must Airport Services ensure that this opportunity is seized.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 18 19 Operating and Financial review financial review continued Overall results Of the 8.6m increase, some The trading results for the year ended 31 March 2004 reflect a period of relative stability compared with our 90% was as a result of recent history.
Our business did not change fundamentally although the number of passengers carried did improve increases in commercial and we have established solid foundations for future earnings growth as the new routes mature.
income which reflects Operating profit of 19.2m and profit before tax of 6.2m improvements at almost every have declined by 5.1m and 5.0m respectively but if exceptional items see below are excluded they are single one of our owned and broadly flat when compared with the prior year.
Given this operated airports performance and taking account of market conditions it is pleasing that our cash inflow from operating activities rose to 56.1m when compared with last years 42.9m.
Further commentary on our financial performance is set out below, where we concentrate on EBITDA rather than operating profit, as the directors believe this is the performance measure most relevant to readers of our financial statements.
Turnover Total turnover for the year was 186.2m 2003: 177.6m : which is analysed segmentally in Note 2 to the financial statements.
Of the 8.6m increase, some 90% was as a result of increases in commercial income which reflects improvements at almost every single one of our owned and operated airports.
This is vital to our future revenue generation and we note that commercial revenues per passenger as a proportion of commercial and aeronautical earnings have increased from 39% to 42% during the year.
We believe that more can be done to improve commercial revenues and given that there is almost no overhead cost linked to these revenues we would expect the majority of incremental commercial revenues to convert to profit.
Costs Group operating costs, including cost of sales, before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items increased by some 6% from 130.4m to 138.3m.
Cost of sales are relatively flat and the remaining increase of 8.0m is attributable to administrative expenses.
The increases that applied to our core business were approximately 9.0m and included a 2.9m increase in costs at Stockholm Skavsta, a 1.5m increase in the concession fee paid at London Luton, a 1.3m increase in insurance, security and air traffic control costs and a 0.3m increase in pension costs.
Costs across the remainder of the Group fell by approximately 1.0m.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 Group EBITDA Tax Our business performed well, increasing from 47.2m to The total tax charge for the year was 5.5m 2003: 4.2m.
47.9m, during the year and we also achieved double digit Due to the utilisation of historical tax losses only 2.3m growth in passenger numbers: which will provide the was reflected as a current tax cost 2003: 2.6m the foundation for profit growth going forward.
Of our EBITDA, balance being mainly the reversal of deferred tax assets as excluding central costs, 81% is generated by our we utilise those historical losses.
The effective rate of tax operations within the UK.
EBITDA from our UK airports of as a proportion of profits before tax looks high at 89% but 42.4m showed a slight improvement over prior year levels if goodwill amortisation which is not allowable for tax is of 42.1m.
excluded the effective rate is some 27% 2003: 22%.
EBITDA less Capital EBITDA less EBITDA less Earnings per share net interest employed net interest as net interest as Earnings per share and earnings per share adjusted for Year ended a percentage a percentage 31 March 2004 of capital of capital goodwill amortisation and exceptional items were 0.17 p employed employed loss 2003: 0.94p and 2.66p 2003: 2.91p respectively.
2004 2003 m m % % Dividends Belfast 10.2 100.1 10 10 The dividend is held and the proposed final dividend is Cardiff 10.1 64.6 16 17 1.60p, making 2.30p for the full year.
The dividend is London Luton 22.1 160.4 14 13 currently not covered out of profits for the year but is being UK airports 42.4 325.1 13 14 covered by bought forward reserves.
However the dividend is covered out of cash inflows from the operating activities Bolivia 3.0 9.9 30 28 of the Group after allowing for tax, net interest and capital Orlando Sanford 1.8 22.5 8 3 expenditure.
Stockholm Skavsta 1.7 33.4 n a n a Airport Management 2.7 5.1 53 35 Cashflow Airport Services 1.5 4.8 31 5 We generated 56.1m of cash 2003: 42.9m from the Airport total 49.7 400.8 12 12 operating activities of the Group.
Other operations 2.6 25.5 10 9 We incurred capital expenditure of some 27.5m during Head office 4.4 13.3 n a n a the year of which approximately 10.0m was on recurrent Net interest net debt 11.0 135.4 8 7 capital and maintenance programs.
The cash outflow on Total 36.9 277.6 13 13 capital expenditure in the year was 20.8m and there are also creditors of a capital nature of some 5.0m included Capital employed excludes all net debt, including inter-company debt, but includes all applicable goodwill on our balance sheet as at 31 March 2004.
There were two large projects undertaken during the year at London Luton This excludes exceptional net interest costs and Skavsta airports, and these were detailed earlier in this review.
The large project at London Luton released some In respect of our overseas operations, major improvements 1.7m of cash to that business which was previously at Orlando Sanford 1.0m improvement and Airport restricted and is included in the cash outflow amount Services 0.7m improvement were offset by a decline of 20.8m.
of 1.3m at Stockholm Skavsta which is still in its development stage.
Defined benefit pension schemes During the year the Group fully adopted FRS 17 and The performance of our US dollar denominated businesses since this represented a change in accounting policy, the in 2004, as compared with 2003, is not clearly demonstrated comparatives for 2003 have been restated accordingly.
in these accounts because of the change in average This has resulted in a prior year adjustment of some exchange rates during the year.
In their own currencies the 13.2m to the Groups reserves and a net pension deficit US dollar denominated businesses delivered EBITDA of 14.0m has been recognised on the balance sheet as at growth in excess of 32%, as compared with approximately 31 March 2004.
20% when shown in sterling, which shows a very strong recovery from the Americas.
IAS IFRS We are keeping the imminent introduction and adoption of Exceptional items International Accounting Standards under close review and The results include the following exceptional items: have identified a number of areas which are likely to have Operating costs of 0.6m principally relating to staff an impact on either the presentation of our financial reorganisations 2003: 1.5m.
statements or on the numbers themselves.
We believe that A US$10.0m 5.9m write down of the goodwill the presentation of our accounts is unlikely to change associated with the Airport Services business in materially as we consider that the current presentation is accordance with FRS 11. clear and appropriate.
The way that we currently choose to An interest rate swap termination penalty charge of segment our business is likely to remain unchanged 2.0m after the release of a fair value provision of 3.9m although we may provide further analysis.
We will revisit in following the refinancing of the project finance debt at some detail our treatment of investment property.
In future London Luton Airport.
goodwill will not be amortised unless there has been an impairment of the asset we currently bear an annual Net interest excluding the impact of FRS 17 underlying charge of approximately 8m.
We have already Net interest for the year was 12.6m 2003: 12.5m.
Both adopted FRS 17 and consequently the balance sheet years include exceptional interest items which if excluded treatment of pensions will probably remain unchanged.
would mean that underlying net interest for 2004 was There are other areas which may or may not have an 10.6m 2003: 10.9m.
The weighted average interest cost impact on our accounts depending upon the content of was 5.58% 2003: 5.97%.
As at 31 March 2004 net debt the standards once they are finally adopted.
Accounting policies We have reviewed our accounting policies as set out in the financial statements and we continue to consider them to be most appropriate to our business activities.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 1 G Stanley Thomas OBE Non-executive chairman 20 21 Member of Remuneration Committee G Stanley Thomas OBE, age 62, was appointed a non-executive director of TBI plc in 1994 and became non-executive chairman in 1995.
He was previously joint chairman and managing director of Peters Savoury Products, a substantial food manufacturing business that was sold to Grand Metropolitan plc in 1988.
He holds no other non-executive directorships.
He has significant charity and community interests.
2 Keith Brooks Chief Executive Member of Nomination and Operations Audit Committees Keith Brooks, age 55, was appointed chief executive of TBI plc in November 1994.
He had previously been a senior partner of Price Waterhouse, providing tax, corporate finance and business advice to a number of clients, including TBI plc, for which he was the lead professional adviser.
He was appointed Chairman of the Wales North TBI plc Board America Business Council in March 2003.
3 Caroline Price Finance Director Member of Operations Audit Committee Caroline Price, age 39, is a Chartered Accountant and was appointed finance director in October 1995.
She was previously an assistant corporate finance director with Price Waterhouse and advised TBI plc on the reverse takeover of Markheath PLC and on the acquisition of Cardiff International Airport Limited.
4 Paul Kehoe Executive director Member of Operations Audit Committee Paul Kehoe, age 45, was appointed to the Board in November 2001.
He joined the Group in August 1997 as managing director of Belfast International Airport.
He became director, European Airports in October 1999 and managing director of London Luton Airport in March 2001.
He began his career in the RAF and, before joining TBI plc, had been managing director of Sercos aviation company and a senior manager with BAE Systems.
He was elected as Chairman of the Airport Operators Association in March 2004.
5 Larry Gouldthorpe Executive director Larry Gouldthorpe, age 45, was appointed to the Board in July 2002.
He joined the Group in March 1999 as managing director of Orlando Sanford International, Inc. and has since taken responsibility for Airport Management and Airport Services in North America and for the Groups activities in Bolivia.
Before joining the TBI Group, he was director of aviation services for Lee County Port Authority in Florida.
He is a member of the Florida Airports Council and the American Association of Airport Executives.
6 Charles Scott Senior non-executive director Chairman of Audit and Remuneration Committees Charles Scott, age 55, was appointed a non-executive director in 1998.
He is a Chartered Accountant, is Chairman of William Hill plc and a director of several other companies.
7 Gareth Jones Non-executive director Chairman of Operations Audit and Nomination Committees Member of Audit and Remuneration Committees Gareth Jones, age 55, was appointed a non-executive director in 2001.
He is a Chartered Accountant, a former director of Abbey National plc and former managing director of Abbey National Treasury Services.
He is a non-executive director of Kensington Group plc and Management Consulting Group plc and a director of the Professional Oversight Board for Accountancy and the Economic and Social Research Council of Cambridge University.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004
