The Davis Service Group Plc 10 Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Textile maintenance The healthcare division saw growth in New business levels, whilst satisfactory, were UK and Ireland Turnover for the year turnover and operating profits.
However, held back by the underlying health of the increased by 4.6% to 263.3 million here also, pricing pressures were evident, customer base, particularly in Germany.
Operating profit at especially in the re-tendering process for Sales levels in our linen businesses covering 38.3 million was very much in line with established business.
the healthcare and hotel restaurant markets last year 2003: 38.4 million.
It is pleasing to report that our fell below last year, both areas also being This was a good performance in workwear business saw both volume and affected by our Scandinavian reorganisation.
an extremely competitive and difficult turnover growth, reflecting the focus we Additionally, in the case of our healthcare market place, characterised by improving are putting on sales and service operations.
markets, budgetary constraints within the volumes across all of our business sectors, However, the division faced similar cost and customer base continued to be an adverse significant cost inflation and price pressures.
pricing pressures seen in our other activities.
Despite an extremely difficult market These factors are reflected in the margin Consequently both margin and profitability in the Netherlands, in total our garment and decline from 15.3% to 14.5%.
facilities activities matched last years levels.
Our policy has been to maintain market In Ireland our business put up a Although we completed the share, to improve our operational efficiency creditable performance.
All revenue lines Scandinavian linen rental reorganisation in by way of a strong investment programme were up, particularly those in the healthcare the period, the business areas involved still and to rationalise smaller plants.
During 2004 sector, but operating profits were neutral have to settle down, a process which should we closed five plants and have directed the compared with last year.
be out of the way by the end of the first bulk of our investment programme towards Looking forward, it is difficult to quarter of 2005.
Within Denmark we closed the flatwork area healthcare and linen.
see much change in the trading climate.
two plants, one of which was re-equipped In addition we have committed to a two-year Volume is expected to continue at reasonable and subsequently re-opened, and within IT investment programme to provide levels but cost and pricing pressures will Sweden three plants were closed.
integrated systems to support operations, remain a feature.
However, with Steve Finch, Running parallel with this process we customer relationships, and business Sunlights Managing Director, and his reorganised our facilities mats and hygiene development.
We expect the operating collegues, we feel well positioned to deal business in Sweden following acquisitions units to fully utilise the new systems in the with such issues and are confident we can in this area in 2003 and closed seven small first half of 2006. meet the challenges ahead.
This restructuring process has had Our linen rental business benefited some impact on our turnover levels as we Textile maintenance from the upturn in the fortunes of the hotel did not seek to accommodate all the existing Continent Turnover for the period was sector.
In a price driven environment we work within our revised plant network.
388.2 million 2003: 406.1 million and more than held our market share although During the period we sold a safety business operating profit was 56.2 million 2003: the increased volumes brought little benefit in Holland, linen businesses in Norway and 48.3 million.
The overall impact of foreign to the bottom line.
Germany, and we recently agreed to dispose exchange on these results, compared to the of a linen business in Sweden.
equivalent period in 2003, was to reduce turnover by 8.7 million and operating profit by 1.3 million.
With the economic climate still affecting turnover growth our policy to focus on costs and operating efficiency delivered a strong uplift in operating profit.
At 56.2 million, operating profit was 16% up on last year.
Consequently, margins were up from 11.9% to 14.5%, an impressive performance.
Top The need for linen is a growing market in healthcare.
Top right Automated handling systems at the West Bromwich factory.
Right The Berendsen operation at rhus.
The Davis Service Group Plc 11 Report and accounts 2004 Acquisition activity has not been a primary Elliotthire and Loohire both delivered strong concern over the last few years, but with performances.
We have continued to invest management now running a more settled in our fleets our core hire fleet grew by 4% and efficient business we have been more in the period and now has over 31,000 units active, particularly towards the end of the and Loohire over 8,000 units an increase of year.
During the period we purchased two 6%.
In March last year the Elliotthire division small facility businesses in Norway, garment embarked on a major project to replace its turnover and a mat processing unit in Poland ageing in-house hire software system.
The and a mixed linen and garment business in system went live in November and although Denmark.
The cost of acquisitions in the year still capable of improvement the day-to-day totalled 8.0 million.
In addition, we have operation of the system is working well and recently agreed a turnover purchase for our has been well received.
Turnover in our direct sales and related In the coming year we expect to see a service activities fell short of last years levels.
slight improvement in the economic climate The shortfall can be attributed to the which, with the benefits of our acquisitions cessation of some larger contracts, a and continuing drive for efficiency, should continued decline in our business for the enable us to make good progress.
telecom sector, longer lead times and our failure to support at sufficient speed our Building systems Turnover at 146.2 million sales effort in alternative markets with new was down 7% from last years level of products.
These issues are being attacked 156.9 million.
Operating profits at rigorously, our sales effort refocused, product 17.8 million fell just short of last years level development is being targeted at key 18.1 million.
Operating margins were markets and the manufacturing capacity has 12.2% compared to 11.5% last year.
Additionally consideration The fall in turnover was primarily driven has been given to the future shape of our by the lack of product sales and related factory and depot facilities with the closure services and was to a degree compensated in the period of our Brownhills and Thame for by another good performance from our facilities and in relation to Peterborough we hire related activities.
have agreed Heads of Terms between parties to move our facilities to a larger site on the edge of the town.
Whilst we do not expect an immediate uplift in the fortunes of our sales and related activities, management efforts in this direction and the strength of the balance of the business should be sufficient to drive through an improvement in 2005.
J C Ivey Chief Executive Bottom Providing a fast and efficient turnaround for customers.
Right Elliott providing classrooms for the future.
Bottom right Elliotthire provides on-site accommodation units for most locations.
The Davis Service Group Plc 12 Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review continued Financial review item is a property profit of 3.4 million Borrowings and gearing Net borrrowings The financial review should be read in relating largely to the sale of UK properties.
at the year-end was 250.5 million 2003: conjunction with the Chairmans statement Profits before tax were 53.4 million 376.7 million.
The resulting gearing was and the Chief Executives operating review 2003: 26.8 million after the exceptional 58% compared to 86% at 31st December set out on pages 2 to 11 which contain items and goodwill amortisation.
The analysis comments on turnover, profit, earnings of the 324.4 million debt by currency Sale of HSS As previously reported, the group and dividends.
and by maturity is shown in the table on sold its tool hire business for 142.7 million page 13.
Basis of presentation No new Financial on 21st January 2004.
The purchase price Reporting Standards were issued during was dependent on the finalisation of the Pensions Actuaries to the groups defined the year that impacted upon the group at Completion Accounts which were agreed benefits pension schemes in the UK, Ireland, 31st December 2004.
The accounting policies in November 2004, resulting in a payment Sweden and Germany continue to advise adopted by the group have not changed and of 8.6 million to the purchaser.
the respective Trustees and the group on the are listed on pages 28 and 29.
The purchaser has now informed the required funding rates.
In total, the group In respect of FRS17 Retirement Benefits, group that it intends selling its business in has charged 12.6 million for the year in the board has continued to use the the United States.
As a result, the scale of respect of all pension arrangements for staff transitional approach and has provided in the repayment of the secured vendor loan in order to enable each pension fund to fulfil note 8 additional disclosures in respect of the of 20 million to the US business is now in its obligations.
groups defined benefits pension schemes.
While efforts continue to be made Full disclosure in respect of FRS17 by both the group and the purchaser to Retirement Benefits is listed in note 8 on Interest The net interest charged for the year maximise the repayment, the board believes pages 34 to 36.
As at 31st December 2004, was 15.6 million compared to 23.3 million it would be prudent to make a partial there was a total pension deficit, net of in 2003.
This significant decrease arose provision of 12.5 million at this time and deferred tax, of 42.0 million 2003: principally from the sale of HSS in January accordingly we have now valued the vendor 23.4 million.
This increase has resulted from 2004.
The average cost of funding, net of loan at 7.5 million.
The board currently changed mortality assumptions and lower cash balances, was 6.2%.
Interest costs were believes that no provision is necessary discount factors applied to the UK and covered 6.9 times by operating profit before in respect of the vendor loan notes of Ireland schemes liabilities.
Of this deficit, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
12.5 million to the UK business.
9.5 million net of deferred tax has been Taxation The tax charge of 26.9 million provided in respect of past service obligations Cash flow The detailed cash flow is set compared to 16.4 million in 2003. for HSS staff.
Had the group adopted FRS17, out on page 27.
The group cash flow This represented a rate of 30.3% on the the unprovided element of the deficit from operations was 227.6 million 2003: profit before exceptional items and goodwill, would have reduced group net assets from 275.8 million.
Free cash flow generated compared to 25.6% in 2003 when we were 434.3 million to 401.8 million.
was 74.3 million 2003: 76.5 million using tax losses in our German Berendsen driven by a further excellent performance Treasury policy The group holds or issues operation.
The future tax rate is expected from the textile maintenance businesses.
financial instruments to finance its operations to remain around 30%.
and to manage the interest rate and currency Capital expenditure Capital expenditure for Exceptional items and goodwill amortisation risks arising from those operations and the year was 146.3 million compared with Exceptional items, principally relating to the sources of finance.
Excluding HSS the loss on the sale of the HSS business, are The groups strategy regarding financial 2003 level was 144.6 million.
Our businesses shown on the face of the profit and loss instruments and managing the risks continue to be predominantly of a hire or account and laid out in more detail in note 4 associated therewith is summarised below.
The inventory to service these of the Results.
There is a separate comment activities is an integral part of the business Financing The group finances its operations on the HSS transaction later in this review.
and requires regular replacement in addition through a mixture of short and medium-term An excess provision of 973,000 has been to expansion and enhancement.
debt and cash generated through its released in respect of the reorganisation of operations.
In planning the maturity of debt, flatwork activities in Scandinavia.
The final the groups policy is to ensure a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility.
Short-term borrowings predominantly comprise overdraft facilities with clearing Dividend cover times banks.
The groups UK current accounts are subject to set-off arrangements covered by 2000 2.12 cross-guarantees.
Where surplus funds arise 2001 2.14 2002 2.05 2003 1.92 2004 1.94 Gearing % Shareholders' funds 000 2000 34 2000 219,783 2001 39 2001 245,927 2002 91 2002 424,675 2003 86 2003 436,059 2004 58 2004 434,272 The Davis Service Group Plc 13 Report and accounts 2004 International Financial Reporting Standards on a short-term basis, they are placed on Currency rates The majority of operations Under European Union legislation, all listed money market deposit and there is also in the group bill their revenues and incur companies will be required to adopt now a cash pooling arrangement taking their costs in the same functional currency.
International Financial Reporting Standards in the cash generated by the Berendsen The group faces some currency exposure IFRS for financial years beginning on or after businesses.
Surplus funds of a permanent in respect of the procurement of capital 1st January 2005.
The adoption of IFRS will apply to the group for the first time for the nature, such as those arising from significant equipment.
These risks are not material and, half year ending 30th June 2005 and the year disposals, have either been used to repay where any transactions exposure is significant ending 31st December 2005 with appropriate medium-term bank debt or to finance the in the context of the trading company restatement of 2004 results.
concerned, a forward foreign exchange A review has been carried out on the The group continues to have a contract may be entered into by that impact on accounting policies and the results, syndicated loan facility for five years agreed company: this would be dependent upon with the main areas of change, are set with 14 banks.
During the year 36.0 million the certainty of the exposure as to timing out below: of scheduled repayments were made which and amount and the exchange rate at the IAS 32 and 39 Financial instruments together with the net proceeds from the relevant time.
There were no such trading The group is required to recognise its interest sale of HSS enabled us to reduce our contracts outstanding at the year-end.
rate swaps at fair value into its balance sheet, medium-term borrowing by 105.3 million.
It continues to be the groups policy not with any changes in fair value to be taken Leasing facilities are utilised where appropriate to hedge foreign currency exposures on the through the profit and loss account.
The foreign to finance certain categories of assets.
translation of its overseas profits to sterling.
currency exposure arising from the groups All the groups borrowings are Where appropriate, borrowings are arranged borrowings are naturally hedged against its overseas net assets.
in currencies so as to provide a natural hedge against the investments in overseas IAS 19 Employee benefits The group Interest rates The interest rate exposure net assets.
accounts for its pension schemes under SSAP 24 of the group arising from its bank loan Pension costs and has elected under the borrowings has been managed by the use International Financial Reporting Standards transitional rules of FRS17 Retirement benefits of interest rate instruments.
The group has The groups current views on how the new to make disclosures only.
As shown in note 8, taken out hedging instruments comprising standards will affect the group are shown the application of FRS17 would have reduced swaps in respect of DK 1.7 billion, on the adjacent panel.
IAS 19 is 15 million and $25 million approximately similar to FRS17, as both require any defined Going concern After reviewing the groups 50% of the initial borrowings of its mediumpension scheme deficit or surplus to be budgeted cash flows and having made recognised on the groups balance sheet.
term debt in order to obtain a level of appropriate enquiries, the directors have a On transition to IFRS, the group expects protection against projected future interest reasonable expectation that the company to recognise the full assets and liabilities of rate increases.
The Danish krone instrument and the group have adequate resources to its defined benefit pension schemes in its matures in 2005 and is not expected to be continue in operation for the foreseeable restated 31st December 2004 balance sheet.
renewed while the sterling and US dollar Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year future.
For this reason, the directors continue instruments mature in 2006.
The groups will be recognised in full in the statement of to adopt the going concern basis in policy is not to use derivatives for trading changes in equity, rather than in the profit preparing the financial statements.
Transactions are only undertaken and loss account.
if they relate to underlying exposures and IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 3 should not be viewed as speculative.
requires intangible assets to be stated at fair I R Dye value at the date of acquisition and amortised Finance Director over an appropriate time period.
Any residual goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an annual impairment review.
The transitional arrangements contained within IFRS 1 do not require this standard to be applied to acquisitions made prior to 1st January 2004 and the group intends to take this option.
IAS 12 Income Taxes The scope of IAS 12 is wider than that of FRS19 Deferred Tax.
The principal differences likely to affect the group are expected to be the deferred tax Debt by currency treatment on revalued properties and deferred m % capital gains.
Danish krone 275.8 85.0 IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements US dollar 17.6 5.4 Dividends will be treated on a cash basis rather Euro 15.2 4.7 than on an accruals basis.
