3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review clear competitive advantage This review includes a description of 3is business and strategy and comments on 3is performance during the year in the context of the economic and market environment and other influences.
The review also discusses 3is financial position, including changes to its capital structure, and comments on the main risks inherent in 3is business and the framework used to manage them.
3is business and strategy 3is business 3is business focus continues to be to invest in buy-outs, growth capital and venture capital.
Geographically, most of focused our investment is in businesses based in western Europe, although 3i does have growing investment operations in the US and in the Asia Pacific region.
In the US, 3i currently invests in businesses engaged in technology sectors: while elsewhere 3i invests across a broader range of industry sectors and in each of the investment activities identified above.
Buy-outs 3i invests in European mid-market buy-out transactions with i a value between B25 million and B800 million.
The vendors Williams Lea of the businesses being sold are typically large corporates disposing of non-core activities or private groups with Business description: Outsourced print management and succession issues.
information management services 3i targets the mid-market because that is where Country: UK we believe we can create the most value.
There is less competition for transactions in this market than for larger Investment type: Growth capital deals and price is less likely to be the sole or key criterion in winning the deal we believe that, in the mid-market, the In February 2004, 3i invested new longer-term contracts as the 33 million in Williams Lea, the UK market moves towards a model relationships we build through our local presence are just as market leader in the provision of of full outsourcing of information important.
Additionally, the nature and size of businesses in outsourced print management and and document management.
this market are such that we are more able to add value information management services This strategy involves a mix of to major financial institutions and organic growth and growth through through strategic, operational and management input: and, corporates.
3i has been invested in acquisition.
In addition, the in this market, the underlying businesses will generally have this 200 million revenue company business has plans to strengthen since 1965. its presence in continental Europe greater growth potential than larger ones and be of such a This is a growth capital as well as North America and the size as to make them more attractive acquisition targets for investment, with 3is funding Indian subcontinent, in line with its a greater number of strategic purchasers.
being used both to finance growth customer requirements.
by the business and to enable a 3i is also active in the smaller buy-out market below rationalisation of the shareholder B25 million, both in western Europe and in the Asia Pacific base of approximately 300 individuals.
This is a more fragmented segment of the market The growth element of the and one in which 3is local network provides good access funding is intended to enable to the private vendors, management teams and local Williams Lea to increase its service offering to its existing blue chip advisers involved.
customer base and also to secure 08 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review a Refresco Business description: Fruit juice producer Country: Netherlands Investment type: Buy-outs In September 2003, 3i led the supported by London-based 1312 million buy-out of Refresco executives and our food sector Holding BV, investing 160 million specialists.
together with Eurofund IV and We introduced a chairman taking a substantial stake in the with experience of multi-site, business.
Refresco is one of international, low cost Europes largest suppliers of manufacturing and of growing fruit juices and soft drinks to businesses through acquisition food retailers, principally under and supplying to large retailers.
The investment strategy is This was a secondary buy-out to grow revenues and increase from a Dutch German UK margins, both organically syndicate who were selling and by way of acquisition, in a because they were unable to rapidly consolidating European fund the continuing buy and market.
3i has been active in using build strategy.
its network to source potential 3is Benelux team has known acquisition candidates.
the management for over four years and also had strong contacts within the original investor group.
The 3i team involved local Dutch investment professionals fresh 09 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Growth capital 3i makes growth capital investments of between 5 million and 50 million, across a broad range of sectors, business sizes and funding needs.
These investments typically involve 3i acquiring minority stakes in established businesses.
We therefore seek to ensure a high level of influence and an attractive yield in these situations.
3is growth capital business is primarily focused on 3is European and Asia Pacific markets and has historically had a less competitive environment than buy-outs.
Success in this market is determined by the ability to build long-term relationships with local businesses and local intermediaries, as well as demonstrating the capability of helping these businesses to grow.
This fits well with 3is strategy of local presence, sector specialisation, sharing knowledge and offering local businesses access to 3is international network of relationships.
p Angel Springs Business description: Supplier of watercoolers and bottled water Country: UK Investment type: Buy-outs In December 2003, 3i led the sell to one of the industry cool simultaneous acquisition and consolidators or a new strategic merger of three UK office entrant to the market.
watercooler businesses to form The managing director of Angel Springs, thereby creating the new group is someone with one of the largest independent whom 3i had previously national cooler businesses in successfully invested within the the UK.
watercoolers sector and whose The watercooler market is operational and other abilities it growing strongly on the back of believes will enable a successful the trend to healthier living habits integration of the three businesses.
and increased water consumption 3i further strengthened the and is undergoing a phase of management team by introducing consolidation in the UK and a chairman with relevant continental Europe as a number experience from its Independent of larger food and drink groups Directors Programme and a pursue market share through finance director with whom it had acquisition strategies.
The investment strategy is to integrate the three businesses, drive organic growth and then 10 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review a balanced business Venture capital 3is venture capital business is targeted at four key sub-sectors healthcare, communications, software and electronics, semiconductors and advanced technologies ESAT.
The main geographic focus is western Europe and the US, though 3i does also invest in the Asia Pacific region.
Investment in venture capital takes the form of participation in a series of funding rounds and we therefore separate out first investments those in businesses where 3i is not already invested and further investments.
3i aims to invest between 1 million and 10 million in each new opportunity and, depending on circumstances and market conditions, we would generally expect 3is venture capital investment to be split broadly 50:50 between first investments and further investments in any year.
p Cambridge Silicon Radio Business description: in-touch Designer and manufacturer of single-chip Bluetooth wireless devices Country: UK Investment type: Venture capital In February 2004, Cambridge Since 1999, 3i has backed CSR Silicon Radio CSR, a leading through three subsequent funding manufacturer of single-chip rounds and negotiated a Bluetooth wireless devices in shareholder agreement with a which 3i had invested a total of major corporate.
7 million, achieved a successful CSR decided to partner with IPO on the Official List of the 3i because of its local presence, London Stock Exchange.
its global network of corporate This represented an important and other contacts and its track milestone for CSR and provided record of backing successful 3i with a partial realisation of its  businesses.
At the 3i brought together the current IPO price of 200p, CSR was management team, assisting with valued at 240 million and 3is the recruitment of a chairman, holding was worth 30 million.
chief executive officer, chief 3i sold about one-third of its financial officer and financial holding in the IPO.
controller and introducing a 3i supported the spin out of non-executive director from its CSR from Cambridge Consultants Independent Directors Programme.
3i recognised that the 3i also introduced CSR to a Bluetooth market was expanding number of business partners and and was impressed by the quality advisers and supported the of CSRs technology, which company through its IPO process.
supports short-range wireless data and voice communications between different devices.
11 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review d Vonage Business description: Telecoms Country: US Investment type: Venture capital In February 2004, 3i co-led a 3is knowledge of the global $40 million late-stage technology communications market and ability venture funding round in Vonage, to help accelerate the companys a leading provider of broadband international expansion through voice-over internet protocol its network of offices were critical VoIP telephony services, based in to 3is ability to secure the New Jersey.
The funding, of which opportunity.
Since making the 3i contributed $12 million, will be investment, 3i has introduced the used to accelerate the expansion company to a number of potential of Vonages service in North customers and partners in the US, America and Europe and to Europe and Asia.
support development of new Vonage has seen a significant innovative offerings.
acceleration of its business in The broadband telephony recent months and, by May 2004, market is projected to expand had surpassed 150,000 rapidly over the next decade, due subscribers in the US.
to its significant price advantages connected and superior functionality over the use of traditional circuit-switched telephone lines.
3is strategy we invest in businesses with the The key elements of 3is strategy are as follows: to develop the business internationally: potential to grow profits significantly to build a balanced investment business: to use the network as our key competitive advantage: and to invest in companies where there is potential to grow profits significantly.
Globally, private equity and venture capital investment is concentrated in the US and Europe, with the Asia Pacific region showing strong growth.
We currently have a strong European presence and aim to grow our activities in the US and Asia.
3i targets investment across a broad range of industrial sectors and also invests at all stages of the corporate lifecycle, from start-ups to buy-outs.
We continue to target businesses where we believe we can help to grow profits significantly.
Integral to our strategy is the ability to use 3is network to generate returns that are greater than those of our competitors.
As business becomes increasingly international and complex, we believe that the network provides 3i with real competitive advantage through each phase of the investment lifecycle origination of the investment opportunity, developing and validating the business case, structuring and making the investment, implementing the operational plan for the business, and exit.
12 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review fun o TeknikMagasinet Business description: Retailer of home electronics and hobby products Country: Sweden Investment type: Growth capital In January 2004, 3i completed in Sweden, as well as expansion a 6 million investment in of the network into the other TeknikMagasinet, a Swedish Nordic countries.
retailer of home electronics and 3is local presence in hobby products with a current Stockholm, as well as in Helsinki turnover of approximately and Copenhagen, together with its 20 million per annum.
This growth experience and expertise in the capital investment comprises a retail sector and in growing retail mixture of equity shares and loans, businesses, enabled it to secure with 3i taking a substantial minority the opportunity.
3i has introduced stake in the business.
a chairman and two additional The company has a marketnon-executive directors with leading position in this sector, with relevant capabilities and 37 retail outlets across Sweden.
experience to help the business The strategy that 3is investment is achieve its growth strategy.
supporting includes a rapid extension of the chain of outlets 13 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review s Gant 3is network is integral Business description: Marketing and design of premium to all that we do branded apparel Country: Sweden Investment type: Buy-outs In June 2003, 3i co-led the and validate the value growth 1109 million buy-out of Gant strategy for the business and gain Company AB, an international exclusivity almost from the start marketer and designer of premium of the process.
3i used its local branded apparel.
3i, together presence in Stockholm, supported with 3i Eurofund III, invested by colleagues from its Spanish, 113 million, taking a significant Italian and UK offices with sector minority stake.
specific knowledge, to ensure that 3i was introduced to Gant it had the best angles for the in late 2002 by a member of 3is opportunity.
The transaction was Independent Directors Programme complicated by the diverse vendor who was a deputy non-executive group which consisted of the three director on the board of Gant.
founders, a multi-national business The approach followed the and a private equity firm.
abandonment of IPO plans due Exit plans are currently focused to adverse market conditions.
on achieving an IPO on the Insights gained from previous Stockholm Stock Exchange in investments in this sector helped two to four years time.
3i to understand, contribute to smart 14 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review The main elements of what we refer to as our network equity and venture capital investment business and, for 3i, are as follows: the benefits of sharing these across the organisation local presence this enables 3i to build strong relationships represent a substantial source of competitive advantage.
with entrepreneurs, corporates, universities, research We believe we have in place the systems, processes and organisations and intermediaries, and is particularly structures and, as importantly, the corporate culture to help important in the deal origination phase of the investment 3i maximise the potential benefits: lifecycle: relationships with corporates another benefit of 3is scale sector specialisation underpinning 3is ability to build and organisation is that we have meaningful relationships meaningful business relationships, sector specialisation with a large number of corporates in each of the is critical in the phases of developing and validating the geographies in which we operate.
These relationships are investment case and subsequently implementing the particularly useful at the origination, investigation and exit growth strategy.
Our sector teams are drawn from 3is phases of an investment.
Furthermore, 3is ability to make Industry Group, which comprises around 20 experienced effective business introductions across a range of senior industry specialists, and 3is investment and portfolio geographies is increasingly a critical factor in our ability to management executives: win deals and provides 3i with a distinctive source of product specialisation each of buy-outs, growth capital value creation: and and venture capital has teams of specialist investment strengthening boards and management teams the executives skilled in project management and financial People Programmes 3i runs for chairmen, chief structuring specific to the product.
3is scale and structure executives, chief financial officers and independent also allow us to utilise specialist skills in a number of other directors provide an excellent resource for building and areas, including portfolio management, restructuring and strengthening boards and operational management: and turnarounds, and exits and IPOs of companies from are also a strong source of both investment opportunities 3is portfolio: and due diligence capability.
sharing knowledge and contacts the importance of knowledge and strong relationships in each phase of the investment lifecycle is difficult to overstate in the private d Senoble Business description: Manufacturer of dairy products and chilled desserts Country: France Investment type: Growth capital In March 2004, 3i made a French food sector specialists.
substantial growth capital The depth of 3is network in the investment in Senoble, a food industry in Europe B600 million turnover French demonstrated through the pan manufacturer of dairy products European Food & Drink Sector and chilled desserts, taking a conference at the IESE Business 25% equity stake in the business.
School in Barcelona in November The investment was made to and the breadth of its sector support capital expenditure.
experience and expertise were Senoble, which has operations key differentiators in 3is ability to in France and Spain, is the leading secure the opportunity.
3i has manufacturer of private label milkintroduced a non-executive based products, but also produces director with strong dairy sector a range of desserts under its own and private label experience.
Senoble brand and a number of The investment strategy is low-calorie products under the premised upon strong growth of healthy Weight Watchers brand through sales, mainly through increasing an exclusive licence for France.
exports, and improvement The investment opportunity in margins.
was originated through some direct marketing by one of 3is 15 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Organisation and office network There have been no changes since March 2003 in the leadership of our three investment businesses.
Jonathan Russell continues to lead the pan European midmarket buy-out business: Chris Rowlands leads the growth capital and smaller buy-out business: and Rod Perry leads the venture capital business.
Within each of these activities, a panel of our most experienced investors ensures rigorous application of our investment processes and provides guidance to help ensure we maximise value across each phase of the investment lifecycle.
These panels also seek to ensure, on a case-bycase basis, that we assemble the best team for the job net investors in the second half from the regional, sector and product specialists.
The investment and divestment approval functions for larger transactions are carried out by two Investment Committees, addressing technology and non-technology investments respectively.
The membership of these Investment Committees is drawn from 3is Executive Committee.
3is Smi small and medium-sized investments initiative, which was established in 2001 and which reports to Chris Rowlands, continues to be successful in generating Operating review returns from some of the older and lower-growth investments Macroeconomic and market conditions and, importantly, in enabling non-Smi investment The macroeconomic environment in the regions where 3i has professionals to focus on identifying investment opportunities operations improved substantially during the financial year and managing larger investments.
Looking at the period as a whole, perhaps the 698 million of value 16% of 3is total portfolio and 849 key defining features of the economic environment were as investments 45% by number of 3is total portfolio were follows: gradually improving consumer and business managed by the Smi team.
confidence from the lows experienced during the extended There were no changes to the office network during build-up to hostilities in Iraq, though ongoing geo-political the year, though we have just announced that 3is offices in uncertainty appears to be a fact of life: the significant Padua and Nantes will close in the summer of 2004.
3i will strengthening during the period of sterling and the euro then have a total of 29 offices 25 across Europe and two compared with the US dollar and a number of Asian each in the US and the Asia Pacific region.
We continue to currencies, which has impacted the competitive position of recognise the need to deploy resources through critical mass a number of our portfolio businesses: improving economic teams based in locations of greatest opportunity.
To this end, growth outlook for the US and, to a lesser degree, for 3is Glasgow, Bristol and Leeds offices were, in February, Europe, though across most of Europe levels of government directed to focus on portfolio management, with the spending remain high: and the strength of the Chinese executives responsible for new investment in these offices economy and the implications of this for western economies being redeployed.
We do not anticipate any substantial and businesses.
changes to the current network of offices.
Stock market conditions and mergers and During the year, headcount was reduced from 858 to acquisitions M&A activity levels also showed improvement 750, reflecting a continued application of the cost reduction through the financial year.
Most stock market indices rose measures and changes in investment processes and substantially, reflecting improving confidence in underlying resource alignment initiated over recent years.
economic growth and the prospects for corporate earnings.
The increased business confidence, improving stock market conditions and continuing low interest rates are all enabling and encouraging businesses to recommence their disposal and acquisition strategies, though the number of completed M&A transactions remains subdued, both in Europe and globally.
16 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review The private equity and venture capital markets are also showing increased activity after a slow first half of 2003.
Market statistics for 2003 show that total private equity and venture capital investment in Europe fell by 16.5% compared with 2002, with high technology investment There were also a number of features specific to the markets down 25%, growth investment down by 29.4% and of each of our three investment businesses.
Activity in the buy-out investment down by 9.5%.
The second quarter pan European mid-market for buy-outs was driven largely by experienced the lowest levels of investment as expected, strategic reorganisation and restructuring initiatives within given the prevailing uncertainty and consequent deferment conglomerates under continuing pressure to sell off non-core of business decisions, with strong increases in the third assets and manage their balance sheets.
In addition, and fourth quarters.
secondary buy-outs where a private equity investor buys a Elsewhere, the high technology segment of the business from another private equity investor were a market in North America showed a 5% increase in total significant feature during the period, accounting for 31.3% investment over 2002: and investment levels in Asia Pacific of investment by transaction value in 2003.
This is a rose very substantially in 2003 to a new all-time high.
reflection of the amount of buy-out funds raised and seeking Conditions for realisations were difficult for most of investment opportunities and also, on the sell side, of the 2003, with relatively few active trade buyers and continuing pressure on some funds to sell investments and return low levels of IPOs by historical standards.
Market statistics cash to investors.
for Europe show a 25% fall in the number of divestments in Within the European growth capital market, 2003 compared with 2002.
However, we are seeing investment in 2003 was down sharply on 2002, largely as a encouraging levels of renewed interest by trade buyers result of growth and acquisition plans being deferred in an for strategic assets and the IPO markets are showing environment of business uncertainty during the first half of the signs of re-opening, at least for strongly performing and year.
Since then, these strategies have increasingly been profitable businesses.
recommenced and we believe that the use of private equity to facilitate cross-border expansion within the European market is a key driver of investment opportunity.
The venture capital markets are seeing increased levels of IT spending by businesses as well as improved conditions for realisations as the appetite of corporates for buying venture-backed businesses improves and stock markets re-open to some extent to technology companies.
Reduced levels of competition following the fallout from the technology bubble are also a feature of the marketplace in Europe, though competition for particularly good opportunities is still significant.
the strategy is delivering 17 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Total return 3i achieved a total return of 531 million for the financial year, which equates to 18.1% on opening shareholders funds.
While this compares with returns on the FTSE 100 and FTSE All-Share total return indices of 25.7% and 31.0% The main drivers of the total return were a good level of respectively, it is normal that 3is returns lag an upturn in profitable realisations and strong growth in the value of the quoted markets.
This is because our valuations of unquoted portfolio.
The latter was due to two main factors: the use of investments are generally based on historical earnings and higher earnings multiples, as a result of rising stock markets: our venture capital investments are not marked up in line with and a good level of first-time uplifts on a number of recent a rise in quoted markets.
investments in the mid-market buy-out portfolio as they The components of the total return are shown in moved from being valued at cost to being valued on the table 1: and table 2 contains an analysis of total return by earnings basis.
The total return also reflects an unrealised business and geography.
loss on foreign currency translation of 64 million, arising on 3is euroand US dollar-denominated portfolios net of Chart A: Comparison of 3is compound annual return with the currency borrowings, as sterling appreciated over the year FTSE All-Share total return index relative to the euro up 3% and the US dollar up 16%.
for the years to 31 March 2004 Improved results in each of 3is business areas 1 year 18.1% 31.0% underpinned the overall return.
The mid-market buy-out 3 years 10.1 % return of 22.6% on opening shareholders funds attributed to 3.8 % this activity was largely driven by growth in the value of the 5 years 0.3% portfolio, with strong first-time uplifts on a number of recent 2.7 % investments and a minimal level of provisions.
Returns in the 7 years 4.0% smaller buy-out and growth capital businesses, of 22.1% and 3.5% 26.8% respectively, were driven by strong realisations, while 10 years 8.1% the portfolios increased in value mainly as a result of using 6.9% higher earnings multiples.
Both businesses continued to 3i return FTSE All-Share generate a good income yield.
The venture capital business produced a total return of 6.0 %, though its return was Table 1: Total return broadly break-even before the impact of foreign currency 2004 2003 m m translation losses.
There were a small number of funding Total operating income before interest payable 267 308 rounds at higher company valuations, allowing us to increase Interest payable 93 110 the carrying value of these investments, but we have not Management expenses 163 163 sought to reflect in the valuations of unquoted venture capital Realised profits on disposal of investments 228 190 investments the significant rise in quoted technology indices Unrealised profits losses on revaluation of investments 336 1,159 over the year.
Carried interest and investment performance plans 40 12 Geographically, 3is returns in the UK, continental Other 4 11 Europe and Asia Pacific were strong.
The return in the UK Revenue return 134 146 of 22.2% was driven mainly by a high level of profitable Capital return 397 1,081 realisations and healthy value growth in the portfolio.
Total return 531 935 Whilst the buy-out and growth capital businesses were the main contributors to the UKs return, the venture capital Table 2: Total return by business and geography m business also achieved a positive return.
year to 31 March 2004 In continental Europe, 3is return of 14.5% 17.5% Continental UK Europe US Asia Pacific Total before the impact of unrealised foreign currency translation Buy-outs 123 185 4 31 335 losses of 29 million was largely due to the high level of Growth capital 238 16 1 8 231 first-time uplifts.
Venture capital 25 28 24 8 35 In Asia Pacific, the sale of our investment in Vantec Total 386 141 27 31 531 Corporation, the logistics business acquired from Nissan in 2001, was the main contributor to our 34.3% return.
Returns are stated after currency translation losses.
The US business made a loss of 7.4 % before taking account of the 17 million translation difference arising on the dollar-denominated portfolio net of dollar borrowings.
18 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Investment Table 6: Realisation proceeds by business and geography m 3i invested a total of 784 million 979 million including Continental UK Europe US Asia Pacific Total investment on behalf of co-investment funds, which is a 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 9.5% increase over the prior year.
Buy-outs 229 467 178 142 57 4 464 613 During the first half of the year, 3i invested Growth 211 million, with the balance of 573 million being invested capital 303 199 34 66 2 5 339 270 in the second half.
The substantial increase in the second half Venture capital 76 61 33 30 10 2 1 120 93 was largely due to 3is ability to complete new investment Total 608 727 245 238 10 2 60 9 923 976 opportunities that had built up in the new investment pipeline up to 30 September in contrast to the low pipeline coming in to the financial year, reflecting the deferral of many strategic Realisations decisions by businesses and investors in an environment of Despite a relatively poor environment for realisations, business uncertainty during the extended build-up to the 3i generated good realisation proceeds of 923 million hostilities in Iraq.
2003: 976 million and strong realised profits of 228 million An analysis of the amount invested by business 2003: 190 million.
Realised profits are stated net of and geography is given in table 5.
Buy-out transactions write-offs, which amounted to 50 million 2003: 79 million.
represented 42% of total investment, growth capital 37% The aggregate uplift over 31 March 2003 valuations and venture capital 21%.
Of the amount invested in venture on equity realisations was 58% and, including sales and capital, 55% was further investment into existing portfolio redemptions of loans and fixed income shares, 18% of the companies.
Continental European investment represented 51% of Table 6 shows an analysis of realisation proceeds investment, up from 42% in the prior year, and is a reflection by business and geography.
The growth capital and smaller of our ability, through the network, to source and complete buy-out businesses were particularly active in generating larger deals across Europe.
The UK represented 39% down realisations, mainly through a focus on selling investments from 44%, with the US and Asia Pacific investing 8% and that have been in the portfolio for several years.
Sales of quoted equity benefited from the general rise in equity markets, with 40 million of profits generated over Table 3: Summary of changes to investment portfolio 31 March 2003 valuations an uplift of 51%.
Four investee 2004 2003 companies achieved IPOs during the year, with the most m m high profile probably being that achieved by Cambridge Opening portfolio 3,939 5,109 Silicon Radio CSR in February see panel on page 11.
Investment 784 716 The successful IPO of CSR, a leading manufacturer of singleRealisation proceeds 923 976 chip Bluetooth wireless devices, at a market capitalisation Realised profits on disposal of investments 228 190 of 240 million was seen as a key test of the stock markets Unrealised profits losses on revaluation of investments 336 1,159 appetite in Europe.
Other 38 59 Closing portfolio 4,326 3,939 Table 4: First and subsequent investment 2004 2003 m m New first investments 535 432 Further funding or drawdown on existing arrangements 249 284 Total 784 716 Table 5: Investment by business and geography m Continental UK Europe US Asia Pacific Total 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Buy-outs 86 163 240 149 326 312 Growth capital 166 112 111 75 3 32 9 15 289 234 Venture capital 57 43 50 80 58 42 4 5 169 170 Total 309 318 401 304 61 74 13 20 784 716 19 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Unrealised value movement The unrealised value movement on the revaluation of investments was a positive 336 million, representing a significant improvement on the 1,159 million value reduction in the prior year.
An analysis of the different components of It should be noted by reference to table 7 that the value the value movement is given in table 7. movement relating to first-time uplifts includes 71 million The weighted average earnings multiple applied to which is due to earnings growth and that the other investments valued on an earnings basis rose from 8.1 to movements on unquoted investments item includes 12.0 over the period.
The impact of increased earnings 7 million in respect of companies that recovered from multiples on investments valued on an earnings basis at the making losses to being profitable.
The net value movement start and end of the year generated value growth of due to earnings growth is therefore a 41 million increase.
First-time uplifts totalled 238 million 2003: There was a fall of 4% over the year in the aggregate 31 million.
This is a reflection of the quality of investments attributable earnings of investments valued on an earnings made in recent years and the results beginning to come basis at the start and end of the year, giving rise to a value through as value growth strategies in investee businesses reduction of 37 million 2003: 48 million value increase.
Two larger investments whose profits fell significantly during Provisions for investments in businesses which may 2003 were the main components of this value reduction, but fail totalled 143 million 2003: 379 million and valuation the fall in earnings is also due to the use of historical audited reductions relating to the application of our downround accounts therefore not reflecting the more recent upturn in methodology and restructuring provisions fell significantly to the economic environment in valuing most of this component 70 million 2003: 361 million.
The latter figure is stated net of the portfolio.
of valuation increases of 65 million, arising as a result of investee companies raising funds from new investors at Table 7: Unrealised profits losses on revaluation of investments increased values.
2004 2003 The quoted investments held at the end of the year m m increased in value by an aggregate 60 million over the year.
Earnings multiples 287 244 Earnings 37 48 Carried interest and investment performance plans First-time valuation uplift from cost 238 31 Market practice in the private equity and venture capital Provisions 143 379 industry is to offer investment staff the opportunity to Down rounds and restructuring 70 361 participate in returns from successful investments.
Amounts Other movements on unquoted investments 1 45 payable on the successful realisation of investments in the Quoted portfolio 60 209 year to 31 March 2004 totalled 8 million.
A further Total 336 1,159 32 million has been accrued in respect of amounts potentially payable if assets are ultimately realised at the values they were held at in the accounts at 31 March 2004. strong first-time uplifts Income and costs The main elements of income and costs are shown in table 1.
Total operating income before interest payable was 267 million 2003: 308 million.
The decrease when compared with the prior year reflects a lower level of special interest and dividend receipts during the year and the realisation of a small number of higher yielding investments.
Fee income is marginally lower than in the prior year, although there was a substantial increase in the second half of the year, with arrangement and negotiation fees contributing strongly.
20 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review The portfolio Chart B: Portfolio value by investment type m as at 31 March 2004 At 31 March 2004, the portfolio comprised 1,878 Buy-outs 2,201 investments, a reduction from 2,162 a year earlier and a reflection of the strategy of seeking exits from investments Growth capital 1,338 where we believe the value growth potential is not sufficiently Venture capital 533 attractive.
We would expect this number to continue to Quoted 254 decrease over the medium term.
4,326m Total Charts B, C and D show the portfolio analysed by investment type, geography and sector respectively and Chart C: Portfolio value by geography m demonstrate the balance we seek in the business.
At the as at 31 March 2004 year end, 53% of the portfolio is represented by buy-outs, UK 2,506 35% by growth capital investments and 12% by venture Continental Europe 1,511 capital investments.
Geographically, 58% is in the UK, 35% US 234 in continental Europe, 5% in the US and 2% in Asia Pacific.
Asia Pacific 75 3is portfolio, in contrast to many others in the private equity and venture capital industry, has relatively low Total 4,326m exposure to individual company risk, with the top 10 investments representing 13% by value at the year end and Chart D: Portfolio value by FTSE classification m as at 31 March 2004 the top 50 investments 35%.
Resources 155 Fund management activities Industrials 1,018 Fund management activities comprise the management of Consumer goods 1,026 both private equity funds and quoted funds.
Services and utilities 1,275 The private equity funds are primarily co-invested Financials alongside 3is own capital when financing buy-outs, enabling 238 an investment to be made without 3i holding a majority Information technology 614 interest.
During the year, 3i earned fee income of 31 million Total 4,326m 2003: 34 million from the management of private equity funds.
In addition, 3i receives carried interest in respect Chart E: Third party funds under management m of third-party funds under management.
During the year, as at 31 March 2004 2004 1,875 600 3i received 1.7 million in respect of realised investments and accrued an additional 1.7 million in respect of unrealised 2003 1,587 452 investments.
At 31 March 2004, the invested portfolio Unquoted co-investment funds managed on behalf of private equity fund investors was Quoted funds valued at 1,324 million 2003: 1,158 million, excluding undrawn commitments.
Net interest payable decreased, reflecting the reduction in net During the year, we announced that the final closing borrowings and also the lower average rate of interest on of Eurofund IV, the latest fund targeted at pan European long-term borrowings following the B550 million convertible mid-market buy-outs, would take place by 30 June 2004. bond issue in August 2003.
It is expected that third party commitments will amount to Management expenses of 163 million 2003: at least B800 million over the life of the fund, enabling 3i 163 million include fundraising costs of 6 million incurred together with the fund to invest up to B3 billion in buy-outs in connection with the Eurofund IV fundraising and a higher over the next three years.
level of staff bonuses than in the prior year.
3i Asset Management manages 3is portfolio of quoted investments comprising principally our holdings in investments that have achieved an IPO as well as the portfolios of the 3i Group Pension Plan and of three quoted specialist investment companies 3i Smaller Quoted Companies Trust plc, 3i Bioscience Investment Trust plc and 3i European Technology Trust plc.
At 31 March 2004, total third party quoted funds under management were 600 million.
Fees earned from quoted fund management amounted to 4 million 2003: 4 million.
21 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Accounting policies and valuation New valuation methodology In August 2003, the British Venture Capital Association BVCA issued new valuation guidelines for private equity and venture capital investments, which resulted in changes being made to 3is portfolio valuation methodology summarised on page 69.
The new methodology has been approved by the Board and was applied in carrying out Chart F: Balance sheet summary m as at 31 March 2004 the 31 March 2004 portfolio valuation.
The net impact of 4,331 Portfolio and other net assets 2004 these changes on the overall valuation of the portfolio 2003 3,949 was immaterial.
Net borrowings 2004 936 2003 1,013 Changes to accounting policies Shareholders funds 2004 3,395 There have been no changes to accounting policies 2003 2,936 during the year.
Introduction of international financial reporting standards Financial review In June 2002, the European Union adopted a regulation that requires, from 1 January 2005, European listed companies to Cash flows prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance The key cash flows during the year were the aggregate cash with international accounting standards.
3is 31 March 2006 outflow of 756 million in respect of investment and cash financial statements will therefore be prepared in accordance inflows totalling 913 million in respect of proceeds received with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Net cash inflow for the year was These comprise not only IFRS but also International 45 million 2003: 170 million, reducing net borrowings at Accounting Standards IAS.
Details of 3is implementation the year end to 936 million 2003: 1,013 million.
With the programme are discussed on page 53. significant growth in the value of the portfolio during the year, gearing fell to 28% at 31 March 2004 compared with 35% a year earlier.
Capital structure 3is capital structure comprises a combination of shareholders funds, long-term borrowing, short-term borrowing and liquid treasury assets and cash.
The major changes in capital structure during the year, other than the growth in shareholders funds, were the B550 million convertible bond issue completed in August 2003 and the replacement of the 625 million multi-currency facility in January with a new B595 million revolving credit facility.
The convertible bonds are due in 2008 and have a conversion price of 842p a 45% premium to the reference price of 580p and an annual coupon of 1.375%.
Long-term borrowing at 31 March 2004 is 1,595 million and is repayable as follows: 5 million between one and two years, 944 million between two and five years and 646 million after five years.
In addition, at the year end, 3i had committed and undrawn borrowing facilities amounting to 583 million and cash and other liquid assets totalling 819 million.
We are confident we have in place adequate funding for foreseeable investment needs.
3i Group plc has credit ratings with Moodys and Standard & Poors of Aa3 stable and A stable respectively.
22 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Regulation and risk management Introduction 3i Group plc and relevant subsidiaries continue to be authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Treasury and funding risk 3i has a comprehensive framework to manage The overall funding objective continues to be that each the risks that are inherent in its business.
This framework category of investment asset is broadly matched with includes a risk committee whose purpose is to monitor the liabilities and shareholders funds, with corresponding identification, assessment and management of key risks characteristics in terms of risk and maturity, and that funding across the business.
The main risks comprise economic needs are met ahead of planned investment.
This objective risk, treasury and funding risk, investment risk and continued to be met during the year ended 31 March 2004. operational risk.
All assets and liabilities are held for non-trading Economic risk purposes and, as a result, 3i does not have a 3i invests mainly in European companies and continues trading book.
3i does not trade in derivatives and does not to develop its operations in the US and Asia Pacific.
enter into transactions of either a speculative nature or However, the majority of the portfolio 58% is still in UK unrelated to 3is investment activities.
Derivatives are used companies and there is an element of exposure to the UK to manage the risks arising from 3is investment activities.
To mitigate this, 3i has invested in different The main funding risks faced by 3i are interest rate sectors of the UK economy with different economic cycles.
risk and exchange rate risk.
The level of these risks is In addition, an increasing proportion of assets is invested in mitigated by the overall funding objective and the Board continental Europe, in the US and in Asia Pacific, which may regularly reviews and approves policies on the approach have different economic cycles.
3is policy for exchange rate risk management is not generally to hedge its overall portfolio in continental Europe or the US.
In line with its funding policy, part of those assets are funded by borrowings in local currency and, as a result, a partial hedge exists.
3is largest exposure is 0.8 billion in respect of net assets denominated in euros in continental Europe.
The level of exposure to exchange rate risk is reviewed on a periodic basis.
Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to executive Directors and the Group Treasurer.
Regular reports on 3is funding position have been considered during the year by the Board.
There has been no change during the year or since the year end to the major funding risks faced by 3i, or to 3is approach to such risks.
growth in shareholders funds 23 3i Report and accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Investment risk This includes investing in companies that may not perform as expected, being over exposed to one sector of the economy and the portfolio valuation being partly based on stock market valuations.
Investment levels are set, allocated and monitored by product area and geography.
Within this framework, 3i invests in all sectors of the economy, except those, such as property, where the opportunity to invest in private equity and venture capital backed businesses meeting 3is investment criteria is limited.
Management periodically reviews the portfolio, which is well diversified by industry sector, to ensure that there is no undue exposure to any one sector.
3is investment criteria focus on management ability and market potential.
Investment appraisal and due diligence are undertaken in a rigorous manner by drawing on our financial capacity and flexibility international network and experts in individual industry sectors.
In general, proposed investments over 5 million are presented to 3is Investment Committee or Technology Investment Committee, which are committees of senior management including executive Directors.
The valuation of a large proportion of 3is equity Operational risk portfolio is based on stock market valuations for the relevant This includes operational events such as human resources industry sector.
Quoted investments are valued using the risks, legal and regulatory risks, IT systems problems, closing mid-market price at the balance sheet date.
48% of business disruption and shortcomings in internal controls.
the unquoted portfolio is valued using stock market earnings Line management at all levels is responsible for multiples for the relevant industry sector discounted for nonidentifying, assessing, controlling and reporting operational marketability.
Accordingly, stock market valuations for risks.
This is supported by a framework of core values, individual sectors are an important factor in determining the standards and controls, a code of business conduct and valuation of 3is portfolio and the total return.
There are regular reviews of holdings in quoted The ability to recruit, develop and retain capable companies and exposure to individual sectors in order to people is of fundamental importance to achieving 3is monitor the level of risk and mitigate exposure where strategic objectives.
We operate in a competitive industry appropriate.
In particular, the level of future funding of and aim to remunerate our staff in line with market practice technology companies is kept under review.
However, it is and to provide superior development opportunities.
not possible to protect against the risks of a downturn in A group-wide business continuity strategy is in place.
stock markets generally or in any specific sector.
This strategy has been assessed against a detailed business Accordingly, the valuation of 3is portfolio and impact analysis and independently benchmarked against opportunities for realisation depend on stock market best practice.
conditions and the buoyancy of the wider mergers and acquisitions market.
Conclusion The year under review saw a strong return on opening shareholders funds, driven mainly by healthy realisation profits and good value growth from the portfolio.
In addition, 3i took advantage of improving conditions to invest just under 1 billion including co-investment funds in good businesses with attractive growth prospects.
3is balance sheet at the year end is strong, with gearing at a relatively low 28%, providing the financial capacity and flexibility to vary investment and realisation activity in line with market conditions.
