BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Operating and financial review BG Groups global operations The integrated gas major BG Group is a leader in the exploration and production, transmission, distribution and supply of natural gas to industrialised countries and developing markets around the world.
BG Groups core activity is connecting high value markets to competitively priced gas.
BG Group is active in over 20 countries around the world.
Conducting its business responsibly is central to the Groups philosophy.
6 NORTH AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN BG Group is a major gas producer in Trinidad and Tobago, supplying both the domestic market and exporting gas as LNG to the USA.
BG Group holds all the rights to the current and planned regasification capacity at one of the largest LNG import terminals in the USA Lake Charles, Louisiana.
BG Group also holds regasification capacity rights at the Elba Island LNG import terminal in Georgia, USA and operates a shipping fleet to service its LNG business.
In 2004, BG Group acquired producing and prospective E&P assets in Canada and Trinidad.
SOUTH AMERICA BG Group holds controlling stakes in the largest natural gas distribution companies in Brazil and Argentina Comgas in So Paulo and MetroGAS in Buenos Aires respectively.
BG Group supplies gas markets in Brazil and Bolivia as well as domestic liquid markets in Bolivia from significant reserves in Bolivia and also holds interests in four exploration blocks offshore Brazil.
BG Group also has interests in transmission pipelines from Bolivia to Brazil and from Argentina to Uruguay.
The Iqara subsidiary in So Paulo provides compressed natural gas and co-generation services in the Comgas concession area.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 BG Groups main activities NORTH WEST EUROPE Exploration and Production E&P With interests in over 20 UKCS fields, BG Groups downstream activities in BG Group has a significant offshore E&P the region encompass power generation, BG Group explores, develops, business in the UK.
In 2004 BG Groups gas marketing and gas transmission.
produces and markets gas and UKCS fields supplied 7% of the UKs gas BG Group is also jointly developing oil around the world.
Since 2004, BG Group has a LNG import and regasification facility 72% of 2004 production was gas.
been investing in Norway, acquiring in Wales.
The Group uses its technical, exploration acreage in Norways southern commercial and gas chain skills North Sea area and in a new prospective to deliver projects at low cost, gas basin in the mid Norwegian Sea.
whilst maximising the sales value of its hydrocarbons.
Liquefied Natural Gas LNG BG Groups LNG activities combine the development of LNG liquefaction and regasification facilities with the purchasing, shipping and sale of LNG.
The Group uses its expertise in LNG to connect its own and other 7 producers gas reserves to markets.
Transmission and Distribution ASIA AND MIDDLE EAST T&D The region includes the giant Karachaganak gas condensate field BG Groups T&D expertise and in Kazakhstan.
BG Group is also a activities develop markets for partner in the North Caspian PSA natural gas and provide them with including the Kashagan field.
In the supply from its own and others expanding Indian gas market, reserves through transmission BG Group has a growing E&P business and distribution networks.
and has interests in two distribution companies.
BG Group also has power Power generation businesses in Malaysia and A large proportion of the the Philippines, gas and condensate incremental worldwide demand production in Thailand and exploration for gas is attributable to power acreage in Israel and areas of stations.
BG Group develops, Palestinian Authority.
owns and operates gas-fired power generation plants.
Other businesses BG Group aims to enhance the value of existing assets MEDITERRANEAN BASIN AND AFRICA by developing complementary Production in this region is principally from Egypt and businesses using existing Tunisia with exploration acreage in Mauritania, Italy and infrastructure, customers, skills Spain.
LNG exports from Egyptian LNG are scheduled to and technology: e. g. fuel and commence in the second quarter of 2005.
BG Group has compression services for also agreed to buy LNG from Egypt, Equatorial Guinea Natural Gas Vehicles and and Nigeria to supply the US and European markets.
BG Group is a partner in the Brindisi LNG terminal and has interests in power plants in Italy.
