Caledonia Investments plc 24 Annual report 2004 Financial review As at 1 April 2003, Caledonia had completed the substantial restructuring needed to enable the company to be managed in accordance with the requirements for authorised investment trust status.
However, as with all investment trusts, compliance can only be confirmed by the Inland Revenue after the end of each financial year.
In order to provide financial information that is comparable with other investment trusts, presentation and accounting policy changes have been made.
Some of these changes took effect in the last annual report, and some appear this year for the first time.
For the reasons discussed below, we believe that the company statement of total return and company balance sheet are the most relevant statements for reporting our performance as an investment trust company.
Therefore, this review discusses the financial results of the company as well as summarising the performance of the group.
Jonathan Cartwright Finance director Presentation of the financial statements Caledonia is an investment trust company, but we are relatively unusual among our peers because we hold trading subsidiaries as part of our investment portfolio.
Our ownership of subsidiaries requires us to prepare consolidated financial statements, but the accounting rules prevent us from including subsidiaries in those statements at valuation.
The consolidated balance sheet would not, therefore, give a presentation of our investment portfolio consistent with other investment trusts.
However, the company balance sheet does allow us to show the entire portfolio including subsidiaries at valuation and is, therefore, considered to be the most relevant statement in presenting our financial position.
Actual proceeds from the disposal of any individual investment will inevitably depend on market and economic conditions prevailing at the time.
The company statement of total return is presented as part of the audited financial statements for the first time.
Comparatives for the year to 31 March 2003 have been presented, but on a pro forma basis only, as Caledonia was not an investment trust company during 2003.
The comparatives show the position had Caledonia been an investment trust company during that period, but exclude the effect of the restructuring.
A further change in presentation has been made this year.
In previous years, Caledonia, as a trading and investment company, took the view that entities over which it exercised significant influence were associated undertakings and were accounted for using the equity method.
On its conversion to an investment trust company on 1 April 2003, we reviewed this treatment.
Only those entities through which the company carries out its own business and over which the company exercises significant influence are regarded as associated undertakings.
Caledonia now views all other entities that were previously classed as associated undertakings as part of the investment portfolio.
As required by FRS 9, these investments are not accounted for by the equity method, but held at valuation.
Caledonia Investments plc 25 Annual report 2004 Company total return Income from investments of 17.3m were double last years Company total return for the year was 282.8m, or 391.5p per figure of 8.7m, as dividend and interest income from former share, compared with a pro forma loss of 183.2m, or 254.0p associates, amounting to 8.6m this year, is now included under per share, last year.
Interest receivable is 1.1m, substantially down on last years number as the group was more fully invested in the Realised capital profits of 20.1m included profits of 21.0m 2004 financial year than in 2003.
Interest payable of 0.8m was and 8.2m on the sale of ICAP and of Meinl European Land substantially down on last years figure of 9.5m, but last years respectively.
This was offset by losses of 5.1m and 3.5m on figure included 9.3m of interest payable by former associates.
the sale of London Forfaiting and the Ionian fund investments, as the portfolio was rationalised following the strategic review Group realised and unrealised gains and losses mirror those of that took place in 2002.
Unrealised capital gains of 254.2m the company except for small differences where the company reflected substantial rises in the value of investments.
Of figures include realised and unrealised gains and losses particular note, the valuation of Close Brothers rose by 79.4m on subsidiaries.
and Kerzner International by 60.5m, the latter after taking account of US$150m of forward currency contracts.
These The total taxation charge revenue and capital for the year were taken out to enable us to the hedge part of our US dollar amounted to 2.6m, compared with a 2.8m credit last year.
investment in Kerzner International against the expected Last years tax credit included the release of a provision against weakening of the US dollar.
unrecognised losses of 17.9m, a 5.5m charge associated with the restructuring, share of associates tax of 4.5m and tax on Income from investments of 21.5m rose marginally from last investment sales of 3.9m, which were not a feature of the 2004 years figure of 20.0m.
This reflected maintained or increased tax charge.
dividends from our principal investments.
Dividend An interim dividend of 8.4p per share has been paid and the Management costs rose to 9.1m from 8.3m last year.
This directors have recommended a final dividend of 18.6p per share, movement included increased bonuses, reflecting the companys making a total of 27.0p per share for the year at a cost of 19.4m.
This is a 3.8% increase over the total dividend for 2003 of 26.0p per share.
The final dividend will be payable to all shareholders Other corporate costs of 2.5m comprised the costs incurred on all of their shares, whether or not they elect to receive the in relation to the liquidation proposals promoted by a minority special dividend referred to below.
of shareholders in The Cayzer Trust Company, which were subsequently withdrawn, and also the costs of a proposed Cash flow and balance sheet elective special dividend, details of which are contained in The difference between company and group net funds reflects a circular sent to shareholders.
These matters are referred to in the net funds held by trading subsidiaries and intra-group the chairmans statement and under the heading of Settlement transactions.
The companys net funds at the year end were 34.0m compared Interest payable of 1.0m compared with 0.2m last year, with 26.9m at the start of the year, an increase of 7.1m.
principally due to interest on a loan from a subsidiary undertaking.
Significant outflows were incurred in respect of investment purchases totalling 107.3m and dividend payments of 19.1m.
The total taxation charge revenue and capital for the year Investment purchases included 15.8m in Eddington Capital and amounted to 0.4m, compared with a 14.0m credit last year.
its Triple Alpha hedge fund, 15.1m in Marketform and 14.0m Last years credit included the release of the provision against in SVB Holdings.
Significant inflows arose from investment sales unrecognised losses amounting to 17.9m and a 5.5m charge of 105.3m, including 26.4m from ICAP, 14.1m from Meinl associated with the restructuring.
European Land and 12.9m from Offshore Logistics Bristow, and capital distributions of 20.5m.
Group profit and loss and other gains and losses Overall, profit before tax for the year to 31 March 2004 totalled The groups net funds at the year end were 8.2m compared 6.1m, compared with 23.6m reported last year.
The main with 43.2m at the start of the year, a decrease of 35.0m.
Most component of this difference is the reclassification of associated of the cash flows were similar to those of the company.
However, undertakings to portfolio investments and the consequent the principal difference is due to new bank financing of 14.0m replacement of the equity accounted share of income from for The Sloane Club and 6.5m for Buckingham Gate and the associates with dividend and interest income.
addition of 10.4m of bank loans with the acquisition of Easybox.
The group operating loss for the year was 11.5m, compared with 9.4m last year.
The main factors were a reduced profit at Amber of 0.4m, compared with 1.9m last year, and a 1.3m loss from Easybox, which included business development costs and which became a subsidiary during the year.
Against these losses was the saving of last years restructuring costs of 4.0m, offset by costs of the liquidation and settlement proposals, referred to above, of 2.5m.
There was no profit on the sale of operations, compared with 4.9m last year principally on the dilution of interests in associates.
Caledonia Investments plc 26 Annual report 2004 Financial review continued Settlement proposals Liquidity risk On 15 March 2004, the company announced outline proposals The groups objective is to ensure that funding is available for a return of funds to ordinary shareholders.
On 19 May 2004, to meet its requirements, whilst minimising borrowing costs a circular was sent to all shareholders detailing the proposals.
and securing an advantageous return on liquid funds.
This is Subject to a number of conditions being met, all Caledonia facilitated by the central co-ordination of treasury transactions ordinary shareholders will be offered the opportunity to receive through the groups bankers and an internal set-off arrangement a special dividend on terms that they give up part of their of individual company overdrafts with other group liquidity.
The special dividend will be set at a fixed discount The management of liquid funds is undertaken within internal of 18% to Caledonias net asset value calculated on the date guidelines stipulated for the maintenance of the companys and according to the methodology set out in the circular.
It includes the placing of short term who elect to receive the special dividend, which may be on deposits and the purchase of certificates of deposit and other a maximum of up to two out of every nine ordinary shares, will instruments.
have those shares on which they have elected to receive the special dividend cancelled for nil consideration.
Further details At the year end, the group held net cash and short term deposits are given in note 34 to the financial statements, on page 74. of 54.8m 2003 48.5m and had committed undrawn facilities of 214.7m 2003 50.0m, together with undrawn overdraft Treasury management facilities of 12.7m 2003 12.0m.
Short term borrowings The function of group treasury is to manage the groups overall totalled 4.3m 2003 0.4m.
cash position and the risk arising from the uncertainty of financial exposures, and to provide treasury services to group companies.
Of the 215.6m of committed undrawn facilities at the year end, 150.0m was arranged during the year in anticipation of the The groups treasury operations and risk management are settlement proposals, to ensure that Caledonia is well positioned governed by formal treasury policies, approved by the board.
to meet its obligations under the proposals, if agreed by The activities of group treasury are routinely reported to the board.
Credit risk Foreign currency risk The groups objective is to limit the risk of loss arising from The groups exposure to foreign currency risk arises primarily default by counterparties.
This is achieved by limiting exposure from holding investments and treasury assets and liabilities to single entities and by spreading risk across a number of denominated in foreign currencies.
Although the group is based counterparties.
Group treasury may only create exposures with in the UK, it is a significant and long term investor in US dollar counterparties meeting predetermined standards, within financial assets and has investments in Europe, the Far East and other limits.
These standards are arrived at by reference to the major parts of the world.
There is also exposure through UK credit rating agencies, and the board formally approves both the investments that invest abroad.
The groups net assets will reflect standards and financial limits.
the impact of currency movements on individual investments, unless specifically hedged.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises on the fluctuations in value of financial The executive management committee has overall responsibility instruments because of changes in market interest rates.
In for the management of the groups foreign exchange risk.
Actual respect of treasury assets and liabilities, group treasury manages currency exposures, measured as percentages of net asset value the exposure to changes in interest rates, principally by using on a regular basis, must not exceed limits formally approved a balance of term deposits, certificates of deposit and other by the board.
instruments, together with fixed term borrowings to agreed levels of gearing, all of varying maturity.
Interest rate derivatives are only Group treasury is responsible for managing the foreign exchange used to hedge specific liabilities, such as loans to finance risk arising on treasury assets and liabilities.
Where possible, property investments or where specifically required in agreed it arranges to net exposures within the group and to minimise borrowing arrangements.
These are considered on a case by the net external exposure.
Group treasury does not undertake case basis and can only be undertaken with the approval of the speculative transactions.
It does not enter into forward contracts executive management committee.
or purchase or sell derivatives without there being an asset or liability to hedge and without the prior approval of the executive management committee.
The group also has a small amount of transactional currency exposure.
Such exposure arises from sales or purchases by an operating unit in currencies other than the units functional currency.
Where these are material, it is the groups policy to hedge using forward currency contracts.
