FINANCIAL REVIEW Net debt equity Corporate transactions and restructuring The sale of BOCs packaged gas business in the US to Airgas Inc was completed on 30 July 2004.
This resulted in Percentage a loss of 79.5 million on disposal of the business.
In addition, 14.8 million has been charged for the cost of restructuring the footprint of the remaining business in the US.
The consideration received in 2004 was 80 97.8 million US$175 million.
Cash outflows related to the disposal and restructuring are expected to be 60 approximately 38 million, of which 16.5 million was paid in 2004.
Net cash proceeds are therefore expected to be approximately 60 million.
In addition, Airgas Inc is to pay further consideration of up to 14 million 40 US$25 million on or about 15 November 2005 subject to certain conditions.
On 17 November 2003 the Group's South African subsidiary company African Oxygen Limited announced 20 that it had agreed to sell its entire holding in Afrox Healthcare Limited.
The sale remains subject to approval by the South African Competition Tribunal, at which closing hearings are currently scheduled for March 2005.
In addition 0 02 03 04 an application has been brought in the South African High Court by two shareholders in Afrox Healthcare Limited to have the Scheme of Arrangement, by which the disposal would be implemented, declared to have lapsed.
This Net debt capital employed application, which is being opposed, is currently due to be heard in the week commencing 29 November 2004.
Group expenditure on acquisitions of businesses was 50.9 million 2003: 135.5 million.
The main Percentage acquisition during 2004 was to increase BOC's holding in the Cantarell joint venture in Mexico.
During 2003 the main acquisitions were Environmental Management Corporation, a privately held US water services 40 company, Praxairs Polish gases business and the Canadian packaged gas and related welding equipment business 30 of Air Products.
In 2003 there was an exceptional charge of 67.0 million.
This included 23.8 million for various restructuring 20 programmes which have been completed.
It also included 43.2 million for the settlement of litigation in the US against The BOC Group Cash Balance Retirement Plan the Plan.
The settlement is being paid out of Plan assets.
10 Further information is given in note 2b on page 89.
0 02 03 04 Financial indicators The trends of financial indicators which, taken together, are a measure of the performance and efficiency of the Groups finance and tax structures, are: 2003 2002 2004 restated restated 1 Interest cover times 6.3 4.6 4.1 2 Adjusted interest cover times 6.5 5.3 4.9 Net debt equity % 51.2 73.4 75.3 Net debt capital employed % 29.9 37.4 37.3 Average cost of net borrowings % 6.2 5.6 6.2 Group tax rate % 24.7 27.4 31.7 3 Adjusted Group tax rate % 29.0 29.0 30.0 Adjusted means excluding exceptional items.
Interest on net debt covered by operating profit.
Interest on net debt covered by adjusted operating profit.
The adjusted tax charge expressed as a percentage of adjusted profit before tax.
The ratios are commented on below in the appropriate section.
Financing The Group has access to a range of funding.
Debt finance is raised by issuing bonds, commercial paper, other obligations to investors and through borrowings from banks.
As well as medium and long-term borrowings, the Group maintains short-term borrowings, principally in the form of commercial paper and bank borrowings.
The Group maintains US$450 million 249 million of committed multi-currency facilities with a group of relationship banks.
These facilities mature in 2008 and provide back-up for the issue of commercial paper as well as general liquidity for the Group.
Additional committed facilities are maintained by the principal operating units in the Group.
Overall, net debt decreased by 405.7 million as a result of a net cash inflow of 339.2 million, a 12.4 million inflow from the issue of shares, an outflow of 4.7 million for the impact of business acquisitions and disposals and 58.8 million for the effect of exchange rate and other movements.
In 2003, net debt increased by 42.5 million as a result of a net cash inflow of 12.6 million, a net 2.6 million outflow from the issue and purchase of shares, an outflow of 31.8 million for the impact of business acquisitions and disposals and 20.7 million for the effect of exchange rate movements.
The increase in net cash flow in 2004 was driven predominantly by lower acquisition activity, higher distributions from joint ventures and associates, and an improvement in general business cash flows.
49 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Financial review The gearing ratio net debt including finance leases as a percentage of capital employed was 29.9 per cent in 2004 compared with 37.4 per cent in 2003 and 37.3 per cent in 2002.
The 2004 year end net debt equity ratio was 51.2 per cent, compared with 73.4 per cent in 2003 and 75.3 per cent in 2002.
The Group has access to a diverse range of debt finance including commercial paper, public bonds and bank borrowings which, it believes, will be available to meet long-term financing needs.
The Group has sufficient facilities to cover likely borrowing needs.
Management anticipates that capital expenditure in 2005 will be at a higher level than in 2004 and will be covered by cash inflow from operating activities.
Management of financial risks The board of directors sets the treasury policies and objectives of the Group which include controls over the procedures used to manage currency, interest rate and credit risk.
The approach to managing risk is set out below.
This approach is expected to continue during the next financial year.
On a day-to-day basis, Group treasury carries out these policies, with regular review meetings with the Group finance director.
Specific and significant activities need approval from the finance committee, which includes any two directors of the company.
The Group does not undertake any trading activity in financial instruments nor does it enter into any leveraged derivative transactions.
Currency risk The Group faces currency risk principally on its net assets, most of which are in currencies other than sterling.
Currency movements can therefore have a significant effect on the Groups balance sheet when translating these foreign currency assets into sterling.
In order to reduce this effect the Group manages its borrowings, where practicable and cost effective, to hedge its foreign currency assets.
Where possible, hedging is done using direct borrowings in the same currency as the assets being hedged or through the use of other hedging methods such as currency swaps.
Group borrowings are currently held in a wide range of currencies and, after swaps, 82 per cent of net debt 2003: 81 per cent is denominated in the principal currencies affecting the Group: US dollars, Australian dollars, Japanese yen, South African rand and sterling.
The aggregate of the notional principal values of currency swaps was 593.1 million 2003: 474.7 million spread over a range of currencies.
The fair value of such swaps is included in note 21 b i to the financial statements.
The balance sheets of overseas operations are translated into sterling at the closing rates of exchange for the year and any exchange difference is dealt with as a movement in reserves.
This is explained more fully in the accounting policy note on page 83.
The profit and loss accounts of overseas businesses are translated at average rates of exchange and this translation impact directly affects the profit and loss account of the Group.
The Group manages its currency flows to minimise currency transaction exchange risk and forward contracts are used as appropriate to hedge net currency flows and selected individual transactions.
The Groups foreign exchange cover is mainly managed in the UK, Australia, Japan and South Africa.
The UK manages the cover for exposures on net trade flows of the Groups companies in the US and certain other countries.
The aggregate principal amount of forward cover outstanding at 30 September 2004 amounted to 224.4 million 2003: 173.8 million.
Interest rate risk At 30 September 2004, the Groups net debt position after interest rate hedging activity included a net exposure of 74.6 million 2003: 436.3 million to floating interest rates.
Based on the Groups 2004 year end level and composition of net debt, an increase in average interest rates of one per cent per annum would result in a decrease in future earnings, before tax, of 0.7 million per annum 2003: 4.4 million.
In order to manage interest rate risk the Group maintains both floating rate and fixed rate debt.
At 30 September 2004, there was a 8:92 ratio 2003: 32:68 between floating and fixed rate net debt.
Underlying borrowings are arranged on both a fixed rate and a floating rate basis and, where appropriate, the Group uses interest rate swaps to vary this mix and to manage the Groups interest rate exposure.
At 30 September 2004, the aggregate of the notional principal values of swap agreements which affect the floating rate fixed rate mix was 285.3 million 2003: 417.6 million.
Foreign exchange risk At 30 September 2004, the Group had outstanding forward exchange contracts totalling 224.4 million 2003: 173.8 million in respect of its actual and forecast transaction exposures.
The fair value of these contracts at 30 September 2004 amounted to a gain of 7.5 million 2003: a gain of 5.8 million.
A ten per cent appreciation of sterling would increase the fair value of these contracts by 11.0 million 2003: 13.7 million.
In addition to these forward contracts, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange movements on its net debt position.
At 30 September 2004 net debt, after currency swaps, comprised net sterling liabilities of 104.6 million 2003: 285.3 million and net currency liabilities of 857.8 million 2003: 1,082.8 million.
Based on the Groups 2004 year end level and composition of net debt, a ten per cent appreciation of sterling would result in a reduction in the value of net currency liabilities of 78.0 million 2003: 90.5 million.
Counterparty risk Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk on the amounts due from counterparties.
Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregate amount and duration of exposure to any one counterparty depending upon its credit rating and by regular reviews of these ratings.
The possibility of material loss arising in the event of non-performance by a counterparty is considered unlikely by management.
The currency and interest rate hedging profile of the Groups borrowings at 30 September 2004 is shown in note 21 to the financial statements.
Further information on financial risk management is also given in note 21 to the financial statements.
50 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Financial review 1 Interest on net debt Average cost of net borrowings The net charge before the Groups share of interest of joint ventures and associates was 70.5 million in 2004 Percentage 2003: 75.8 million, 2002: 78.6 million, which, after excluding interest income from loans to joint ventures and associates, represented 6.2 per cent of average net borrowings during the year.
After taking into account interest 8 capitalised and the Groups share of the net interest of joint ventures and associates, the net charge was 6 88.4 million.
Adjusted interest cover the number of times that the interest charge on net debt is covered by adjusted operating profit increased to 6.5 times 2003: 5.3 times, 2002: 4.9 times.
4 Net interest on pension financing items 2 The interest on pension scheme liabilities was 117.4 million in 2004 2003: 110.2 million, 2002: 106.1 million.
The expected return on pension scheme assets was 133.2 million in 2004 2003: 119.6 million, 2002: 0 02 03 04 139.1 million.
The increase in the expected return on pension scheme assets reflects the recovery in the value 1.
Before capitalised interest of world equity markets and the impact of the additional cash contributions made by the Group to the UK pension scheme.
Debt maturity profile The maturity profile of the Groups gross borrowings is as follows: 2004 2003 million % million % More than five years 320.5 26.9 521.8 36.1 Three to five years 260.9 21.9 214.4 14.8 One to three years 347.1 29.2 348.5 24.1 Within one year 262.1 22.0 360.9 25.0 Total 1,190.6 100.0 1,445.6 100.0 The Group maintains US$450 million 249 million of committed multi-currency facilities with a group of relationship banks.
Additional information on the Groups gross borrowings can be found in note 20.
Details of the Groups share of net debt of joint ventures and associates, the majority of which is non-recourse, are given in note 13 a.
Other contractual obligations The maturity of other contractual obligations of the Group is as follows: Other creditors Total excluding Unconditional contractual deferred Operating purchase cash income leases obligations obligations million million million million More than five years 22.2 115.3 418.8 556.3 Three to five years 0.8 49.2 126.3 176.3 One to three years 8.5 71.0 131.3 210.8 Within one year 819.7 46.5 57.9 924.1 Total 851.2 282.0 734.3 1,867.5 See also note 25 to the financial statements for further information on operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations.
Off-balance sheet arrangements The Group has provided guarantees of 41.8 million to third parties at 30 September 2004 as shown in note 26 a.
The guarantees include an operational performance bond in the Cantarell joint venture, a guarantee of the borrowings of a joint venture in China and other guarantees provided in the ordinary course of business.
Other than disclosed, there are no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on the Groups financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
Taxation The tax charge for 2004 of 101.7 million is calculated in accordance with UK accounting standards, including Total group tax rate FRS19 deferred tax, under which full provision is made for deferred taxes.
Percentage The effective tax rate on adjusted profit in 2004 was 29 per cent 2003: 29 per cent, 2002: 30 per cent.
The Group pays corporation tax in the UK at a rate of 30 per cent.
Additional information on tax rates is shown in note 4 to the financial 30 statements.
20 The Group is currently liable to pay federal tax at the rate of 35 per cent in the US.
This is reduced by the existence of tax credits.
In the other principal subsidiaries, the tax rate is typically between 30 per cent and 10 42 per cent.
0 02 03 04 51 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Financial review Contingencies The Group monitors all contingent liabilities including matters relating to litigation and the environment via a process of consultation and evaluation which includes senior management, internal and external legal advisers and internal and external technical advisers.
This process results in conclusions with respect to potential exposure and provisions are made or adjusted accordingly.
Management believes that the Group has adequately provided for contingencies which are likely to become payable in the future.
Legal proceedings Group companies are parties to various legal proceedings, including some in which claims for damages in large amounts have been asserted.
The outcome of litigation to which Group companies are party cannot be readily foreseen, but the directors believe that such litigation should be disposed of without material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition or profitability.
Welding fumes litigation A US subsidiary of the Group, The BOC Group, Inc. has been named in US lawsuits alleging injury from exposure to welding fumes.
Certain of these cases have been either filed in, or transferred for pre-trial purposes to, the federal district court in the Northern District of Ohio, where a multi-district litigation MDL proceeding has been commenced.
The MDL proceeding is a vehicle for coordinating pre-trial proceedings in cases pending in different federal district courts in the US.
It is currently contemplated that the MDL court will try three cases during the MDL proceeding.
The first such case is currently scheduled for mid 2005.
In addition to the cases in federal court, The BOC Group, Inc. is a defendant in a number of similar cases pending in state courts.
These cases are in different stages of procedural development, and certain cases are scheduled for trial from time to time.
From the time Airco was purchased in 1978 until 2003 The BOC Group, Inc. had never had an adverse jury verdict returned against it in a case alleging injury from exposure to welding fumes.
On 28 October 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois, rendered a verdict against The BOC Group, Inc. and two co-defendants.
The jury awarded US$1 million to Mr Elam, a former labourer who asserted that his idiopathic Parkinsons disease was attributable to his exposure to welding fumes over a period of years.
BOC believes that the verdict is inconsistent with the decisions rendered by juries in previous cases, is not supported by the existing scientific evidence and is pursuing an appeal in the Illinois court system.
On 12 May 2004 a jury in Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania, returned a verdict against The BOC Group, Inc. and one co-defendant.
The jury awarded Mr Yencho, who alleged that his injury was caused by exposure to asbestos in welding rods, US$525,000, to be divided between the defendants.
BOC believes that the jury verdict is inconsistent with the evidence introduced at trial and believes that there are strong grounds for a successful post-trial motion and, if necessary, an appeal.
The BOC Group, Inc. believes that it has strong defences to the claims asserted in these various proceedings related to alleged injury from exposure to welding fumes and intends to defend vigorously such claims.
Based on its experience to date, together with its current assessment of the merits of the claims being asserted and applicable insurance, BOC believes that continued defence and resolution of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or profitability and no provision has been made.
The welding electrodes business was sold in 1986 and the sale of the US packaged gas business, including the operations involved in distributing packaged gases and welding equipment, was completed in July 2004.
Fluorogas litigation In February 2003, the company was notified that a jury verdict in the US District Court for the Western District of Texas the District Court was obtained for US$132 million against Fluorogas Limited, The BOC Group, Inc. and The BOC Group plc.
The verdict arose primarily out of an alleged breach of a memorandum of understanding by Fluorogas Limited before it was acquired by The BOC Group plc in September 2001.
In March 2003, the court also awarded interest and costs against the defendants, making them jointly and severally liable for a total of US$174 million.
A bond for the full amount was posted with the District Court as part of the normal appeals process.
In August 2004, the appellate court reversed the entire judgement against the BOC entities and all but US$170,000 in reliance damages against Fluorogas Limited.
In addition, the appellate court remanded for reconsideration by the District Court an award of attorneys fees on the US$170,000 recovery.
Fluorogas Limited was placed in administration under the Insolvency Act of 1986 pursuant to an order of an English Court.
It is expected to remain in administration until the conclusion of the remand proceedings in the District Court.
ERISA litigation An action was filed in the US District Court for the Southern District of Illinois the District Court against The BOC Group Cash Balance Retirement Plan the Plan.
The plaintiffs brought this action on behalf of themselves and all others similarly affected, alleging that the Plan improperly calculated lump sum distributions from the Plan in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
In November 2003, the parties reached an agreement to settle at US$69 million 43.2 million.
The settlement was approved by the District Court at a fairness hearing on 12 March 2004.
Insurance Operational management is responsible for managing business risks.
Several Group departments advise management on different aspects of risk and monitor results.
Insurance cover is held against major catastrophes.
For any such event, the Group will bear an initial cost before external cover begins.
Inflation Over the last three years, inflation has not had a material impact on the revenue or profit of the Group.
52 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Financial review Critical accounting policies The principal accounting policies affecting the results of operations and financial condition are set out on pages 83 and 84 of the financial statements.
The application of certain of these policies requires assumptions or subjective judgements by management.
Management bases these on a combination of past experience and any other evidence that is relevant to the particular circumstances.
The application of these assumptions and judgements affects the reported amounts of profit during the year and the assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Actual results may differ from the estimates calculated using these assumptions and judgements.
Management believes that the following are the critical policies where the assumptions and judgements made could have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Tangible fixed assets A significant part of the capital employed of the Group, particularly in the Process Gas Solutions and Industrial and Special Products lines of business, is invested in tangible fixed assets.
The nature of the business demands significant capital investment to renew or increase production capacity or to enable the business to achieve greater productivity and efficiency.
It is the Groups policy to depreciate tangible fixed assets, except land, on a straight line basis over the effective lives of the assets.
This ensures that there is an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the capital costs of production and delivery of goods and services.
A key element of this policy is the estimate of the effective life applied to each category of fixed assets which, in turn, determines the annual depreciation charge.
In deciding the appropriate lives to be applied, management takes into account various factors including, among other things, the accumulated experience of the effective asset lives from historic business operations and an assessment of the likely impact of any changes in technology.
While Group earnings in any period would fluctuate if different asset lives were applied, in some cases the original estimated life of an asset is closely related to contractual arrangements with large customers.
Some of the earnings impact of choosing a different asset life would be mitigated, as the different life may reflect different contractual arrangements with such customers.
Nevertheless, variations in the effective lives could impact the earnings of the business through an increase or decrease in the depreciation charge.
It is estimated that a change of one year in the effective life of all plant, machinery, vehicles and cylinders would have an impact of between 15 million and 20 million on annual Group operating profit.
A change in the effective life of buildings would have only a negligible impact.
Intangible fixed assets In a similar manner to tangible fixed assets, management uses its judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill arising from the acquisition of a business has a value that will benefit the performance of the Group over future periods.
It is the Groups policy to amortise goodwill on a straight line basis over its useful economic life.
This takes into account, among other things, the maturity of the business acquired and its product and customer base.
Any change in these assumptions would have an impact on the earnings of the Group.
It is estimated that a change of one year in the useful economic life of all goodwill would have an impact of approximately 1 million on annual Group operating profit.
Retirement benefits Results of the Group include costs relating to the provision of retirement benefits for employees.
It is the directors responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations.
The assumptions are based on actual historical experience and are set after consultation with the Groups actuaries.
They include the assumptions used for regular service costs and for the financing elements related to the pension schemes assets and liabilities.
Whilst management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect both the operating profit and net interest cost of the Group.
There are a number of elements used in the assumptions.
These vary for the different countries in which the Group operates, and there may also be an inter-dependency between some of the assumptions.
As a result, it would be impractical and potentially misleading to give any approximate impact on annual Group operating profit of a change in any one assumption in isolation.
Environmental provisions In certain parts of the business, mainly in the US, the Group has obligations to carry out environmental clean-ups at former and current production sites.
Many of these obligations will not arise for a number of years, and the costs are difficult to predict accurately.
Management uses its judgement and experience to provide an appropriate amount for the likely cost of such clean-ups, and the amounts, if material, are discounted to present values.
Both the amount of anticipated costs, and the interest rates used to discount such costs, are subjective.
The use of different assumptions would impact the earnings of the Group.
It is estimated that a change of one per cent in the interest rate used to discount such costs would have an impact of approximately 1 million on annual Group profit before tax.
Current asset provisions In the course of normal trading activities, management uses its judgement in establishing the net realisable value of various elements of working capital principally stocks, work-in-progress and accounts receivable.
Provisions are established for obsolete or slow moving stocks, bad or doubtful debts and product warranties.
Actual costs in future periods may be different from the provisions established and any such differences would affect future earnings of the Group.
The provisions are established at levels appropriate to the circumstances within individual Group business units, and not on a Group-wide systematic basis.
It is therefore considered that any estimate of the impact on annual Group operating profit of any change in such provisions may not be meaningful.
Nevertheless, a change of ten per cent in the level of provision for bad and doubtful debts at 30 September 2004 would have an impact of approximately 3 million on annual Group operating profit.
The areas covered by critical accounting policies under UK GAAP do not materially differ from those under US GAAP.
Further details of the differences between UK and US GAAP are given in note 30 to the financial statements.
53 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Financial review Accounting The Groups accounting policies are based on accounting policies generally accepted in the UK UK GAAP.
Two new accounting standards were issued during the year FRS20: Share-based payment, and FRS21: Events after the balance sheet date.
Both of these standards are effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 and therefore have not been adopted by the Group for the financial year ended 30 September 2004.
In 2004, the Group applied UITF 37: Purchases and sales of own shares, and UITF 38: Accounting for ESOP trusts.
These deal mainly with the balance sheet accounting treatment for own shares and do not have any impact on Group earnings.
Comparative figures have been restated accordingly see note 31 to the financial statements.
The codification on revenue recognition, issued as an application note to FRS5: Reporting the substance of transactions, had no impact on the Groups turnover.
International Financial Reporting Standards Under European Union legislation, all listed companies will be required to report under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2005.
The first annual report and accounts for The BOC Group prepared under IFRS will be for the year ended 30 September 2006.
At that time comparative information will be restated on the same basis.
Interim results for the year to 30 September 2006 will also be prepared on an IFRS basis.
In early 2004 the International Accounting Standards Board completed its work on developing and improving those standards which would be mandatory for the first year of adoption of IFRS by listed companies.
For The BOC Group, the size and scope of this project is significant and work on it began in 2003.
It is overseen by a formal steering committee containing, amongst other members, the Group finance director, senior members of the finance function and representatives from all relevant parts of the Group's finance community.
The restatement of the opening balance sheet will be completed in 2005.
While the exact financial impact of the changes in Group accounting policies as a result of IFRS is still being assessed and has not yet been finalised, the following key areas of difference have been identified: a accounting for options and other share-based payments.
This will require a charge against profit: b the treatment of goodwill.
Existing goodwill, and goodwill on future acquisitions, will no longer be amortised.
However, amortisation will continue to be charged on other intangibles, more of which are expected to be identified in future business acquisitions.
Also, future annual impairment reviews of goodwill could result in periodic charges against profit: c financial instruments.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments may cause some volatility of earnings, although this is not expected to be significant as the Group has few financial instruments and they are restricted to managing currency and interest rate risk.
Other areas impacted to a lesser extent include the treatment of deferred tax and intangible assets.
The presentation and layout of the financial statements will also be affected.
As the Group already reports its obligations for post retirement benefits under UK GAAP FRS17, there is not expected to be any significant impact as a result of adopting the equivalent international standard, IAS19 subject to ratification of the proposed revision to IAS19.
As the impact of IFRS is finalised, issues may arise in other areas.
However, from the initial assessment of IFRS as it currently stands, management believes that Group earnings and shareholders funds are unlikely to be materially different from those reported under existing UK GAAP.
The steering committee is also managing the other change aspects of this project - for example, business systems changes, training programmes for all personnel concerned and other communication issues.
Work on these aspects is proceeding according to plan.
The Groups auditors have been kept informed of, and consulted on, the development of the IFRS project and the preparation of the new Group accounting policies.
US GAAP The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, which differs in certain respects from US GAAP.
The US accounting information in note 30 to the financial statements gives a summary of the principal differences between the amounts determined in accordance with the Groups accounting policies based on UK GAAP and amounts determined in accordance with US GAAP together with the reconciliation of net profit and shareholders funds from a UK GAAP basis to a US GAAP basis and a movement in shareholders funds on a US GAAP basis.
The net income for the year ended 30 September 2004 under US GAAP was 297.7 million 2003: 264.3 million, 2002: 255.4 million, compared with the net profit of 264.0 million in 2004 2003: 219.1 million, 2002: 202.9 million under UK GAAP.
Shareholders funds at 30 September 2004 under US GAAP were 1,920.1 million 2003: 1,872.5 million, compared with 1,675.3 million 2003: 1,686.7 million under UK GAAP.
The difference primarily results from the differing accounting treatment of pensions, goodwill, financial instruments, investments, fixed asset revaluations and variable interest entities.
Related party transactions During the year, interest income of 7.3 million 2003: 7.6 million, 2002: 8.3 million was received from the Cantarell joint venture in Mexico.
The Group had no other material related party transactions.
54 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Financial review Average exchange rates: Exchange rates The majority of the Groups operations are located outside the UK and operate in currencies other than sterling.
US dollar The effects of fluctuations in the relationship between the various currencies are extremely complex and variations in any particular direction may not have a consistent impact on the reported results.
In 2004, sterling 2.0 strengthened against two of the four principal currencies affecting the Group: by 12 per cent against the US dollar 1.5 and by two per cent against the Japanese yen.
Sterling weakened by six per cent against the Australian dollar and by ten per cent against the South African rand.
1.0 In 2003, sterling strengthened against the US dollar and the Japanese yen.
Sterling weakened against the Australian dollar and South African rand.
0.5 In 2002, sterling strengthened against the US dollar, the Japanese yen and the South African rand.
It was almost unchanged against the Australian dollar.
On 18 November 2004, the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report and accounts, the rates of exchange to sterling for the principal currencies were as follows: 16 US dollar 1.85: Australian dollar 2.38: Japanese yen 192.90: South African rand 11.18.
12 The highest and lowest rates of exchange for sterling against the US dollar for the last six months were: May June July August September October 8 High  4 Low  0 00 01 02 03 04 Principal operating companies The following operating companies principally affect the amount of profit or assets of the Group: The BOC Group Inc, a wholly-owned Delaware corporation and a subsidiary of The BOC Group Inc, a wholly-owned Nevada corporation: BOC Limited, a wholly-owned English company: BOC Limited, a wholly-owned Australian company: Gist Limited, a wholly-owned English company: Japan Air Gases Ltd, a Japanese company, in which the Groups Japanese 98 per cent owned subsidiary holds 45 per cent: African Oxygen Limited, a South African company, in which the Groups shareholding is 56 per cent.
Supplier payment policy The Group applies a policy of agreeing and clearly communicating the terms of payment as part of the commercial arrangements negotiated with suppliers and then paying according to those terms.
In addition the UK-based businesses have committed to the Better Payment Practice Code.
A copy of the code can be obtained from the Department of Trade and Industry, DTI Publications Orderline, Admail 528, London SW1W 8YT.
For UK businesses, of amounts owing to suppliers, trade creditors represents 55 days at 30 September 2004.
Going concern The directors are confident, after having made appropriate enquiries, that both the company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Management believes that its current credit facilities provide sufficient working capital to meet the present requirements of its existing businesses and that the gearing ratio is appropriate given the nature of the Groups activities.
Substantial holdings Details of substantial holdings of Ordinary shares at 18 November 2004 are shown on page 133.
55 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
