Financial review The year is characterised by success in driving higher sales and by substantial costs to modernise, improve competitiveness and make Boots more efficient.
Clear business plans together with rigorous monitoring of performance have made a significant contribution to progress in the year.
We were able to report that all the initiatives to drive growth were implemented within cost targets.
The Group have operated a revised process to approve investments and allocate capital over the last year.
By adopting a broad range of measures it has enabled a better analysis of the risk and return associated with each proposal.
We have also seen a significantly higher proportion of capital spend directed towards the two core businesses Boots The Chemists and Boots Howard Dodd Healthcare International.
To underpin the discipline and focus with which capital will be used within the Group, we intend to return 700m of surplus share capital to shareholders.
It improves the efficiency of the balance sheet and it will be in two equal tranches over the next two years.
The second 350m is dependant upon the cash flow performance of the Group and this is a major area of focus over the next 24 months.
22 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 We have reviewed our financial strategy during the year and intend to increase our debt Profit before tax was up 18.0% to 581.0m.
This has been helped by an exceptional levels over the next couple of years by returning surplus capital to shareholders through gain of 36.4m, primarily relating to the disposal of property.
In addition, last year included our on-going share buyback programme.
This will improve the efficiency of our balance 123.2m loss on the sale of Halfords and 34.5m costs for the closure of part of the sheet and enhance Earnings Per Share.
Whilst balance sheet efficiency is important, we wellbeing services offering.
These were both shown as exceptional items and were partially do intend to maintain a strong investment grade credit rating and will be targeting a offset by an exceptional interest credit last year of 92.1m arising from the closure of range of financial measures, in particular cash flow, to ensure that this is achieved.
During the year we continued our share buyback programme and have now completed Taxation Excluding non-operating exceptional items, the effective tax rate for the the return of the Halfords disposal proceeds.
Since 1997 we have returned over 1.1bn group was 30.9%, slightly lower than last years rate of 31.7%.
We continue to focus of surplus capital by repurchasing shares.
on reducing the effective tax rate, but any actions to bring it down must fully support business priorities and avoid complexity in group operations.
We also implemented a new investment appraisal process based upon a range of cash flow and accounting measures to assess value and risk.
These include cash flow based criteria Basic earnings per share before exceptional items increased by 7.1% to 48.2p basic such as net present value and payback, as well as return on capital employed and time to earnings per share increased by 47.8% to 52.9p.
The weighted average number of shares break even.
This process is being rigorously applied to our store-opening programme in in issue decreased in the year from 838.1m to 780.0m as a result of the continuing share particular.
It is targeting over 80 new stores at a capital cost of approximately 104m over buyback programme.
the two years 2003 04 and 2004 05. Dividend The board has confirmed a policy of sustainable dividend growth and we will be Turnover from continuing operations increased by 4.7% to 5,326.4m.
This reflects the targeting a dividend cover ratio of 1.75 times over the medium-term.
Consistent with this continuing good progress being made in Boots The Chemists where sales increased by policy the board has proposed a final dividend of 21.0p.
This brings the total dividend for 4.5% and the strong growth in Boots Healthcare International where sales were up by the year to 29.8p, an increase of 4.2% over last year and in line with the last three years 7.8% in local currency.
On the share price at 31st March 2004 of 619.5p this represents a yield of 4.8%.
Operating profit from continuing operations including share of joint ventures grew by 6.0% to 550.1m.
Growth initiatives drove up costs and higher Getting In Shape costs represented Working capital has increased by 47.5m in the year.
This was mainly due to additional a major non-comparable cost increase.
However, operating profit in the year benefited from stock as a result of opening 19 new edge of town stores.
significantly lower losses from businesses either closed or rationalised a year earlier.
As you Cash flow The group continues to generate significant cash flow from operating activities.
have read, during the year we announced a reduction in the head count at our head office.
Cash flow from operating activities before exceptionals was 655.1m 2003 590.4m and Around 1,000 of our people applied for voluntary redundancy considerably more than cash flow before the effect of share repurchases and other financing was 175.4m 2003 we expected.
The cost of these redundancies, which was 45.5m, has been taken against 556.3m, including 358.1m from acquisitions and disposals.
profits in 2003 04, although the people will actually leave during the current year.
In total over 1,500 will have left the business under the Getting in Shape programme since it Share price Our share price had a substantial range during the year.
It rose from 530.5p, began last year.
near its years low of 525p, to a peak of 753p before ending the year at 619.5p.
This performance reflects a general upward trend in the stock market during the year in All of the actions taken to date under the Getting in Shape programme will deliver benefits conjunction with substantial volatility due to the arrival of and anticipation of results from the of 93m in 2004 05, with full year benefits of 132m for 2005 06.
We intend to explore new executive team.
The share price underperformed the FTSE100 by 4.6% over the year.
the scope for additional productivity and efficiency improvements during this year.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 23 Financial review Pensions Treasury policy and controls When the Accounting Standards Board extended the transitional regime of FRS17 Treasury policies are reviewed and approved by the board.
Treasury has responsibility for Retirement Benefits in July 2002, the Company decided to continue to account for the groups funding and cash management, and manages the groups counterparty credit, pensions under SSAP24.
The Boots Pension Scheme cost for the year under SSAP24 is interest rate and currency risks.
It enters into financial instruments solely for the purpose of 28m 2003 31m.
Disclosures under FRS17 are included in note 26 to the accounts.
It does not act as a profit centre and the creation of new exposures to generate profit is not permitted.
On an FRS17 basis the scheme has now moved into a small deficit position of 58m at March 2004 from having a surplus of 154m last year.
While the asset values have Note 19 to the accounts shows further details under the disclosure requirements of FRS13 increased, the liabilities of the scheme have increased faster as a result of market Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
conditions, particularly higher long term inflation expectations when bond yields have Liquidity and funding The group finances its operations through a mixture of retained come down.
profits, capital markets funding, bank borrowings and leases.
The objective is to ensure The pension fund investment strategy is to match the cash flow and inflation characteristics that the group has access to liquidity at all times and can raise debt in a cost-effective of the pension liabilities with assets to reduce the impact of market movements.
This is achieved through arranging funding ahead of requirements, maintaining has increasingly matched the maturity and inflation profile over the last three years with sufficient undrawn committed facilities to meet unanticipated needs and maintaining good bonds and index-linked instruments.
Whilst maintaining this principle, it is intended to access to the capital markets through a strong investment grade credit rating.
refine its implementation further to include a small proportion of the funds investments in At 31st March 2004, the group had undrawn committed facilities of 462m with seven other asset classes, which may include property and equities.
This will better match long banks, which mature in March 2005.
High quality bank deposits are held to meet most term liabilities arising from current employees, which extend beyond the available short-term financing requirements, with uncommitted bank borrowings being drawn to maturities of bond investments.
Accounting standards Lease liabilities In common with other UK retailers, the group has liabilities through its In November 2003 the Accounting Standards Board issued requirements on revenue obligations to pay rents under property leases.
The following table shows the maturity recognition, in the form of Application Note G to FRS5 Reporting the Substance of profile of these lease obligations.
This application note has limited impact on Boots as existing accounting policies largely complied with the new provisions.
In particular, revenue has been recorded Annual rent Annual rent net of staff and promotional discounts for some time.
The full impact is disclosed in Commitment Commitment at 31st March at 31st March note 1 to the accounts.
2003 2004 Maturity of commitment m m International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS become mandatory for the 1 to 10 years 69.1 86.3 consolidated financial statements reported by all EU listed companies from 2005 onwards.
10 to 20 years 79.4 76.3 For Boots this means adoption for the year ended 31st March 2006.
An impact assessment 20 to 30 years 10.1 7.9 Over 30 years 5.6 5.0 has been undertaken and work is underway to ensure that systems and data requirements Total 164.2 175.5 can be met, in order to make Boots IFRS compliant for the 2005 06 financial year.
The areas identified where IFRS will have the greatest impact is from changes in accounting for pensions, property, deferred tax, financial instruments, development costs and intangible assets.
24 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The capitalised value of these liabilities is 1,242.2m 2003 1,234.1m based upon Capital structure The company has continued its policy of returning surplus capital to discounting the rentals, after taking into account assumed rental growth of 2.5% per shareholders by repurchasing shares in the market.
This amounted to 259.9m in the year annum, at the groups long-term cost of borrowing 5.85% 2003 5.70%.
This year we to 31st March 2004 2003 462.8m, of which 191.1m completed the return of the have adopted the more conservative approach of including rental growth in our lease Halfords disposal proceeds to shareholders.
Surplus share capital has been identified and a 700m return of surplus cash to shareholders The Group, in common with the credit rating agencies, treats its lease liabilities as being over the next two years through share buybacks is planned.
This is viewed as prudent and debt like when evaluating financial risk and investment returns.
demonstrates the determination to deliver the growth plans for Boots in a focussed and disciplined way.
350m will be returned in 2004 05 but clearly the second tranche will Counterparty credit risk The objective is to reduce the risk of loss through default by depend upon the performance of the business and its generation of net cash flow.
The risk is managed by spreading financial transactions, including bank deposits, across an approved list of high quality banks.
Counterparty credit positions are monitored on a regular basis.
Dealing in interest rate and foreign exchange instruments is controlled through dealing mandates, independent confirmation processes and the use of standard settlement instructions.
Interest rate exposure Short-term interest rate movements currently have an immaterial effect on the groups net interest rate charge.
Gross debt comprises a mixture of fixed rate 182.9m 2003 1.1m and floating rate, with approximately 50% of the fixed rate debt with maturity greater than one year being converted into floating debt through the use of interest rate swaps.
The resultant floating rate exposure on gross debt is offset by that on cash and money market assets, leaving the net interest charge relatively immune to interest rate movements.
Currency exposure Sales are made from the UK in a range of currencies for the Boots Healthcare International and Boots Retail International businesses and in Euros for Boots The Chemists in Eire.
In addition, purchases are made in a range of currencies, but particularly Euros and US Dollars, for Boots The Chemists and Boots Manufacturing.
The net currency exposures are modest and do not materially impact the groups profit before tax.
The group has entered into limited currency hedging using forward contracts of its committed future purchases for Boots The Chemists.
The group does not hedge currency exposures arising from future uncommitted transactions.
The group principally borrows in sterling, but has entered into US Dollars 93m and Euro 118m foreign exchange contracts to create currency debt in these currencies.
Currency debt is held to partially hedge the groups currency assets and to create a long-term hedge against future cash generated in US Dollars and Euros.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 25 27 Corporate governance 32 Directors remuneration report 42 Directors responsibilities statement 43 Independent auditors report 44 Directors report 46 Group profit and loss account 46 Other primary statements of the group 47 Balance sheets 48 Group cash flow statement 49 Accounting policies 52 Notes relating to the financial statements 68 Principal companies 68 Group financial record 70 Segmental financial record continuing operations 71 Shareholder information 72 Index Corporate governance The requirements of corporate governance are set out in the Financial Services Authority FSA Listing The Chairman meets with individual directors privately at least once a year to review their contribution Rules together with the related Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the to the board and personal development plans.
Further the Chairman meets with the non-executive Combined Code, adopted by the FSA.
directors as a group four times a year in the absence of the executive directors.
As part of the board evaluation programme, the non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, will meet Directors are assisted in complying with the internal control requirements of the Combined Code by annually without the Chairman being present to review performance of the Chairman, having the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales publication Internal Control: Guidance considered the views of the executive directors.
The board has established and is presently undertaking for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance.
a programme, assisted by independent consultants, for the annual review of the board as a whole, The board considers that good corporate governance is an essential element of achieving its overall its committees and its members.
The programme includes confidential interviews with each director, objectives.
It has reviewed the groups corporate governance policies and practices, and has determined when directors have an opportunity to express their views on their overall impression of the board and that during the period 1st April 2003 to 31st March 2004 the company complied with the provisions its committees and their organisation, composition, involvement in the business and effectiveness: the of the Combined Code applicable during that period, with the exception that Mr J B McGrath served roles and contributions of board members: communications with shareholders: stakeholder issues and as both Chairman and acting chief executive for the period following the resignation of Mr S G Russell succession planning.
The results of those interviews are consolidated and reported to the Chairman and, from the office of chief executive on 31st May 2003 until 15th September 2003, when Mr R A Baker in so far as they relate to the board as a whole, to the board and, in so far as they relate to the was able to join the company as chief executive.
Chairman, to the Senior Independent Director.
The board nominations committee will consider the outcome of the programme in its evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of the board, The Board and in formulating its development plans for the board.
On 31st March 2004 the board comprised the Chairman, three executive directors and five non-executive Details of executive directors service contracts are given on pages 34 and 35, and all executive directors directors.
The board considers this to be the appropriate size and balance for the company at present.
normally retire on reaching the age of 60.
Details of the Chairmans appointment are given on page 34.
Mr G N Dawson has been appointed the Senior Independent Director.
Biographies and other details of members of the board of directors are shown on page 20 and in the directors report on page 45.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years from the annual general meeting following their joining the board, and subject to performance and reappointment where There were a number of changes to the composition of the board during the year.
Dr J G S Buchanan appropriate, there is an expectation of renewal of that appointment for a further three year term.
retired from the board on 24th July 2003, having completed six years as a non-executive director and Exceptionally non-executive directors may be invited to serve for a third and final three year term.
as previously mentioned, Mr S G Russell left the board on 31st May 2003.
On 15th September 2003 Copies of service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the companys Sir Nigel Rudd succeeded Mr J B McGrath as Chairman, Mr J B McGrath retired from the board, and registered office and at the AGM.
Non-executive directors fees are determined by the board in the Mr R A Baker joined the board as chief executive.
As a result of a review of the executive team absence of the non-executive directors.
Mr A P Smith left the board on 31st October 2003 following the combination of the roles of operations director and HR director, and the appointment of Mr P Bateman to that post.
All directors appointed by the board must stand for reappointment at the first AGM following their appointment, and thereafter at least every three years.
In addition, at least one third of the continuing In addition, during the year the board reviewed the composition of the board, and the balance of members of the board must stand for reappointment at each AGM.
Directors retiring and standing skills, knowledge and experience its members brought, and following that review instructed external for reappointment at the 2004 AGM are identified on page 45. search consultants to search for two non-executive directors.
As a consequence of that process Mr G N Dawson and Mr T C Parker joined the board on 15th September 2003 and 28th January The non-executive directors bring a variety of experience and expertise to the board and are all 2004 respectively.
The board also reviewed succession planning for executive directors.
Sir Nigel Rudd was considered by the board to be independent at the date of his appointment as Chairman.
The board considers that an independent director is one who is independent in character and judgement, and where there are no relationships or circumstances which could affect the directors judgement.
Relationships or circumstances which could affect judgement include having been previously an employee of the company, or having had close ties with any of the companys advisors, directors or senior managers, or having had a material relationship with the company, or receiving additional remuneration from the company apart from directors fees, or participating in the companys performance related pay or pension schemes, or holding cross directorships, or having significant links with other directors, or representing a significant shareholder, or having served on the board for more than nine years.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 27 Corporate governance The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and chief executive is in writing and has been The following table shows the attendance of directors at regular board meetings and at meetings agreed by the board.
The Chairmans responsibilities broadly follow the guidance given in the revised of the audit, nominations, remuneration and social responsibility committees during the year.
Combined Code, while the chief executive is responsible for leading the executive management of the Audit Nominations Remuneration Social Responsibilities company in the achievement of the companys objectives, and for the proper and successful Board Committee Committee Committee Committee management of the business.
Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum possible possible possible possible possible The board has a programme to enable it to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the company within attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance a framework of prudent and effective controls, and to assess and manage risk.
The board usually R A Baker 6 6 has eight regular meetings in the year, including an annual strategy review, and other meetings are P Bateman 9 9 convened as required.
In this year, nine regular meetings were programmed and took place.
A schedule J Bennink 8924333402 of matters reserved for decision by the board is maintained, including the approval of the annual Dr J G S Buchanan 131211 report and accounts, the long term objectives of the company, the strategy to achieve those objectives, G N Dawson 6622 the annual operating plan, significant investment and disposal decisions, the structure of the group, H Dodd 9 9 payment of dividends, changes in accounting policies and practices, remuneration of and changes to J B McGrath 3 3 1122 the auditors, treasury policies, and the appointment and removal of the company secretary.
The board T C Parker 1211 11 delegates to management the management of the business.
H Ploix 9944334422 Dr M P Read 8923334412 For all board meetings an agenda is established.
For regular meetings this generally comprises: Reports Sir Nigel Rudd 99223344 from the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the HR and operations director, including a health S G Russell 1 1 and safety report: Reports on the performance of the businesses: Approval of major items of A P Smith 4 4 2 2 expenditure, and other significant policy issues.
The board is also notified of any permissions given to directors and senior managers to deal in the securities of the company under the companys dealing All directors have attended meetings of the board and of committees of the board of which they are code.
Appropriate papers are provided to the directors in advance of each board meeting.
In addition members unless prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
the board considers at least annually the strategic plans of the group and of individual businesses, In the furtherance of their duties, the directors have full access to the services of the company and from time to time directors receive presentations from management concerning key areas of secretary and may take independent professional advice individually or collectively as a committee, the groups operations.
at cost to the company, subject to a limit of 25,000 and to prior notification to the chairman of the Full year and interim results are reviewed by the board audit committee and approved by the board audit committee.
The company maintains appropriate directors and officers insurance in respect of prior to publication.
Other price sensitive announcements may be published under the authority legal action against its directors.
The company has during the year provided corporate governance training to those directors for whom During the year the board reviewed the composition and terms of reference of board committees, and it is their first appointment to a listed company board, and provides a tailored induction programme a summary of the current terms of reference and details of membership of major board committees for non-executive directors on appointment.
during the year are set out on pages 29 and 30.
The board has reviewed its policy concerning the appointment of executive directors to be nonexecutive directors of other companies.
The board agreed that the additional experience and knowledge such an appointment brings benefits the company, and accordingly, agreed to permit executive directors to accept one such appointment where no conflict of interest arises, and to retain the fees received.
The board had previously permitted two such appointments.
All non-executive directors have disclosed to the Chairman and to the company secretary their significant commitments other than their directorship of the company, and they are required to notify any changes to or additional commitments from time to time.
Sir Nigel Rudd is non-executive chairman of Pilkington and of Pendragon, and a non-executive director of Barclays.
The board is satisfied that Sir Nigel meets his obligations to the company.
28 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact The committee also makes recommendations to the board concerning the standing for reappointment through the normal channels of Chairman, chief executive or chief financial officer have failed to of directors.
The committee does not make recommendations to the board concerning the resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
appointment of a future Chairman, since this is required to be considered by the board as a whole, in the absence of the then current Chairman.
The company secretary is an employee of the company and is secretary of all board committees.
During the year under review the chief executive and two non-executive directors were appointed Board committees after searches conducted by external consultants and recommendations made by the committee, the There are four principal board committees, all of which operate within written terms of reference.
responsibilities of certain of the executive directors were changed, and the committee recommended Summaries of the terms of reference and details of the membership of committees are set out below.
that directors having to stand for reappointment should do so.
Copies of the terms of reference are available from the company secretary and on the companys website.
The terms of reference of committees were reviewed during the year by each committee and Board audit committee by the board.
Only members of each committee are entitled to attend the meetings of committees, Directors who served on the committee during the year are as follows: although each committee may invite other directors, managers and advisors to attend and frequently G N Dawson appointed to committee as chairman 15th September 2003 do so.
Membership of board committees is regularly reviewed: given the size of the board and the J Bennink need to have a quorum available, if necessary, at short notice, there is inevitably an overlap in Dr J G S Buchanan until 24th July 2003 directors membership of committees, and in particular the board believes it appropriate for all the T C Parker appointed 28th January 2004 non-executive directors to be given the opportunity to participate in the work of the nominations H Ploix appointed in September 2000 committee.
However, the chairman of the remuneration committee does not serve on the audit Dr M P Read until 4th November 2003 committee, and vice versa, and the board is satisfied that no one director exercises a disproportionate Sir Nigel Rudd until 15th September 2003 influence.
No director has served on any committee for six years or more.
Attendance at meetings of committees is set out on page 28.
Mr Guy Dawson, the current chairman of the committee, was until 2002 chairman of European Investment Banking at Merrill Lynch and is currently a partner in the Tricorn Partnership, and Board nominations committee accordingly has recent and relevant financial experience.
Directors who served on the committee during the year are as follows: Dr Read and Sir Nigel Rudd retired from the committee on appointment as chairman of the Sir Nigel Rudd chairman from 15th September 2003 remuneration committee and Chairman of the board respectively.
J Bennink The board audit committee met four times during the year.
Dr J G S Buchanan until 24th July 2003 G N Dawson appointed 28th January 2004 The external auditors attend meetings of the committee, other than when their appointment or J B McGrath until 15th September 2003 performance is being reviewed, and the head of the internal audit function, the chief financial officer T C Parker appointed 28th January 2004 and members of the finance function attend as appropriate.
The committee meets with the auditors H Ploix in the absence of management at least twice a year.
Dr M P Read The main responsibilities of the board audit committee are to: The board nominations committee meets as dictated by circumstances and met three times during Monitor the integrity and clarity of the major financial statements of the company, and to review the year.
any significant financial reporting issues and judgements those statements contain.
Approve the annual external audit plan and to review with the external auditors the nature, scope The main responsibilities of the board nominations committee are to: and results of their audit, and any control issues raised by them.
Review regularly the structure, size and composition of the board and make recommendations Make recommendations as to the appointment, terms of engagement and remuneration of the to the board concerning that, external auditors and review any question of their resignation or removal, and to review the Give full consideration to succession planning for directors, effectiveness of the external auditors and their independence.
Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the board, Review the consistency of and any changes to accounting policies, the application of appropriate Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for any particular board appointment, accounting standards, and the methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions.
Identify and nominate for the approval by the board candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 29 Corporate governance Approve the internal audit plan, monitor and review the effectiveness and freedom from During the year under review the committee reviewed total remuneration of executive directors, management interference of the companys internal audit function, and to approve the appointment reviewed salaries and allowances, made grants and made awards where appropriate under the and removal of the head of that function.
Executive Share Option Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan, approved the terms of Mr Bakers Review the companys internal controls and systems and practices for the identification and appointment, Mr McGraths appointment as acting chief executive and Mr Russells and Mr Smiths management of risk.
compensation for loss of office.
Monitor compliance with the companys policies to prevent illegal and questionable corporate A report on the remuneration of directors appears on pages 32 to 41. conduct and to review arrangements for whistleblowing.
The external auditors are appointed annually at the annual general meeting.
The board audit Board social responsibilities committee committee considers the reappointment of the auditors and reports its findings to the board.
The Directors who served on the committee during the year are as follows: board audit committee periodically considers the performance, cost and independence of the external H Ploix chair auditors, including a comparison of audit fees with those of other retail and FTSE100 companies and P Bateman appointed 28th January 2004 reviews the level of service provided by the audit team throughout the group.
The committee has, J Bennink during the year, established a revised policy on the supply of non-audit work carried out by the auditors Dr J G S Buchanan resigned 24th July 2003 to ensure that their independence is not compromised, and ensures compliance with that policy.
T C Parker appointed 28th January 2004 In addition to discharging their responsibilities described above and its work in connection with the Dr M P Read resigned 4th November 2003 audit and auditors, during the year the committee reviewed its constitution and terms of reference, A P Smith resigned 31st October 2003 reviewed the management of risk in major projects, and established a programme to enable its The board social responsibilities committee met twice during the year.
members to further develop the contribution they make to the committee.
The main responsibility of the board social responsibilities committee is to keep under review and Board remuneration committee advise the board on the companys policies and practices in the areas of social responsibility, including Directors who served on the committee during the year are as follows: those relating to health and safety, the environment, diversity and equal opportunities, race relations, employment of the disabled, charitable giving and ethical matters, and the companys values Dr M P Read chairman from 4th November 2003 and standards.
J Bennink Dr J G S Buchanan resigned 24th July 2003 During the year the committee reviewed those matters within its remit, and in particular reviewed J B McGrath resigned15th September 2003 and agreed a programme for the progression of social responsibility matters within the company.
T C Parker appointed 28th January 2004 The committee reviewed its constitution and terms of reference.
H Ploix Sir Nigel Rudd chairman until 15th September 2003 Investor relations Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
In addition to the annual and half year Sir Nigel Rudd has resigned from the committee since the year end.
results presentations and the annual general meeting, a rolling programme of meetings between The board remuneration committee met four times during the year.
institutional shareholders and executive directors is held throughout the year.
At each board meeting a report is given on shareholders and analysts views, issues if any and expectations, and periodically The main responsibilities of the committee are to: external consultants attend a meeting of the board and present a report on shareholders concerns and Determine and review from time to time the framework, broad policy and specific terms for the expectations.
In addition, a magazine for private investors is produced.
Non-executive directors are remuneration and terms and conditions of employment of the Chairman of the board and of given an opportunity to attend meetings with shareholders, and each non-executive director is executive directors, including the design of targets and payments made under any bonus scheme.
Agree any compensation for loss of office of any executive director.
Recommend and monitor the level and structure of the remuneration of senior managers.
30 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 All members of the board usually attend the annual general meeting.
A business presentation is given The internal audit function works throughout the group to further develop, improve and embed risk at the meeting, followed by a question and answer session.
The notice of the meeting, together with management processes and tools in the business operations.
It also provides assurance to the board any related papers, is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting, or for those that risk management practices address the key risks faced by the group including risks that could arise who have elected for electronic communication, notice is given to such shareholders of the availability from social, environmental and ethical matters.
Its work includes an assessment of the risks and controls of documents on the companys website.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on each throughout the group and its findings are reported to senior management responsible for the area separate issue.
Postal proxy votes are counted and the proxy votes lodged are announced after the concerned.
Internal audit also reports regularly to the board audit committee.
vote on show of hands on each item.
Summary proxy figures are made available in writing at the end The board audit committee assists the board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, primarily of the meeting and are also published on the companys website.
reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders, the systems of internal control and risk management, and the audit process.
The external auditors and the head of Internal control the internal audit function attend all meetings of the audit committee, save in the case of the external The directors have overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its auditor those parts of any meeting when the committee reviews the performance of the auditor.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to the achievement of business objectives.
Such a system can, however, provide only The groups system of internal control and its effectiveness is monitored and reviewed regularly by reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the board, the board audit committee, the internal audit function, and management, and the board believes that the company has maintained throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Members of the board have responsibility for monitoring the conduct and operations of individual Annual Report and Accounts an effective embedded system of internal control and has complied with businesses within the group.
This includes the review and approval of business strategies and plans the Turnbull guidance.
and the setting of key business performance targets.
The executive management responsible for each business are accountable for the conduct and performance of their business within the agreed Social, environmental and ethical matters strategies.
The company has for many years recognised the benefits that accrue from responsible employment, Business plans and budgets provide a framework from which performance commitments have been environmental and community policies which are also described elsewhere in this report.
Identifying agreed between the chief executive and each business.
These commitments incorporate financial and managing risks to the companys reputation has been described above and has a high priority, and and strategic targets against which business performance is monitored.
This monitoring includes the the assessment of our Boots brand product suppliers against the companys code of ethical trading, examination of and changes to rolling annual and half year forecasts and monthly measurement of described on page 18, addresses one of the most important of them.
The evaluation of the companys actual achievement against key performance targets and plans.
performance in social, environmental, community and ethical matters is ongoing.
The group has clear requirements for the approval and control of expenditure.
Strategic investment Going concern decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to formal detailed appraisal and Having considered group cash flow forecasts and strategic plans, the directors are satisfied that the review according to approval levels set by the board.
Operating expenditure is controlled within each company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For business with approval levels for such expenditure being determined by the individual businesses.
this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Executive management are responsible for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks applicable to their areas of business.
These risks are assessed on a regular basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources.
Each member of the executive and, where appropriate, their direct reports have provided to the internal audit committee, chaired by the chief executive, certified statements of compliance with the groups policies and procedures system of internal control, and each business assesses key business risks, controls and resulting exposures.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 31 Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in compliance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 In 2003 executive directors salaries were generally increased in line with inflation, but the salaries of the Regulations and Schedule B of the Combined Code annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Messrs. Bateman and Dodd were increased with effect from 1st December 2003 when Mr Bateman Services Authority.
assumed responsibility for HR in addition to his existing responsibility for operations, and Mr Dodd, the chief financial officer, also assumed responsibility for property, to reflect those additional responsibilities.
The remuneration committee the Committee The Committee has now determined that it is appropriate to undertake a thorough review of The members of the Committee during the year were: executive directors remuneration, including bonus and incentive schemes, and will consult fully with Dr M P Read chairman from 4th November 2003 shareholders, with a view to taking any proposals that require shareholder consent to the 2005 AGM.
J Bennink In the meanwhile the Committee decided, pending the outcome of that review, to make as few Dr J G S Buchanan resigned 24th July 2003 changes as possible to the executive directors bonus and incentive schemes in 2004 05.
Accordingly, J B McGrath resigned 15th September 2003 with one exception, the Committee has decided to operate the short term bonus scheme, the Long T C Parker appointed 28th January 2004 Term Bonus Scheme LTBS and the Executive Share Option Plan on a similar basis to that operated H Ploix in 2003 04.
The exception relates to retest conditions in respect of share options.
The Committee is Sir Nigel Rudd chairman until 15th September 2003 mindful of the views of investors in respect of the retesting of the performance condition attached to the exercise of executive share options, and has decided that, in respect of any options granted in The main responsibilities of the Committee are summarised in the corporate governance statement on 2004 05, only one retest will be permitted, as opposed to the three retests currently permitted under page 30.
The Committee appointed Towers Perrin to provide it with external advice in determining the the rules, and this retest will take place at the end of the fifth year, if the performance condition is appropriate remuneration, terms and conditions and bonus schemes for directors, and to assist it in not met after year three.
In making this decision, the Committee has taken into account the reviews of remuneration policies and practices.
Mr S G Russell, former chief executive, Mr R A Baker, announcement of accelerated investment in Boots The Chemists announced by the company on the chief executive, Mr A P Smith, the former human resources director, and Mr P Bateman, human 26th March 2004, which will depress earnings per share in the short term in order to deliver medium resources and operations director, have also advised the Committee when requested.
Towers Perrin has term improvements in the companys performance.
also provided the Committee and the company with market data for executives and senior managers, and consulting support in reviewing pensions, long term incentive plans, and understanding current The Committees policy on termination of executive directors service contracts is described on remuneration trends.
The Committee is conscious of the need to ensure that no conflict of interest page 34, and will be reviewed during the year as part of the review of service contracts.
arises as a result of Towers Perrin advising both it and the company, and keeps that under review, but The Committee believes that performance-related pay should form a significant proportion of believes that the benefit of consistent advice and policies throughout the company outweigh the executive directors remuneration.
In broad terms, if the group meets its target levels of performance possible problems arising from such dual appointment.
A summary of the terms under which Towers then performance-related pay is likely to account for approximately 55% of the chief executives Perrin provide services to the Committee and to the company are available upon request from the remuneration approximately 60% initially due to the grant of options of three times annual salary company secretary and on the companys website.
referred to on page 35 and 51% of that of the other executive directors.
For top decile performance, performance-related pay is likely to account for a greater percentage up to 75% for the chief Remuneration policies executive and 73% for the other executive directors, depending on share price growth from the start In determining remuneration policies for the current, following and subsequent financial years, the of the performance period to the end.
The actual benefit enjoyed by directors under the LTBS and Committee has followed the provisions of Section B of the Combined Code.
Policy in relation to under the Executive Share Option Plan will depend upon the companys share price, and cannot remuneration, and practice, inevitably evolves over time and the policy with regard to future years therefore be determined in advance.
Share awards under the LTBS are satisfied by the transfer of will be subject to ongoing review by the Committee.
shares purchased in the market by the Boots Employee Trust at various prices, usually shortly after the In 2002 the Committee positioned executive directors salaries and non-executive directors fees at the commencement of the performance period, but currently the trust holds surplus shares and no shares market median in the light of independent assessment of market practices, and has done so in respect have been purchased for several years.
The Committee adopted a policy that executive directors salaries Non-executive directors do not participate in any bonus or share option schemes.
assuming no change in responsibilities would be increased annually in line with inflation, subject to total pay being benchmarked against the market every three years and intended that over time the proportion Bonus schemes provide an opportunity for executive directors and senior managers to receive of executive directors total remuneration that is dependent upon performance would become greater.
additional rewards, if and only if, personal and business performance meets specified objectives and The Committee has also introduced a personal performance measure into the executive directors short targets.
The way that business performance is measured for bonus and share option schemes for term bonus scheme, in addition to the business performance tests.
executive directors and senior managers flows from, and is consistent with, business strategy, 32 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 and with the boards governing objective of maximising the value of the company for the benefit No performance cycle commenced in 2001 and the performance cycles which commenced in 2002 of shareholders and is described below.
and thereafter are three-year cycles.
For these cycles the whole of the award is payable in shares.
The short term executive bonus scheme rewards executive directors for achieving operating Directors who join the company participate pro rata in performance cycles that have more than one efficiencies and profitable growth in the relevant year by reference to challenging but achievable complete year to run, but the Committee decided in the case of Mr Baker to calculate the MPBA for forecasts derived at the beginning of the year from strategic plans, and also rewards personal those performance cycles using the average share price prior to the date of his joining or the average performance.
The maximum short term bonus that can be earned is in the case of the chief executive share price for the three months prior to the commencement of the performance cycle whichever was 100% of base salary, and for all other executive directors 75%.
One third of the available bonus the higher, resulting in a lower MPBA than would otherwise have been the case.
depends on individual performance against personal targets, and two thirds depends upon business The peer group comprises those companies that the Committee considers provide the best performance targets for operating profit one-third of the available bonus, sales and return on capital comparators for performance given the mix of businesses carried on by the company, and the peer one-sixth each.
Achieving the stretch targets set by the Committee on all business measures would group is reviewed before each performance cycle to maintain its relevance.
For the three-year period generate a bonus of 75% of the maximum bonus available for those measures.
The business targets from 1st April 2004 the relevant peer group is: have been chosen for their relevance in driving short term performance of the business.
Alliance UniChem Reckitt Benckiser The Long Term Bonus Scheme provides executive directors with a maximum potential bonus award Dixons J Sainsbury MPBA worth up to 125% of base salary, and provides a direct link between the pay of executive Great Universal Stores Smith & Nephew directors and the creation of value for shareholders by rewarding directors for the companys Kingfisher Tesco performance in terms of total shareholder return TSR over a three or four-year performance period Marks & Spencer WH Smith relative to a peer group of ten other leading companies which the Committee consider to be appropriate comparators by virtue of their size and markets in which they operate.
TSR was chosen Dixons has now replaced Debenhams in the peer group following the acquisition of Debenhams as the appropriate performance measure for the LTBS as it aligns the interests of the executive with the by Baroness Retail Consortium and its subsequent delisting.
actual return received by shareholders.
TSR measures the return to shareholders in terms of share price Under the Executive Share Option Plan executive directors and other employees can be granted movement and the value of dividends as if reinvested when paid.
It is derived, using data from the FTSE options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the company.
The maximum number of options that can be TRI index, by calculating the percentage growth in the index during the performance cycle based on the granted under the plan to any executive director in any financial year of the company is options having average of the index for the quarter preceding the commencement and the average of the index for the an exercise price of twice the annual basic salary of the director.
Grants are not normally expected to final quarter.
The Committee believes this to be a transparent and well recognised way of doing so.
exceed one times annual salary.
Options granted to executive directors must be subject to the For the performance cycles which commenced in 1999 and thereafter a MPBA is calculated for all satisfaction of a performance condition.
executive directors by multiplying the basic annual salary at the beginning of the cycle by a factor of The Executive Share Option Plan aligns returns to shareholders with reward to executives but only if 125%.
The MPBA is then expressed in share units using the average share price over the previous share price growth is achieved and if a performance target is met.
The value of the options is directly three months.
At the end of the performance cycle a percentage of the MPBA is gained based on linked to share price movement.
The condition imposed in respect of all options granted to date is the following scale: average annual growth in earnings per share EPS over the relevant period at least equal to the increase in the index of retail prices plus 3% calculated as follows: Base EPS is the EPS for the financial Comparative position in peer group league table 123456789 10 11 year preceding the performance cycle.
An EPS target is calculated each year by applying the following % of MPBA gained 100 80 64 48 36 24 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil formula: Base EPS x 100 increase in RPI y where y is 3 in year one, 6 in year two and 9 in year The value of the award is affected by share price movement over the performance period.
Target EPS for the performance cycle is determined by taking the average of the Performance cycles commence on 1st April.
The performance cycles that commenced in 1999 and annual EPS targets during that cycle.
For these performance cycles, one half of the award is paid in cash after the end of each performance cycle and one half in shares.
The value of the cash bonus is calculated by multiplying one half of the number of earned share units by the average share price over the last three months of the performance cycle, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 33 Directors remuneration report If the average of the actual EPS over the performance cycle equals or is greater than the target EPS, Each director is required to stand for reappointment every three years and may be required to stand the performance condition is met.
If the performance condition is not met, then for options granted for reappointment at an earlier date in order to satisfy the provisions in the companys articles of prior to 2004 05 performance is re-tested annually until the end of the sixth year using the same association that not less than one third of the board seek reappointment at each AGM.
If the performance condition has still not been met at the end of the sixth year, the of association of the company contain provisions relating to earlier vacation of office without notice.
For options granted in 2004 5 if the performance condition is not met at the end of the Each of the executive directors has a service contract which terminates when the director in question third year then only one retest at the end of the fifth year will be permitted, and if the performance reaches the age of 60.
With the exception of Mr R A Baker all executive directors service contracts are condition has not been met by then, the options will lapse.
The EPS performance measure in the share terminable by the company on one years notice and the Committee has determined that one years option scheme was chosen because it provides an absolute as opposed to relative financial measure notice is the appropriate period of notice to be given to an executive director.
Exceptionally, however, of company performance and complements the TSR performance measure in the LTBS.
RPI is taken in circumstances such as the appointment of a chief executive from outside the company, the from the index published in March each year, and EPS is calculated in accordance with FRS14 Earnings Committee may consider an initial period of greater security to be appropriate and agree that the one Per Share which the Committee believes to be a transparent and well recognised way of doing so.
years notice should not be given before the first anniversary of appointment.
The Committee took this The Committee believes that share ownership provides an effective way to align the interests of view in respect of the appointment of Mr R A Baker, who joined the company as chief executive on shareholders and executives.
For all performance periods commencing on or after 1st April 2002 the 15th September 2003.
Mr Bakers contract will be terminable on one years notice from 15th whole of an executive directors long term bonus is payable in shares of the company: the executive September 2004. directors participate in a share option plan, and the Committee has adopted a policy of requiring Details of the contracts of executive directors who served during the year are as follows: executive directors over time to achieve a holding in the companys shares having a value equivalent to their base salary.
Date of Unexpired Notice Provision for contract term period compensation Share options granted under the SAYE share option scheme are not subject to performance conditions 1 R A Baker 8th August 2003 1 year rolling from 15th September 2004 1 year See below and, given the all employee nature of the scheme and its revenue-approved status, it would not be P Bateman 25th July 2002 1 year rolling 1 year Nil appropriate to do so.
No SAYE share option grants have been made since 1999.
H Dodd 4th June 2003 1 year rolling 1 year Nil S G Russell 25th July 2002 Terminated on 31st May 2003 1 year Nil It is the practice of the board to maintain contact where appropriate with its major shareholders about A P Smith 10th April 2001 Terminated on 31st October 2003 1 year Nil remuneration issues.
1 Notice not to be given before 15th September 2004 Non-executive directorships It is recognised that directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies With the exception of Mr R A Baker, none of the above contracts contain provisions relating to and that the additional experience and knowledge that this brings will benefit the company.
compensation on termination, and in the event of any service contract being terminated by the Accordingly, the policy is to allow executive directors to accept up to one such appointment where company giving less than the contractual period of notice the requirement for the director to mitigate no conflict of interest arises, and to retain the fees received.
None of the executive directors currently their loss where appropriate has been taken into account in determining any resulting compensation holds any such appointment.
and that remains the policy of the Committee.
In the case of Mr R A Baker, however, the company has agreed provisions relating to pay in lieu of notice under which if Mr R A Bakers contract is terminated Contracts of service with less notice than his contract provides, then he will receive 85% of the salary, pension and short The chairman, Sir Nigel Rudd, has and the previous Chairman, Mr J B McGrath who retired as term bonus and other benefits he would have received had he been given the notice to which he Chairman and from the board on 15th September 2003, had an agreement with the company dated was entitled under his contract, but without receiving any compensation for any loss of long term 19th March 2004 and 18th May 2001 respectively relating to their services as Chairman.
Mr McGraths incentives or share options.
appointment was and Sir Nigel Rudds appointment is terminable by either party without notice or compensation.
Each of the other non-executive directors has a written letter of appointment with the company, also terminable by either party without notice or compensation.
34 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The company announced in December 2002 that it was seeking to appoint a new chief executive to On 31st October 2003, Mr Smith resigned from the board following his redundancy on the succeed Mr S G Russell.
Following that announcement, the Committee agreed terms with Mr S G combination of the roles of HR director and group operations director, and the appointment of Russell under which he would, subject to him remaining in office as chief executive until 31st July Mr Bateman to that post, and received 526,246 compensation for loss of office, being the equivalent 2003, or until such earlier date as the company wished him to step down, receive his pay and benefits of ten months salary, a redundancy payment, and the estimated value of other benefits, including until 31st July 2003, and then, on leaving the company, receive 757,732 in compensation for loss of short term bonus, that he would have received had he been given ten months notice.
Mr Smith will office, being the value of one years salary, short term bonus and car allowance, be credited with one participate pro rata in the Long Term Bonus Scheme performance periods ending on or before years additional service in his pension arrangements and receive the other payments identified on 31st March 2005, and his pension arrangements were credited with ten months additional service.
The company also agreed that he would continue to participate in Long Term Bonus Scheme Mr Smith and certain of his dependants also agreed with the company to surrender their accrued performance periods ending on or before 31st March 2005.
Mr Russell stood down as chief executive entitlements under the unfunded unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme, in which Mr Smith had on 31st May 2003 and the company has honoured the arrangements made with him.
The Committee participated since he joined the company for 352,512, being the sum agreed by actuaries as the value believes that, in the circumstances, the arrangements were entirely appropriate, and that they enabled of those benefits.
In addition the company met the cost of Mr Smiths receiving legal and financial advice Mr Russell to continue to serve as chief executive during a difficult period until the appointment of and the cost of providing life cover for ten months equivalent to that to which he would have been Mr R A Baker had been announced.
entitled under the funded unapproved death benefit scheme in which he participated.
The terms on which Mr Baker joined the company were announced on 1st May 2003.
The Committee Details of the payments paid to Mr Russell and Mr Smith upon termination of their contracts are set agreed that he would on joining receive share options of three times his annual salary.
Accordingly, a out in the emoluments table on page 37. grant of twice annual salary was made under the Executive Share Option Scheme, and a grant of once Performance graph The following graph, required by the Regulations, shows the total shareholder times salary under his individual option plan, an arrangement identical in all respects to the Executive return over the five-year period to 31st March 2004 for the companys shares and the FTSE100 index.
Share Option Scheme, made pursuant to paragraph 13.13A of the Listing Rules, and details of those The FTSE100 is considered to be an appropriate index for comparison as the company forms part of arrangements are set out on page 40.
It was also agreed with Mr Baker that he would receive 400,000 that index, investors in the company are likely to regard other FTSE100 companies as alternative compensation for loss of his part vested future stock grants from Asda payable in two instalments and investments, and investors are familiar with it.
repayable if he should leave the companys employment of his own volition within two years and 244,375 to compensate him for the proportion of his projected short term bonus with Asda that Total cumulative shareholder FTSE100 return for the five-year period related to the period before he left Asdas employment.
He was also guaranteed a minimum bonus to 31st March 2004 Boots under the short term bonus scheme for 2003 04 of 50% of salary earned in that year to reflect the fact % that most of the plans for the second half of that year were in place before he joined, although in fact 110 the bonus actually earned as a result of the companys performance was greater than the sum guaranteed.
It was also agreed that the company would meet the reasonable costs of relocation.
100 The Committee considered these arrangements were necessary to facilitate the recruitment of 90 Mr Baker in the unusual circumstances in which the recruitment took place.
80 70 60 50 98 99 99 00 00 01 01 02 02 03 03 04 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 35 Directors remuneration report The following table sets out dilution information for options under discretionary and non discretionary schemes for the year and for the previous nine years in accordance with the best practice suggestion contained in the NAPF corporate governance policy.
36 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Auditors report The auditors are required to report on information contained in the following section of the report with the exception of directors shareholdings.
Commutation of accrued Other Directors remuneration 2003 04 Analysis of emoluments and short term bonuses are shown below, Short  payments Salaries term Other for loss pension on Total Total together with payments made to Mr S G Russell and Mr A P Smith on termination of employment.
000 and fees bonuses benefits of office entitlements termination 2004 2003 Details of long term bonuses are shown on pages 38 and 39, outstanding share options and gains Sir Nigel Rudd deputy chairman on share options are shown on pages 39 and 40 respectively, shareholdings and pension entitlements until appointed chairman on on page 41.
15th September 2003 181 181 55 Dr J G S Buchanan Short term executive bonus scheme Performance against business targets during the year was such resigned 24th July 2003 17 17 34 that a bonus equal to 80.26% of salary was earned by Mr Baker, and 56.45% of salary was earned by B Clare Messrs Bateman and Dodd.
3 resigned 31st January 2003 2,142 Other benefits Executive directors are entitled to a company car, or payment in lieu, sick pay, F M Harrison holidays, which overall provide a reasonably competitive package comparable with that provided by resigned 6th November 2002 19 other major companies.
Mr R A Baker, Mr P Bateman and Mr H Dodd participate and Mr A P Smith J B McGrath chairman until participated in a funded unapproved death benefit scheme which provides benefits on death retirement from the board on comparable to those contained in the companys approved pension schemes in respect of income 15th September 2003 375 2 377 251 4 above the revenue income cap.
Mr J B McGrath was provided with the use of a car, driver and fuel K S Piggott retired from the board on for use when travelling on the companys business, and when travelling between his residence and 31st December 2002 361 the companys premises, and Sir Nigel Rudd is reimbursed the expenses that the Committee consider S G Russell reasonable for providing his own car and driver whilst travelling on the companys business.
5 resigned 31st May 2003 206 7 758 131 1,102 786 Analysis of directors emoluments An analysis of directors emoluments relating to the salary and 6 A P Smith fees, short term executive bonus and other benefits other than share options, LTBS and pensions for resigned 31st October 2003 166 11 526 353 46 1,102 369 the year to 31st March 2004 is shown below: 2,120 663 591 1,284 353 177 5,188 4,914 1 Commutation Mr R A Bakers other benefits include 200,000 and 244,375 compensation for the loss of his part vested Asda share of accrued Other options and short term bonus respectively, and 17,422 being the cost of legal advice met by the company.
Short  payments 2 Mr P Batemans other benefits include 60,000 in respect of relocation expenses relating to the sale of his former home Salaries term Other for loss pension on Total Total in Brussels.
000 and fees bonuses benefits of office entitlements termination 2004 2003 3 Mr B Clares salary for 2003 Included nine months salary in lieu of notice and 67,500 in respect of short term bonus.
He R A Baker and certain of his dependants surrendered their entitlements under the unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme, 1 from 15th September 2003 341 273 472 1,086 and received a total of 1.2m being the actuarial value of these benefits.
The company also met the cost of certain legal 2 and financial advice given to Mr B Clare.
P Bateman 317 179 82 578 355 4 Mr K S Piggott remained an employee of the company until 31st December 2003 and received, in addition to the sums J Bennink 35 35 32 stated in this table, a salary of 135,938 and short term bonus of 38,579 in respect of the period from 1st April 2003 to G N Dawson 31st December 2003, and a salary of 45,313 and short term bonus of 11,328 in respect of the period from 1st January from 15th September 2003 28 28 2003 to 31st March 2003.
5 H Dodd 373 211 17 601 446 Mr S G Russells other payments on termination include accrued holiday pay of 71,308, a retirement payment of 42,792, T C Parker and 16,500 being the cost of legal advice met by the company.
6 Mr A P Smiths compensation for loss of office included ten months salary in lieu of notice and 201,167 in respect of short from 28th January 2004 7 7 term bonus.
He and certain of his dependants surrendered their entitlements under the unfunded unapproved retirement H Ploix 37 37 32 benefit scheme, and received a total of 352,512 being the actuarial value of these benefits.
The company also met the Dr M P Read 37 37 32 cost of certain legal, outplacement and financial advice given to Mr A P Smith and of ten months life cover.
The aggregate of directors emoluments before compensation for loss of office, commutation of pension entitlements and other payments on termination was 3,375,000 2003 3,493,000.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 37 Directors remuneration report The base salaries of executive directors at the year end and at 26th May 2004, the latest practicable Share awards in respect of prior periods date before the printing of this report were as follows: For cycles ending in 2001 02 and earlier the entitlement to exercise the half paid as a share award was deferred, and only vested in the employee after three further years employment.
For cycles ending in At 31st March 2004 At 26th May 2004 2002 03 and thereafter, share entitlements may be exercised immediately after grant for a period of R A Baker 625,000 644,000 twelve months.
H Dodd 400,000 400,000 P Bateman 350,000 350,000 Details of the share awards which have been granted during the year in respect of the cycle which was completed at the end of the previous financial year, and deferred share awards conditionally granted Long term bonus scheme LTBS for previous cycles, are shown below.
Shares that vested in the year and the cumulative total of shares TSR performance measure An explanation of the TSR performance measure is shown on page 33. outstanding at 31st March, or date of retirement are also shown below: 1 1 Granted Granted Granted Exercised Cumulative Entitlements based on completed long term bonus periods Number of shares 2003 04 2001 02 2000 01 total total Outcome of the 2000 2004 performance cycle At the end of the cycle for the four-year period up R A Baker to 31st March 2004 the relevant peer group was identical to that shown on page 33 except for the P Bateman inclusion of Debenhams instead of Dixons.
H Dodd 2 S G Russell 17,858 17,858 For this cycle, the company achieved position five in the league table.
Accordingly, the long term A P Smith 3,041 3,041 bonus units earned by executive directors including amounts relating to periods of service before appointment to the board and service after retiring from the board are set out in the following table 20,899 3,041 17,858 and will be paid in June 2004.
For serving directors, half will be paid in cash and the remaining half 1 granted on deferred basis will be paid as a grant of a share award as shown below.
The share price used to determine the MPBA 2 date of resignation was 515p 2002 03 927p and the share price used to determine the value of the cash payment was 711p 2002 03 602p.
Part of Mr A P Smiths 2000 01 entitlements accrued before he was appointed to the board on 1st April 2001.
Earned Earned Share Share Cash Cash 2003 04 MPBAMPBA UnitsUnits awardaward2000 041999 03 Mr Russell exercised his 2000 01 entitlement during the year after ceasing to be a director of the company.
Number of shares 2000 04 1999 03 2000 04 1999 03 2000 04 1999 03 000 000 The value of the award is not determined until the vesting date, which for the entitlements granted in R A Baker 2001 02 is June 2004.
P Bateman 33,107 10,580 11,919 5,960 42 H Dodd 42,476 11,799 15,291 7,646 54 The value of share awards in respect of prior periods which have vested and been exercised in the year S G Russell 121,359 50,566 43,689 311 as disclosed above is shown in the table below: A P Smith 38,653 12,716 13,915 99 Share Share Value Value 235,595 85,661 84,814 13,606 506 Date Share value value at value at received received interest at date vesting exercise 2004 2003 During the year, Mr K S Piggott, a former executive director, earned 26,213 long term bonus units.
awarded of award 2004 2004 000 000 The award will be paid wholly in cash in June 2004, amounting to 186,213.
R A Baker P Bateman H Dodd S G Russell 1st April 1996 599p 626p 664.5p 119 73 A P Smith 1st April 1996 599p 626p 645.5p 20 9 139 82 Performance conditions are described on page 33.
The value of the shares received is based on the middle market price on the date of exercise of the share awards, and is the value upon which liability to income tax and National Insurance is calculated.
38 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 During the year, Mr Clare, Mr Piggott and Mr Thompson, all former directors, exercised share awards The share price used to calculate the 2002-2005 and 2003-2006 MPBAs was 632p and 546p 617p in of 7,757, 7,058 and 18,140 respectively.
The value received at the exercise date was 55,075, respect of Mr Baker respectively.
The outcome for these cycles and the related share awards will not 44,944 and 121,175 respectively.
be determined until June 2005 and June 2006 respectively.
The share prices when the awards were first made were 672.5p on 1st April 2002 and 528p on 1st April 2003.
Performance conditions are Potential entitlements under incomplete long term bonus periods set out on page 33.
The MPBA in shares for cycles which commenced on 1st April 2002 and 1st April 2003 are shown below: Share Options The Executive Share Option Plan An explanation of the way the plan operates is shown on MPBA MPBA pages 33 and 34.
At 31 03 03 Awarded in year 2002-2005 2003-2006 Total The exercise price of options granted under the scheme is the average of the market value of the R A Baker 61,808 105,517 167,325 shares in the three days preceding the grant of an option.
The rules of the plan allow the exercise P Bateman 51,424 68,681 120,105 of options in the period between three and ten years from grant, subject to prior satisfaction of any H Dodd 69,225 82,418 151,643 performance condition stipulated at the time of grant.
Upon exercise, the benefit received by the K S Piggott 71,697 71,697 participant is derived from the increase in the market value of the companys shares in the period 1 2 S G Russell 118,671 141,484 260,155 between grant and exercise.
Gains arising from the exercise of share options are set out below.
1 2 A P Smith 54,391 65,018 119,409 Executive share options may be exercised before the expiry of the initial three-year period following 427,216 463,118 890,334 termination of employment by reason of redundancy or retirement or in such other circumstances of 1 MPBA subsequently reduced pro rata to reflect an additional one years service in the case of Mr S G Russell and ten months termination of employment as the Committee approves, subject to satisfaction of the performance service in the case of Mr A P Smith.
conditions over the shorter period.
2 lapsed upon cessation of employment.
During the year, share options held by Mr Clare 114,610 and Mr Thompson 150,193, both former directors lapsed.
Mr K S Piggott held options over 112,641 shares at 31st March 2004.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 39 Directors remuneration report Outcome of performance tests as at 31st March 2004 The Boots SAYE Share Option Scheme The performance test for options granted in 2001 the first grant was not met as at 31st March 2004.
Under a savings-related scheme options may be offered to employees, including executive directors, enabling employees to subscribe for ordinary shares in the company at approximately 80% of the Individual option plan Mr R A Baker the Plan market price of those shares at the date of grant, subject to participation in a designated savings The arrangements made with Mr Baker on joining are described on pages 34 and 35.
No options have been granted since July 1999, but certain executive directors hold options 2003 he received, as part of those arrangements, a grant of options of once his salary of 625,000 under that scheme as follows: amounting to 90,975 shares at a price of 687 pence the average of the market price for the three At 31 March At 31 March Exercise Earliest date Expiry days preceding the grant on terms identical to the options granted in 2003 4 under the Executive 2003 Awarded Exercised Lapsed 2004 price of exercise date Share Option Plan, exercisable between 18th September 2006 and 17th September 2013 subject to S G Russell @624p 2,704 2,704 satisfaction of the performance condition.
The provisions if any in the Executive Share Option Scheme which also relate to the Plan relating to the following matters cannot be altered to the advantage of Mr K S Piggott, a former director, held share options over 324 shares at 624p at 31st March 2004.
Mr Baker without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor amendments Options over 341 shares at 808p lapsed during the year.
to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or The market price of the companys shares at 31st March 2004 was 619.5p and the range of market maintain favourable tax, exchange or regulatory treatment for participants in the Plan or for the prices during the year was 524.5p to 752.5p.
company operating the scheme or for members of its group : Directors interests in share options on 26th May 2004 remain unchanged.
The persons to whom, or for whom, securities, cash or other benefits are provided under the Plan the participants.
Gains on share options Limitations on the number or amount of securities, cash or other benefits subject to the Plan.
Gains on share options represent the number of shares under options which have been exercised, The maximum entitlement for any one participant.
valued at the difference between the market price at the date of exercise and the exercise price paid.
The basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, securities, cash or other benefit to be provided and for the adjustment thereof if any in the event of a capitalisation issue, The total gains on share options exercised during the year was nil 2003 nil.
rights issue or open offer, sub-division or consolidation of shares or reduction of capital or any other variation of capital.
All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP In the period to 31st March 2001 Boots established an AESOP to enable staff, including executive The Plan is not pensionable, and as previously stated, the Committee determined that the directors, to become shareholders in the company.
Under the free share part of the plan, the executive arrangements were necessary to facilitate the appointment of Mr Baker in unusual circumstances.
directors were each given the opportunity to be awarded 40 shares 39 in 2003, the same number Mr Baker became eligible to receive benefits under the Plan on joining the company on 15th September as any employee with average contracted hours of 35 or more per week.
No further grants can be made under the Plan.
The performance condition is identical to that directors opted to receive this award.
Shares in this part of the AESOP must normally be held in trust applied to grants under the Executive Share Option Plan, i. e. average annual growth in earning per on behalf of the employees for at least three years.
share of at least RPI plus 3% over the performance period as described on pages 33 and 34.
In the period to 31st March 2002 Boots implemented the partnership share element of the plan, giving employees including executive directors the opportunity to purchase shares from their pre-tax income, subject to a maximum of 125 per month, with effect from April 2002.
Shares purchased under the partnership plan are included in total shareholdings in the table on page 41.
40 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors shareholdings Those directors who are subject to the earnings cap are also members of an unfunded unapproved The beneficial interests of the directors in office at 31st March 2004 and their families in the share pension arrangement which provides similar benefits on basic salary in excess of the earnings cap.
capital of the company at 31st March 2004 are shown below.
The companys register of directors Details of pensions earned by the executive directors in office at 31st March 2004 or at date of interests, which is open to inspection, contains full details of directors interests in the companys shares.
retirement are shown below: Ordinary Ordinary Transfer value of shares shares net-of-inflation Shareholdings 2004 2003 Increase in Increase in Increase in increase in 1 pension during pension during Transfer value Transfer value transfer value of accrued R A Baker 9,260 Accrued the year to the year to of accrued of accrued benefits benefits less P Bateman 383 173 pension at 31st March 2004 31st March 2004 benefits at benefits at less directors directors J Bennink 4,126 000 31st March 2004 gross of inflation net of inflation 31st March 2003 31st March 2004 contributions contributions 1 G N Dawson 2,000 R A Baker 11 11 11 136 119 119 H Dodd 1,203 1,000 P Bateman 43 21 21 295 636 326 292 1 T C Parker 6,340 H Dodd 20 12 11 98 257 142 128 H Ploix 3,767 1,697 S G Russell 404 27 17 7,009 7,616 602 310 Dr M P Read 5,500 3,500 A P Smith 56 13 12 504 687 176 134 Sir Nigel Rudd 47,000 2,000 The total accrued pension entitlement for Mr R A Baker, the highest paid director, at 31st March 2003 1 at date of appointment was Nil.
Included within the ordinary shares held are 203 shares purchased by both Mr P Bateman and The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service Mr H Dodd respectively under the AESOP Share Investment Plan.
Retained benefits from previous employments are taken into account.
The increase in accrued pension during the year is after deducting the increase due to inflation, at the rate Each executive director was also deemed, as a potential beneficiary, to have an interest in the of 2.8%, on the previous years accrued pension.
Members of the scheme have the option to pay 1,051,363 2003 1,423,769 ordinary shares of the company held by Boots ESOP Trust Ltd, on behalf additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included of Boots Employee Trust, established to facilitate the operation of the companys executive bonus in the above table.
schemes and in 11,176,287 2003 12,959,693 ordinary shares of the company held by Boots QUEST Trustee Limited, on behalf of Boots Qualifying Employee Share Trust, established in connection with Mr S G Russell left the board on 31st May 2003 and subsequently retired on 31st July 2003. the companys UK all-employee SAYE Share Option Scheme and in 3,582,746 2003 2,465,201 The year end figures for Mr S G Russell are quoted at his date of retirement.
ordinary shares of the company held by Boots Share Plan Trustees Limited, established to hold shares Mr A P Smith left the company on 31st October 2003 taking a deferred pension in respect of his for employees in connection with the companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan the AESOP.
benefits in the Boots Pension scheme and a payment of 352,512 was made to him in lieu of benefits No director holds any loan capital.
he had accrued in the unapproved arrangements.
The figures at 31st March 2004 relate to approved The personal shareholdings of directors in office at 31st March 2004 remain unchanged on 26th May scheme benefits only.
2004, other than each of Mr P Bateman and Mr H Dodd now hold a further 21 shares purchased under the partnership share element of the AESOP, and the number of shares held by Boots QUEST Trustee Limited, the Boots ESOP Trust Ltd and the Boots Share Plan Trustees have reduced, thereby By order of the board reducing directors deemed interest.
Dr M P Read Chairman of the board remuneration committee Pension entitlement 26th May 2004 All executive directors in office at 31st March 2004 receive pension entitlements from the companys principal UK defined benefit pension scheme, referred to in note 26, and supplementary pension arrangements which provide additional benefits aimed at producing a pension of two-thirds final base salary at normal retirement age, subject to completing 20 years service and subject to revenue limits.
Non-executive directors are not members of any company pension arrangements.
Pension entitlement is calculated only on the salary element of remuneration.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 41 Directors responsibilities statement Company law requires directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the group and of the profit and loss of the group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company and the group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
42 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Boots Group PLC We have audited the financial statements on pages 46 to 67.
We have also audited the information We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Opinion In our opinion: or for the opinions we have formed.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at 31st March 2004 and of the profit of the group for the year then ended: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have the Annual Report and the directors remuneration report.
As described on page 42, this includes been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, KPMG Audit Plc and by our professions ethical guidance.
Chartered Accountants We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and Registered Auditor whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have Birmingham been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our 26th May 2004 opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanation we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 27 to 31 reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 43 Directors report The directors of Boots Group PLC present their annual report to shareholders, together with the Group structure and operations audited financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2004.
On 22nd May 2003, Boots announced the outsourcing of the operations of its D105 warehouse in Nottingham to Unipart and the transfer of transport services management to Tibbet and Britten.
Capital reorganisation The changes were effective on 1st August 2003.
During last year a new group holding company was interposed between The Boots Company PLC On 15th January 2004, Boots announced the acceleration of its programme to reorganise its and its shareholders through a scheme of arrangement.
This was effective from 20th January 2003.
References throughout the annual report and financial statements to the company refer to Boots Group PLC from 20th January 2003 onwards and prior to that to The Boots Company PLC.
On 29th January 2004, Boots announced the outsourcing of the operations of its D82 warehouse The balance sheet and balance sheet items relate to Boots Group PLC.
in Nottingham to Unipart with effect from 1st April 2004.
Principal activities Share capital The groups principal activities during the year were: Details of changes in the share capital are shown in note 22 to the financial statements.
At the annual general meeting on 24th July 2003, shareholders authorised the company to make the provision of opticians and other healthcare services.
market purchases of its own ordinary shares of 25p each.
the development, manufacture and marketing of healthcare and consumer products.
During the year the company entered the market and purchased 38.3 million 2003 78.8 million Further information on the groups continuing activities is provided in the operational review on shares which have subsequently been cancelled.
This represented 4.9% 2003 9.7% of the shares pages 8 to 19. in issue at the end of the period and the total cost was 259.9m 2003 462.8m.
Business review and future developments At the forthcoming annual general meeting on 22nd July 2004, shareholders will be invited to renew A review of group activities during the year, research and development, and likely future developments the companys authority to make market purchases.
The authority will be limited to the purchase of are dealt with in the introduction, Chairmans statement, chief executives review and operational not more than 76.876 million ordinary shares, being approximately 10% of the ordinary shares in issue review on pages 1 to 19. at the date of this report: the maximum price payable to be no more than 5% above the average of the closing mid market quotations for the five business days before the purchase, with the minimum Group results price being the nominal value, exclusive of any expenses payable by the company.
The group profit and loss account for 2004 shown on page 46 includes the following details: Details of shares held by Boots Qualifying Employee Share Trust, Boots All Employee Share Ownership 1 Plan and Boots ESOP Trust are shown in note 12 to the financial statements.
Restated 2004 2003 m m Shareholders Turnover including share of joint ventures 5,326.4 5,322.4 As at 26th May 2004, the register maintained by the company under Section 211 of the Companies Profit on ordinary activities before exceptional items and taxation 544.6 552.9 Act 1985 contains a notification to the company that Legal & General Investment Management holds Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 581.0 492.4 4.01% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company and Lazard Freres & Co holds 3.00% of the 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
issued ordinary share capital of the company.
Fixed assets Appropriations The directors are of the opinion that the market value of the groups properties at 31st March 2004 The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 21.0p per share which, if approved by is 44.5% higher than that stated in the financial statements.
It is not anticipated that any significant shareholders, will be paid on 13th August 2004 to shareholders registered on 11th June 2004.
When taxation will become payable on the revaluation surplus, as taxation gains on properties used for the added to the interim dividend of 8.8p paid on 6th February 2004, this makes a total dividend payment purpose of the groups trade are expected to be deferred indefinitely or eliminated by capital losses.
for the year of 29.8p per share 2003 28.6p per share.
Payment of these dividends requires 226.3m 2003 230.7m, leaving a profit of 186.3m 2003 69.3m retained in the business.
44 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Payment of suppliers The performance of each director standing for reappointment has been formally evaluated by the The group is a signatory of the Better Payment Practice Code a copy of the code is available from Chairman, regard being had to length of service on the board of each such director and whether www.
It is the policy of the group to agree appropriate terms and conditions for its they be executive or non-executive, and the Chairman will recommend their reappointment.
The transactions with suppliers by means ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated board is mindful of the experience brought to the board by the non-executive directors who stand for contracts and that payment should be made in accordance with those terms and conditions, provided re-appointment, and believes that each director standing for reappointment continues to demonstrate that the supplier has also complied with them.
commitment, to be an effective member of the board, and to contribute to the balance of skills and knowledge and experience identified by the board in the course of its review carried out earlier in the The number of days purchases outstanding for the groups UK operations at 31st March 2004 was year.
The board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors standing for reappointment is not 24 2003 23 days.
The company has no trade creditors.
precluded from devoting sufficient time to his or her duties to the company by reason of their other commitments.
Details of directors roles, responsibilities, achievements and significant external People commitments are set out on page 20 and in the AGM notice, which is sent to shareholders The group continues to involve its people in the decision-making process and communicates regularly with this report.
with them during the year.
Their involvement in the companys performance is encouraged with employee bonus and share schemes.
The involvement extends to the board of Boots Pensions Ltd, on Information on service contracts and details of the interests of the directors and their families in the which there are three employee representatives as well as a retired employee.
The groups aim for all share capital of the company at 31st March 2004 are shown in the directors remuneration report its people and applicants for employment is to fit the qualifications, aptitude and ability of each on pages 32 to 41.
Copies of the service contracts of executive directors and of the appointment individual to the appropriate job, and to provide equal opportunity, regardless of sex, religion or ethnic letters of the Chairman and non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys origin.
The group does all that is practicable to meet its responsibility towards the employment and registered office during normal business hours and at the annual general meeting.
Where an employee becomes disabled, every effort is made to provide No director has a directorship in common or other significant links with any other director except continuity of employment in the same job or a suitable alternative.
in the case of executive directors holding directorships of subsidiary companies of the company.
Charitable and political donations Auditors The group made cash donations for charitable and educational purposes in the UK for the year Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine of 2.4m being 0.7m for education, 0.6m for health, 1.0m for economic development and their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
0.1m for other charitable purposes 2003 3.1m of which the company made charitable donations of 0.6m 2003 0.1m.
The company made no political payments.
Further information on community investment is shown on page 16.
By order of the board M J Oliver Directors Secretary Details of directors are shown on page 20.
Dr J G S Buchanan, Mr J B McGrath, Mr S G Russell 26th May 2004 and Mr A P Smith were directors of the company until their resignations on 24th July 2003, 15th September 2003, 31st May 2003 and 31st October 2003 respectively.
Mme H Ploix and Dr M P Read retire by rotation at the annual general meeting in accordance with article 87 of the companys articles of association and offer themselves for reappointment.
Mr R A Baker and Mr G N Dawson, who were appointed as directors on 15th September 2003 and Mr T C Parker, who was appointed as a director on 28th January 2004, retire at the annual general meeting in accordance with article 86 and offer themselves for reappointment.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 45 Group profit and loss account Other primary statements of the group Statement of total recognised gains and losses 1 1 For the year ended 31st March 2004 Restated For the year ended 31st March 2004 Restated 2004 2003 2004 2003 Notes m m m m Turnover Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 412.6 300.0 Turnover from continuing operations 5,326.4 5,087.5 Revaluation of investment properties 17.1 Discontinued operation 234.9 Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments 14.8 7.5 Turnover: group and share of joint ventures 1 5,326.4 5,322.4 Total recognised gains and losses for the year 397.8 324.6 Less: share of joint ventures turnover 1.4 2.1 Prior year adjustment in respect of adoption of Group turnover 5,325.0 5,320.3 FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition note 1 iv 30.0 Operating profit Total recognised gains and losses since last annual report 367.8 Operating profit from continuing operations 551.2 532.3 Currency translation differences include tax of 2.2 m 2003 0.3 m. Discontinued operation 22.5 Currency translation differences are net of gains or losses on currency hedges of 9.9m 2003 2.0 m Group operating profit 551.2 554.8 Share of operating loss of joint ventures 1.1 13.2 and associated tax charge of 2.4m 2003 nil.
Total operating profit including share of joint ventures 2 550.1 541.6 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 3 32.5 5.1 Note on historical cost profits and losses Provision for loss on closure of operations 3 3.9 34.5 1 For the year ended 31st March 2004 Restated Loss on disposal of business 3 123.2 2004 2003 m m Profit on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 1 586.5 389.0 2 Reported profit on ordinary activities before taxation 581.0 492.4 Net interest payable receivable and similar items 5 5.5 103.4 Realisation of property revaluation surpluses 15.0 10.2 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 581.0 492.4 Difference between historical cost depreciation charge Tax on profit on ordinary activities 6 167.7 191.9 and actual charge for the year calculated on revalued amounts 1.1 1.0 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 413.3 300.5 Historical cost profit on ordinary activities before taxation 597.1 503.6 Equity minority interests 0.7 0.5 Historical cost profit retained 202.4 80.5 Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 412.6 300.0 Dividends paid and proposed 8 226.3 230.7 Retained profit for the financial year 21 186.3 69.3 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 1 For the year ended 31st March 2004 Restated 2004 2003 m m Basic earnings per share 9 52.9p 35.8p Total recognised gains and losses for the year 397.8 324.6 Basic earnings per share before exceptionals 9 48.2p 45.0p Dividends 226.3 230.7 Diluted earnings per share 9 52.8p 35.7p New share capital issued net of expenses 0.3 0.3 Diluted earnings per share before exceptionals 9 48.0p 44.9p Repurchase of shares 259.9 462.8 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
Goodwill released on disposal of business 349.3 2 2003 includes exceptional items see notes 3 and 5.
Net decrease in shareholders funds 88.1 19.9 2 Opening shareholders funds 1,969.4 1,989.3 Closing shareholders funds 1,881.3 1,969.4 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
2 Originally 1,999.4m before deducting prior year adjustment of 30m.
46 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Balance sheets 1 1 31st March 2004 Restated 31st March 2004 Restated Group Group Company Company Group Group Company Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Notes m m m m Notes m m m m Fixed assets Capital and reserves Intangible assets 10 281.5 301.3 Called up share capital 21, 22 193.9 203.5 193.9 203.5 Tangible assets 11 1,499.4 1,516.5 Share premium account 21 0.3 0.3 Investments 12 74.7 84.7 1,106.7 1,387.4 Revaluation reserve 21 244.2 260.3 Capital redemption reserve 21 15.2 5.6 15.2 5.6 1,855.6 1,902.5 1,106.7 1,387.4 Merger reserve 21 310.8 310.8 Current assets Profit and loss account 21 1,116.9 1,189.2 1,503.4 992.3 Stocks 13 690.8 638.6 Equity shareholders funds 1,881.3 1,969.4 1,712.8 1,201.4 Debtors falling due within one year 14 516.0 536.6 1,205.3 4.6 Equity minority interests 1.2 0.5 Debtors falling due after more than one year 14 165.9 114.0 502.6 Current asset investments and deposits 15 239.1 293.1 223.0 275.0 1,882.5 1,969.9 1,712.8 1,201.4 Cash at bank and in hand 110.5 203.4 24.5 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
1,722.3 1,785.7 1,930.9 304.1 The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 26th May 2004 and are signed Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 16 1,135.3 1,155.6 455.2 175.1 on its behalf by: Net current assets 587.0 630.1 1,475.7 129.0 Total assets less current liabilities 2,442.6 2,532.6 2,582.4 1,516.4 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more Richard Baker than one year 17 382.9 401.8 869.6 315.0 Chief Executive Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 177.2 160.9 Net assets 1,882.5 1,969.9 1,712.8 1,201.4 Howard Dodd 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
Chief Financial Officer Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 47 Group cash flow statement Group cash flow statement Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt For the year ended 31st March 2004 2004 2003 For the year ended 31st March 2004 2004 2003 Notes m m Notes m m Cash inflow from operating activities 23 637.8 582.3 Decrease increase in cash in the year 52.3 60.3 Cash inflow from change in liquid resources 24 53.5 15.8 Returns on investment and servicing of finance Cash outflow from change in borrowings and lease financing 24 16.9 46.0 Interest paid 40.4 16.1 1 Interest received 17.8 91.9 Movement in net debt resulting from cash flows 88.9 90.5 Dividends paid by subsidiaries to minority interests 0.8 Finance lease additions 4.2 1.8 Increase in value of investment in 10.125% bond 2017 5.8 22.6 75.0 Currency and other non-cash adjustments 3.9 0.3 Taxation 166.2 196.7 Movement in net debt during the year 97.0 94.8 Capital expenditure and financial investment Opening net debt 51.5 146.3 Purchase of fixed assets 194.2 145.8 Closing net debt 24 148.5 51.5 Disposal of fixed assets 149.6 118.6 Disposal of own shares 2.3 3.1 Net debt comprises cash, liquid resources, finance leases and all other borrowings.
42.3 24.1 Acquisitions and disposals 4 2.2 358.1 Equity dividends paid 229.1 238.3 Cash inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 175.4 556.3 Management of liquid resources Decrease in short term deposits 53.5 15.8 Financing Capital element of finance lease rental agreements 5.9 8.1 Decrease in other borrowings 11.0 37.9 Cash outflow from change in borrowings and lease financing 16.9 46.0 Issue of ordinary share capital net of expenses 0.3 0.3 Repurchase of shares 264.6 465.5 281.2 511.8 Decrease increase in cash in the year 52.3 60.3 1 Including exceptional interest received of 53.8m in the year to 31st March 2003.
In addition 46.8m was received in 2002 in relation to this item.
Cash is defined as cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts repayable on demand.
48 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are Exchange differences arising from the translation of the results and net assets of overseas subsidiaries, considered material in relation to the group and company financial statements except as noted below.
less offsetting exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings and currency swaps hedging those assets net of any related tax effects, are dealt with through reserves.
Basis of accounting Where foreign currency hedges are taken out for committed future foreign currency purchases, the fair The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and value of those hedges are not included in the profit and loss account and balance sheet.
All other under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of certain land and buildings.
exchange differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
However, compliance with SSAP19 Accounting for investment properties requires a departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 relating to the depreciation of investment properties as The cost of the company investment in shares in overseas subsidiaries is stated at the rate of exchange described in note 11 to the financial statements.
in force at the date each investment was made, except where hedge accounting applies in which case the year end rate is used.
A separate profit and loss account for the company has not been presented as permitted by section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985.
Goodwill and intangible assets During the year, new requirements on revenue recognition, in the form of an Application Note to Goodwill on acquisitions comprises the excess of the fair value of the consideration plus any associated FRS5 Reporting the Substance of Transactions, were issued and became effective for this years costs for investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures over the fair value of net assets Report and Accounts.
The effects of implementing this Application Note are shown in note 1 iv.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets and liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are also made to bring the accounting Consolidation policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the group.
The costs of integrating and The group financial statements combine the results of the company and all its subsidiaries and joint reorganising acquired businesses are charged to the post-acquisition profit and loss account.
ventures, to the extent of group ownership and after eliminating intra-group transactions.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1st April 1998 has been set off against reserves.
On disposal Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, of such businesses, any goodwill previously set off against reserves is charged in the calculation of the the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the profit or loss on disposal.
For subsequent acquisitions goodwill is recognised within fixed assets in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
year in which it arises and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life, not exceeding 20 years.
Joint ventures are those undertakings, not recognised as subsidiaries, in which the group has a participating interest and are jointly controlled.
The groups share of the results of joint ventures, which The cost of intangible assets acquired which are capitalised only if separately identifiable is not are accounted for under the gross equity method, are included in the profit and loss account and its amortised except where the end of the useful economic lives of the acquired intangible asset can be share of their net assets is included in investments in the group balance sheet.
Similar assets created within the business are not capitalised and expenditure is charged against profits in the year in which it is incurred.
The carrying value of intangible assets In the company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at cost being including in particular those being amortised over periods greater than 20 years is reviewed annually the par value of shares issued where merger relief applies less impairments.
and any impairment in value charged to the profit and loss account.
During the comparative year Boots Group PLC was introduced as the new holding company of the Boots Group by way of a Scheme of Arrangement under section 425 of the Companies Act 1985.
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation This was accounted for as a capital reorganisation and merger accounting principles have been Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is provided to write off the cost or valuation, less residual value, applied, as if the company had always been the holding company of the group.
by equal instalments over their expected useful economic lives as follows: Freehold land, investment properties, assets in the course of construction not depreciated Foreign currencies Freehold and long leasehold buildings, depreciated to their estimated residual values over their The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries and the results of joint ventures are translated into useful economic lives of not more than 50 years sterling on an average exchange rate basis, weighted by the actual results of each month.
Assets and Short leasehold properties remaining period of lease when less than 50 years liabilities including currency swaps are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the Computer equipment including software 3 to 8 years balance sheet date.
Motor cars 4 or 5 years Other motor vehicles 3 to 10 years Fixtures and plant 3 to 20 years Any impairment in the value of fixed assets is recognised immediately.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 49 Accounting policies The group adopted the transitional provisions of FRS15 Tangible Fixed Assets to retain the book value Derivative financial instruments of land and buildings many of which were last revalued in 1993 and has not adopted a policy of The derivative financial instruments used by the group to manage its interest rate and currency risks annual revaluations for the future.
are interest rate swaps and forward rate contracts.
Interest receipts and payments arising on interest rate swaps are recognised within net interest payable over the period of the contract.
Termination Investment properties are revalued annually and included in the balance sheet at their open market payments made or received are amortised over the life of the underlying exposure in cases where value adjusted to exclude the benefit of formal lease arrangements with group companies.
the exposure continues to exist, and taken to the profit and loss account immediately where the Profits and losses arising from the disposal of properties which have previously been revalued are underlying exposure ceases to exist.
Gains and losses arising on forward currency contracts entered calculated by reference to their carrying value.
into to hedge trading transactions are recognised in the profit and loss account in the same period as the underlying exposure.
Forward contracts hedging cash and borrowings are valued at closing rates Interest is capitalised on tangible fixed assets in the course of construction or development.
The of exchange at each period end, with gains and losses offset against the related cash and borrowings.
capitalisation rate applied depends on whether the construction is financed by a specific borrowing The interest differential on these instruments is recognised against net interest payable.
based on actual interest rate or whether it is financed by general borrowings based on the weighted average rate on all non-specific borrowings.
Turnover Turnover comprises sales to external customers excluding VAT and other sales taxes and rental Fixed Asset Investment in Own Shares income.
Consideration received from customers is only recorded as turnover when the group has Own shares, which have been purchased for the benefit of employees under various incentive completed full performance in respect of that consideration.
schemes, are held as fixed asset investments in the balance sheet.
These shares are held in three employee ownership trusts: Stocks The shares held by the qualifying employee share ownership trust QUEST holds shares for the all Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises purchase cost of employee SAYE scheme.
They are initially capitalised at the purchase price with the discount given goods, direct labour and those overheads related to manufacture and distribution based on normal to employees being written off on acquisition.
Shares owned by the ESOP Trust form part of the Boots Long Term Bonus Scheme for executive directors and senior employees.
These shares are capitalised at cost on acquisition and are amortised Research and development over the relevant qualifying and service periods of the bonus scheme.
Expenditure on research and development, other than on buildings and plant, is charged against Shares owned by the all employee share ownership plan AESOP are conditionally gifted to all profit in the year in which it is incurred.
employees employed at a qualifying date and then held in trust for a qualifying service period of not less than three years.
These shares are capitalised at cost and subsequently amortised over the Pensions relevant qualifying period.
The company and its UK subsidiaries operate pension schemes under which contributions by Impairment tests are performed on the carrying value of the shares to reflect any permanent employees and by the companies are held in trust funds separated from the companies finances.
Actuarial valuations of the schemes are conducted at three year intervals and include a review of contributions.
Cash and liquid resources The cost of providing pensions is spread over the employees working lives with the companies.
Cash, for the purpose of the cash flow statement, comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on The cost charged to the profit and loss account in any year may not always equal the employer demand, less overdrafts payable on demand.
contributions to the pension schemes.
Liquid resources are current asset investments which are disposable without curtailing or disrupting the business and are either readily convertible into known amounts of cash at or close to their carrying values or traded in an active market.
Liquid resources comprise term deposits of less than one year other than cash.
50 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Leases The rental costs of properties and other assets held under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
Benefits received as an incentive to sign a lease, whatever form they may take, are credited to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term or, if shorter than the full lease term, over the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate.
The cost of assets held under finance leases being leases which give rights to the group approximating to ownership is included under tangible fixed assets and depreciation is provided in accordance with the policy for the class of asset concerned.
The corresponding obligations under these leases are shown as creditors.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to the profit and loss account to produce, or approximate to, a constant periodic rate of charge on the remaining balance of the outstanding obligations.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided in respect of all timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, by the balance sheet date except as required by FRS19 Deferred Tax as detailed below.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
No provision is made for taxation liabilities which would arise on the distribution of profits retained by overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures as there is no commitment to remit these profits.
It is not anticipated that any significant taxation will become payable on the revaluation surplus or sale of properties, as taxation on gains on properties used for the purpose of the groups trade is expected to be deferred indefinitely or eliminated by capital losses.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 51 Notes relating to the financial statements 1.
Segmental information 1 i Turnover by business segment Restated iii Profit before interest and taxation by business segment 1 2004 2003 Restated Notes m m Before Before 1 exceptional exceptional Restated Health 1,806.7 1,704.5 items Total items Total 2004 2004 2003 2003 Beauty and Toiletries 1,992.5 1,902.4 Notes m m m m Lifestyle 676.5 676.5 Boots The Chemists a 531.1 523.8 568.4 566.4 Boots The Chemists 4,475.7 4,283.4 Boots Opticians and Dentalcare 5.1 1.1 30.9 66.3 Boots Opticians and Dentalcare 241.6 258.6 526.0 522.7 537.5 500.1 4,717.3 4,542.0 Boots Healthcare International 80.6 80.6 70.1 70.1 Boots Healthcare International a 476.0 430.1 Boots Retail International 10.4 10.4 22.3 22.3 Boots Retail International b 41.6 35.6 Group and other 46.1 6.4 66.2 58.2 Group and other c 91.5 79.8 Continuing operations 550.1 586.5 519.1 489.7 Continuing operations 5,326.4 5,087.5 Discontinued operation Halfords 22.5 100.7 Discontinued operation Halfords 234.9 Profit before interest and taxation 550.1 586.5 541.6 389.0 Turnover: group and share of joint ventures 5,326.4 5,322.4 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
a Boots Healthcare International also made inter-segmental sales of 28.6m 2003 30.3m.
a Boots The Chemists includes Digital Wellbeing Limited DWL operating loss of 3.2m 2003 14.7m.
b Boots Retail International also made inter-segmental sales of 1.4m 2003 1.4m.
DWL has been a subsidiary of Boots The Chemists for all of the financial year.
2003 included a share c Group and other includes Boots Manufacturing third party sales of 68.4m 2003 68.1m.
of the joint venture loss of 11.8m.
1 1 ii Turnover by geographical segment Restated Restated For an analysis of exceptional items see note 3.
Origin Origin Destination Destination 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m iv Impact of FRS5 Changes Revenue Recognition During the year, the Accounting Standards Board issued additional guidance to FRS5 in the form of UK 4,813.3 4,864.0 4,761.7 4,818.6 Application Note G: Revenue Recognition.
Rest of Europe 336.5 300.8 370.5 329.0 Rest of World 176.6 157.6 194.2 174.8 The overall impact on the group profit and loss account is to reduce turnover by 5.0m 2003 4.9m and operating profit by 1.4m 2003 2.5m.
There is a prior year adjustment of 30.0m to reserves at 5,326.4 5,322.4 5,326.4 5,322.4 31st March 2003 as a result of these changes, an increase of 42.9m to creditors partly offset by the Included in the UK is turnover of nil 2003 234.9m from discontinued operation Halfords.
In addition, related deferred tax assets of 12.9m shown within provisions for liabilities and charges see notes 16 inter-segmental sales were made of 117.6m 2003 88.0m.
Net assets at 31st March 2004 have been reduced by 31.0m as a result of these changes.
1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
There is no impact on the parent company.
Advantage Card In the past when points were issued the group has provided for the cost of goods which are expected to be purchased by customers using those points.
This has previously been charged to cost of sales.
Application Note G requires the provision to be for the full retail value of the points and for this to be charged to turnover.
The impact of this change on sales is a reduction of 2.7m 2003 4.5m and an operating profit reduction of 1.4m 2003 2.5m.
A prior year adjustment of 26.7m has been made to reserves.
52 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes relating to the financial statements 1.
Other adjustments vi Net assets by business segment Restated 2004 2003 Other adjustments relate to monies received from customers on certain direct debit schemes, certain m m commissions and changes to gift voucher redemption provisions now brought into line with FRS5.
The impact Boots The Chemists 1,801.4 1,790.2 of these changes on sales is a reduction of 2.3m 2003 0.4m and there is no impact on operating profit Boots Opticians and Dentalcare 62.6 95.4 2003 nil.
1,864.0 1,885.6 A prior year adjustment of 3.3m has been made to reserves.
Boots Healthcare International 426.7 418.3 Summary of Impact on Sales Boots Retail International 17.5 17.6 Other 61.2 85.7 Post FRS5 Pre FRS5 Change Post FRS5 Pre FRS5 Change 2004 2004 2004 2003 2003 2003 Net operating assets all continuing operations 2,369.4 2,407.2 m m m m m m Unallocated net liabilities 486.9 437.3 Boots The Chemists 4,475.7 4,478.3 2.6 4,283.4 4,284.4 1.0 1,882.5 1,969.9 Boots Opticians and Dentalcare 241.6 244.0 2.4 258.6 262.5 3.9 Boots Group 5,326.4 5,331.4 5.0 5,322.4 5,327.3 4.9 Net operating assets include intangible and tangible fixed assets, investment in joint ventures, stocks, third party debtors and creditors.
Unallocated net liabilities includes own shares, all taxation balances, dividend creditors and net debt.
Summary of Impact on Operating Profit Post FRS5 Pre FRS5 Change Post FRS5 Pre FRS5 Change 2004 2004 2004 2003 2003 2003 1 vii Net operating assets by geographical segment Restated m m m m m m 2004 2003 m m Boots The Chemists 531.1 531.2 0.1 568.4 568.6 0.2 Boots Opticians and Dentalcare 5.1 3.8 1.3 30.9 28.6 2.3 UK 1,811.1 2,031.0 Boots Group 550.1 551.5 1.4 541.6 544.1 2.5 Rest of Europe 464.5 219.6 Rest of World 93.8 156.6 2,369.4 2,407.2 1 v Profit before interest and taxation by geographical origin Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
1 Restated Before Before 1 exceptional exceptional Restated items Total items Total 2004 2004 2003 2003 m m m m UK 469.6 506.0 459.9 307.3 Rest of Europe 68.0 68.0 65.5 65.5 Rest of World 12.5 12.5 16.2 16.2 Profit before interest and taxation 550.1 586.5 541.6 389.0 Included in the UK is operating profit of nil 2003 22.5m from discontinued operation Halfords.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 53 Notes relating to the financial statements 2.
Exceptional items 1 Restated Continuing Discontinued 1 1 Continuing Discontinued Restated Total operations operation Total 2 Total operations operation Total 2004 2003 2003 2003 2004 2003 2003 2003 m m m m Notes m m m m Profit on disposal of fixed assets 32.5 5.1 5.1 Group turnover 5,325.0 5,085.4 234.9 5,320.3 Provision for loss on closure of operations 3.9 34.5 34.5 Cost of sales 2,892.9 2,723.3 121.7 2,845.0 Loss on disposal of business see note 4 123.2 123.2 Gross profit 2,432.1 2,362.1 113.2 2,475.3 Total exceptional items before taxation 36.4 29.4 123.2 152.6 Selling, distribution and store costs 1,538.0 1,473.8 77.1 1,550.9 Attributable tax credit see note 6 0.6 9.4 1.7 11.1 Research and development costs 21.3 25.7 25.7 37.0 20.0 121.5 141.5 Administrative expenses 321.6 330.3 13.6 343.9 1 Group operating profit a, b 551.2 532.3 22.5 554.8 All relating to continuing operations.
Share of operating loss of joint ventures 1.1 13.2 13.2 Provision for loss on closure of operations relates to the withdrawal from certain wellbeing services.
Total operating profit including share As detailed in note 5 an exceptional interest credit of 92.1m arose in the year to 31st March 2003, of joint ventures 550.1 519.1 22.5 541.6 the tax on which was 27.6m.
2 All relating to continuing operations.
There have been no significant acquisitions during 2004.
Acquisition and disposal of businesses a Group operating profit includes 12.0m in the comparative year for costs of rationalising the groups i Acquisitions manufacturing facilities.
All businesses acquired have been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
b Costs of 45.5m have been included in the current year for rationalising head office as part of the None of these was individually significant and they are therefore not shown separately.
During the year, Boots The Chemists acquired a number of pharmacy businesses for 0.9m.
There were no significant fair value adjustments in respect of these acquisitions.
Total operating profit is after charging: 2004 2003 m m Operating lease rentals Property rents 182.2 190.1 Computer and plant hire 22.7 9.4 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of fixed assets 136.7 162.8 Auditors remuneration, including 0.2m 2003 0.2m for the company 0.9 1.0 The group auditors and their associates also received 1.9m 2003 1.3m in respect of non-audit services in the UK.
This represents less than 9% of consultancy and professional services costs of the group for 2004.
This included: further assurance services of 1.2m 2003 0.7m that included advice on accounting matters and an ongoing audit review of a major new systems development: tax services of 0.5m 2003 0.3m with 0.2m 2003 0.1m relating to compliance work, the balance being advisory: other services of 0.2m 2003 0.3m that included 0.1m 2003 0.2m for the secondment of auditors staff in the year.
These latter arrangements are covered by written agreements to ensure the objectivity and independence of the auditor is not compromised.
54 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes relating to the financial statements 4.
Acquisition and disposal of businesses continued 5.
Net interest payable receivable and similar items ii Disposals 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m Notes m m Tangible fixed assets 109.9 Interest payable and similar charges: Stocks 91.4 Bank loans and overdrafts 6.2 7.9 Debtors 6.4 Other loans a 18.1 23.9 Cash 21.5 Finance lease charges 0.7 0.9 Other creditors and provisions 80.9 Income from interest rate swaps 6.8 22.0 Net assets disposed of 148.3 18.2 10.7 Related goodwill 349.3 Interest receivable and similar income 13.2 16.6 Disposal and other termination costs 21.6 Increase in value of investment in 10.125% bond 2017 a 5.8 Consideration 396.0 Share of interest of joint ventures 0.5 0.4 Loss on disposal of business 123.2 Net interest payable receivable and similar items before closure of interest rate swaps 5.5 11.3 There were no business disposals in the year to 31st March 2004.
The principal disposal in the year to Exceptional interest on closure of interest rate swaps b 92.1 31st March 2003, was the sale of Halfords Limited completed on 30th August 2002 to CVC Capital Net interest payable receivable and similar items 5.5 103.4 Partners.
Halfords has been treated as a discontinued operation.
The consideration of 396.0m reflects the final settlement on completion of the net asset value statement in December 2002. a Included in other loans is interest payable on the 10.125% bond 2017 of nil 2003 5.8m and eurobond of 16.5m 2003 16.5m.
The 10.125% bond 2017 was redeemed on 25th June 2002. b Interest rate swaps During the year to 31st March 2003, the group reviewed its interest rate management iii Net cash outflow inflow for acquisitions and disposals 2004 2003 policy and concluded that certain interest rate swaps were no longer an effective hedge to liabilities.
As a m m result the group closed out 1,315m of interest rate swaps.
1,100m of these were lease related, and their Acquisition of businesses 1.1 1.2 closure resulted in the receipt of a net cash premium of 53.8m.
Disposal of business 396.0 The exceptional interest credit in the year to 31st March 2003, totalled 92.1m and comprised: Cash balance sold with business 21.5 the 53.8m premium referred to above, Cash balances acquired with businesses 1.0 the unamortised surplus of 46.8m brought forward as a result of closure of swaps in the year Deferred consideration in respect of prior year acquisitions and disposal 0.6 to 31st March 2002, Costs of disposal paid 8.6 the cost of 13.0m recognised for the closure of a further 200m of interest rate swaps closed early Investment in joint ventures 1.1 9.3 in the year to 31st March 2004, and Repayment of loan by joint venture 1.1 the residual balances of 4.5m arising from the cessation of the policy to hedge the capitalised value 2.2 358.1 of the property lease portfolio.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 55 Notes relating to the financial statements 6.
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 6.
Tax on profit on ordinary activities continued 1 Restated Taxation on gains on properties used for the groups trade is expected to be deferred indefinitely or 2004 2003 eliminated by capital losses.
m m The group has only recognised as a deferred tax asset overseas losses which are likely to be utilised in the Current tax: next five years.
Where there is no certainty of recovery no asset has been recognised.
Unprovided deferred UK corporation tax at 30.0% 2003 30.0% 121.8 210.4 tax on losses net of amortisation is 20.2m 2003 20.8m.
Share of tax credit of joint ventures 1.5 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 5.5 1.6 116.3 207.3 7.
Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders Relief for overseas taxation 4.1 6.6 The company has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by section 230 4 of the 112.2 200.7 Companies Act 1985.
Overseas taxation 16.7 15.6 Of the profit attributable to shareholders, 997.3m 2003 1,274.3m is dealt with in the financial statements Total current tax charge for the year 128.9 216.3 of the company.
Deferred taxation see note 20 : Share of deferred tax of joint ventures 0.1 Origination and reversal of timing differences 38.8 24.3 8.
Dividends paid and proposed Tax on profit on ordinary activities 167.7 191.9 2004 2003 2004 2003 Tax credit included above attributable to exceptional non-operating items 0.6 11.1 p per share p per share m m Tax charge included above attributable to exceptional interest 27.6 Interim 8.8 8.4 67.7 69.3 Final proposed 21.0 20.2 158.6 161.4 Reconciliation of current tax charge 29.8 28.6 226.3 230.7 The UK standard rate of corporation tax for the year is 30.0% 2003 30.0%.
The actual tax charge for the current year is below previous year exceeds the standard rate for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation: 9.
Earnings per share 1 Restated 1 2004 2003 Restated m m 2004 2003 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 581.0 492.4 Basic earnings per share before exceptional items 48.2p 45.0p Effect of exceptional items 4.7p 9.2 p Tax on profit on ordinary activities at UK standard rate of corporation tax Basic earnings per share 52.9p 35.8p of 30.0% 2003 30.0% 174.3 147.7 Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items 48.0p 44.9p Effect of exceptional items 4.8p 9.2 p Factors affecting charge for the year: Changes in accelerated capital allowances 4.8 7.0 Diluted earnings per share 52.8p 35.7p Changes in pension fund prepayment 6.6 6.3 Other timing differences 15.6 4.7 The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on: Intangibles amortisation 6.5 4.5 Disallowable expenses 3.8 19.4 1 Restated Exceptional items 11.9 34.8 2004 2003 Earnings m m Foreign tax charged at higher rates than UK standard rate 1.7 2.5 Prior year adjustments 5.5 1.6 Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share calculation before exceptional items 375.6 377.0 Exceptional items see note 3 37.0 77.0 Total current tax charge for the year 128.9 216.3 Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share calculation 412.6 300.0 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
56 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes relating to the financial statements 9.
Tangible fixed assets 2004 2003 Fixtures, Number of shares million million Land and Plant and fittings, tools buildings machinery and equipment Total Weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share calculation 780.0 838.1 Group m m m m Dilutive effect of options 1.7 1.6 Cost or valuation Weighted average number of shares used in diluted earnings per share calculation 781.7 839.7 At 1st April 2003 788.0 373.2 1,214.5 2,375.7 Currency adjustments 0.9 0.5 0.9 2.3 The weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share calculation excludes 12.6m Additions 5.6 29.2 180.1 214.9 2003 14.6m shares held by The Boots ESOP Trust, the QUEST and unappropriated shares held by Disposals 85.5 16.6 52.9 155.0 Boots Share Plan Trustees.
Reclassifications and transfers 7.0 3.7 3.3 The dilutive effect relates to options under an employee savings related scheme and executive option schemes.
At 31st March 2004 700.2 389.0 1,344.1 2,433.3 Basic and diluted earnings per share before exceptional items are disclosed to reflect the underlying Depreciation performance of the group.
Intangible fixed assets Disposals 1.6 11.1 36.1 48.8 Reclassifications and transfers 4.3 2.9 1.4 Purchased Product goodwill rights acquired Total At 31st March 2004 63.1 238.5 632.3 933.9 Group m m m Net book value at 31st March 2003 727.0 154.6 634.9 1,516.5 Cost At 1st April 2003 31.0 304.4 335.4 Net book value at 31st March 2004 637.1 150.5 711.8 1,499.4 Currency adjustments 16.8 16.8 The cost of plant and machinery includes 21.4m 2003 22.2m in respect of assets held under finance Additions 0.9 0.2 1.1 leases on which the accumulated depreciation at the end of the year was 11.1m 2003 10.1m and for At 31st March 2004 31.9 287.8 319.7 which the depreciation charge for the year was 3.6m 2003 3.7m.
Amortisation Land and buildings includes capitalised interest of nil 2003 4.6m.
At 1st April 2003 6.3 27.8 34.1 Currency adjustments 0.2 0.2 Tangible fixed assets include payments on account and assets in course of construction of 121.4m Charge for year 1.6 2.3 3.9 2003 26.8m.
At 31st March 2004 7.9 30.3 38.2 Land and buildings include investment properties as follows: Net book value at 31st March 2003 24.7 276.6 301.3 Valuation m Net book value at 31st March 2004 24.0 257.5 281.5 At 1st April 2003 68.7 Brands acquired by the company or by its subsidiaries, namely Clearasil and Dobendan and its derivatives are Additions 0.6 well known and well positioned in their markets and Boots Healthcare International BHI plans to improve Disposals 69.3 this position from a programme of continued investment.
BHI have therefore concluded that these brands At 31st March 2004 have an indefinite useful economic life and they are not being amortised.
As a consequence an annual impairment review is undertaken.
The valuation of these brands is significantly in excess of latest carrying value of 246.8m.
The majority of the other product rights are where the group has a licence to market other peoples brands in specific countries.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 57 Notes relating to the financial statements 11.
Fixed asset investments Investment properties were valued on the basis of open market value adjusted to exclude the benefit of Joint Loans to venture joint Own formal lease arrangements with group companies, as determined in accordance with the Guidance Notes equity venture shares Total on the valuation of assets issued by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors by the groups own Group m m m m professionally qualified staff.
Cost At 1st April 2003 8.8 10.0 144.4 145.6 Surpluses and deficits arising and the aggregate surplus or deficit is transferred to the revaluation reserve Additions 1.6 7.8 9.4 except that any permanent diminution in value of an investment property is taken to the profit and loss Disposals 23.1 23.1 account for the year.
Share of retained losses for the financial year 1.4 1.4 In accordance with SSAP19, no depreciation is provided in respect of investment properties.
This treatment At 31st March 2004 10.2 11.6 129.1 130.5 represents a departure from the Companies Act 1985 requirements concerning depreciation of fixed assets.
However, these properties are held for investment, rather than consumption, and the directors consider Provision amortisation that systematic annual depreciation would be inappropriate.
The accounting policy adopted is therefore At 1st April 2003 1.2 59.7 60.9 necessary for the accounts to give a true and fair view.
Depreciation is only one of many factors reflected Disposals 13.0 13.0 in the annual valuation and the amount which might otherwise have been shown cannot be separately Impairments 0.2 0.2 identified or quantified.
Amortisation of own shares ESOP 1.9 1.9 AESOP 5.8 5.8 Group Group At 31st March 2004 1.4 54.4 55.8 2004 2003 m m Net book value at 31st March 2003 8.8 8.8 84.7 84.7 Net book value of land and buildings comprises: Net book value at 31st March 2004 10.2 10.2 74.7 74.7 Freehold 527.5 563.8 Long leasehold more than 50 years unexpired 78.5 144.0 Short leasehold 31.1 19.2 Shares in Loans to subsidiary subsidiary 637.1 727.0 undertakings undertakings Total Company m m m Analysis of cost or valuation: Cost 1,913.7 1,773.9 Cost and net book value Valuation of properties Directors 1993 511.1 524.5 At 1st April 2003 209.0 1,178.4 1,387.4 Independent 1989 and prior 8.5 8.6 Currency adjustments 3.3 3.3 Investment properties Directors 2003 68.7 Additions 18.4 18.4 Disposals 295.8 295.8 2,433.3 2,375.7 At 31st March 2004 209.0 897.7 1,106.7 Value of tangible fixed assets under the historical cost convention: Cost 2,179.4 2,106.4 The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 68.
The group also has a 50% investment in Depreciation 926.2 852.2 handbag.
Minority shareholders have equity holdings in Boots Piramal Healthcare Ltd. incorporated in India.
Net book value 1,253.2 1,254.2 The valuations of properties other than investment properties were based upon existing use.
58 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes relating to the financial statements 12.
Debtors Own shares Group Group Company Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 At 31st March 2004 the number of own shares held by the group was 16.2m 2003 17.1m.
These were held m m m m in various employee share ownership trusts.
The maximum number of shares held was at the beginning of Falling due within one year: the year and represented 2.1% of the total issued share capital at that time.
The market value of these shares Trade debtors 360.7 346.1 at 31st March 2004 is 100.4m 2003 90.9m with a nominal value of 4.1m 2003 4.3m.
The number Owed by subsidiary undertakings 1,192.9 3.8 of shares under option to employees is 2.9m 2003 4.3m.
Dividends have been waived by the trusts with Owed by joint venture 0.1 0.1 exception of 3.6m appropriated shares.
In total 2.1m 2003 2.3m of the shares have been conditionally Other debtors 52.8 90.6 gifted to employees.
Deferred tax asset see note 20 1.0 1.7 The employee share ownership trusts are considered for accounting purposes to be under the control of Prepayments and accrued income 87.9 97.6 3.3 0.8 the company.
Accordingly their results, assets and liabilities are included in the group financial statements Corporation tax 13.5 0.5 9.1 of Boots Group PLC.
516.0 536.6 1,205.3 4.6 The group has taken advantage of exemptions under UITF17 Employee Share Schemes relating to the Inland Falling due after more than one year: Revenue approved SAYE schemes.
Stocks 681.9 650.6 1,707.9 4.6 Group Group 2004 2003 Other debtors include pension prepayments see note 26. m m Manufacturing: Raw materials 28.4 27.5 15.
Current asset investments and deposits Work in progress 10.3 10.0 Group Group Company Company Finished goods 89.1 81.4 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m 127.8 118.9 Retailing 563.0 508.5 Listed investments 0.1 0.1 Property development 11.2 Short term deposits 239.0 293.0 223.0 275.0 690.8 638.6 239.1 293.1 223.0 275.0 Market value of investments listed on the London Stock Exchange 0.2 0.2 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 59 Notes relating to the financial statements 16.
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 18.
Borrowings 1 Restated Group Group Company Company Group Group Company Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Notes m m m m m m m m Bank loans and overdrafts repayable on demand 112.9 149.7 141.9 1.3 Borrowings see note 18 156.5 186.9 141.9 1.3 Other bank loans and overdrafts a 74.6 86.0 Trade creditors 402.8 367.9 Variable rate notes Sterling b 0.5 0.5 Due to subsidiary undertakings 137.9 5.5% eurobond 2009 c 300.0 300.0 308.8 308.8 Due to joint venture 3.2 Obligations under finance leases 10.1 11.8 Bills of exchange 1.5 1.0 498.1 548.0 450.7 310.1 Corporation tax 103.2 126.1 1.8 Amounts included above repayable by instalments 63.0 81.1 Taxation and social security including VAT and other sales taxes 29.1 33.0 0.1 Repayments fall due as follows: Other creditors 135.5 97.7 2.6 7.3 Within one year: Accruals and deferred income 144.9 181.6 14.1 3.3 Bank loans and overdrafts 134.5 166.2 141.9 1.3 Dividends see note 8 158.6 161.4 158.6 161.4 Obligations under finance leases 4.1 4.2 Other borrowings 17.9 16.5 1,135.3 1,155.6 455.2 175.1 1 156.5 186.9 141.9 1.3 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
The prior year for the group has been increased by 42.9m.
After more than one year: Within one to two years 23.1 21.9 Within two to five years 18.5 39.2 17.
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year After five years 300.0 300.0 308.8 308.8 Group Group Company Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 341.6 361.1 308.8 308.8 m m m m 498.1 548.0 450.7 310.1 Borrowings see note 18 341.6 361.1 308.8 308.8 a Other bank loans and overdrafts include 52.8m 2003 69.3m that relate to the factoring of certain Due to subsidiary undertakings 560.8 6.2 rental commitments over a ten-year period up to March 2007.
Due to joint venture 2.7 b Variable rate notes are repayable, subject to certain restrictions, at the option of the holders.
Other creditors 8.8 6.0 c The 5.5% eurobond 2009 was transferred from The Boots Company PLC to the new holding company, Accruals and deferred income 32.5 32.0 Boots Group PLC, on 20th January 2003 at its market value on that date of 308.8m.
382.9 401.8 869.6 315.0 The group has a number of interest rate swap agreements which convert fixed rate liabilities to floating rate.
The only creditors falling due after more than five years are included in borrowings, details of which are The fixed rate commitments effectively converted at 31st March 2004 are: 150m 2003 150m of the 5.5% shown in note 18. eurobond 2009 and 30m 2003 30m of factored rental commitments.
Further details are provided in the financial review.
60 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes relating to the financial statements 19.
Financial instruments and derivatives continued An explanation of treasury policy and controls can be found in the financial review.
ii Interest rate risk profile The tables below reflect the interest rate and currency risk profile after taking into account the effect of The disclosures for short term debtors and creditors have been excluded from the numerical disclosures in interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
sections i and ii below as permitted by FRS13 Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
a Financial liabilities Financial Fixed rate Weighted i Fair values of financial assets and liabilities liabilities weighted average on which average period for The fair values of currency and interest rate swaps and fixed rate borrowings have been determined with Floating Fixed no interest interest which rate reference to market prices.
All other material financial assets and liabilities are at floating rates of interest rate rate is payable Total rate is fixed Currency m m m m % Years and therefore their fair value and book value are equal.
Sterling 147.3 182.9 0.5 330.7 5.9 4.6 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Euro 93.6 0.8 94.4 2004 2004 2003 2003 Other 73.6 73.6 Note m m m m At 31st March 2004 314.5 182.9 1.3 498.7 5.9 4.6 Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the groups operations: Sterling 385.0 1.1 0.5 386.6 6.0 5.3 Cash in hand and bank 110.5 110.5 203.4 203.4 Euro 92.7 0.8 93.5 Current asset investments and deposits 239.1 239.2 293.1 293.2 Other 78.5 78.5 Bank loans and overdrafts repayable on demand 112.9 112.9 149.7 149.7 At 31st March 2003 556.2 1.1 1.3 558.6 6.0 5.3 Eurobond 300.0 305.6 300.0 310.8 Obligations under finance leases 10.1 10.1 11.8 11.8 The sterling and euro financial liabilities on which no interest is paid have weighted average periods to Other borrowings excluding currency swaps 75.1 77.6 86.5 92.6 maturity of 2.0 and 1.2 years respectively 2003 3.0 and 1.8 years.
Other financial liabilities a 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 b Financial assets Financial Fixed rate Weighted Derivative financial instruments held to manage assets on weighted average which no average period for interest rate and currency profile: Floating Fixed interest is interest which rate Interest rate swaps 4.8 8.2 10.1 1.0 rate rate receivable Total rate is fixed Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts 0.3 Currency m m m m % Years Sterling 289.2 289.2 a Other financial liabilities are not included in net debt see note 24.
The other currency financial assets relate mainly to bank deposits held by foreign subsidiary companies.
The majority of the floating rate assets and liabilities receive or pay interest based on rates ruling in the London inter-bank market.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 61 Notes relating to the financial statements 19.
Financial instruments and derivatives continued 20.
Provisions for liabilities and charges continued iii Foreign currency exposure profile The vacant property provisions represent recognition of the net costs arising from vacant properties and Operations with a sterling functional currency have Euro and US dollar monetary liabilities assets amounting sub-let properties, the exact timing of utilisation of these provisions will vary according to the individual to 10.5 m 2003 11.1m and 0.8m 2003 4.3m respectively.
Operations with non-sterling functional properties concerned.
currencies have no monetary assets outside their local currencies 2003 US dollars 2.3m.
The provision for closure or termination of operations relates to recognition of costs arising as a result of There were no other material foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities that may give rise to an the Halfords disposal, the withdrawal from certain wellbeing services and the rationalising of the groups exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
The majority of the costs are expected to be incurred in the next two years.
1 Restated iv Maturity of financial facilities Group Group The groups undrawn committed facilities at 31st March 2004 of 462m 2003 462m expire in March 2005.
2004 2003 m m v The maturity of borrowings Analysis of deferred taxation provision: Details are shown in note 18.
Accelerated capital allowances 78.5 74.2 Intangibles amortisation 38.5 33.1 vi Hedging Pension prepayments 51.6 44.8 Deferred gains of 8.6m resulting from the closure of interest rate swaps in respect of fixed rate borrowings Other items 17.7 37.4 are held in the balance sheet.
It is expected that 2.4m will be recognised in the profit and loss account 150.9 114.7 next year.
Deferred tax asset: There were 23.6m 2003 nil nominal value forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at 31st March Overseas losses included in debtors see note 14 3.0 4.9 2004.
These hedge the cost of foreign currency denominated purchases.
All contracts expire within one year.
On a mark to market basis, the contracts show a loss of 0.3 m. Unprovided deferred tax relating to property revaluations and rolled-over gains is not readily quantifiable but it is expected to be fully offset by available capital losses.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Vacant Closure or Deferred property termination taxation provisions of operations Total Group m m m m At 1st April 2003 as originally reported 127.5 9.6 36.7 173.8 Prior year adjustment see note 1 iv 12.9 12.9 At 1st April 2003 as restated 114.6 9.6 36.7 160.9 Transfer from debtors see note 14 4.9 4.9 109.7 9.6 36.7 156.0 Currency adjustment 0.6 0.6 Profit and loss account 38.8 3.9 6.6 36.1 Utilised 1.2 16.1 17.3 Transfer to debtors see note 14 3.0 3.0 At 31st March 2004 150.9 12.3 14.0 177.2 62 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes relating to the financial statements 21.
Share capital Called up Share Capital Profit Number of Number of share premium Revaluation redemption Merger and loss shares shares capital account reserve reserve reserve account Total 2004 2003 2004 2003 Group m m m m m m m million million m m At 1st April 2003 as originally reported 203.5 260.3 5.6 310.8 1,219.2 1,999.4 Ordinary shares of 25p each: Prior year adjustment see note 1 iv 30.0 30.0 Authorised 1,200.0 1,200.0 300.0 300.0 At 1st April 2003 as restated 203.5 260.3 5.6 310.8 1,189.2 1,969.4 Allotted, called up and fully paid 775.5 813.8 193.9 203.5 Retained profit for the financial year 186.3 186.3 New share capital of Boots Group PLC Nominal issued 0.3 0.3 Number value Consideration Revaluation surplus realised Shares allotted during the year million m m on disposals 15.0 15.0 Option schemes 0.1 0.3 Revaluation reserve element of depreciation charge 1.1 1.1 Share repurchase Repurchase of shares see note 22 9.6 9.6 259.9 259.9 During the year to 31st March 2004 38.3m ordinary shares were purchased and subsequently cancelled at Currency adjustments 14.8 14.8 prices ranging from 610p per share to 750p per share, with an average of 673p per share.
The total cost of At 31st March 2004 193.9 0.3 244.2 15.2 310.8 1,116.9 1,881.3 the purchases was 259.9m, which has been charged against distributable reserves.
0.4m of the repurchased shares were not cancelled until after the year end but the cancellation has been reflected in the allotted, The revaluation reserve includes nil 2003 4.6m relating to investment properties.
called up and fully paid numbers above.
The balance on the merger reserve at 31st March 2004 represents the difference between called up share Share options capital of the Company and the called up share capital, share premium account and capital redemption Under a savings-related scheme, options have been granted enabling employees to subscribe for ordinary reserve of the former holding company The Boots Company PLC at 20th January 2003, the date of shares at approximately 80% of market price.
In 1999 a QUEST was established to acquire shares in the the capital reorganisation.
company as a means by which shares would be delivered to employees exercising the options granted.
Goodwill set off against reserves is 394.3 2003 394.3m At 31st March 2004, options exercisable from 2004 to 2007 at between 485p and 808p per share were outstanding in respect of 2.9m shares 2003 4.3m.
Called up Share Capital Profit Under an executive share option scheme, certain senior executives have been granted options to subscribe share premium redemption and loss capital account reserve account Total for ordinary shares after a period of three years from date of grant as long as performance targets are met.
Company m m m m m At 31st March 2004, options exercisable from 2004 to 2013 at between 576p and 710p per share were At 1st April 2003 203.5 5.6 992.3 1,201.4 outstanding in respect of 4.7m shares 2003 3.9m.
Issue of shares in Boots Group PLC 0.3 0.3 Retained profit for the financial year 771.0 771.0 Repurchase of shares see note 22 9.6 9.6 259.9 259.9 At 31st March 2004 193.9 0.3 15.2 1,503.4 1,712.8 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 63 Notes relating to the financial statements 23.
Reconciliation of operating profit to operating cash flows 24.
Analysis of net debt 1 Restated As at Other As at 2004 2003 1st April Cash non-cash 31st March m m 2003 flow changes Currency 2004 m m m m m Group operating profit before exceptional items 551.2 554.8 Cash at bank and in hand 203.4 89.0 3.9 110.5 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of fixed assets 136.7 162.8 Bank loans and overdrafts repayable on demand 149.7 36.7 0.1 112.9 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 3.4 5.5 Increase in stocks 53.7 77.1 Net overdraft cash 53.7 52.3 3.8 2.4 Increase in debtors, including pension prepayments 43.5 27.0 Liquid resources 293.1 53.5 0.5 239.1 Increase decrease in creditors 49.7 26.2 Obligations under finance leases 11.8 5.9 4.2 10.1 Other non-cash movements 11.3 2.4 Other borrowings 386.5 11.0 0.4 375.1 Net cash inflow before expenditure relating to exceptional items 655.1 590.4 Total 51.5 88.9 4.2 3.9 148.5 Exceptional operating cash flows see below 17.3 8.1 Liquid resources comprise listed investments and short term deposits see note 15.
Cash inflow from operating activities 637.8 582.3 25.
Commitments and contingent liabilities 2004 2003 m m i Future capital expenditure approved by the directors and Group Group 2004 2003 not provided for in these financial statements is as follows: Exceptional operating cash flows: m m Restructuring and integration costs paid 17.3 8.1 Contracts placed 28.6 13.1 17.3 8.1 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
ii Annual commitments under operating leases are as follows: Group Land and Group buildings Other m m Expiring: Within one year 7.3 0.8 Over one year and less than five years 21.0 12.4 Over five years 147.2 18.9 At 31st March 2004 175.5 32.1 Expiring: Within one year 13.8 0.8 Over one year and less than five years 18.5 2.6 Over five years 131.9 19.4 At 31st March 2003 164.2 22.8 64 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes relating to the financial statements 25.
Pensions iii Other financial commitments The group operates pension schemes throughout the world, most of which are final salary On 1st November 2002 Boots entered into a contractual arrangement with Xansa Plc to provide IT application defined benefit schemes.
support and development services over a seven-year period.
This arrangement includes a guaranteed minimum payment from Boots to Xansa of 35m, a proportion of which relates to capital expenditure which Boots Pension Scheme is not included in i above.
The principal UK pension scheme is Boots Pension Scheme.
The independent scheme actuary carried out the latest valuation of the scheme as at 1st April 2001.
The next iv Contingent liabilities triennial actuarial valuation, as at April 2004, is in progress.
The UK pension charge for the year has been Knoll Pharmaceutical Co. Knoll is a defendant in a number of consumer class actions in 30 states of the determined under SSAP24 using the projected unit method and the results under SSAP24 were as follows: USA, Canada and Puerto Rico.
Knoll is the successor to Boots Pharmaceuticals Inc. formerly an indirect subsidiary of the company, which was sold to the BASF group under agreements made by the company in Scheme assets and liabilities as at latest valuation date 1st April 2001 UK March 1995.
The company has been named as a defendant in some of these actions, which allege that the Market value of assets 2,274m marketing of the product Synthroid did not comply with consumer protection and business practice laws.
Value of accrued liabilities 1,960m A settlement by Knoll of consumer actions and claims of insurers and state attorneys general in the United Funding level 116% States has been approved, and a settlement of most of the actions in Canada has been approved.
The company asserts that the relevant courts in North America have no jurisdiction over it in these cases and this has been approved by a state court in Illinois.
In the light of current information, the directors believe that the The key assumptions used in determining the accounting costs for the scheme are given below.
The financial company has good defences to claims concerning Synthroid including any that might be brought by BASF assumptions were derived from market yields on bonds at the valuation date.
and, while the outcome of such claims remains uncertain, they believe that it should not have a material UK adverse impact on the group.
%pa 2001 Valuation Pension increases 2.4% General long-term pay increases 3.8% Investment return 6.0% The pension charge for the year for Boots Pension Scheme was 28m 2003 31m.
This comprises the regular cost of pensions, offset by amortisation of the surpluses and deficits disclosed by previous valuations over periods up to 13 years.
The group contributed 58m including 8m of pension augmentations in the year to the Boots Pension Scheme.
A pension prepayment of 172m 2003 150m is included within other debtors.
These prepayments include 50m 2003 50m paid in advance.
Other pension arrangements In common with other companies, additional defined benefit pension arrangements exist for certain senior executives in the UK.
Since 1st October 2000, new UK employees have been offered membership of Boots Stakeholder Pension Plan, a defined contribution pension arrangement.
After five years membership of this plan, employees have the opportunity to join Boots Pension Scheme.
The cost of these arrangements was 3m 2003 2m.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 65 Notes relating to the financial statements 26.
Pensions continued Total pension cost The market value of the assets in the UK schemes, the present value of liabilities and the resulting surplus The overall pension charge for the year excluding pension augmentations comprises: together with the expected rates of return on the assets were as follows: Percent of Percent of Long-term Long-term Long-term Pensionable Pay Costs Pensionable Pay Costs rate of return rate of return rate of return 2004 2004 2003 2003 expected at Value at expected at Value at expected at Value at %m %m 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2004 2004 2003 2003 2002 2002 Regular cost 15% 60 15% 65 % p. a. m % p. a. m % p. a. m Variations from regular cost 6 % 23 6 % 25 Bonds 5.0 2,831 4.8 2,676 5.4 2,375 Notional Interest on prepayment 2 % 9 2 % 9 Other net assets 4.0 5 3.5 18 4.0 17 Boots Pension Scheme 7% 28 7% 31 Total market value of assets 2,836 2,694 2,392 Other UK pension arrangements 3 2 Present value of scheme liabilities 2,894 2,540 2,226 Overseas arrangements 3 3 Deficit surplus in scheme 58 154 166 Related deferred tax asset liability 17 46 50 FRS17 Net pension liability asset 41 108 116 Whilst the financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2004 continue to include a pension charge and pension prepayment calculated under the principles of SSAP24, this new standard requires certain additional disclosures.
The actuarial valuations with respect to UK schemes have been Had the group adopted FRS17 the financial statements would have reflected the following amounts during based on the most recent formal valuations on page 65 and updated by the Scheme Actuary to 31st March the year: 2004.
The figures for overseas schemes are not material and have not been included.
2004 2003 FRS17 Retirement Benefits will change fundamentally the calculation and reporting of the cost of retirement For year ending m m benefits.
The disclosures below relate to UK schemes.
Amounts charged to operating profit The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries in updating the latest valuations Current service cost 76 73 of each of the schemes for FRS17 purposes were: Past service costs 12 5 Total operating charge 88 78 31 March 31 March 31 March % pa 2004 2003 2002 Amounts included as other finance income Inflation 2.9% 2.6% 2.8% Expected return on pension scheme assets 128 130 Rate of general long-term increase in salaries 4.4% 4.1% 4.3% Interest on pension scheme liabilities 138 135 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 2.8% 2.5% 2.7% Net return 10 5 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.5% 5.5% 6.1% Amounts recognised in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses STRGL Actual return in excess of expected return on pension scheme assets 33 198 Experience losses gains arising on the scheme liabilities 56 23 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities 152 208 Actuarial loss gain recognised in STRGL 175 13 66 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes relating to the financial statements 26.
Staff numbers and costs Analysis of movement in deficit surplus during the year 2004 2003 The average number of persons employed by the group: For year ended 31st March 2004 m m 2004 2004 2003 2003 Surplus in scheme at beginning of the year 154 166 Number of Full time Number of Full time Current service cost 76 73 heads equivalents heads equivalents Contributions 61 58 Continuing operations Past service costs 12 5 Boots The Chemists 58,732 36,715 60,722 39,260 Other finance income 10 5 Boots Opticians and Dentalcare 5,099 3,944 5,842 4,601 Actuarial loss gain 175 13 63,831 40,659 66,564 43,861 Deficit surplus in scheme at end of the year 58 154 Boots Healthcare International 3,434 3,307 3,214 3,089 Boots Retail International 900 863 1,062 1,020 Group and other 745 669 652 580 History of experience losses and gains For year ended 31st March 2004 2004 2003 Continuing operations 68,910 45,498 71,492 48,550 Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets: Discontinued operations Halfords 3,868 2,361 Amount m 33 198 Total 68,910 45,498 75,360 50,911 Percentage of scheme assets % 1.2 7.3 Total number of persons employed by continuing operations at 31st March 2004 was 69,259 heads, 45,145 Experience losses gains on scheme liabilities: full time equivalents 2003 68,740 heads, 47,050 full time equivalents.
Amount m 56 23 Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities % 1.9 0.9 2004 2003 The aggregate payroll cost was as follows: m m Total amount recognised in STRGL: Amount m 175 13 Wages and salaries 891.5 919.8 Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities % 6.1 0.5 Social security costs 67.0 61.6 Other pension costs 33.4 36.2 991.9 1,017.6 If the above amounts had been recognised in the financial statements, the groups net assets and profit and loss reserve at 31st March would be as follows: 1 Group net assets and reserves reconciliation Restated 28.
Remuneration of directors and directors shareholdings 2004 2003 m m Details of the remuneration, long term incentive plan interests, shareholdings, share options and pension Net assets as reported 1,883 1,970 entitlements of the directors are included in the directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 41.
Benefit of including net pension liabilities asset UK schemes 41 108 Less SSAP24 pension prepayment net of deferred tax 85 70 29.
Related party disclosures Net assets restated for FRS17 1,757 2,008 During the year the group had no material transactions with related parties other than 1.6m of additional funding to handbag.
com limited a joint venture in which the group has a 50% interest in the share capital.
Profit and loss account reserve as reported 1,117 1,189 Benefit of including net pension liabilities asset UK schemes 41 108 For details of investment in joint ventures see note 12.
Less SSAP24 pension prepayment net of deferred tax 85 70 Profit and loss account reserve restated for FRS17 991 1,227 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 67 Principal companies Group financial record Profit and loss account 1 1 1 1 Percentage Restated Restated Restated Restated Percentage held by 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 held by subsidiary m m m m m Principal activities company undertakings Group turnover from continuing operations 5,325.0 5,085.4 4,797.8 4,707.5 4,699.7 Company 2 Discontinued operations 234.9 528.7 508.5 492.6 Boots Group PLC Investing Total group turnover 5,325.0 5,320.3 5,326.5 5,216.0 5,192.3 Subsidiary undertakings Operating profit from continuing operations 551.2 532.3 590.8 559.7 527.1 incorporated in Great Britain Discontinued operations 22.5 54.3 41.9 48.5 The Boots Company PLC Manufacturing, marketing 100 Group operating profit before exceptional items 551.2 554.8 645.1 601.6 575.6 and distribution of healthcare Share of operating loss of joint ventures 1.1 13.2 20.9 23.1 8.4 and consumer products Boots Healthcare International Ltd. Marketing consumer products 100 Total operating profit before exceptional items 550.1 541.6 624.2 578.5 567.2 Boots Properties PLC Property holding 100 Operating exceptional items 16.4 50.5 22.0 Boots The Chemists Ltd. Retail chemists 100 Total operating profit including share of Boots Holdings BHI Ltd. Holding Company 100 joint ventures 550.1 541.6 607.8 528.0 545.2 Other exceptional items non operating 36.4 152.6 26.5 38.4 12.9 Percentages relate to holdings of ordinary share capital.
Profit on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 586.5 389.0 581.3 489.6 558.1 Net interest payable receivable and similar items 5.5 103.4 13.2 1.1 5.9 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 581.0 492.4 594.5 490.7 564.0 Taxation 167.7 191.9 190.8 169.0 167.3 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 413.3 300.5 403.7 321.7 396.7 Minority interests 0.7 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.2 Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 412.6 300.0 403.4 321.5 396.5 Dividends paid and proposed 226.3 230.7 240.6 231.6 221.7 Retained profit for the financial year 186.3 69.3 162.8 89.9 174.8 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 1 1 1 1 Restated Restated Restated Restated 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 412.6 300.0 403.4 321.5 396.5 Surplus deficit on revaluation of properties 17.1 1.5 1.8 3.3 Impairment losses on revalued assets 0.1 1.1 Currency translation differences 14.8 7.5 3.0 6.1 6.6 Total recognised gains and losses for the year 397.8 324.6 401.9 325.7 385.5 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
Shareholder value 1 1 1 1 Restated Restated Restated Restated 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Dividend per share 29.8p 28.6p 27.4p 26.3p 25.2p Dividend cover before exceptional items 1.7 1.6 1.8 1.7 1.8 Share price: Highest 753p 725p 694.5p 649p 884p Lowest 525p 492p 565p 479p 457p 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition see note 1 iv.
70 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Shareholder information Annual general meeting Registrar and transfer office The annual general meeting will be held at 11.00 am on Thursday, 22nd July 2004 at the Queen Elizabeth II Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH.
Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London.
Each shareholder is entitled to attend and vote Tel: 0870 702 0148. at the meeting, the arrangements for which are described in a separate notice.
Company secretary and registered office The proposed date of the annual general meeting next year is 21st July 2005.
M J Oliver, Boots Group PLC, Nottingham NG2 3AA.
Tel: 0115 950 6111. Dividend payments Boots Group PLC is registered in England and Wales No.
The proposed final dividend if approved will be paid on 13th August 2004 to shareholders registered on 11th June 2004.
Most shareholders excluding those in Canada and the USA will have the opportunity to Analysis of shareholders at 31st March 2004: reinvest their cash dividend in existing shares bought on the London Stock Exchange through a dividend Shareholding range Number % Total holding % reinvestment plan.
All applications to join that plan or amend existing instructions under it must be 1500 45,235 42.37 9,996,773 1.29 received by the companys registrars by 5.00 pm on 23rd July 2004.
5011,000 24,496 22.94 18,564,901 2.40 The expected dividend payment dates for the year to 31st March 2005 are: 1,00110,000 34,739 32.54 87,359,164 11.26 10,001100,000 1,746 1.64 45,545,966 5.87 Interim dividend February 2005 100,0011,000,000 424 0.40 138,393,797 17.83 Final dividend August 2005 Over 1,000,000 122 0.11 476,046,996 61.35 106,762 100.00 775,907,597 100.00 Results For the year to 31st March 2005: Unsolicited mail The Company is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available and as a consequence some Interim results announced November 2004 shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including from unauthorised investment firms.
For more Interim statement circulated November 2004 information on unauthorised investment firms targeting UK investors, visit the website of the Financial Preliminary announcement of full year results May 2005 Services Authority at www.
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail you Annual report circulated June 2005 receive contact: Capital gains tax The Mailing Preference Service For capital gains tax purposes, the market price of the companys ordinary shares of 25p each FREEPOST 29 LON 20771 on 31st March 1982 was 112.5p.
London W1E 0ZT Low cost share dealing services Tel: 020 7291 3310 or register on-line at www.
Details of special low cost dealing services in the companys shares may be obtained from: Hoare Govett Limited Tel: 020 7678 8300 Hoare Govett Limited are regulated by the Financial Services Authority and are a member of the London Stock Exchange and have approved the references to themselves solely for the purposes of section 21 2 b of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 only.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 71 Index Page Page Page Accounting policies 49, 52 Employees People 05, 19, 67 Supply and Support Services 13 Accounting standards 24, 52 Exceptional items 23, 46, 54, 55, 56, 64, 68 Own shares QUEST ESOP AESOP 36, 50, 58, 59 Annual general meetings 71 Finance leases 24, 48, 51, 55, 58, 64 Payment of suppliers 45 Acquisition of businesses 48, 54, 55 Financial instruments and derivatives 50, 61 Pensions 24, 50, 65, 66, 67 Auditors remuneration 45, 54 Financial record 68, 69, 70 Principal activities 44, 68 Balance sheets Financial review 22 Principal companies 68 Group 47, 69 Fixed assets Prior year adjustment 52, 60, 62 Parent 47 Investments 47, 50, 58, 69 Profit and loss account 46, 56, 68 Board committees 29 Tangible 47, 49, 57, 69 Property development stocks 59 Board of directors 20, 21, 27 Intangible 47, 57, 69 Property valuations 46, 50, 57, 58 Borrowings 48, 60, 64 Foreign currencies 46, 49, 61, 62 Provisions for liabilities and charges 47, 62 Capital commitments 64 Going concern 31 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 46, 69 Capital expenditure 48, 57 Goodwill 46, 49, 55, 57 Registrar 71 Capital structure 25 Halfords 55, 62 Registered office company secretary 71 Cash and liquid resources 48, 50 Historical cost tangible fixed assets 57, 58 Related party disclosures 67 Cash flow 23, 48, 64, 69 Impairments 49, 57, 58 Research and development 50, 54 Chairmans statement 02 Independent auditors report 43 Reserves 47, 63 Charitable & political donations 45 Internal control 31 Revaluation reserves 63 Chief executives review 04 Interest 46, 48, 55, 61, 62 Segmental information 52, 53, 70 Company secretary 71 Investor relations 30 Share capital 44, 47, 59, 63 Contingent liabilities 64 Investment properties 50, 57, 63 Share information Corporate governance 27 Joint ventures 46, 49, 52, 54, 55, 58, 68, 70 Analysis of holdings 44, 71 Corporate social responsibility 03, 16 Liquidity funding 24 Highest lowest prices 23, 69 Creditors 47, 60 Low cost share dealing service 71 Share options 32-41, 63 Current asset investments and deposits 59 Minority interests 47, 58, 68, 69 Share premium 47, 63 Debtors 47, 59 Net assets 47, 53, 69 Share repurchase 03, 23, 25, 44, 48, 63 Deferred taxation 51, 56, 62 Net debt 48, 64, 69 Shareholder returns 03, 69 Depreciation and amortisation 49, 54, 57,58 Note on historical cost profits and losses 46 Staff numbers and costs 67 Directors remuneration 30, 32-41, 67 Operating leases 24, 64 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 46, 68 Directors report 44 Operating profit 02, 23, 52, 53, 54, 70 Stocks 23, 47, 50, 59 Directors responsibilities statement 42 Operational review Taxation 23, 46, 48, 51, 56 Directors shareholdings and share options 32-41 Boots The Chemists 03 Treasury policy and controls 24 Disposal of businesses 48, 54, 55 Boots Healthcare International 11 Turnover 02, 23, 46, 50, 52, 53, 70 Dividends 02, 23, 44, 46, 48, 56, 60, 68, 69 Services including Opticians and Dentalcare 11 Earnings per share 23, 46, 56, 57 Boots Retail International 12 72 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Designed and produced by Corporate Edge Copy by Lindsay Camp People photography by Patrick Harrison Printed by St Ives Westerham Press This product is completely biodegradable and recyclable CR6030 Boots Annual Report and Accounts 2004 28.05.2004 final Boots Group PLC 1 Thane Road West Nottingham NG2 3AA Tel: 0115 950 6111 www.
com Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final 01 Introduction 02 Chairmans statement 04 Chief executives review 12 Operational review 20 Corporate social responsibility 24 Board of directors and executives 26 Summary financial review 28 Summary financial statement 29 Summary directors report 30 Summary directors remuneration report 33 Group profit and loss account 34 Balance sheets 35 Group cash flow statement 36 Shareholder information CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final This isnt the first time weve talked about change in our annual report.
For the last two years, weve told you about the need to move the company forward, and some important steps weve taken.
But in 2003 04, the pace of change within Boots accelerated dramatically.
Since last year, we have a new leadership team, and senior management structure.
Weve reduced the head office workforce by almost a third.
Weve launched new-format stores, including 19 on the edge of town.
Weve significantly reduced prices on around 2,000 products.
Weve made rapid progress with developing an entirely new store-friendly supply chain.
Weve transformed our IT capability through an innovative outsourcing deal.
And these, as youll see, are just the edited highlights.
But, at the same time, its fair to say that weve been going back to our roots.
Since the days of Jesse Boot, this company has been a part of everyday life for millions of people.
It has been well liked and trusted, above all, for its expertise in healthcare.
And it has been successful by getting the retailing basics right.
In those respects, nothing has changed.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 01 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Chairmans statement This is my first report to you since taking over as chairman from John McGrath in September, and Im happy to be able to open my account on a positive note.
Against the background of a business undergoing major change, we ended the year with another quarter of strong sales growth, our seventh in succession.
And in almost every area of our business, especially in our stores, the changes initiated by the new executive team have started to make a visible difference.
Above all, though, my optimism is founded on a powerful sense of the huge potential still to be tapped within Boots.
We have a fantastic business: we operate in exciting growth markets: and, from top to bottom, we have great people.
Having met many of them on my travels during the year, I believe their energy, enthusiasm and expertise are the key differentiating factors that, together with continuing investment, will give us the edge going forward.
Sir Nigel Rudd 00 567 00 25.2 00 5,195 01 579 01 26.3 01 5,221 02 624 02 27.4 02 5,330 03 542 03 28.6 03 5,322 04 550 04 29.8 04 5,326 Total operating profit Dividends Turnover before exceptional items m pence including share of joint ventures m Restated for FRS5 application note G revenue recognition 02 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Results and shareholder returns Comings and goings Our results for 2003 04 suggest that our customers are continuing to I feel fortunate to have begun my tenure as chairman at the same time respond positively to our efforts aimed at providing them with better as Richard Baker joined us as chief executive.
I knew that Richard brought value and improved convenience.
Boots The Chemists BTC traded with him great energy and formidable retailing skills: but, all the same, strongly throughout the year, recording increased sales in every quarter: I have been delighted by the impact he has already made on our business, and, for the second successive year, our performance over Christmas at this very early stage in his career with Boots.
was excellent, up by a further 5.1%.
At the same time, Id like to pay a warm tribute to my predecessor, John By refocusing on healthcare, the traditional cornerstone of our business, McGrath.
His chairmanship coincided with a difficult period in the history weve been able to take advantage of a rapidly expanding market, with of Boots and he played a very important part in laying the foundations sales growth of 6.0% representing our best performance in this category for change, on which we are now building.
He also worked incredibly for many years.
hard, leading from the front by taking on the additional duties of chief executive, between the departure of Steve Russell in May and Richards Boots Healthcare International performed very well, too, increasing arrival in September.
comparable sales by 7.8%, an impressive level of growth that was achieved entirely organically.
Andy Smith resigned in October 2003.
As group human resources director, Andy was a driving force for change in Boots, trusted and Group sales for the year were 5,326.4m, up 4.7% on a continuing basis, respected throughout the organisation.
The proposed final dividend of 21p per share makes a total for the year of 29.8p, up 4.2% on last year.
I would also like to welcome Guy Dawson and Tim Parker who joined us as non-executive directors during the year.
Both bring with them We have continued to tighten our balance sheet through our ongoing enormous experience and a proven record of business achievement, share buyback programme.
During the last year, we carried out 259.9m Guy as a leading investment banker, Tim currently chief executive of share repurchases and we intend to continue our programme of of Kwik-Fit at the most senior executive level.
returning surplus capital during the coming year.
Corporate social responsibility Moving the business forward As you know, Boots is one of Britains most trusted brands.
One In broad terms, our strategy could hardly be simpler: we are committed to important reason is that we have always believed that successful doing whatever is necessary to make Boots a more modern, competitive businesses have obligations not just to their shareholders, but to and efficient business.
At ground level, that means making sure that our their employees, customers, their communities and the wider world.
stores provide precisely what our customers are entitled to expect: an attractive and welcoming environment: a great choice of products, available Its fair to say, though, that we have been slower than some of our when they want them: good value: and expert service of the highest quality.
competitors to take the credit for our achievements as good corporate citizens.
So I am especially pleased to report that, over the last year, our Simple to state, harder to deliver.
But that is the responsibility with updated corporate social responsibility programme has begun to win which the board has charged Richard Baker and his executive team.
Youll find a full account on pages 20 to 23.
Its important to stress, however, that while our expectations are very high, were not demanding instant results and our goals are long term.
Building for sustained growth As I began by saying, Im convinced that our business has enormous In Howard Dodds financial review on pages 26 and 27, you will find a potential.
We have the people: we have the products and brands that detailed account of our strategy for analysing and managing investment.
customers want: and, gradually, our investment is creating the systems But, very briefly, our approach to risk and return is now a highly pragmatic and structure needed to achieve sustained growth in modern retailing.
Rather than setting off in pursuit of big prizes in the far distance, we are channelling our investment into core areas of our business, where we As youve heard, it will take time.
In the current year, our programme of can be confident of adding real value and achieving worthwhile returns.
investment in BTC will naturally have a major impact on profits.
But from 2005 06 onwards, we believe that a new and highly successful chapter in the long history of Boots will begin.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 03 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Chief executives review On Monday 15th September last year, the day I joined Boots as chief executive, I didnt go straight to the office.
I spent most of the morning visiting three of our stores.
I knew that whatever challenges a retailer faces, the answers are most likely to be found in the stores.
Because, of course, thats where our customers are.
And, no less important, because nobody knows better whats working well, and what needs to work harder, than the people who serve our customers.
I learned a lot from talking to Boots people that morning, not least how passionately they want to see this company achieve its full potential.
Despite fierce competition, Im confident we will by harnessing that passion, and by acting upon the lessons we learn every day in each of our 1,400 stores.
Richard Baker 04 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final First impressions Putting the stores back at the centre of the business When youre as big and famous as Boots, everyone has an opinion Weve made the stores the hero again.
For years, our core retail business about you.
I certainly did, before I joined the company.
In Boots, I saw was worked hard in order to fund new ventures, some of which performed enormous strengths: a profitable business, with a strong balance sheet, disappointingly.
Theres no doubt at all that this had a negative effect at long established as a leading player and successful brand owner in store level, where many people felt that their efforts werent being growing markets.
appreciated, or their needs met, by head office.
I also saw a company with an enviable relationship with its customers, Large-scale investment in our stores and the quality of our customer based on the kind of trust and even affection that can only develop proposition is, of course, a big part of the solution.
No less important is the over quite a few decades.
Great locations, too, with a prime pitch on dramatic restructuring of our central management function, which we have almost every high street, and real potential to exploit our brands, now almost completed.
Stripping away unnecessary layers of management through Boots Healthcare International.
in head office has sent out the clearest possible signal that we are serious about putting real decision-making power into the hands of those closest As an outsider, I was also aware of some negatives.
My impression, to our customers, the people in our stores.
reinforced by hostile press coverage, was that Boots had lost a bit of confidence in itself: that the stores were not as bright and customerA better Boots, one step at a time friendly as they needed to be: and that, organisationally, the company Just over eight months into the job, Im encouraged with the progress was lacking sharpness.
weve made across all our businesses.
When I started here, my preconceptions were broadly confirmed.
But one But nobody is more aware than me of the challenges that lie ahead.
thing really did surprise me.
Id expected the people to be good.
They We face intense competition, both from the might of the multiples and werent good they were absolutely outstanding.
In Boots people, I the quick-witted entrepreneurialism of the independents.
Weve now found an inherent level of customer care Ive never encountered before: had most of the quick wins that were available to us, so from now on, a sense of dedication and purpose genuinely comparable to that of, say, well have to fight for every percentage point of improved performance.
And, as I mentioned above, I found they were hungry The good news, though, is that, as an organisation, were absolutely for change.
Or, more accurately, I should say they were hungry for faster, up for the battle.
The people across our business, have a real desire for more radical change.
Our strategy pushing forward modernisation, yet reconnecting Picking up the pace of change to the core values and successful origins of the brand is the only Before I joined Boots, programmes to transform the company had been possible one.
And I have around me, a leadership team who share underway.
To mention just one important example, the Lower Prices my determination to do the right thing rather than the easy thing, Youll Love initiative had already begun to make a real impact in changing and to build a better business one step at a time.
the perception that Boots couldnt compete on value for money.
But we Weve identified our immediate priorities: areas where we can sharpen werent moving forward fast enough.
our performance in the short term.
But to complete a programme of So my brief wasnt to reinvent the company from scratch, but to inject change on the scale Ive described will take time.
It is, at least, a five-year some urgency and impetus into the process of making Boots The Chemists plan: and a huge amount remains to be done, across all our businesses.
BTC a more modern, competitive and efficient retail business, in order By starting to get the fundamentals of retailing right through careful to deliver value for shareholders.
investment, weve begun the journey.
And every day now takes us a little On the following six pages, Ill be explaining how each of those three closer to a modern, competitive and efficient company that can deliver key adjectives translates into a better shopping experience for our sustainable profit growth and shareholder value well into the future.
First, though, Id like to tell you a little more about the broader Finally, Id like to say a huge thank you to all the people in our organisational and cultural changes upon which everything else depends.
organisation for their amazing hard work, flexibility and commitment through this period of enormous change.
All parts of the company have been effected with jobs changing and working patterns being turned upside down everywhere.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 05 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final 06 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Modern These days, when time is precious to almost all of Looking good Modern businesses listen to their people.
One thing us, nothing matters more to our customers than convenience.
I heard again and again from our people when I started was how They want to shop when it suits them.
So a vitally important much they hated their old fashioned uniforms.
So we invited them to help development last year was our move towards flexible opening design a new one.
Four new designs were created, in consultation with a hours.
As with many other decisions, we left individual stores panel of store representatives, and the winner was chosen by a Pop Idolto drive this one for themselves, depending upon local demand.
style phone vote which 14,500 people voted in.
Watch out for the winner in And virtually all our stores have grabbed the opportunity to your local branch, soon!
serve their customers better by extending their hours.
Many Health centre presence Another example of the right kind of store, more stores now open on Sundays.
Once customers are in the right place: the seven new health centre pharmacies we opened through the door, of course, modern convenience means in 2003 04.
As old GP surgeries are merged into large purpose-built making shopping easy, quick and enjoyable for them.
Our health centres, theres a big opportunity for us to offer our massive investment in our stores is enabling us to do just traditional dispensing expertise right there, where patients need it.
that in all kinds of ways, from improved signage to advanced Doing the right thing Is it modern to possess a sense of corporate social touch-screen tills.
Are queues a thing of the past at Boots?
For Boots, not really: its been woven into our fabric since Not yet, but were working on it.
the days of our founder, Jesse Boot.
But Im delighted that, as we refined our reporting methods last year, our performance in all the major CSR assessment schemes improved dramatically.
Our new 24-hour branch at Stansted airport has been very successful, demonstrating the importance for a modern retailer of being in the right place, at the right time.
On the same principle, last year saw Boots making a move towards the edge of town.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 07 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final 08 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Competitive Over the years, Boots has been able to command Christmas all the year round Building on our best Christmas for a decade in a price premium, justified by both the quality of our products 2002, we again performed excellently over the festive period.
And since and the expert customer care provided by our people.
But, then, weve been applying the same successful merchandising formula with value for money higher on the nations shopping list than a great product range attractively displayed in themed areas of our stores ever, were 100% clear that we need to compete much harder to other seasonal occasions, such as Valentines Day and Mothers Day.
Last year, we made real headway, reducing Shapers A major relaunch of our prices on around 2,000 lines by an average of 18% and popular Shapers healthy-eating range in January has enabled us to tempt making it clear to customers that value for money is here to even more hungry customers into our stores, with all kinds of mouthstay at Boots.
Well-managed price investment enabled us to watering new products.
Were well on track for substantial increases in do this without serious damage to gross margins.
At the same sales over the next three years.
products Our product time, we further sharpened our competitive edge right across expertise is a huge source of competitive strength.
Last year, for our customer offering from introducing innovative new example, our market-leading Soltan range took suncare to an entirely new Boots brand products, through making our merchandising level, with the first ever five-star UVA protection ratings.
So for anyone who work harder, to strengthening our core pharmacy business.
wants to take the best possible care of their skin, every holiday now has And, of course, those extended opening hours mean that to begin at Boots.
we can compete longer as well as harder.
Picking up more dispensing business We never forget that, first and foremost, we are chemists.
And to further strengthen our position in this market, we last year gave a big push to our Prescription Collection Service.
For customers, especially those short of time or mobility, its highly convenient, since they no longer need to pick up repeat prescriptions from their doctors, but can simply call into our stores when they are ready.
For us, the benefit is significantly increased customer loyalty.
Of course, offering real value for money to shoppers young and not-so-young is only part of what it means to be competitive in the modern high street.
Put simply, we have to do everything better than other retailers, to give customers as many reasons as possible to visit Boots whether for the expert advice of our pharmacists or for products of a quality not available elsewhere.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 09 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final 10 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Efficient Running a business efficiently is, very largely, about Getting in Shape With over 3,000 people, our head office operation attitude.
Its about instilling in people the sense that they can had become slow-moving and very expensive.
Through our Getting in get things done right here, right now.
And its about removing Shape programme, we cut around 1,000 of those jobs last year, the obstacles that stand in their way.
Our radical management simplifying management and saving 31.4m.
Its never easy to tell people restructuring has played a very important part in that.
Once the decision was announced in January, in the past, the single biggest problem our stores faced in we implemented it very quickly but with real concern for the well-being serving their customers efficiently was a highly complex and of all the individuals concerned.
Virtually all the redundancies slow moving supply chain.
So were rebuilding it from scratch, were achieved voluntarily.
working backwards from the shelf to the warehouse.
The aim Making IT easy Throughout our business, our IT systems were in is to ensure that our stores always have exactly what our urgent need of updating, but the renewal process was frustratingly customers want, when they want it.
As our new outsourcing agreement with IBM and Xansa came outsourcing agreement with Unipart has come into effect into effect last year, we were able to pick up the pace dramatically.
Our over the last year, alongside the introduction of new stock new intelligent pharmacy system, for example, is now operational in well management processes, were getting closer to delivering over 550 stores: while new touchscreen tills are being installed in eight on that every day.
Its a massive and highly complex programme, but our IT strategy couldnt be simpler: to make it faster, easier and cheaper for our people to do their jobs and for our customers to enjoy their shopping.
Supplying 1,400 stores is a huge operation, but theres no question we had allowed it to become over-complicated.
For the stores, that means long delays in receiving the stock they need and when it arrives, a lot of work sorting it and getting it onto the shelves.
In future, that work will be done in the warehouse.
Single-picked items will be delivered every day, direct to the shelf, saving our stores enormous amounts of time and dramatically increasing availability.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 11 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Operational review Boots The Chemists As customers responded to lower prices on around 2,000 lines, wider choice and better availability, Boots The Chemists BTC made real progress in 2003 04.
Sales grew throughout the year, As youve heard, 2003 04 was a year of massive root change and we enjoyed our second excellent Christmas in succession.
With renewed focus on our core healthcare business, we had our for Boots.
From rebuilding our entire management structure best year since 2000.
We were specially pleased to regain market to laying the foundations of a new store-friendly supply leadership in vitamins.
And, at the very heart of our business, our relaunched Prescription Collection Service helped us to secure the chain, we focused our efforts on initiatives designed to loyalty of many of our dispensing customers.
In all, an encouraging year, as a visible improvement in our all-round customer offering transform our business over the next five years.
Yet, while began to produce results.
looking to the future, we continued to perform very solidly, Strategy We believe the way forward for BTC is to build our future success on our traditional strength in healthcare.
That, of course, is what in the here and now.
Boots The Chemists delivered good sales has made the Boots brand so widely trusted: and its also the common growth throughout the year, holding market share.
Boots thread that runs through all our stores.
No less important, its a growing market with an exciting future.
Healthcare International recorded sales of over 500m for Alongside our healthcare expertise, we need to offer the kind of products the first time, growing at around twice the rate of the market, that give customers a compelling reason to shop at Boots.
To this end, were continuing to develop our own brand ranges, ensuring that within and comfortably over-delivering on its strategic targets.
our product offering, there is a clear structure that enables customers to differentiate easily between good, better and best, and choose the brand which meets their particular needs.
Next, we must ensure that our customers feel they can expect fair prices from us, and real value for money.
Lower Prices Youll Love is a step in the right direction.
Strong promotions and our massively successful Advantage Card will lend strong support in this key area.
A further plank in our strategic platform: better, more welcoming stores, offering the right product mix for the location.
A very important development here, is our new focus on introducing three clearly defined Boots The Chemists Sales m 4,475.7 Sales split m Increase % 4.5 Health 1,806.7 Profit m before exceptionals 531.1 Beauty & Toiletries 1,992.5 Decrease % 6.6 Lifestyle 676.5 12 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final simple store formats: destination, convenience and community chemists.
Beauty & Toiletries grew overall by 4.7%, with cosmetics and fragrances Were also beginning a major move into edge of town locations, where continuing to do very well, up in terms of both sales and market share.
we see significant potential for sales growth.
We opened 19 new stores Growth of only 0.9% in toiletries reflects our very substantial price last year, with around 40 more to follow in 2004 05. investment in this area.
Finally, it almost goes without saying that the outstanding level of expert Sales in other categories were flat overall.
Our Baby business grew by customer care provided by our people will continue to give Boots a major 4.5% as we seek to broaden our ranges to provide a more competitive competitive advantage.
offer, including the successful launch of MiniMode clothing in our larger stores.
Our Food business grew by 2.5% helped by the relaunch of Management structure A critically important change in the structure our own Shapers brand.
Our Photo business declined by 6.0% as the of BTC was introduced during the past year.
We created a single market for traditional film processing shrinks with the onset of digital commercial function, responsible for every aspect of our customer photography.
To offset this, we are leading the market in offering offer product ranges: price and promotion: store environment: and digital film processing.
By integrating these key functions, weve been able to work in a far more efficient and co-ordinated manner to ensure Advantage Card The Boots Advantage Card has proved itself very well that were getting the retailing basics right in all our stores.
named in recent years and is a real bonus for customers.
With over 16 million in circulation, its one of the UKs most generous loyalty cards.
Trading Overall, BTC sales rose by 4.5% over the year 3.9% like-forNot only is it a major sales driver for us, but also a source of invaluable like.
Sales grew in every quarter, and by 5.1% over the Christmas period, customer information.
following on from an 8.1% increase the previous year.
In September last year, the introduction of a new instant Advantage Card Renewed focus on our healthcare business resulted in sales growth gave us an even bigger competitive edge and a great incentive to our of 6.0%, our best performance since 2000.
As more customers signed customers.
Tempted by the opportunity to start collecting points on purchases up for our relaunched Prescription Collection Service, dispensing was immediately, over a million more Boots customers signed up for the card.
up by 6.3%, though this represented a small loss of market share, which we are addressing through the introduction of our new health Health As youve read, we had an excellent year, as major investment centre-based pharmacies.
in this key area of our business reinforced the traditional strength of the Boots brand in all matters health-related.
In particular, the very large sums were spending on modernising our pharmacies enabled us to provide customers with a faster, more efficient service.
A further 192 new-look, efficient and customer centred pharmacies were unveiled during the year.
And our new SmartScript IT system, was installed in over 550 stores, greatly improving the quality of our dispensing operation.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 13 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final We were very pleased, with the success of our advertising campaign for In food, where sales were up 2.5%, the years biggest story was the Prescription Collection Service.
For people with busy lives, as well as those relaunch of Shapers, our second biggest brand after N7.
The lunchtime who find getting around difficult, the advantage of us collecting their market is very large, and getting larger all the time.
And we believe that regular repeat prescriptions from their GPs is obvious: all they have to the new improved Shapers range, created with the help of top chefs, do is pop into Boots when their prescription is ready.
But there are real has the potential to grow substantially over three years.
Customer business benefits for us, too.
Not only does the scheme greatly increase reaction so far has been enthusiastic.
customer loyalty, it also means that we can dispense prescriptions at Photo sales were down by 6.0%, as the market for traditional film times planned to avoid the busy parts of the day when customers processing continued its inevitable decline.
But even here, we have a are wanting immediate service.
As a result of these developments, positive story to tell: printing from digital cameras helped to offset the dispensing sales were up 6.3%.
And, as we continue to roll out our new digital kiosks, Good sales of over the counter OTC medicines especially vitamins well soon be able to process digital media cards in every store.
were driven by product innovation, as well as more competitive prices Products New and improved own brand products launched in the year and promotions.
included Boots Basics, an entry level brand which was launched in Spring Beauty & Toiletries The health of our customers may have been 2004, offering best quality at supermarket prices.
The new Soltan range our highest priority, but we certainly didnt neglect their appearance.
was launched for summer 2004 with a market leading claim, Beauty & Toiletries sales were strong throughout the year.
developed by inhouse suncare experts.
The Shapers brand was relaunched in January 2004 and won the British Sandwich Industry Cosmetics and fragrances were the star players here.
New fragrance Awards 2004 for Sandwich Retail Multiple of the year.
New healthcare launches for example, Chance from Chanel, and more stores with products included multivitamin gummy bears for children, and for adults, prestige brands, such as Clinique and Clarins, played a very important dissolve in your mouth vitamin strips.
And our biggest Boots brand, N7, had another excellent year, due to the continued success of Intelligent Colour Foundation, and Store development We know from customer feedback that our stores some strong promotions.
havent been inviting enough, and were addressing this through our store modernisation programme.
But its no less important to ensure that Sales in toiletries were up slightly as a result of price deflation.
each of our stores does the job that customers need it to do, according Lifestyle During the year we renamed this category which includes baby, to its location.
food, photo and seasonal gift, to lifestyle.
We considerably improved To this end, we have begun a programme of store development based our baby offering.
A number of our larger stores extended their baby on three simplified formats: community chemists, with healthcare at departments, enabling them to carry a much wider product range, the heart of our offer: convenience stores, offering rapid turnaround including clothing and accessories: and smaller stores now have a better shopping, with food heavily featured: and destination stores, offering selection of baby essentials.
As a result, sales increased by 4.5%.
the entire Boots shopping experience, and worth a special trip.
14 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Introducing these new formats across our store portfolio will take time, During the current year, boots.
com will develop a more compelling and but during the year, we made an encouraging start.
July 2003 saw the complete offer with the addition of pharmacy medicines and prescription launch of our Kingsway convenience store in London.
And in February fulfilment online.
This will have gone live by the time you read this report.
2004, we opened a pilot new-look community chemists in Urmston, Importantly, this initiative puts us in a strong position to benefit from the near Manchester.
Both have been well received by customers.
planned introduction of the new NHS IT systems, which will enable GPs to send their patients prescriptions direct to pharmacies.
The other major development last year was the rapid acceleration of our edge of town programme.
In the high street, we have 35% of health We will also provide our customers with even more choice in our larger and beauty sales, out of town just 5%.
So we know that theres a great stores by allowing them to access the extended range of products opportunity.
During the year, we opened 19 new stores, and well be available at boots.
This is achieved through the development of opening another 40 during 2004 05. new in-store ordering technology to be launched in summer 2004.
We also opened seven new health centre pharmacies giving Boots Boots Healthcare International the opportunity to offer our traditional dispensing expertise where Boots Healthcare International BHI, over-delivered on year two the patients need it.
of its four-year strategic plan, achieving sales of more than half a billion pounds for the first time.
This represented sales growth of Services including Opticians and Dentalcare For reasons of cost and 7.8% and profit growth of 14.9% at comparable exchange rates.
efficiency, these businesses are now being integrated into BTC enabling us to cut costs by eliminating duplication of functions such as marketing.
Strategy BHI aims to become a top 10 global player in OTC healthcare, Previously, our opticians and dentists operated as stand-alone businesses, and to establish, through brand innovation, a top three leadership within our stores but largely independent of them.
position in our three core consumer healthcare categories of analgesics Nurofen, cough cold Strepsils and skincare Clearasil, while also Previously this was especially valuable in the case of Boots Opticians, developing new brands.
which had a tough year in a highly competitive market.
Sales were down by 3.0% like-for-like, but improved buying terms and costs control meant In February 2002 we announced a four-year plan to step up investment that profitability nevertheless improved.
in marketing and new product development.
In order to achieve growth targets as rapidly as possible, it was also part of this strategy to acquire Meanwhile, our decision to restructure our dentalcare business, began brands with potential for rejuvination and development.
Our dentists are now self-employed and their productivity has time we set out financial goals for the four-year period.
increased significantly during the year.
Sales were up by 11.1% like-for-like.
Trading With sales of 504.6m, we grew our business by 9.6% 7.8% boots.
com Underlying sales increased by 59% to 14.8m, bringing the at comparable exchange rates, roughly twice the rate of the total OTC business close to break-even.
A 67% increase in the Christmas period, market.
Our core brands grew at 10.0% comparable fuelled in particular rising average transaction values and high customer interest in the Boots by the new product development.
online offer are strong indications of the potential for further sales growth.
Opticians and Dentalcare Boots Healthcare International 1 Sales m 241.6 Sales m 504.6 Core brand sales m Increase % 1 Decrease % 6.6 Increase % 7.8 Nurofen 140.3 15.3 Operating loss m before exceptionals 5.1 Profit m before exceptionals 80.6 Clearasil 89.7 6.3 1 Increase % 83.5 Increase % 14.9 Strepsils 84.8 8.9 Dermocosmetics 51.3 5.7 1 at comparable exchange rates Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 15 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Operating profit was up by 14.9% comparable to 80.6m, and net Country highlights BHI performed well in many of its established margin grew by 0.8 percentage points to 16.0%.
We maintained markets, particularly the UK, Ireland and Australasia.
It was also a good brand investment at 28.2% of sales, while operating costs reduced year for BHI in development markets, with double digit growth in Poland, by 1.2 percentage points in relation to sales to 27.9%, compared with Russia and India.
In Continental Western Europe, results were held back 29.1% last year.
in part by uncertainties about healthcare reforms in France and Germany.
Analgesics Sales of Nurofen grew to 140.3m, up 15.3% comparable, Outlook Were confident BHI will continue to deliver on its strategic against global analgesics market growth of just 3.1%.
Well also be pressing ahead with two important programmes: particularly strong sales, and increased market share, in Australia, UK, a major restructuring of our supply chain, which will cut product costs Ireland, Central Europe and Russia.
and release working capital: and the introduction of new business processes and systems, which will significantly improve our efficiency Key Nurofen product developments included a packaging relaunch: new and speed to market.
easier to swallow tablets, and the launch of a new Migraine Pain variant.
In Australia, the switch from pharmacy only to general sales list status Boots Retail International gave a further boost to sales.
We are starting to see if theres real demand all over the world for Boots own brand products, and our expert customer care.
This was Nurofen for Children continued to grow rapidly, gaining share in all markets.
the year when Boots Retail International BRI began to make real Cough & Cold Sales of Strepsils grew to 84.8m, up 8.9% comparable, progress towards meeting that demand, profitably.
against global sore throat market growth of 5.8%.
Here, sales and share Strategy Our long term vision is to help consumers throughout the grew most strongly in Western Europe and the Middle East Africa.
world to look and feel their best.
Originally, we aimed to achieve this by Important brand developments included a global packaging relaunch, opening stores: but we have since developed a new implant strategy and the launch of Streps Douceur in France.
based upon taking the very best Boots own brand products currently, around 600-800 of them and offering them to shoppers in a BootsSkincare Sales of Clearasil grew to 89.7m, up 6.3% comparable, branded environment, within a host-retailers store.
in line with global market growth.
Our strongest sales performances were in the UK, Australia, Russia and France.
The success of this strategy depends, crucially, on finding the right local partners.
And since we started to evolve this new approach in 2000 01, North America shipments were flat, but understate strong in-market weve made exciting progress.
Our most notable achievements to date consumption growth of 14.2%, due to the timing of the launch of have been in Hong Kong where we now have just over 30 highly Total Control a year ago.
successful implants in Watsons drugstores.
The challenge for BRI over the last year has been to continue to build on the success of this new model, while rationalising unprofitable elements of the business.
16 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Trading Operating losses were down by 54.3% comparable last year.
The expected cost of our redundancy programme is 45.5m.
Cost savings Our Asia and exports businesses are now profitable at a regional level, related to those departures amount to 31.4m in total, of which we and weve grown sales by 16.1% 20.8% comparable, exceeding invested 5.8m in creating 290 new jobs in our stores.
By the time you read this, most of these jobs will already have gone, and we In South East Asia, our business is now profitable.
Our stores in Thailand will be looking ahead to a further round of job cuts in the current year, with are now trading profitably: a very significant milestone.
the aim of bringing our total head office team down to around 1,500 people.
In the USA, BRI USA are trialling our implant concession business, in Weve worked very hard to make Getting in Shape as painless as possible partnership with two leading retailers.
Weve now opened 18 implants for our people.
We announced the changes as soon as we could, and with Target, mostly in Denver: and 12 with the drugstore chain CVS, maintained open and honest communication throughout the process.
Its too soon to draw any conclusions, but early signs And, as well as financial support, we provided those affected with expert are encouraging.
advice and counselling on job opportunities.
As a result, we were able to achieve almost all the redundancies voluntarily.
Outlook We are gaining confidence in the strategy for BRI.
We are starting to find that customers around the world like Boots products, Supply and support services and that our retail partners are seeing an enhanced offering with We want every customer to find exactly what they are looking for a Boots presence in their store.
on our shelves, at a price they are happy to pay, every time they visit Boots.
The massive programme of change necessary in order Getting in Shape to deliver that gathered pace in 2003 04, as our supply chain, In 2002, we announced Getting in Shape, a cost-cutting programme manufacturing operation and IT function all underwent intended to save 100m.
Moving forward with this initiative was transformation.
among the most important steps in making our business more modern, competitive and efficient.
Store-friendly supply chain Despite fundamental restructuring of our supply chain, and the opening of 35 new stores, we held availability at It was clear that our Nottingham head office had grown too large.
With high levels throughout the year.
a headcount of over 3,000, there were too many people, too many layers of management and nowhere near enough scope for quick, responsive decision-making.
Following a top-to-bottom organisational review, we announced in January that we would be cutting around 900 jobs, reducing numbers in virtually every department.
Boots Retail International Sales m 43.0 1 Increase % 20.8 Operating loss m before exceptionals 10.4 1 Increase % 54.3 1 at comparable exchange rates Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 17 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final In 2002 03, we announced our plans to rebuild our supply chain which, The new picking and packing system means that stock fits much better rather like our head office, had become over-complicated.
Working into delivery vehicles, and the fact that goods now go directly to the backwards from what our customers want, the ultimate aim was to stores greatly reduces unnecessary mileage.
create a supply chain capable of delivering any stock item, in any quantity A further environmental benefit is that, with the vast majority of goods from singles upwards, direct to the shelf in any of our stores, every day.
unpacked at the warehouse, we will improve the efficiency of our In the year under review, we made huge structural changes in recovery and recycling operations.
preparation for rolling out our store-friendly supply chain.
Manufacturing In February 2003, we announced the closure of our Recognising the need for specialist logistical expertise, we outsourced our factory in Airdrie.
Transferring production of many key lines to other two largest Nottingham warehouses to Unipart in August.
Under this deal, manufacturing facilities has been a major logistical exercise: and we 600 Boots people were transferred to employment with Unipart, and an were also anxious to give our employees as much time as possible to extra 300 jobs were created, to handle the greatly increased workload find alternative employment.
So, for both these reasons, we scheduled involved in picking, packing and delivering to stores.
the closure to take place over a two-year period.
The principle that underlies this modernisation is simple: all the hard Most of the Airdrie factorys production has now been transferred, work will now be done in the warehouse, enabling our stores to focus on with full supply being maintained throughout.
To absorb this extra selling, and caring for our customers.
In addition, of course, stores will no output, weve increased productivity at existing factories, without longer need to hold large quantities of stock.
Even with the vast experience of Unipart, bringing our store-friendly As a consequence, productivity in our Nottingham Beauty Care Operation supply chain into operation is a mammoth undertaking.
But already, our is up by 40% and unit cost down by 20%.
Weve also taken the stores and, more importantly, our customers are starting to see the opportunity of these changes to organise the way we make our products.
benefits: and our plan is to ensure that the new system is fully bedded In many categories, weve been able to move from making large batches down in time for Christmas this year.
to short cycle production, which is enabling us to respond much more quickly to the needs of our stores, and the demands of our customers.
As part of our store-friendly supply chain initiative, we also transferred the management of Boots transport services to Tibbett & Britten.
And Finally, weve been able to improve our capacity utilisation quite markedly the greatly increased efficiency of the new system is beginning to deliver as we filled up our factories in Nottingham, France and Germany.
important benefits in terms of better vehicle usage.
18 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Purchasing Building on last years success, we continued to make good In our Wolverhampton and Burton-on-Trent stores, we trialled new use of innovative methods of purchasing, including internet auctions.
wireless stock management systems, enabling store staff to carry out As a result, we saved a further 30m on goods not for resale.
stock and price checks in real time, without leaving the shop floor.
The time savings were very impressive, so well certainly be pursuing this.
Making IT Easy The massive programme of organisational change and modernisation which youve read about in this report would not be Two customer-facing IT successes during the year: our new gift card, possible without a company-wide IT infrastructure of the highest quality.
an electronic version of the traditional Boots gift voucher, was well During the year, we made very important progress towards putting that received: and the launch of an instant Advantage Card enabling in place.
customers to start collecting points straight away was an enormous success, contributing to the recruitment of around a million further Throughout our business, our aim is to invest heavily in the IT systems.
We need to make it easier for our people to do their jobs better, and to improve our customers shopping experience.
Our innovative outsourcing Theres still a lot to be done.
But were committed to making the partnership with IBM and Xansa, now well established, is enabling us necessary investment, and the benefits of our outsourcing partnership to move forward towards this goal around three times faster than was have already proved even greater than we hoped.
Were well on our previously possible, and at much lower cost.
way to delivering upon the working title of our systems investment programme: Making IT Easy.
Our new SmartScript pharmacy system, for example, was implemented in over 550 stores during the year.
Around 6,000 new generation touchscreen tills were installed in 2003 04 in nearly 500 stores, at a rate of eight stores per night and this will continue through 2004 05.
Importantly, these tills are also compatible with the new chip and PIN technology, currently being introduced to combat card fraud.
In addition, we launched a series of initiatives aimed at making stores more efficient.
Among these, were installing an advanced high capacity wide area network, making our stores a truly integrated part of our business for the first time.
All of our key systems from finance and HR to space and range planning can now be accessed from anywhere within our business.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 19 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Corporate social responsibility As part of our new approach, weve grouped our activities under four headings, reflecting the main arenas where we believe that Boots is making a contribution: community, environment, marketplace and workplace.
In the first of these, our aim is to In recent years, many companies have come to recognise create a genuine sense of partnership in the communities we serve.
the importance of conducting their business in a socially Community Award-winning work for well-being In summer 2003, Boots responsible manner.
Boots has been doing that for well was presented with two awards for excellence by Business in the Community the most prestigious UK awards recognising responsible over a century, since the days of Jesse Boot.
over the past year weve developed a new, more systematic The Healthy Communities and Innovation awards were presented approach to reporting on, and measuring the results of, our in recognition of our programme of health initiatives, developed in partnership with the NHS in Nottingham, with the aim of helping hospital many and varied corporate social responsibility CSR activities.
patients to take control of their own health and recognise the value of taking time out for themselves.
This includes the development of Time The aim has been to improve our performance, and increase for a Treat workshops and a volunteer massage service for patients at accountability: but a pleasing side-effect is that our standing Nottingham City Hospital, as well as treat days for NHS staff.
And we are now supporting a pilot for a permanent wellbeing service for staff in external ratings, such as the Business in the Community at Nottingham City Hospital.
Social Responsibility Survey, has risen dramatically.
Working together for happy healthy smiles By the age of five, over 55% of all Scottish children have dental disease.
Boots has been working in partnership with Action for Sick Children in Scotland to address this startling statistic with an innovative  initiative.
Dental playboxes have been specially developed for use in primary and pre-schools.
They contain safe dental equipment, mini uniforms, books and toys.
Through play, children learn about how to keep their teeth healthy and become familiar with what a visit to the dentist is like helping to reduce their fear.
The project aims to reach 18,000 children in its first year.
20 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Sharing skills with the NHS Ten Boots managers have been matched We continue to implement our strategy on chemicals published in March with NHS managers, in a new initiative to share skills and experience.
2003 across the whole of our business, and to ensure that we maintain The Skills Sharing Initiative was developed jointly by Boots and the trust in our brand, well continue dialogue with all our stakeholders, and Improvement Network, which supports the learning and development of our efforts to influence the legislative process of REACH.
all NHS organisations and staff in the local area.
Employees were matched A new strategy for cutting CO emissions At Boots were committed 2 with someone in a similar role within the NHS, in areas including business to minimising the climate change impact of our business, by reducing development, marketing, training and development, and IT.
carbon emissions principally CO. And in 2003, we became one of the first 2 Emma Brock, an HR Manager with Boots Healthcare International and companies in the UK to conduct a detailed study with The Carbon Trust Nicola Goodwin, an NHS Service Improvement Manager, were matched to determine the carbon footprint of our stores, offices and warehouses, with each other.
Emma commented: As Nicola and I come from different and also of transport used by us for delivery and for business travel.
functional and career backgrounds we have been able to contribute to and As a result, weve been able to produce a detailed carbon management complement each others skills and knowledge from different perspectives.
strategy, which among other things identifies potential savings of around The discussions have stimulated much thought and learning around 10,000 tonnes of CO per year through energy efficiency in our buildings 2 possible alternative approaches that each organisation could consider.
Environment Built-in sustainability, by Product Bank Over the past year, weve Dedicated as we are to the health of our customers, we naturally made important progress in applying sustainable development principles feel a passionate concern for the wellbeing of the environment.
to product design, linking up with external centres of excellence to bring And, as with our products, innovation is the hallmark of our new ideas and concepts into the business.
At a strategic level this included our involvement in Project Sigma: a joint Taking a lead on chemicals These days, every manufacturing or initiative involving Bsi, Forum for the Future and AccountAbility.
In 2003, retailing business has a duty to consider the impact of the chemicals the project culminated in the publication of a groundbreaking series of in the products it sells on human health and the environment.
But as sustainable management guidelines.
chemists, we believe that Boots has a responsibility to lead the way both in highlighting chemicals for replacement and engaging with For internally produced products, the innovative thinking needed about stakeholders to ensure that the position we take reflects their views.
sustainability is supplied by Product Bank.
This new team within the product and development department is dedicated to understanding new Over the last 12 months, weve continued to develop our priority technological developments and progressing them to a point where they substances list, which highlights chemicals Boots are currently taking can be used in Boots products.
The aim is to build sustainability into new action on.
Weve also carried out independent research into the use of Boots products right across our portfolio, taking into consideration such chemicals and debated with key stakeholders and opinion-formers across issues as the need to reduce packaging and increase accessibility to all Europe on the proposed chemical legislation REACH.
sections of society including the elderly and infirm.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 21 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Marketplace Carried out by our own team of trained social accountability assessors, this For Boots there has never been a contradiction between running process reviews suppliers labour practices and environmental performance.
a successful, profitable business and providing a socially valuable As a result of the assessments weve carried out so far, 20 small to service.
Thats part of our heritage, which is clearly reflected to medium-sized Boots suppliers have been put forward to take part in the this day in our stores, our products and even our relationships Envirowise Supply Chain Partnership, a government-funded programme with suppliers.
offering free advice on practical ways to minimise waste and increase A better deal for disabled customers As part of our commitment to profit.
To date, total savings of over 600,000 have been identified meeting the objectives of the Disability Discrimination Act DDA, staff from those Boots suppliers who took part.
in all Boots stores, opticians and healthcare services practices have Working together to make a difference Thanks to the hard work of our completed extensive disability awareness training.
Our aim is not just own people, and the generosity of our customers, our charity partnerships to prepare for stage three of the DDA which comes into force in raised much needed funds for two very important causes last year.
October, but to make all areas of our service provision fully accessible to all our customers.
Our be up front campaign took us into our seventh year of support for Breast Cancer Care.
New for last year, N7 teamed up with Swarovski Our training programme was based on typical customer interactions.
Crystal to develop an exclusive brooch sold in support of the charity.
Focusing on each kind of disability in turn, it was designed to help our Combined with make-over marathons at over 200 stores, this helped staff learn how to modify their usual behaviour where necessary, when us to raise over 300,000 bringing the total we have donated so far dealing with disabled customers.
to Breast Cancer Care to over 1m.
Setting standards for our suppliers For a major retailer, ensuring that With one in five households in the UK affected by asthma we were happy all its many suppliers treat their workers fairly and show a responsible to join forces with the National Asthma Campaign last year.
As well as attitude towards the environment is an enormous challenge.
But thats raising awareness of asthma issues among our customers, we sold the goal Boots is working towards.
An important step, in May 2003, specially designed pin badges at all our stores, raising well over was joining the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI, an alliance of companies, 400,000 for the charity.
NGOs and trade unions, working together to promote the observance of internationally recognised labour standards in particular, fundamental human rights throughout global supply chains.
As a demonstration of our commitment to the ETI, weve embarked on a programme of assessing all of our Boots brand product suppliers against our own Code of Conduct for Ethical Trading see Boots-plc.
We aim to complete the programme by April 2006.
22 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Workplace Listening to our people Responsible employers learn by listening to Corporate social responsibility begins at home.
Thats to say, their people.
So we recently carried out a survey to find out what our responsible employers recognise that caring for their own people people think about Boots, their jobs and their managers.
Among the is essential to the companys success, and its ability to meet its largely positive findings, we were very happy that 78% of those wider obligations.
responding agreed with the statement I am proud to work for Boots.
Getting in Shape, responsibly As youve read elsewhere in this report, To give our people an opportunity to have their say about how we run we cut around 1,000 head office jobs last year.
This was a necessary step the business, we relaunched the Boots Retail Forum last year.
Already, this to make Boots a leaner, faster-moving and more efficient business: but, has started to provide us with very useful feedback about how people are of course, we were very aware of the effect that this decision would have feeling at grassroots level, and excellent suggestions about how Boots on our people, their families and the local community in Nottingham.
To minimise uncertainty, open and honest communication was essential.
Exceeding our safety targets The health and safety of our people are, Chief executive Richard Baker announced the changes personally to of course, an absolute priority for Boots.
So were pleased to report that everyone affected.
And on the same day, each member of staff had our drive at Boots to reduce work-related accidents continued to deliver an opportunity to discuss their own position, in a one-to-one session.
In fact, over the last two years, our performance in this respect has far exceeded the targets we set as part of our 10-year plan.
Theres To achieve the majority of job losses through volunteers, we offered been a major reduction in accidents across all our main operational areas, generous redundancy terms: and to help people find other opportunities, but Boots Manufacturing BM and Logistics have done particularly well, we used a professional outplacement service, as well the local Job with improvements of 48% and 56% respectively.
As a result, we succeeded in achieving virtually all the redundancies voluntarily.
Finally, our annual Health and Safety Performance Report for 2001 02, published on our website in 2002, was identified as achieving an Back to the floor, for Christmas At Boots, we strongly encourage our exemplary level of reporting, in research published by the Health office people to spend time working in our stores, to keep in touch with and Safety Executive in 2003. the retailing realities on which our success depends.
And at Christmas, with the stores stretched to their limits, we made a special effort to get as many people as possible back to the floor.
In all, around 2,000 people from head office volunteered to lend a muchneeded hand.
As well as helping our stores cope with Christmas, weve found this to be an invaluable way of bringing Boots people together, giving our store people a real sense of being appreciated and supported by their office-based colleagues.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 23 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Board of directors and executives Executive directors Guy Dawson 51, Non-executive Director Executive committee Richard Baker 41, Chief Executive Appointed September 2003.
Chairman of Boots David Kneale 49, Chief Commercial Officer Appointed September 2003.
Formerly the chief audit committee.
Guy is a founding partner of David joined Boots in 1976 and held senior positions C B F D A E operating officer and marketing officer at Asda.
Tricorn Partners, an independent corporate finance in the retailing area of the business.
In 1999 he left Prior to joining Asda, Richard worked for Mars advisory business.
He has previously held senior to become managing director of Waterstones book where he progressed through a series of roles investment banking positions at Merrill Lynch and stores.
He returned to Boots in 2002 as director of including national account management, marketing Deutsche Bank, advising major companies on a trading and was appointed to his current role in and then head of sales for UK multiples.
full range of corporate finance and strategic issues.
He is also a non-executive director of The BOC Howard Dodd 44, Chief Financial Officer Paul Stoneham 42, Managing Director JK L N M Group plc.
Appointed finance director in April 2002.
Additional Paul was appointed Managing Director, Boots G I H responsibility for our property portfolio from October Hlne Ploix 59, Non-executive Director Healthcare International in September 2001.
Howard is a chartered accountant and a Appointed September 2000.
Chairman of the Boots Formerly he was President of Alberto Culver fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
social responsibilities committee and a member of International in the USA.
Prior to this, Paul held a Previously he worked for AstraZeneca and ICI, the audit and remuneration committees.
Hlne number of senior marketing and category positions A Howard Dodd D Dr Martin Read where he gained significant international experience is Chairman of Pechel Industries, a private equity with Procter and Gamble in the UK, Switzerland, B Richard Baker E Sir Nigel Rudd in finance and treasury.
investment company, and is a non-executive director Germany and Canada.
C Paul Bateman F Guy Dawson of BNP Paribas, Ferring, Lafarge and Publicis Groupe.
Paul Bateman 51, Group HR and Operations Director Alex Gourlay 44, Retail Director Appointed April 2002.
Responsible for human Tim Parker 48, Non-executive Director Alex started working for Boots in 1976 as a Saturday G Tim Parker J David Kneale resources HR, corporate communications, logistics, Appointed January 2004.
Tim is currently chief assistant.
He is a qualified pharmacist and has had H Hlne Ploix K Paul Stoneham manufacturing and engineering.
Paul joined Boots executive of Kwik-Fit.
He is also a non-executive numerous positions in Boots including store I Jan Bennink L Alex Gourlay in 2001 to lead supply chain and business services director of Legal & General PLC.
Previously he manager, regional manager, head of HR for stores, M David Lister development.
He previously worked for Procter & was chief executive of C. & J. Clark Ltd. the and director of retail implementation.
N Michael Oliver Gamble, where he gained many years experience footwear manufacturer and retailer.
He also David Lister 45, Chief Information Officer with global supply chains.
led the management buy-out and flotation of David has worked for Boots since 2001.
Prior to Kenwood Appliances plc.
Non-executive directors this he worked for Glaxo Welcome and Diageo Sir Nigel Rudd 57, Non-executive Director, chairman Jan Bennink 47, Non-executive Director where he held several senior IT leadership roles.
Appointed December 1999, deputy chairman since Appointed 2001.
President and chief executive of He also worked for Coopers & Lybrand, December 2001, chairman from 15 September Numico, a leader in infant and clinical nutrition.
Non-executive chairman of Pilkington and Jans previous experience includes seven years with Michael Oliver 55, Company Secretary Pendragon.
He is also a non-executive director of Danone as president of the dairy division in France, Michael is a solicitor, and joined Boots Legal Barclays and chairman of the Boardroom Issues seven years with Benckiser as president of the Department in 1987 from private practice.
Sir Nigel is a chartered accountant Detergent Division in Italy and Germany and seven Appointed company secretary in 2000.
He is also and was previously chairman of Williams PLC for years with Procter & Gamble in the Netherlands responsible for the companys legal and intellectual nearly 20 years.
Before qualifying as a solicitor, Dr Martin Read 54, Non-executive Director Michael was an army officer, and he is currently Appointed 1999.
Chairman of the Boots a member of the Take-over Panel.
Dr Read is group chief executive of LogicaCMG plc, one of the worlds Richard Baker, Paul Bateman and Howard Dodd are all leading global IT solutions companies.
Before taking members of the executive committee.
over at Logica in 1993, he held a number of senior positions at GEC Marconi.
He was appointed a nonexecutive director of British Airways plc in 2000 and served as a non-executive director of Asda Group from 1996 to 1999.
24 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 25 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Summary financial review The year is characterised by success in driving higher sales and by substantial costs to modernise, improve competitiveness and make Boots more efficient.
We have also seen a significantly higher proportion of capital spend directed towards the two core businesses Boots The Chemists and Boots Healthcare International.
To underpin the discipline and focus with which capital will be used within the Group, we intend to return 700m of surplus share capital to Howard Dodd shareholders.
26 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final We have reviewed our financial strategy during the year and intend to Profit before tax was up 18.0% to 581.0m.
This has been helped by increase our debt levels over the next couple of years by returning surplus an exceptional gain of 36.4m primarily relating to the disposal of property.
capital to shareholders through our on-going share buyback programme.
In addition, last year included 123.2m loss on the sale of Halfords and This will improve the efficiency of our balance sheet and enhance 34.5m costs for the closure of part of the wellbeing services offering.
Whilst balance sheet efficiency is important, we These were both shown as exceptional items and were partially offset by do intend to maintain a strong investment grade credit rating and will an exceptional interest credit last year of 92.1m arising from the closure be targeting a range of financial measures, in particular cash flow, to of interest rate swaps.
ensure that this is achieved.
Taxation Excluding non-operating exceptional items, the effective tax During the year we continued our share buyback programme and have rate for the group was 30.9%, slightly lower than last years rate of now completed the return of the Halfords disposal proceeds.
We continue to focus on reducing the effective tax rate, but we have returned over 1.1bn of surplus capital by repurchasing shares.
any actions to bring it down must fully support business priorities and avoid complexity in group operations.
Basic earnings per share before exceptional items increased by 7.1% These include cash flow based criteria such as net present value and to 48.2p basic earnings per share increased by 47.8% to 52.9p.
The payback, as well as return on capital employed and time to break even.
weighted average number of shares in issue decreased in the year from This process is being rigorously applied to our store-opening programme 838.1m to 780.0m as a result of the continuing share buyback programme.
It is targeting over 80 new stores at a capital cost of Dividend The board has confirmed a policy of sustainable dividend approximately 104m over the two years 2003 04 and 2004 05. growth and we will be targeting a dividend cover ratio of 1.75 times over Turnover from continuing operations increased by 4.7% to 5,326.4m.
Consistent with this policy the board has proposed a This reflects the continuing good progress being made in Boots The final dividend of 21.0p.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 29.8p, Chemists where sales increased by 4.5% and the strong growth in Boots an increase of 4.2% over last year and in line with the last three years Healthcare International where sales were up by 7.8% in local currency.
Growth initiatives drove up costs Capital structure The company has continued its policy of returning and higher Getting In Shape costs represented a major non-comparable surplus capital to shareholders by repurchasing shares in the market.
However, operating profit in the year benefited from amounted to 259.9m in the year to 31st March 2004 2003 462.8m, significantly lower losses from businesses either closed or rationalised a of which 191.1m completed the return of the Halfords disposal year earlier.
As you have read, during the year we announced a reduction proceeds to shareholders.
in the head count at our head office.
Around 1,000 of our people applied Surplus share capital has been identified and a 700m return of surplus for voluntary redundancy considerably more than we expected.
The cost cash to shareholders over the next two years through share buybacks is of these redundancies, which was 45.5m, has been taken against profits planned.
This is viewed as prudent and demonstrates the determination in 2003 04, although the people will actually leave during the current to deliver the growth plans for Boots in a focussed and disciplined way.
In total over 1,500 will have left the business under the Getting 350m will be returned in 2004 05 but clearly the second tranche will in Shape programme since it began last year.
depend upon the performance of the business and its generation of All of the actions taken to date under the Getting in Shape programme net cash flow.
will deliver benefits of 93m in 2004 05, with full year benefits of 132m for 2005 06.
We intend to explore the scope for additional productivity and efficiency improvements during this year.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 27 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Summary financial statement This summary financial statement is only a summary of information contained in the annual report and accounts, directors report and the directors remuneration report.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the company or group, or of their policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration, as is provided by the full annual report and accounts.
The financial statements, directors report and auditors report which is unqualified are included in a separate document entitled Annual Report and Accounts which is available to shareholders, free of charge, from the address shown in shareholder information on page 36.
If you would prefer to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts each year, please write to the companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services plc, at the address shown on the shareholder information page.
Statement of the independent auditors to the members of Boots Group PLC pursuant to section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
We have examined the summary financial statement set out on pages 29 to 35.
This statement is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the annual review with the full annual financial statements and directors report and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the annual review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the groups full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual financial statements, the directors report and the directors remuneration report of Boots Group PLC for the year ended 31st March 2004 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Birmingham 26th May 2004 28 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Summary directors report The directors of Boots Group PLC present their summary financial statement to shareholders for Auditors the year ended 31st March 2004.
It is a summary of the information contained in the Annual Report Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their and Accounts.
remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Principal activities Corporate Governance The groups principal activities during the year were: The requirements of corporate governance are set out in the Financial Services Authority FSA Listing retailing of chemists merchandise.
Rules together with the related Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the the provision of opticians and other healthcare services.
Combined Code, adopted by the FSA.
Directors are assisted in complying with the internal control requirements of the Combined Code by the Business review and future developments Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales publication Internal Control: Guidance for A review of group activities during the year, research and development, and likely future developments Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance.
are dealt with in the introduction, Chairmans statement, chief executives review and operational review The board considers that good corporate governance is an essential element of achieving its overall on pages 1 to 19. objectives.
It has reviewed the groups corporate governance policies and practices, and has determined Appropriations that during the period 1st April 2003 to 31st March 2004 the company complied with the provisions of The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 21.0p per share which, if approved by the Combined Code applicable during that period, with the exception that Mr J B McGrath served as shareholders, will be paid on 13th August 2004 to shareholders registered on 11th June 2004.
When both Chairman and acting chief executive for the period following the resignation of Mr S G Russell added to the interim dividend of 8.8p paid on 6th February 2004, this makes a total dividend payment from the office of chief executive on 31st May 2003 until 15th September 2003, when Mr R A Baker for the year of 29.8p per share 2003 28.6p per share.
Payment of these dividends requires 226.3m was able to join the company as chief executive.
2003 230.7m, leaving a profit of 186.3m 2003 69.3m retained in the business.
Directors Details of directors are shown on page 24.
Dr J G S Buchanan, Mr J B McGrath, Mr S G Russell and Mr A P Smith were directors of the company until their resignations on 24th July 2003, 15th September 2003, 31st May 2003 and 31st October 2003 respectively.
The performance of each director standing for reappointment has been formally evaluated by the Chairman, and the Chairman will recommend their reappointment.
The board believes that each director standing for reappointment continues to demonstrate commitment, to be an effective member of the board, and to contribute to the balance of skills and knowledge and experience required by the board.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 29 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Summary directors remuneration report Remuneration policies Under the Executive Share Option Plan executive directors and other employees can be granted options In 2002 the Remuneration Committee the Committee positioned executive directors salaries and to subscribe for ordinary shares in the company.
non-executive directors fees at the market median in the light of independent assessment of market The Executive Share Option Plan aligns returns to shareholders with reward to executives but only if practices, and has done so in respect of directors appointed subsequently.
The Committee adopted a share price growth is achieved and if a performance target is met.
The value of the options is directly policy that executive directors salaries assuming no change in responsibilities would be increased linked to share price movement.
The condition imposed in respect of all options granted to date is annually in line with inflation, subject to total pay being benchmarked against the market every three average annual growth in earnings per share EPS over the relevant period at least equal to the increase years and intended that over time the proportion of executive directors total remuneration that is in the index of retail prices plus 3% calculated as follows: Base EPS is the EPS for the financial year dependent upon performance would become greater.
An EPS target is calculated each year by applying the following In 2003 executive directors salaries were generally increased in line with inflation, but the salaries of formula: Base EPS x 100 increase in RPI y where y is 3 in year one, 6 in year two and 9 in year Messrs. Bateman and Dodd were increased with effect from 1st December 2003 when Mr Bateman three and so on.
Target EPS for the performance cycle is determined by taking the average of the annual assumed responsibility for HR in addition to his existing responsibility for operations, and Mr Dodd, the EPS targets during that cycle.
In previous years the performance target was tested at the end of year chief financial officer, also assumed responsibility for property, to reflect those additional responsibilities.
three and retested if necessary at the end of year four, five and six until options vested or lapsed.
For options granted in 2004, however, there will be only one possible retest at the end of year five.
The Committee has now determined that it is appropriate to undertake a thorough review of executive Executive directors are usually granted options having an exercise price of once the annual salary of directors remuneration, including bonus and incentive schemes, with a view to taking any proposals the director.
Mr Baker, as part of his joining arrangements, received in 2003 options under the Plan that require shareholder consent to the 2005 AGM.
In the meanwhile the Committee decided, pending and under a personal arrangement made under Listing Rules having an exercise price of three times the outcome of that review, to make as few changes as possible to the executive directors bonus and his initial annual salary.
Accordingly, with one exception in respect of the Executive Share Option Plan the Committee decided to operate the bonus and incentive schemes on a similar basis to that Share ownership provides an effective way to align the interests of shareholders and executives.
For all operated in 2003 04. performance periods commencing on or after 1st April 2002 the whole of an executive directors long term bonus is payable in shares of the company: the executive directors participate in a share option Bonus schemes provide an opportunity for executive directors and senior managers to receive additional plan, and the Committee has adopted a policy of requiring executive directors over time to achieve rewards, if and only if, personal and business performance meets specified objectives and targets.
The a holding in the companys shares having a value equivalent to their base salary.
way that business performance is measured for bonus and share option schemes for executive directors and senior managers flows from, and is consistent with, business strategy, and with the boards governing The Committee believes that performance-related pay should form a significant proportion of the objective of maximising the value of the company for the benefit of shareholders and is described below.
In broad terms, if the group meets its target levels of performance then performance-related pay is likely to account for approximately 55% of the chief executives The short term executive bonus scheme rewards executive directors for achieving operating efficiencies remuneration approximately 60% initially due to the grant of options of three times annual salary and profitable growth in the relevant year by reference to challenging but achievable forecasts derived and 51% of that of the other executive directors.
For top decile performance, performance-related pay at the beginning of the year from strategic plans, and also rewards personal performance.
The is likely to account for a greater percentage up to 75% for the chief executive and 73% for the other maximum short term bonus that can be earned is in the case of the chief executive 100% of base executive directors, depending on share price growth from the start of the performance period to the salary, and for all other executive directors 75%.
One third of the available bonus depends on end.
The actual benefit enjoyed by directors under the LTBS and under the Executive Share Option Plan individual performance against personal targets, and two thirds depends upon business performance will depend upon the companys share price, and cannot therefore be determined in advance.
targets for operating profit one-third of the available bonus, sales and return on capital one-sixth each.
The business targets have been chosen for their relevance in driving short term performance Non-executive directors do not participate in any bonus or share option schemes.
It is the practice of the board to maintain contact where appropriate with its major shareholders about The Long Term Bonus Scheme provides executive directors with a maximum potential bonus award remuneration issues.
MPBA worth up to 125% of base salary, and provides a direct link between the pay of executive directors and the creation of value for shareholders by rewarding directors for the companys performance in terms of total shareholder return TSR over a three or four-year performance period relative to a peer group of ten other leading companies which the Committee consider to be appropriate comparators by virtue of their size and markets in which they operate.
TSR was chosen as the appropriate performance measure for the LTBS as it aligns the interests of the executive with the actual return received by shareholders.
30 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Contracts of service Analysis of directors emoluments With the exception of Mr R A Baker all executive directors service contracts are terminable by Full details of directors emoluments are set out in the directors remuneration report contained in the the company on one years notice and the Committee has determined that one years notice is 2004 Annual Report and Accounts, copies of which are available on request.
The cash elements of the the appropriate period of notice to be given to an executive director.
Exceptionally, however, remuneration for the year to 31st March 2004 is set out in the table below: in circumstances such as the appointment of a chief executive from outside the company, the Commutation Committee may consider an initial period of greater security to be appropriate and agree that the of accrued Other one years notice should not be given before the first anniversary of appointment.
The Committee Short  payments Salaries term Other for loss pension on Total Total took this view in respect of the appointment of Mr R A Baker, who joined the company as chief 000 and fees bonuses benefits of office entitlements termination 2004 2003 executive on 15th September 2003.
Mr Bakers contract will be terminable on one years notice R A Baker from 15th September 2004.
1 from 15th September 2003 341 273 472 1,086 2 Performance graph P Bateman 317 179 82 578 355 The following graph, required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, shows the J Bennink 35 35 32 G N Dawson total shareholder return over the five-year period to 31st March 2004 for the companys shares and the from 15th September 2003 28 28 FTSE100 index.
The FTSE100 is considered to be an appropriate index for comparison as the company H Dodd 373 211 17 601 446 forms part of that index, investors in the company are likely to regard other FTSE100 companies as T C Parker alternative investments, and investors are familiar with it.
from 28th January 2004 7 7 H Ploix 37 37 32 Total cumulative shareholder FTSE100 return for the five-year period Dr M P Read 37 37 32 to 31st March 2004 Boots Sir Nigel Rudd deputy chairman % until appointed chairman on 110 15th September 2003 181 181 55 Dr J G S Buchanan 100 resigned 24th July 2003 17 17 34 90 B Clare 3 resigned 31st January 2003 2,142 80 F M Harrison resigned 6th November 2002 19 70 J B McGrath chairman until 60 retirement from the board on 15th September 2003 375 2 377 251 50 4 98 99 99 00 00 01 01 02 02 03 03 04 K S Piggott retired from the board on 31st December 2002 361 Components of emoluments S G Russell 5 Salaries and fees Salaries and fees paid to directors are shown in the table opposite.
resigned 31st May 2003 206 7 758 131 1,102 786 6 A P Smith Short term executive bonus scheme Performance against business and personal targets during the resigned 31st October 2003 166 11 526 353 46 1,102 369 year was such that a bonus equal to 80.26% of salary was earned by Mr Baker, and 56.45% of salary 2,120 663 591 1,284 353 177 5,188 4,914 was earned by Messrs Bateman and Dodd.
Other benefits Executive directors receive other benefits including a company car, or payment in lieu, sick pay and holidays, which overall provide a reasonably competitive package comparable with that provided by other major companies.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 31 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Summary directors remuneration report 1 Mr R A Bakers other benefits include 200,000 and 244,375 compensation for the loss of his part vested Asda share options Share awards in respect of prior periods and short term bonus respectively, and 17,422 being the cost of legal advice met by the company.
He will also receive a further The value of share awards in respect of prior periods which have vested and been exercised in the year 200,000 compensation for loss of part vested Asda share options in 2004 05. is shown in the table below: 2 Mr P Batemans other benefits include 60,000 in respect of relocation expenses relating to the sale of his former home in Brussels.
Share Share Value Value 3 Mr B Clares salary for 2003 Included nine months salary in lieu of notice and 67,500 in respect of short term bonus.
He and Date Share value value at value at received received certain of his dependants surrendered their entitlements under the unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme, and interest at date vesting exercise 2004 2003 received a total of 1.2m being the actuarial value of these benefits.
The company also met the cost of certain legal and awarded of award 2004 2004 000 000 financial advice given to Mr B Clare.
R A Baker 4 Mr K S Piggott remained an employee of the company until 31st December 2003 and received, in addition to the sums P Bateman stated in this table, a salary of 135,938 and short term bonus of 38,579 in respect of the period from 1st April 2003 to H Dodd 31st December 2003, and a salary of 45,313 and short term bonus of 11,328 in respect of the period from 1st January 2003 to 31st March 2003.
S G Russell 1st April 1996 599p 626p 664.5p 119 73 5 Mr S G Russells other payments on termination include accrued holiday pay of 71,308, a retirement payment of 42,792, A P Smith 1st April 1996 599p 626p 645.5p 20 9 and 16,500 being the cost of legal advice met by the company.
Mr Russell was credited with one years additional service in 139 82 his pension arrangements, and will participate pro rata where appropriate in LTBS performance periods ending on or before 31st March 2005.
6 The value of the shares received is based on the middle market price on the date of exercise of the share Mr A P Smiths compensation for loss of office included redundancy payment, ten months salary in lieu of notice and 201,167 awards, and is the value upon which liability to income tax and National Insurance is calculated.
in respect of short term bonus.
His pension arrangements were credited with ten months additional service, and he and certain of his dependants surrendered their entitlements under the unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme, and received a During the year, Mr Clare, Mr Piggott and Mr Thompson, all former directors, exercised share awards total of 352,512 being the actuarial value of these benefits.
He will participate pro rata where appropriate in LTBS performance periods ending on or before 31st March 2005.
The company also met the cost of certain legal, outplacement and financial of 7,757, 7,058 and 18,140 respectively.
The value received at the exercise date was 55,075, 44,944 advice given to Mr A P Smith and of ten months life cover.
The aggregate of directors emoluments before compensation for loss of office, commutation of pension Pension entitlement entitlements and other payments on termination was 3,375,000 2003 3,493,000.
All executive directors in office at 31st March 2004 receive pension entitlements from the companys principal UK defined benefit pension scheme and supplementary pension arrangements which provide Long Term Bonus Scheme LTBS additional benefits aimed at producing a pension of two-thirds final base salary at normal retirement Outcome of the 2000 04 performance cycle age, subject to completing 20 years service and subject to revenue limits.
Non-executive directors are For this cycle, the company achieved position five in the league table.
Accordingly, the long term bonus not members of any company pension arrangements.
Pension entitlement is calculated only on the units earned by executive directors including amounts relating to periods of service before appointment salary element of remuneration.
to the board and service after retiring from the board are set out in the following table and will be paid in June 2004.
For serving directors, half will be paid in cash and the remaining half will be paid as a grant Those directors who are subject to the earnings cap are also members of an unfunded unapproved of a share award as shown below: pension arrangement which provides similar benefits on basic salary in excess of the earnings cap.
The award will be paid wholly in cash in June 2004, amounting to 186,213.
32 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Group profit and loss account 1 For the year ended 31st March 2004 Restated 2004 2003 m m Turnover Turnover from continuing operations 5,326.4 5,087.5 Discontinued operation 234.9 Turnover: group and share of joint ventures 5,326.4 5,322.4 Less: share of joint ventures turnover 1.4 2.1 Group turnover 5,325.0 5,320.3 Operating profit Operating profit from continuing operations 551.2 532.3 Discontinued operation 22.5 Group operating profit 551.2 554.8 Share of operating loss of joint ventures 1.1 13.2 Total operating profit including share of joint ventures 550.1 541.6 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 32.5 5.1 Provision for loss on closure of operations 3.9 34.5 Loss on disposal of business 123.2 Profit on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 586.5 389.0 2 Net interest payable receivable and similar items 5.5 103.4 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 581.0 492.4 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 167.7 191.9 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 413.3 300.5 Equity minority interests 0.7 0.5 Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 412.6 300.0 Dividends paid and proposed 226.3 230.7 Retained profit for the financial year 186.3 69.3 Basic earnings per share 52.9p 35.8p Basic earnings per share before exceptionals 48.2p 45.0p Diluted earnings per share 52.8p 35.7p Diluted earnings per share before exceptionals 48.0p 44.9p 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition.
2 2003 includes exceptional items of 92.1m relating to the closure of interest rate swaps.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 33 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Balance sheets 1 1 31st March 2004 Restated 31st March 2004 Restated Group Group Company Company Group Group Company Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m m m m m Fixed assets Capital and reserves Intangible assets 281.5 301.3 Called up share capital 193.9 203.5 193.9 203.5 Tangible assets 1,499.4 1,516.5 Share premium account 0.3 0.3 Investments 74.7 84.7 1,106.7 1,387.4 Revaluation reserve 244.2 260.3 Capital redemption reserve 15.2 5.6 15.2 5.6 1,855.6 1,902.5 1,106.7 1,387.4 Merger reserve 310.8 310.8 Current assets Profit and loss account 1,116.9 1,189.2 1,503.4 992.3 Stocks 690.8 638.6 Equity shareholders funds 1,881.3 1,969.4 1,712.8 1,201.4 Debtors falling due within one year 516.0 536.6 1,205.3 4.6 Equity minority interests 1.2 0.5 Debtors falling due after more than one year 165.9 114.0 502.6 Current asset investments and deposits 239.1 293.1 223.0 275.0 1,882.5 1,969.9 1,712.8 1,201.4 Cash at bank and in hand 110.5 203.4 24.5 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition.
1,722.3 1,785.7 1,930.9 304.1 The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 26th May 2004 and are signed on Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 1,135.3 1,155.6 455.2 175.1 its behalf by: Net current assets 587.0 630.1 1,475.7 129.0 Total assets less current liabilities 2,442.6 2,532.6 2,582.4 1,516.4 Richard Baker Creditors: Amounts falling due after more Chief Executive than one year 382.9 401.8 869.6 315.0 Provisions for liabilities and charges 177.2 160.9 Howard Dodd Net assets 1,882.5 1,969.9 1,712.8 1,201.4 Chief Financial Officer 1 Restated on adoption of FRS5 Application Note G on revenue recognition.
34 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Group cash flow statement Group cash flow statement Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt For the year ended 31st March 2004 2004 2003 For the year ended 31st March 2004 2004 2003 m m m m Cash inflow from operating activities 637.8 582.3 Decrease increase in cash in the year 52.3 60.3 Cash inflow from change in liquid resources 53.5 15.8 Returns on investment and servicing of finance Cash outflow from change in borrowings and lease financing 16.9 46.0 Interest paid 40.4 16.1 1 Interest received 17.8 91.9 Movement in net debt resulting from cash flows 88.9 90.5 Dividends paid by subsidiaries to minority interests 0.8 Finance lease additions 4.2 1.8 Increase in value of investment in 10.125% bond 2017 5.8 22.6 75.0 Currency and other non-cash adjustments 3.9 0.3 Taxation 166.2 196.7 Movement in net debt during the year 97.0 94.8 Capital expenditure and financial investment Opening net debt 51.5 146.3 Purchase of fixed assets 194.2 145.8 Closing net debt 148.5 51.5 Disposal of fixed assets 149.6 118.6 Disposal of own shares 2.3 3.1 Net debt comprises cash, liquid resources, finance leases and all other borrowings.
42.3 24.1 Acquisitions and disposals 2.2 358.1 Equity dividends paid 229.1 238.3 Cash inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 175.4 556.3 Management of liquid resources Decrease in short term deposits 53.5 15.8 Financing Capital element of finance lease rental agreements 5.9 8.1 Decrease in other borrowings 11.0 37.9 Cash outflow from change in borrowings and lease financing 16.9 46.0 Issue of ordinary share capital net of expenses 0.3 0.3 Repurchase of shares 264.6 465.5 281.2 511.8 Decrease increase in cash in the year 52.3 60.3 1 Including exceptional interest received of 53.8m in the year to 31st March 2003.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 35 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Shareholder information Annual general meeting Registrar and transfer office The annual general meeting will be held at 11.00 am on Thursday, 22nd July 2004 at the Queen Elizabeth II Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH.
Most shareholders excluding those in Canada and the USA will have the opportunity to reinvest Analysis of shareholders at 31st March 2004: their cash dividend in existing shares bought on the London Stock Exchange through a dividend reinvestment Shareholding range Number % Total holding % plan.
All applications to join that plan or amend existing instructions under it must be received by the 1500 45,235 42.37 9,996,773 1.29 companys registrars by 5.00 pm on 23rd July 2004.
For more information Interim statement circulated November 2004 on unauthorised investment firms targeting UK investors, visit the website of the Financial Services Authority at Preliminary announcement of full year results May 2005 www.
36 Boots Group PLC Annual Review 2004 CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Designed and produced by Corporate Edge Copy by Lindsay Camp People photography by Patrick Harrison Printed by St Ives Westerham Press This product is completely biodegradable and recyclable CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final Boots Group PLC 1 Thane Road West Nottingham NG2 3AA Tel: 0115 950 6111 www.
com CR6030 Boots Annual Review 2004 28.05.2004 final
