Operating and financial review Finance Overview Egg UK Revenues Net interest income increased by almost 10% to 288 million compared to 2003 which is a pleasing result against the background of stiff competition for card balances and the margin squeeze caused by rising base rates during 2004.
Non-interest income grew 53 million 34% to 209 million compared to 2003.
This excellent growth was driven by record personal loan sales with resulting commission income on selling associated insurances up 32 million year on year.
In addition other income on credit cards rose by 17 million reecting the larger book and the reduction in cashback during the year.
profit on disposal of investment securities was 7.5 million in 2004 2003: 5.3 million.
In 2005 we expect other income to continue to grow but the rate of growth will slow compared to 2004.
This primarily reects a tactical decision in December to tighten lending criteria at this stage in the interest rate and credit cycles.
This is expected to lower our personal loans sales volumes in particular with resulting impact on commission income on associated insurances.
Costs Operational and administrative costs were up 8% to 155 million 2003: 144 million.
This compares to revenue growth of 18% and is a key factor in the improvement in the cost income ratio to 48% from 53%.
Moving forward we expect to achieve further economies of scale as we focus on our core UK business and continue to target a cost income ratio of 40% by 2007. profit and loss account by business unit 2004 2003 The full year spend on brand and marketing reached 42 million 2003: m m 34 million which was in line with our revised expectations following the UK strong competition experienced in the first half of the year and our decision Net interest income 287.5 263.2 to support Egg Insure in the final quarter.
Other operating income 209.2 156.4 Development costs were 22 million 2003: 20 million in line with our plans, Egg UK operating income 496.7 419.6 reecting the investment in systems and processes in preparation for IFRS, Operational expenses 154.9 143.7 Basel 2 and other regulatory changes.
Brand and marketing costs 41.6 33.9 The depreciation and amortisation charge of 22 million is higher than 2003 Development costs 22.0 19.9 18 million reecting the investment in assets in the period.
Depreciation and amortisation 22.2 18.3 Amounts written off xed asset investment 4.3 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 182.4 126.7 Egg UK operating profit 73.6 72.8 Other international 4.2 Subsidiaries Funds Direct 19.7 1.7 Transaction costs 6.4 Restructuring costs 3.0 10.3 UK segmental operating profit 44.5 56.6 22-23 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Operating and financial review Finance profit and loss account by business unit Bad debt provisions 2004 2003 Credit quality remains good and the increasing provision levels reect the m m continuing growth in the unsecured lending portfolio, the stage in the life cycle France of the card and loan books and the increasing proportion of personal loans in Net interest income 6.6 5.7 the book.
The Q4 charge for bad and doubtful debts of 53 million was in line Other operating income 0.5 1.3 with expectations, given the strong growth in lending balances in the quarter.
Egg France operating income 7.1 4.4 Similarly the full year charge of 182 million 2003: 127 million reects the increased balance growth and the greater mix of loans in the unsecured book, Operational expenses 36.6 45.3 with the charge as a percentage of 12 month lagged assets remaining stable Brand and marketing costs 2.4 26.0 at 3.8% year on year for the unsecured lending portfolio.
However within the Development costs 1.7 3.4 portfolio, we have seen the credit card bad debt charge improve to 2.4% of Depreciation and amortisation 7.2 8.5 lagged assets in 2004, driven by higher recoveries than expected, 2003: 3.1% Provisions for bad and and the personal loan charge deteriorate to 6.2% 2003: 5.4% of lagged assets, doubtful debts 20.1 10.3 due to the stage in the life cycle of the portfolio given the relative immaturity of Utilisation of provision for the book.
Moving forward the impact of our decision to tighten lending criteria, cost on termination of discontinued operation 25.9 allied to the fact that the personal loan book will have matured further, should see the charge as a percentage of lagged assets reduce signicantly on loans.
Egg France operating loss net of provision 35.0 89.1 This should more than offset the projected small increase in credit card Restructuring costs 2.1 charges, given that the benefit of the improved recoveries performance has now been reected in the provisions.
France segmental operating loss 37.1 89.1 At year end bad debt provisions on the balance sheet represented 3.2% of Group operating profit loss 7.4 32.5 assets compared to 2.8% in 2003, with the higher mix of unsecured borrowing Provision for loss on as compared to mortgages in the retail asset portfolio being the main factor termination of discontinued behind the increase.
operations 112.8 Share of associates and Egg France and provision for loss on termination of discontinued operations joint ventures 1.3 1.9 Operating losses in France were 35 million up until 13 July 2004 when the Group loss before tax 106.7 34.4 decision to withdraw from the market was announced.
At that point a provision of 113 million 1170 million was raised for the estimated costs of exit.
The main components of the exit costs provision are cumulative loss on disposal on the lending, savings and brokerage businesses 39 million, future operating losses 32 million and redundancy costs under the agreed social plan 25 million.
Of the 113 million, 96 million has now been utilised including exchange credit adjustments of 4 million, leaving 17 million on the balance sheet to cover the remaining exit costs which include closing out various contracts, completing the handover of the lending and savings businesses and winding down the current account business.
Our expectations with regard to the total exit costs for France remain unchanged.
The remaining 2 million charged to restructuring costs related to exit costs on one of our leased properties within Egg France in Q1 2004 prior to the decision to withdraw from the market there.
Egg Card a first class performer Since launching the first ever 0% on balance transfers and new A good portion purchases, Egg Card continues to grow.
Our share of total credit 2004: 6.18% card balances in the UK has steadily grown since launch and now stands at over 6%.
2003: 5.78% 2002: 4.93% 2001: 4.23% 2000: 2.47% 24-25 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Operating and financial review Finance Subsidiaries The 20 million loss in 2004 primarily reects the impairment charge of 17 million booked against the full carrying value of Funds Directs underlying assets following the decision, in conjunction with Prudential, to put the company up for sale.
On consolidation 1 million of this charge is reversed within the minority interest calculation.
Transaction costs These costs relate to incremental expenses incurred in relation to the process whereby Prudential was considering proposals for its shareholding in Egg.
The main cost within the 6 million for the full year was the loyalty bonus scheme for all Egg People that paid out in October which was used as a retention tool during the auction process with the balance made up of legal and other advisory fees and an additional retention bonus put in place for senior management.
Restructuring costs The 3 million cost provision related to the migration and other exit costs associated with the transfer of our funds supermarket business to Fidelity Funds Network, which will lead to annual savings of a similar amount moving forward.
Associates joint ventures There was a loss of 2 million including goodwill amortisation on IfOnline Group Limited IfOnline.
Marlborough Sterling Mortgage Services Limited MSMS made a small profit in the year.
Taxation The tax credit was 14 million 2003: 1 million.
This increase can largely be attributed to the higher Group loss incurred following the decision to exit 2004 2003 m m Eggs business in France.
Capital base Shareholders funds Tier 1 capital 336.5 474.2 Shareholders funds at 31 December 2004 were 339 million 2003: Tier 2 capital 336.5 474.2 433 million restated.
The principal elements in the movement on Total capital 673.0 948.4 shareholders funds during the year were the retained losses of 91 million.
Less: investments in certain The loss per share was 11.1p 2003: 4.0p.
subsidiaries, associated Accounting policies undertakings and other supervisory deductions 35.7 88.9 The accounting policies are presented on pages 63 to 65.
There have been no material changes to the policies during the year apart from the adoption 637.3 859.5 of UITF Abstract 17 Revised and UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for Employee Risk-weighted assets Share Schemes and Option Plans, the effect of which is shown in note 1 a On balance sheet 5,086.3 4,895.4 of the financial statements.
Off balance sheet 14.0 14.4 5,100.3 4,909.8 Capital resources The table shown analyses the Groups capital resources at 31 December % % in accordance with supervisory requirements.
Risk asset ratio It is the Groups policy to maintain an appropriate capital base and to utilise it efficiently Total capital ratio 12.5 17.
5 throughout its activities, with the aim of optimising the return to shareholders whilst maintaining a prudent relationship between the capital base and the underlying risks of the business.
In carrying out this policy a guiding factor is the supervisory requirements of the Financial Services Authority.
We are required to maintain a minimum capital adequacy ratio, the risk asset ratio, expressed in terms of the ratio of capital to the risk weighted value of assets and contingent liabilities.
Egg Banking has now securitised 2.25 billion of credit card receivables to a special purpose vehicle, Arch Term Limited.
These transactions were carried out primarily for capital efficiency reasons and as a result, these receivables are not required to be included as risk weighted assets in our capital adequacy calculations for regulatory purposes.
In addition Egg currently has in place further capital efficiency initiatives, with a credit default swap on $1.6 billion of asset-backed securities within our treasury investment portfolio and a credit derivative covering 1.75 billion of mortgage receivables.
Capital ratios for Egg Banking plc at 31 December 2004 were 7.9% tier 1 and 13.0% total 31 December 2003: 10.0% tier 1 and 17.5% total.
On a consolidated basis the total capital ratio was 12.5% 2003: 17.5%.
The reduction in capital ratios predominantly reects the provision for exit costs in France and impairment charge on Funds Direct.
Egg remains well capitalised and the Board believes that future retained profits at Group level and other capital management options available to Egg should enable us to grow the business in line with our plans and maintain the banks tier 1 capital ratio in our target range of 7% to 9%.
During 2005, we intend to undertake a restructuring of share capital and reserves with a view to eliminating the Companys profit and loss deficit against other reserves, including the share premium account.
This restructuring will allow the payment of dividends as and when sufficient distributable reserves have been generated and the Board considers it to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders.
This process will require approval of a Special Resolution to be presented to the Companys shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, following that, approval by the High Court.
Investment policy Surplus retail and wholesale liabilities are invested in debt securities, including certicates of deposit, government gilts and other high investment grade assets.
At 31 December 2004, 88% of the treasury asset portfolio was invested in securities rated AAA or AA and only 1% rated below investment grade.
Risk management Through its normal operations, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are credit, operational, liquidity, market and currency risk.
The overall responsibility for risk management and the risk appetite of the Group is set by the Board and responsibility for managing these risks resides with the Executive Committee.
The exposure to specic risks is monitored by the Executive Committee through separate committees: Retail Credit Committee is responsible for retail credit risk, Wholesale Credit Committee is responsible for wholesale credit risk, Operational Risk Committee for operational risk and Asset and Liability Committee ALCO for liquidity, market and currency risk.
26-27 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Operating and financial review Finance An unsecured lending business of some scale With our innovative, transparent An open approach and fair approach to lending we have built a healthy unsecured lending business which has seen balances nearly double over the last two years.
2002: 3,297m 2001: 2,355m 2000: 1,356m 1999: 415m 2004: 6,204m 2003: 4,788m 28-29 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Operating and financial review Finance Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that counterparties will not be able to meet their obligations as they fall due.
The most important step in managing this risk is the initial decision whether or not to extend credit.
The Retail and Wholesale Credit Committees define the policies, procedures and sets limits for accepting credit risk.
The day-to-day management of credit risk is devolved to the Retail Credit and Wholesale Credit functions.
Within the Retail Credit function full use is made of software technology and external bureaus in credit scoring both new and top-up lending applications.
Collections activity is centralised and systems are used to prioritise actions, including the placement of debt with external collections agencies.
The Wholesale Credit function monitors the Treasury functions counterparty credit quality through the analysis of qualitative and quantitative information.
The Wholesale Credit Committee sets limits for exposures to individual countries, sectors and corporate and financial institutions and compliance with these limits is monitored by the Wholesale Credit function, which is independent of the Treasury function.
Operational risk Operational risk is caused by failures in business processes or the systems or physical infrastructure that support them that have the potential to result in financial loss or reputational damage.
This includes human error, omissions, systems failure, lack of resources or physical assets and deliberate acts such as fraud.
The management of such risk is an intrinsic part of every business managers role.
In addition a number of specialist support functions provide centralised expertise in operational risk areas such as fraud, financial services compliance, information security and business continuity planning.
Our approach is to ensure business managers identify, assess, prioritise and effectively manage all substantive risks.
An operational risk management unit supports this activity to ensure that a co-ordinated and cost-effective approach is taken and reports to Operational Risk Committee on a monthly basis.
Each department and business line has compiled a risk prole, which sets out the internal assessment of risk together with appropriate risk responses and where necessary any actions required to reduce, transfer or avoid the risk.
These proles are subject to regular review by the operational risk management team and validation by the Group Internal Audit function according to the priorities implied.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is dened as the Group not having sufficient financial resources available to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
The Groups liquidity is managed by the Treasury function and monitored by ALCO.
The Group ensures its liquidity always exceeds minimum levels agreed with the Financial Services Authority.
The Treasury function use various methods including predictions of daily cash positions to monitor and manage liquidity risk.
Maturity mismatches between lending and funding are managed within internal risk policy limits.
Treasury ensures that it holds sufficient assets, which are immediately realisable into cash without significant exposure to market risks or costs, to cover a realistic estimate of retail funds that could be withdrawn.
While a significant proportion of retail savings balances are on instant access terms, in practice the majority of such funds represent a relatively stable and consistent funding base for the Group.
Market risk The primary market risk to which the Group is exposed is interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk arises in the Groups balance sheet as a result of xed rate, variable rate and non-interest bearing assets and liabilities.
Exposure to interest rate movements arises when there is a mismatch between interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities.
The composition of interest rate risk is closely monitored and managed on a day-to-day basis by Treasury where professional expertise and systems exist to control it.
This is primarily done via asset and liability models that look at the sensitivity of earnings to movements in interest rates to measure overall exposure which may then be hedged in accordance with policy limits set by ALCO.
Currency risk The risks arising from assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are managed by the Treasury function within agreed limits set by ALCO.
During the year cash ows generated by the foreign currency assets and liabilities are hedged using derivatives contracts to manage exposure to exchange rate uctuations.
30-31 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Operating and financial review Finance Very competitive 2003: 3,015m 2002: 2,330m 2004 was another good year for Egg Card In 2004 we built upon our market first 0% introductory offer by giving new and existing Egg Card customers an additional 0% balance transfer offer each year, every year.
Perhaps that is why customers are still choosing to manage their borrowing with us.
2004: 3,586m 32-33 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Operating and financial review Finance Derivatives The Group uses derivative instruments for the purpose of supporting the strategic and operational business activities of the Group and reducing and eliminating the risk of loss arising from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Derivatives are used solely to hedge risk exposure and the Group takes no trading position in derivatives.
For the purpose of reducing interest rate risk, the Group uses a number of derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, interest rate options, caps, futures and forward rate agreements.
Additionally swaps are used to provide caps to the funding costs of the credit card product.
General use has also been made of credit derivatives to manage credit risk without changing the underlying product or investment portfolios.
For the purpose of reducing currency risk, the Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and currency options see note 33.
ALCO regularly reviews the Groups policies relating to the use of derivatives and the controls and procedures in place to manage risk exposure.
All of the Groups derivatives activity is contracted with authorised financial institutions.
Basel 2 accord Our programme to put in place the required risk and capital management capability in preparation for the introduction of the new Basel 2 Capital Adequacy Standards in 2007 continues.
We have made significant achievements over the last 12 months.
These include: Implementation of more advanced credit risk assessment rating methodologies and tools for the material retail and treasury portfolios.
Revision to our operational risk and controls assessment methodology.
Updates to our risk governance structure and responsibilities to bring into line with the Basel 2 requirements.
This programme will continue into 2005, with the focus on establishing improved capital management and reporting processes.
IFRS Following the adoption of Regulation No.
1606 2002 on the 19 July 2002 by the European Parliament, the Group, along with all other European listed entities, will be required to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union EU for years beginning 1 January 2005.
Egg will apply IFRS in its annual report for the year ended 31 December 2005, and will prepare 2004 comparatives under IFRS, excluding the impact of IAS 32 and 39.
The Groups first reporting period under IFRS will be for the three months ended 31 March 2005.
The Group has been undertaking detailed work over the course of the past two years towards the implementation of IFRS and it is on target to achieve IFRS compliance in time for its first IFRS reporting deadline.
In ensuring full IFRS compliance, the Groups implementation project has covered all aspects of the business, ranging from changes in accounting policies and reporting systems to the training of staff.
The introduction of IFRS will not signicantly affect the Groups underlying business or its cash ows.
However, it does represent a significant change to its accounting and reporting.
The following is a summary of the likely key impacts of these changes for the Group.
For this purpose, the Group has assumed that all existing standards from the International Accounting Standards Board IASB will be fully endorsed by the EU for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Wholesale assets will be classied as available for sale and held at fair value with unrealised gains and losses reected in equity rather than the income statement.
Liabilities will be measured at amortised cost with no effect compared to UK GAAP except where set-up fees had been previously expensed but should now, under IFRS, be capitalised and amortised.
Derivatives will be the only products for which changes in fair value will affect the result for the year.
However, for interest rate swaps which economically hedge xed rate personal loans, by matching them against the variable rate savings book, Egg will apply macro cash ow hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Changes in the fair value of these hedges will be recorded direct to equity in the balance sheet and not the income statement except where hedging is ineffective.
The impact of the other IAS 39 changes to the accounting for retail products such as adjustments for effective interest rate calculations, dormant accounts, and bad debts is dependent on a range of factors but, based on current indications, is expected to be relatively neutral overall.
Of the remaining standards, IFRS 2 on share-based payment represents the biggest change.
Egg will now recognise an annual charge in the profit and loss account over the relevant vesting period based on the fair value of the share and option schemes as calculated using option pricing models at grant date.
Overall, we anticipate that the impact of IFRS on earnings in 2005 will not be material compared to the current market consensus profit before tax for Eggs UK business, which has been prepared on a UK GAAP basis.
In addition the impact on shareholders funds on transition is expected to be a reduction of less than 5%.
The impact on regulatory capital will likely be even lower if as expected the fair value adjustments are excluded by the FSA from the calculation of risk-asset ratios.
