Financial Review Our 2004 results represent a year of strong profit growth.
As in the past we report our results on two bases: achieved profit and Modied Statutory Solvency MSS.
The achieved profit basis has been developed by the Association of British Insurers.
We believe it provides a more representative reection of the performance of long-term business that fully recognises the shareholders interest in the in-force portfolio.
The MSS basis is required under legislation for reporting long-term insurance business results.
It is an extension of the statutory requirement designed to demonstrate solvency.
We will adopt the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis of reporting from the interim results 2005.
IFRS will replace the MSS basis of reporting.
In addition to these two bases a number of initiatives are underway which will lead to changes in reporting in future.
The European Insurers Chief Financial Ofcers CFO Forum agreed a timetable for the introduction of changes to the achieved profit basis of reporting, known as the European Embedded Value Basis.
We believe this methodology will lead to an improvement in the achieved profits basis of reporting and it is our intention to adopt this basis from year-end 2005 in accordance with the agreed timetable.
Financial Highlights 344m 317m 7.55p Operating profit on Operating profit on modied Dividend per share achieved profit basis statutory solvency basis 2003: 7.40p 2003: 266m 2003: 260m 24 Friends Provident stated before amortisation of goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax Those in Group Finance and Actuarial Services are among the unsung heroes who routinely burn the midnight oil to meet the welter of new financial regulations affecting our industry.
And doing it in a manner that maintains a resilient balance sheet, supporting ongoing profitable growth and increasing value for shareholders.
Pictured are Simon Moss, Tara Burton and Malcolm Channing of Group Finance.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 25 Financial Review continued At the end of this report, we publish information in respect of the Groups life and pensions business based on the forthcoming new accounting rules, contained in FRS 27.
These rules are coming into force in 2005 but, in line with industry best practice, we are providing disclosures this year in accordance with a memorandum of understanding signed by the Accounting Standards Board, Association of British Insurers and leading insurance companies.
Contribution to profits Achieved profit result from life and pensions 2004 2003 new business m Achieved profit highlights m m Group achieved operating profit 344 266 Operating profit on ordinary activities before tax 267 227 Contribution from new business 83 80 New business margin 19.1% 18.6% Experience variances 2 23 Effect of changes in operating assumptions 9 11 Development costs 15 23 Asset Management operating profit 40 26 before amortisation of goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax The 29% increase in Group achieved operating profit Life and pensions for 2004 is mainly due to the effect of higher opening new business margin % value of in-force business, improved operating performance and a stronger asset management result.
The key components of profit are discussed below.
The contribution from new business is before allowing for the cost of solvency capital and the pension service charge on an FRS17 basis.
The contribution from new business has grown for three consecutive years, and has increased by 54% to 83 million in 2004 from 54 million in 2001.
As expected, there was an adverse impact of approximately two percentage points in the underlying margin relative to 2003 as a result of the changes in economic assumptions mainly the increase in the risk discount rate from 7.0% Embedded value bn to 7.3%.
This has been more than offset by strong expense control and an improved mix of business.
The experience variance includes the shareholders share of one-off transaction costs relating to our securitisation concluded in December 2004 amounting to 12 million.
This is more than offset by positive experience variances, most notably expenses.
The effect of changes in operating assumptions includes an allowance for increased lapses and longevity in the UK, as highlighted in December, offset by improved persistency in our international business and lower expenses.
Development costs represent mainly expenditure on our advanced electronic trading systems and e-commerce related activities.
These costs are expected to increase modestly in 2005 as we invest in further service-enhancing technology and strategic infrastructure to improve our product proposition in preparation for a depolarised distribution environment.
26 Friends Provident 01 3.5 01 15.7 01 54 02 2.6 02 02 66 17.5 03 2.8 03 18.6 03 80 04 3.2 04 19.1 04 83 Modied statutory solvency result The charge to shareholders has been offset by Analysis of modied statutory solvency operating a release in the pensions mis-selling provision profit for the year ended 31 December amounting to 13 million.
Overall, the net charge 2004 2003 to shareholders for the year amounts to 14 million.
m m Our 51% owned asset management operation With profits Fund with profit business 7 13 increased its contribution to consolidated Group Other life business 109 68 operating profits from 26 million in 2003 to Longer-term investment return 85 87 40 million in 2004, following the merger with Asset Management operating profit 40 26 F&C in October 2004.
Before amortisation of Other shareholder income less charges 2 5 goodwill, exceptional items and the cost of the Taxation including the tax credit Reinvestment Plan, F&C earnings per share on the long-term business technical account 78 71 increased 16% to 14.0 pence 2003: 12.0 pence Operating profit before amortisation of and the F&C operating margin was 36% compared goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax 317 260 with 33% in 2003.
Funds under management were Operating profit on ordinary activities before tax 228 209 125 billion at 31 December 2004 2003: 63 bn.
The contribution from pre-demutualisation with Dividend profits business being the shareholders share of The total dividend for 2004 of 7.55 pence per share the cost of bonuses was 7 million and is likely to including the proposed final dividend of 5.0 pence remain a modest contributor to Group profits as per share represents a comparative increase of 2.0% bonuses have continued to reduce.
over the 2003 dividend of 7.40 pence per share.
The proposed dividend for the year is covered The improved result in 2004 is attributable to a 1.5 times by operating profit of 225 million before number of sources of increased profit, including amortisation of goodwill and operating exceptional annual management charges on higher asset values, items, after tax attributable to equity shareholders.
increased profits on a growing book of conventional life business, an increased contribution from F&C Operating expenses and a number of one-off items.
These more than Cost control remains a key area of focus and we offset the adverse effect of the mortality basis continue to introduce a number of initiatives to change for annuity business announced in enhance the cost efficiency of the Group.
We have restructured our Appointed Representative Other shareholder income less charges comprises business to focus on protection and mortgage related the expected return on the net pension liability products, which, combined with the cost savings and corporate costs.
realised in connection with the closure of our direct salesforce in 2003, amount to total cost savings of The balance on the long-term business technical 21 million p. a. account is net of tax incurred and the MSS rules require this balance to be grossed up at Acquisition expenses continue to benefit from the the appropriate rate of tax, being 30%, to arrive efficiencies gained through the increasing volumes of at the operating profit.
new business now being transacted online and the new business processing facility established in India The endowment complaints provision was increased last year.
In 2004, 65% of Investment Portfolio Bond to 128 million at the end of 2004 end 2003: 64m business and virtually all of our group pensions with claims and costs paid in the year of 66 million business was transacted online.
The majority of complaints relate business, this grew signicantly to 52% from 38% to with profits fund policies.
Of the 130 million in 2003. charge made in 2004, 14 million relates to pre-demutualisation unit linked policies, in which The integration of ISIS and F&C is progressing well shareholders have a 60% interest, resulting in and we continue to forecast 33 million of cost an operating exceptional charge of 8 million.
savings by the first half of 2006, predominantly through reduction in headcount, reduced costs of A review of some past sales by our direct salesforce premises and integration outsourcing of IT.
We which is now closed is being undertaken.
A provision expect to deliver about two thirds of this reduction of 22 million, of which 19 million is attributable to in 2005.
One-off costs of the integration are forecast shareholders, has been established to cover the to be of the order of 50 million.
expected costs of the review and redress payments mainly in respect of inheritance tax planning policies.
We expect to continue to maintain our UK life and Both this provision and the endowment complaints pensions operating expenses, excluding commission, provision could change as a result of future regulatory at a broadly stable level while continuing to expand actions that cannot be reliably estimated.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 27 Financial Review continued Shareholders Funds Pro forma embedded value 2004 2003 bn bn Shareholders funds 3.2 2.8 Represented by Group embedded value, comprising: Shareholders invested net assets 1.0 1.2 Value of in-force Life & Pensions business 1.6 1.3 Market value of Asset Management business 0.6 0.3 Funds under The embedded value on a pro forma basis, after management bn accruing for payment of the proposed final dividend, was up 17% compared with 31 December 2003 due to a strong achieved profit result and an increase in the market value of F&C.
In connection with the acquisition of F&C, the Group raised 229 million after expenses through the issue of 172 million new shares in July 2004 and issued 92 million shares to Eureko B. V. in October 2004 as part of the purchase consideration.
At the end of 2003 we took account of the cost of capital notionally assumed to be backing our Risk Capital Margin RCM.
This cost arises from the use of lower future investment return assumptions Dividends than the risk discount rate on the capital notionally pence per share assumed to be backing the RCM.
This cost of lock-in Annualised has been reduced to 27 million 2003: 39m as a result of improved RCM coverage from within the with profits fund.
Over the course of 2004 the value of our in-force business increased by 261 million to over 1.6 billion.
Over the same period our shareholder invested net assets, which are the best indication of our net cash position, reduced by 152 million to 1.0 billion after allowing for our dividend of 152 million.
After allowing for the investment return achieved in the year of 92 million, the dividend from F&C and exceptional items, the net operating strain was approximately 80 million 2003: 70m.
In December 2004, we completed the securitisation of a dened book of pre-demutualisation business, raising 380 million of cash.
A transfer of 60% of the benefit will be made to shareholders funds to finance the continued growth in our business.
This has been treated as Group borrowings on both an achieved profit and an MSS basis.
Although this has added to group borrowings, it is non-recourse nancing and consequently has been supportive of our credit ratings.
The Groups long-term borrowings net of capitalised issue costs have increased to 1,175 million at 31 December 2004 2003: 797m.
These borrowings consist of: 28 Friends Provident 01 7.00 01 34 02 7.25 02 60 03 7.40 03 63 04 7.55 04 125 Coupon 2004 2003 % m m Friends Provident Undated subordinated guaranteed bonds 9.125 215 215 remains nancially Convertible bonds due 2007 5.25 290 290 Step-up Tier One Insurance strong and our financial Capital Securities 6.875 300 300 Securitisation Notes standing has been further A1 due 2016 3 month LIBOR 0.20 280 A2 due 2019 3 month LIBOR 0.23 100 improved in 2004.
Net capitalised issue costs 10 8 Total 1,175 797 The interest charge attributable to shareholders amounted to 60 million, up from 41 million in 2003 following our Tier One capital issue in November 2003.
At 31 December 2004 the shareholders invested net assets were invested broadly in a mix of 73% equities and 27% xed income securities and cash with profits fund has increased to 131 million from before allowing for the proposed dividend.
It remains our intention over time Embedded value per share on a pro forma basis at the to have the major part of the RCM met from within end of 2004 was up to 166 pence 2003: 160 pence the with profits fund.
after the total dividend for the year of 7.55 pence.
If the RCM is compared to FPLPs total available capital of 1,756 million, we are covered over 6 Financial Strength times.
Available capital consists of FPLP shareholder Friends Provident remains nancially strong and our assets, the surplus in the non profit fund of FPLP, financial standing has been further improved in 2004.
50% of the embedded value profits arising in the The FSA published the Integrated Prudential non profit fund of FPLP of 205 million, less the Sourcebook at the end of 2004.
This is the capital requirements of the non profit fund.
culmination of three years of work between the FSA and leading life and pensions companies.
Regulatory Solvency It includes the new regulatory reporting framework As FPLP now reports under the realistic basis, new that has been formally introduced at the end of regulatory valuation rules apply.
These focus solely 2004 for with profits business.
on the adequacy of resources to meet existing guaranteed benets.
An explicit resilience capital Realistic Solvency requirement is held in addition to test capital We continue to manage the with profits business of adequacy in stressed investment conditions.
Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited FPLP The results of the regulatory and realistic basis on the basis of our realistic balance sheet RBS.
As calculations are then compared after applying stress per the position at 31 December 2003, the FPLP with tests to each and the more onerous requirement is profits assets exceed the liabilities, including the cost applied.
For FPLP the more onerous requirement is of guaranteed benets and options calculated on a currently that calculated on a regulatory basis.
Surplus assets increased by 50 million to 131 million at the end of 2004.
The changes to the regulatory capital calculation in 2004 have had the effect of increasing the regulatory One of the important features of the RBS is its free capital by about 238 million.
These changes resilience in the event of falls or rises in investment have not impacted the MSS profit but have improved markets.
In large measure this is due to actions we the fund for future appropriations.
have taken to hedge the provisions made to cover the cost of guarantees and options.
We have signicantly strengthened the assumptions that we make about future improvements in In addition to calculating assets and liabilities on annuitant mortality.
Our valuation basis now assumes a realistic basis, we are required to hold an RCM.
improvements will be the average of medium cohort The RCM is assessed by stress testing elements of and long cohort for males and 75% of this average the basis.
To the extent we have hedged option and improvement rate for females.
guarantee costs, this will be reected in a smaller RCM requirement.
The RCM at 31 December 2004 We concluded the securitisation of a dened book was 279 million 308m at 30 June 2004 and of pre-demutualisation business in December 2004.
216m at end of 2003, using different stress tests.
As a result, we have terminated our stop loss The element of the RCM covered from within the reinsurance agreement 2003: 300m and reduced Annual Report & Accounts 2004 29 Financial Review continued With profits Investments The Group has The proportion of equities and property backing the FPLP with profits fund asset shares the Equity continued to make Backing Ratio is substantially unchanged at 48% 2003: 46%.
We continue to actively manage the enhancements to its investment of the guarantee provisions within the fund with a view to minimising risk to policyholders and shareholders.
The investment return achieved by risk management the with profits fund in 2004 was 10.7%.
approach during 2004. Credit Ratings The financial strength credit rating of FPLP from Standard & Poors is A strong with a stable outlook and from Moodys is A2 strong with a stable outlook.
Financial Risk Reduction Life and Pensions Business We have a number of financial guarantees on with profits policies, the value of which varies depending the implicit item to 110 million 2003: 400m.
This on the level of equity markets.
We have purchased has resulted in an improvement in the quality of our long-term put options and sold some equity futures regulatory capital.
to lessen the impact of equity falls and increases in As a result of the above, the Free Asset Ratio for equity volatility on the cost of such guarantees.
FPLP is estimated to have increased to 12.2% at the In respect of our guaranteed annuity options we have end of 2004 end 2003: 10.1% and available assets entered into a number of Sterling interest rate swaps have increased by 366 million to 2,281 million.
and purchased Sterling swaptions that protect us against falls in interest rates.
Group Life and Pensions Capital Position The information at the end of this report contains The conventional assets that back our income a detailed description of the capital position for the protection liabilities are closely matched but leave us life and pensions business of the Group prepared with some vulnerability to changes in interest rates under forthcoming new accounting rules contained at certain terms.
In order to mitigate this, we have in FRS 27.
This shows that the total available capital invested in a series of carefully chosen interest rate resources at 31 December 2004 amounted to swaps whose cash ows match the nature and term 2,037 million, substantially in excess of the capital of cash ows arising from the liabilities more closely.
The Group capital position statement shows that the bulk of the Staff Pension Fund Groups capital is held outside the with profits funds A high proportion of our pension liabilities are either and, consequently, can be deployed around the linked to price ination or to earnings growth, which Group with a high degree of exibility.
has a strong correlation with price ination.
The assets backing these liabilities do not have a significant Group Solvency ination link and there is a risk that the gap between future interest rates and future ination rates The FSA has implemented the provisions of the Insurance Groups Directive in the Integrated narrows.
This could result in the assets becoming insufficient to meet the liabilities.
We have hedged Prudential Sourcebook, which came into effect in December 2004.
Our Group solvency capital against this risk using ination swaps, which protect us against falls in real yields.
requirement at the end of 2004 was well covered by our available Group capital resources.
Lombard International Individual Capital Assessment ICA On 11 January 2005 we completed the acquisition of Lombard.
The initial payment for this acquisition was Over the past two years we have developed an economic capital model which has helped our drive c265 million, settled principally from the issue of 113 million new Friends Provident shares.
Variable for improved capital efficiency.
This model will form the basis for Friends Provident to agree with the FSA payments are to be made in respect of each of the trading years 2004, 2005 and 2006 payable in April the economic capital requirement for each individual the following year.
The first variable payment is company based on an assessment of its own risk due in April 2005, and this is likely to be equal prole ie the ICA.
At the end of 2004, we were one to the maximum payment of c90 million.
We of a few companies to choose to take part in the ICA expect to settle this payment by issuing additional pilot exercise with the FSA.
This has reinforced our Friends Provident shares.
comfort with our methodology and the FSA process.
Represented by the ratio of assets less liabilities including actuarial reserves but before the required minimum solvency margin expressed as a percentage of actuarial reserves.
30 Friends Provident The achieved profit result highlights for Lombard statements in accordance with IFRS from in 2004 were as follows: 1 January 2005.
The Friends Provident Group will therefore prepare interim results for 2005 Lombard 2004 Achieved profit Highlights m under IFRS, rather than UK GAAP.
Contribution from new business 41 IFRS will not materially impact Friends Provident New business margin 32% achieved profit results, embedded value, dividend Operating assumption changes 26 policy or solvency.
IFRS will affect the treatment Achieved operating profit before tax 29 of investment contracts, whilst the treatment of Embedded value at 31 December 2004 141 insurance contracts will be largely unaffected.
The Luxembourg GAAP statutory pre-tax profit The main impact of IFRS on operating profit arises for 2004 was 3.5 million.
from changes in the new rules regarding the deferral of acquisition costs and the calculation of actuarial The contribution from new business was up 32% liabilities for investment products.
These affect the on the previous year as a result of strong growth in timing of profits but have no impact on the total new business.
The margin reduced slightly to 32% amount of profit recognised over the life of the 2003: 33%.
Future growth is likely to come mainly product.
Some acquisition costs, which are deferrable from the private bank and family ofce distribution under UK GAAP, must be written off immediately channels, leading to a continued increase in the under IFRS.
In addition, a change to the calculation average size of policy sold.
We expect good growth of actuarial liabilities will also result in more profit in the overall contribution from new business.
The being deferred to later periods.
IFRS are therefore operating assumption change results mainly from a more prudent version of the MSS basis, increasing a strengthening of lapse rate assumptions.
the reported new business strain, but without giving The pro forma impacts on the Life & Pensions new insights into the profitability of products.
business results had Lombard been acquired We believe the achieved profit basis will continue to with effect from 1 January 2004 are as follows: provide a more representative method of accounting Lombard 2004 Pro forma impacts Pro forma Change for long-term business, particularly as it is developed New business APE 564m 30% by the European Insurers CFO Forum.
Contribution from New Business 124m 49% New Business margin 22.0% 2.9% Management of risk The Group has continued to make enhancements Life & Pensions achieved operating profit 349m 9% to its risk management approach during 2004.
Contribution from new business embedded value 4.3% 1.3% Risk vision and appetite Friends Provident has a clear vision of risk Pension schemes management an environment where consideration The Group operates one principal dened benefit of risk is embedded into business planning, decision scheme, and various schemes operated by F&C making and everyday management.
The Board has Asset Management.
The market value of the assets dened its risk appetite, setting out clearly the of the principal scheme at 31 December 2004 was amount and types of risk that it is comfortable for 700 million.
The principal dened benefit scheme the business to take.
Executive management is has a negligible net deficit of 4 million 2003: deficit now using this risk appetite to assist them in the 3m in relation to the scheme assets after a setting of business and risk strategies.
strengthening of longevity assumption amounting to 26 million.
Contributions recommenced from January Risk framework and process 2004.
Employer contributions were 13%, rising to We have taken further steps to develop our 14% from January 2005 and 15% from January 2006. risk governance structure, which is described Employee contributions were 1% of pensionable pay, within the Corporate Governance Report of the rising to 2% in 2005 and 3% in 2006.
We continue to Report & Accounts.
As explained there, our risk use the FRS17 basis of accounting which allows for processes have been enhanced to facilitate the the charge of current service pension cost.
effective identication, assessment and management of risk, with appropriate risk management approaches The F&C dened benefit schemes are closed to new applied to the different sources of risk.
In addition, the Group also operates two dened contribution schemes, one operated by Strategic risks to which the Group is exposed include F&C Asset Management plc and the other by actions by competitors, distributors, customers, Friends Provident International.
governments and regulators that could impact on our strategy.
These are managed through the active International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS consideration of risk as part of our business planning The European Union requires all European listed process and in new strategic ventures for example, groups to prepare their consolidated financial in our investment activity and strategic partnerships.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 31 Financial Review continued The financial risks to which the Group is exposed comprise market, credit, liquidity and insurance risk including mortality, morbidity, expense and lapse risks.
For each of these classes of risk, we have developed a risk policy that provides an effective control framework for the management of financial risk whilst helping the business to achieve its objectives.
This risk policy reects the risk appetite dened by the Board.
Operational risks include the risk of failure of people, processes and systems, as well as external events.
During 2004, we have designed and implemented a new operational risk process and system which establishes clear ownership of risk within business operations, whilst providing an active focus on control effectiveness and improvement, and facilitating central analysis and reporting of risk.
Economic Capital The Group has continued to develop and rene its economic capital model.
Results from the model continue to provide input to our business decisions concerning the management of risk and capital around the Group.
The model will also form the basis of our Individual Capital Assessment submission to the FSA.
The setting of risk appetite and the development of our economic capital model have informed a number of financial risk strategies which have been undertaken to reduce risk and improve capital efficiency.
Planning and Reporting The overall financial position of the Groups businesses is monitored through regular reports to the Group Board from the Group Finance Director.
This includes reviewing the Groups profitability, embedded value, cashow and balance sheet position, including capital adequacy.
There is a comprehensive business planning and monitoring process for measuring progress against budget.
The Actuarial Function Holder and With profits Actuary report on specic actuarial matters relating to the long-term insurance business, including reports on regulatory valuations, bonus recommendations, realistic balance sheet and financial condition.
Conclusion Our 2004 results represent a year of strong profit growth and earnings diversication: tight expense control: continued reduction in risk: improved cash generation and generating capabilities: and a further strengthening of our balance sheet.
We thus remain confident of continued growth in shareholder value.
Philip Moore Group Finance Director 17 March 2005 32 Friends Provident Supplementary Information in respect of Financial Reporting Standard 27 on Life Assurance Introduction Capital statement In December 2004, the Accounting Standards Board ASB The capital statement in respect of the Groups life and issued Financial Reporting Standard FRS 27 on Life pensions business at 31 December 2004 is set out below.
In summary, FRS 27, which does not apply This statement shows an analysis of the available capital until 2005, requires large with profits life assurance resources calculated on a realistic basis for the FPLP with businesses to account for liabilities including options and profits fund and on a regulatory basis for all other funds.
guarantees realistically and to provide detailed disclosures It also shows the regulatory capital requirements and, of the liabilities and financial strength of the business as a in total, the overall surplus capital over regulatory whole.
At the same time as FRS 27 was issued, a requirements.
In addition the statement provides an Memorandum of Understanding between analysis of policyholders liabilities.
the ABI, ASB and leading insurers, including Friends Provident, was also issued.
The Memorandum sets Basis of calculating available capital resources in life out the disclosures to be made in the 2004 financial and pensions business statements as an interim measure.
In the 2005 financial The available capital of the two UK with profits funds has statements, FRS 27 will require, inter alia, the stating been determined in accordance with FSA regulations and of realistic liabilities in the balance sheet, but there will not includes the Fund For Future Appropriation FFA.
The FFA be any impact on profitability or shareholders funds represents the estimated surplus in the funds that has as any adjustments necessary will be accounted for in not been allocated and is available to meet regulatory and the Fund for Future Appropriations.
other solvency requirements of the funds.
Adjustments have been made to restate all assets and liabilities onto Friends Provident FP has two UK with profits funds.
The main UK with profits fund is in Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited FPLP and the capital position of The with profits fund in FPLP has available capital of this fund has been determined in accordance with the 131m and has been calculated using realistic methodology.
Realistic Balance Sheet RBS regulations prescribed In accordance with accounting rules, the RBS liabilities by the FSA.
There is also a small UK with profits fund only represent amounts relating to policyholders and do in Friends Provident Life Assurance Limited FPLA.
not include the shareholders share of future bonuses.
The capital position of this fund has been calculated on However, the shareholders share is treated as a the existing regulatory basis as this fund is closed and deduction from capital that is available to meet regulatory is signicantly below the 500m level that the FSA has requirements and shown as a separate adjustment in determined should be applied for calculating liabilities the capital statement.
The available capital in the closed with profits fund in The information disclosed below is provided as FPLA amounts to 82m.
This has been calculated under supplementary information and does not form part the Modied Statutory Solvency Basis MSSB.
of the modied statutory solvency accounts.
The available capital in the Groups UK non-participating businesses has been determined in accordance with Realistic valuation FSA regulations and amounts to 1,146m.
This includes The amount of realistic liabilities including options and a subordinated loan of 215m which was raised by guarantees for FPLPs with profits fund at 31 December 2004 FP Finance PLC and an implicit item of 110m representing amounted to 14,010m and the amount of realistic assets a prudent estimate of the future profits of the non profit amounted to 14,141m.
This results in an excess of realistic fund of FPLP.
Adjustments have been made to restate assets over realistic liabilities of 131m.
Excluding the all assets and liabilities on to a regulatory basis.
The shareholders share of future bonuses totalling 58m, regulatory adjustment to assets mainly consists of as required by FRS 27, the excess amounted to 189m.
The regulatory The excess of realistic assets over realistic liabilities at adjustment to liabilities mainly represents the additional 31 December 2003 amounted to 81m 143m excluding regulatory capital arising as a result of the securitisation the shareholders share of future bonuses totalling 62m.
of a dened book of pre-demutualisation business The main element of the realistic liabilities is the asset shares in December 2004. of with profits business.
This represents the premiums The available capital in the Groups overseas businesses received to date together with the investment return earned written by Friends Provident International Limited FPIL less expenses and charges.
This is mainly calculated on an has been determined in accordance with local requirements individual policy basis using historic information and in line and amounts to 29m.
This business is largely written with the companys Principles and Practices of Financial in the Isle of Man.
Adjustments have been made to Management PPFM.
Asset shares are fully matched since restate all assets and liabilities on to a regulatory basis.
they move with the value of the underlying assets.
The shareholders funds held outside the life & pensions Policyholder liabilities including options and guarantees funds are shown separately in the capital position are then valued using a market consistent stochastic model.
It is the Groups policy to ensure that Included in liabilities are provisions for specic items such each subsidiary is adequately capitalised to support as mortgage endowment reviews and other liabilities of its life businesses and to exceed regulatory capital the fund.
Realistic valuations also allow for future profits requirements.
The amount of shareholders funds of non profit business written in the with profits fund to be included as an asset.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 33 Supplementary Information in respect of Financial Reporting Standard 27 on Life Assurance continued Capital statement table UK With UK With UK NonOverseas Life & Pensions Total profits profits Participating Life Fund Shareholders Life & Pensions FPLP FPLA Funds FPIL Funds Business m m m m m m Shareholders funds outside fund 655 655 inside fund 1,279 56 1,335 1,279 56 655 1,990 Other qualifying capital subordinated debt 215 215 implicit items 110 110 FFA 189 82 271 189 82 1,604 56 655 2,586 Regulatory adjustments assets 2 671 13 6 692 liabilities 2 213 14 201 shareholders share of future bonuses 58 58 Total available capital resources 131 82 1,146 29 649 2,037 Capital requirement UK realistic basis 279 279 Other regulatory bases 253 33 264 6 556 532 33 264 6 835 Overall surplus capital over regulatory requirements 1,202 Analysis of policyholders liabilities With profits 13,952 277 14,229 Unit-linked 37 9,819 2,356 12,212 Non-participating 2,547 2,350 27 4,924 Total technical liabilities 16,536 277 12,169 2,383 31,365 Restrictions on available capital resources in life and UK with profits fund in FPLA: the available surplus held in pensions business the closed with profits fund of FPLA can only be distributed The available capital is subject to certain restrictions as to its to policyholders.
availability to meet capital requirements elsewhere in the UK non-participating funds: for non-participating business, Group.
In particular, no transfers from long-term funds can the majority of surplus can be distributed to shareholders take place without an up to date actuarial valuation.
The subject to meeting the requirements of the business.
other main restrictions on capital are set out below.
Any transfer of the surplus would give rise to a tax charge.
UK with profits fund in FPLP: the available surplus held The FPLP non profit fund has a liability to repay 215m in the FPLP with profits fund can only be applied to meet of subordinated loan stock and has lent 180m to F&C the requirements of the fund itself or be distributed to which is repayable in 2006. policyholders and shareholders.
Shareholders are entitled Overseas life fund: the available surplus can be distributed to an amount not exceeding one-ninth of the amount to shareholders subject to meeting the requirements of distributed to policyholders in the form of bonuses on the business.
Non profit business written in the FPLP with profits fund has been securitised and surpluses Shareholders funds: the capital is generally available to are initially used to repay 380m of oating rate loan notes meet requirements anywhere in the Group.
It remains the issued by the Group and then may be distributed 40% to intention of management to ensure that there is adequate FPLPs with profits fund and 60% to shareholders.
Any capital to exceed the regulatory requirements of the Groups transfer of surplus to shareholders would give rise to a tax life and pensions businesses, to meet any net new business charge.
The FPLP non profit fund has provided a contingent strain and to support the Groups overall credit ratings.
The loan of 50m to the FPLP with profits fund.
This is repayable FPLP shareholders fund has lent 25m out of a facility of out of future surpluses in the with profits fund subject to 30m to F&C on a subordinated basis.
This loan has no certain restrictions.
FPLP has also guaranteed the 300m 34 Friends Provident Step-up Tier One Insurance Capital Securities STICS issued policyholders.
Volatility of returns is reduced by hedging.
Derivatives also limit exposure to interest rate movements in respect of guaranteed annuity rates.
Included in liabilities Basis of calculating capital requirements for life and are provisions for endowment and other reviews on pensions business a best estimate basis.
However, the final outcome of these Each life assurance and pensions company has to hold provisions could be different due to the uncertainties involved.
sufficient capital to meet the FSAs regulatory requirements.
UK non-participating funds: the liabilities are predominately For the FPLP with profits fund, the Risk Capital Margin unit linked and managements policy is to ensure that there RCM amounts to 279m.
The RCM is calculated on set is no significant mismatching.
Assets and liabilities in criteria of adverse scenarios laid down by the FSA the respect of non unit-linked business such as PHI and market risk scenarios tested are what would happen if annuities are very closely matched and therefore the risks property prices fall by 12.5%, equity prices fall by 20%, from changes in market conditions are limited.
There is the corporate bonds spreads increase by 5.22%, xed interest risk of increasing liability for annuities as people live longer yields rise 0.8% and persistency increases by 32.5%.
The and there is exposure to changes in credit spreads.
RCM is based on the asset mix at the year-end and takes Overseas funds: the liabilities are predominately unit linked into account hedging strategies and the actions and managements policy is to ensure that there is no management would take in the event of particular significant mismatching.
Assets and liabilities are very adverse market conditions.
closely matched and therefore the risks from changes Under the realistic capital methodology, the capital to market conditions are limited.
There are no significant requirement is the higher of the twin peaks test of currency risks.
the realistic peak and the regulatory peak.
In FPLP, the regulatory peak is more demanding and additional regulatory Other activities capital of 195m is required being the difference between Apart from capital employed in the life and pensions the realistic peak of 148m and the regulatory peak, business amounting to 1,990m, the Groups other main including the Long Term Insurance Capital Requirement activity is that of asset management operated by the LTICR, of 343m as follows: F&C Group in which Friends Provident owned 51% at 31 December 2004.
The total capital in the asset Realistic Regulatory management business amounts to 808m including m m goodwill of 945m.
The capital employed in these two Working capital 131 Surplus 488 activities reconciles to the Group total equity shareholders RCM 279 LTICR 531 funds of 2,444m by way of central corporate activities Resilience capital 300 and consolidation adjustments mainly goodwill.
148 343 Options and guarantees The total regulatory capital requirement for the FPLP with Options and guarantees are features of life assurance and profits fund amounts to 532m which is made up of the pensions contracts that confer potentially valuable benets RCM of 279m, the excess of the regulatory peak over to policyholders.
They are not unique to with profits funds the realistic peak of 195m, the regulatory requirement and can arise in non-participating funds.
They expose of 52m in respect of non profit business written in the an insurance company to two types of risk: insurance with profits fund and 6m in respect of subsidiary such as mortality morbidity and financial such as market solvency requirements.
The value of an option or guarantee comprises two elements: the intrinsic value and the time The capital cover to meet the regulatory solvency value.
The intrinsic value is the amount that would be payable requirement of FPLPs with profits fund is provided if the option or guarantee was exercised immediately.
The from FPLPs non profit fund and shareholders fund.
time value is the additional value that reects the possibility For the FPLA closed with profits fund, the capital requirement of the intrinsic value increasing in future, before the expiry has been calculated on a regulatory basis at 33m.
of the option or guarantee.
Under FSA rules all options and guarantees must be valued and included in policyholder For UK non-participating funds, the relevant capital liabilities.
For funds within the FSAs realistic capital requirement is the minimum solvency margin determined methodology, options and guarantees are valued on a market in accordance with FSA regulations.
This, in total, amounts consistent stochastic basis.
For other funds, options and to 264m.
guarantees are valued on a deterministic basis.
For overseas business, local regulatory capital requirements The majority of the Groups life and pensions options and are determined and these amount to 6m.
guarantees are within FPLPs with profits fund.
These are valued stochastically and included in the realistic liabilities.
Capital and risk management for life and pensions business There are two main types of guarantees and options in The key sensitivities and the approach to managing the risks the FPLP with profits fund: maturity guarantees and are set out below.
Maturity guarantees UK with profits funds: for the conventional with profits are in respect of conventional with profits business and business the key sensitivity is to future investment returns.
represent the sum assured and reversionary bonuses The mix of assets is kept under review taking into account declared to date.
The cost of these guarantees has been the level of capital required and the anticipated returns for calculated at 533m.
For certain with profits pension policies Annual Report & Accounts 2004 35 Supplementary Information in respect of Financial Reporting Standard 27 on Life Assurance continued issued, there are GAOs which guarantee rates at which Cash free option: where a guaranteed annuity option is annuities can be purchased.
The cost of these guarantees more valuable than the cash equivalent it is assumed that has been calculated at 736m.
17% of the benefit is taken as tax-free.
This is based on past experience adjusted to allow for the expectation that The cost of the with profits guarantees is assessed using fewer policyholders with guaranteed annuity options will a market consistent stochastic model using the Smith choose to take tax-free cash in future.
Model as the scenario generator and is calculated using 5,000 simulations.
The model has been calibrated using There are also guarantees and options in respect of the the gilt risk-free curve assuming interest rates of between Groups other life assurance business but these are not 4.4% and 4.6% and implied volatilities in the market.
considered to be material to the Groups future cash ows.
The capital return is calibrated to the actual asset portfolio.
In addition, they have largely been matched with suitable For equities, a capital return volatility of 16 % p. a. has been assets and there is no material exposure to market or interest assumed in year 7 increasing to 20% p. a. by year 14 and rate changes.
Provisions have been established using 23% p. a. by year 21.
Volatility for property returns has been deterministic scenarios based on prudent assumptions.
assumed at 15% p. a. throughout.
The cost of guarantees also depends on management actions that would be taken under various scenarios.
For example, the future level of the equity backing ratio the ratio of funds held in equities and property to total investments varies in each scenario depending on the ratio of the guarantee cost to the asset share.
Similarly, the reversionary bonus rate is set each year such that, by maturity, guaranteed benets are targeted as a prescribed fraction of the total asset share based on risk-free returns leaving the remaining portion of the asset share to be paid as terminal bonus.
The management actions are in line with the PPFM and are programmed into the model.
The guarantee cost in respect of GAOs is assessed using a market consistent stochastic model and values both the current level of the guaranteed annuity rate benefit allowing for future improvements in annuitant mortality and the time value due to uncertainty in future interest rates.
The guarantee cost in each scenario is the value of the excess annuity benefit provided by the GAO, relative to an annuity purchased in the open market.
In estimating the future open market annuity rate the model allows for stochastic variation in interest rates and for future mortality improvements.
The stochastic interest rate assumption reects that implied by current market interest rate derivative prices.
Future annuitant mortality has been derived from an analysis of recent operating experience informed by industry studies with allowance for annuitant mortality improvements.
Future improvements are difficult to assess as there is no industry consensus.
Short, medium and long cohort terminology refers to commonly accepted terms of the rate of future improvements and the period over which those improvements are expected to occur.
In general, the medium cohort for realistic reporting has been adopted.
The GAO cost also depends upon other factors such as policy discontinuance and tax-free cash take up.
The factors are based on FPs recent experience adjusted to reect industry benchmarks and to anticipate trends in policyholder behaviour.
A summary of the other key assumptions is as follows: Policy discontinuances: lapse rates and paid up policies vary by policy type and period.
Policy lapses for pensions are generally in the range of 0.5% to 2% p. a. with policy lapses for life business in the range of 3% to 9% p. a. Paid-up policies for pensions are generally in the range of 7.5% to 11% p. a. with life policies generally in the region of 1% p. a.
