Group Finance Directors Review Delivery on strategic objectives has enabled the Group to report another strong financial performance in the year ended 31 March 2004.
This is the fourth year in succession that turnover, profit, EPS on an adjusted basis and dividend per share have increased substantially.
Costs continue to be effectively controlled and margins have risen to 20%.
The Group remains highly cash generative.
Results and continues to demonstrate the Groups The Group reported profit of 170.2 million determination to maintain control over broker before taxation, goodwill amortisation and remuneration.
The variable component of exceptional items: this represents a 38% broker remuneration cost, which is linked to increase over the prior year.
On a statutory revenue and profit growth, has now basis profit on ordinary activities before increased to 56% of total broker employment taxation was 130.5 million 2003 - costs, and this compares with 54% in the 117.5 million.
We continue to believe prior year.
A further element of the Groups that profit before tax, goodwill amortisation cost base, estimated to be some 10% of and exceptional items better reflects the Group turnover, is also of a variable nature.
This measure is In total cost terms, under the present reconciled to profit before tax on the face business model, it is estimated that just of the profit and loss account.
under 40% of the Groups costs are variable.
However, the increase in contribution from Group turnover grew by 21%, with a electronic broking is starting to, and will number of the Groups broking operations continue to, change the Groups cost base increasing their market share and the and profit margin profile.
The Groups majority continuing to benefit from electronic business has a lower overall cost uncertain and volatile financial markets.
base and a higher fixed cost component than The acquisition of BrokerTec on 7 May the traditional voice broking business.
With 2003 also had a positive effect on the relatively low incremental cost of turnover.
Excluding contributions from transacting business on the Groups acquisitions and foreign exchange electronic platform, advantage can be taken movements, turnover growth was 12%.
of operational leverage by increasing volumes traded on the Groups electronic platform.
If Cost management this can be achieved, it provides the Group Costs continue to be tightly controlled.
with an opportunity to deliver further profit Although they increased, in headline growth and margin improvement.
terms, over the prior year by 90.3 million 16%, costs before goodwill amortisation Effective cost management continues and exceptional items increased by only to be a major priority.
11.3 million 3% if the impact of acquisitions, currency movements and Operating margins higher revenue and profit-linked bonuses The strong revenue performance, combined are excluded.
with prudent cost management, has enabled the Group to increase its operating margin to Broker employment costs, the largest 20% in the financial year ended 31 March component of the Groups cost base, were 2004 17% in the prior year.
This is the 51% of Group turnover in the financial year fourth year in succession that this margin to 31 March 2004.
reduction from 54% in the previous period ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 12 JIM PETTIGREW The Group continues to focus on operating acquisition resulted in a number of costs our cost savings target of 2.2 million.
profit margin enhancement through a being incurred in the current financial year Once this integration process is completed combination of growth in market share and which should place the business in a it should deliver further savings to the the application of strict cost controls.
stronger position for the future.
There have existing cost base.
been demonstrable signs of an upturn in This year in our segmental disclosures business activity levels in the Groups Acquisitions we have shown profit before and after energy division in recent months.
The major acquisition in the financial year goodwill amortisation.
The operating profit was BrokerTec which has been consolidated margins summarised in the table below, A particularly encouraging element of this into the Groups Financial Statements since by business segment and geographic year is the electronic broking segments 7 May 2003.
As discussed in the Group location, are based on profit before performance following the BrokerTec acquisition.
Chief Executive Officers Review this interest, share of profit of joint ventures In the post acquisition period 7 May 2003 acquisition has transformed the Groups and associates, exceptional items and - 31 March 2004 BrokerTec excluding the electronic broking capabilities.
In last years goodwill amortisation.
Groups other electronic broking operations Group Finance Directors Review the but including the related information financial profile of the transaction was Year-on-year margin improvement has been services income reported an operating discussed.
More detail is provided in note achieved in most segments.
The overall electronic 15 to the Financial Statements, including margin reduction in energy broking reflects broking margin performance 8% was the calculation of the goodwill arising on the difficulties in the energy sector in the achieved against a background of the an acquisition 189.3 million.
Goodwill is post Enron environment.
In addition, the integration of its operations with the Groups being amortised over a 10-year period for Groups conscious decision to grow its existing ETC business.
In the year to accounting purposes.
energy business organically as well as by 31 March 2004 we more than exceeded During the financial year the Group also Year ended Year ended completed the acquisition of Intercontinental Operating margins 31 March 2004 31 March 2003 Energy Brokers, a London-based energy business, for 4.9 million in cash.
The Activity Group continues to seek to expand its Securities broking 18% 16% energy business organically and through Derivatives and money broking 22% 20% appropriate acquisition opportunities.
Energy broking 13% 15% Electronic broking 8% 75% Exceptional items Information services 65% 64% Net exceptional costs before tax of 0.9 million were incurred in the financial Geographic location year to 31 March 2004.
Americas 19% 14% Europe 24% 22% Asia Pacific 9% 8% ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 13 Group Finance Directors Review continued The Group received its final insurance The 2% reduction in basic EPS reflects Cash flow reimbursement of 4.4 million in respect the net impact of the growth in pre-tax The effective management of cash resources of the World Trade Center disaster.
A number profit, the increase in goodwill remains a key management objective.
of BrokerTec integration costs have been amortisation mainly arising from the Regular reviews of cash retained in operating incurred, mainly provisions for surplus BrokerTec acquisition, and the fact that subsidiaries are undertaken and where property in the US and London, and the year ended 31 March 2003 benefited appropriate surplus cash is repatriated to redundancy costs, amounting to 5.6 million.
from a net exceptional credit item of the centre.
Capital expenditure is rigorously 11.3 million.
controlled and monitored by the Groups In the financial year to 31 March 2005, it capital expenditure committee and also is anticipated that the Group will incur some We continue to believe that the most through the annual budgeting and quarterly 8 million exceptional costs in respect of appropriate EPS measurement ratio for forecasting cycles.
All acquisition opportunities the relocation of its UK operations to its the Group is adjusted EPS, which better are the subject of detailed due diligence new premises in Broadgate, London.
There reflects the businesss underlying cash and financial evaluation, including the use may also be some additional exceptional costs earnings.
Adjusted EPS excludes goodwill of discounted cash flow and return on in respect of the BrokerTec integration.
amortisation and exceptional items, but investment criteria.
includes share capital which is contingently Taxation issuable in respect of the First Brokers, The Groups FRS1 cash flow is set out on The effective tax rate, which excludes goodwill APB and BrokerTec acquisitions.
page 42 of the Financial Statements.
amortisation and exceptional items, has Calculation of EPS is set out in note 11 Consistent with previous years, cash flow been maintained at 34%.
The Groups to the Financial Statements.
is best understood by reference to the budget for the financial year to 31 March movement in net funds defined as cash, 2005 anticipates a 35% effective tax rate.
During the year 3.7 million of shares were current asset investments less overdrafts issued following the exercise of options held and borrowings.
The Group has recorded a 12 million tax under employee share schemes.
deduction in respect of goodwill amortisation On this basis, net funds, as defined in note in the US.
This is represented by current Adjusted EPS increased by 19% to 18.4p.
31 c to the Financial Statements, tax of 4 million and deferred tax of 8 million, increased during the year by 42.6 million reflecting the 15 year tax amortisation Dividend to 227.2 million 2003 - 184.6 million.
period compared to 10 years for Subject to shareholder approval, a 5.7p final accounting purposes.
This compares with The movement in the net funds position is 4.6p in the prior year and would result in a summarised in the table opposite.
This Earnings and earnings per share EPS full-year dividend of 7.4p, which represents table demonstrates the continuing cash All the Groups EPS calculations are based on a 23% increase on the prior year.
This is the generative nature of the business.
the number of shares in issue following the fourth consecutive year that we have been Groups five for one share split in February 2004. able to increase the dividend and reflects the Net capital expenditure was slightly higher strong earnings performance.
The full-year than depreciation reflecting the increase in dividend remains more than twice covered expenditure as a result of the move, in the by the profit before tax, goodwill UK, to Broadgate and investment in amortisation and exceptional items.
These ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 14 trends are likely to continue in the new As highlighted in the table, the Groups net As at 31 March 2004 bank term borrowings financial year.
funds have increased by 42.6 million to were nil and there was a small overdraft of 227.2 million at 31 March 2004.
The Group is in the process of The 13 million net cash outflow for 80% of these balances are required for renewing its 50 million bank loan facility.
acquisitions and investments relates to regulatory capital, commercial and general cash outflows of 32.3 million comprising working capital requirements.
These can vary Balance sheet and capital 24.7 million of the deferred consideration from time to time depending on regional On 9 February 2004 the Group undertook payable for the acquisitions of First Brokers, mix, regulatory capital rule changes and a five for one share split which divided the ICAP Energy, formerly APB, and acquired counterparty perception of the appropriate Groups ordinary shares of 50p into five Asian businesses: a 5.5 million payment, level of capital required to be retained in ordinary shares of 10p each.
Given the the majority of which was for the business.
significant rise in the Groups share price Intercontinental Energy Brokers: and since the merger of Garban and Intercapital 2.1 million of acquisition related costs in The implications of Basle II and how, if at in 1999 it was felt that the share price respect of BrokerTec.
This is offset by net all, it applies to interdealer brokers and its might be at a level which could impair the funds received under the BrokerTec acquisition impact on their regulatory capital marketability and liquidity of the Groups of 19.3 million.
requirements is not yet clear.
These Financial Statements reflect continues to be kept under review.
this change and comparative information has been restated where appropriate.
Net assets increased by 217.9 million Year ended Year ended 31 March 2004 31 March 2003 during the year and, as at 31 March 2004, m m were 478.9 million.
The Group acquired 30 million of net assets as part of the Profit before tax 170.2 123.7 BrokerTec acquisition after fair value Joint ventures and associates 4.7 3.2 adjustments.
After taking account of the Depreciation 26.9 15.8 cost of acquisition this resulted in an Net capital expenditure 28.0 16.0 increase of 189.3 million in goodwill on Exchange adjustments 21.7 6.5 the balance sheet.
Working capital and other 0.9 17.8 Tax 49.7 35.7 The BrokerTec acquisition was funded by the issue of 59.9 million shares, with up to 93.9 95.9 a further 33.7 million shares issuable Acquisitions investments 13.0 36.4 subject to various earnout conditions being Dividends 37.1 26.5 met in the first 12 months post acquisition.
Exceptional items 1.2 14.1 The performance of BrokerTec has exceeded expectations and consequently is Change in net funds 42.6 18.9 likely to result in the issue of the maximum excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
number of shares under the deferred ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 15 Group Finance Directors Review continued consideration provisions of the acquisition operational and reputational risk.
Details gains arising from the Groups transactional agreement.
In accordance with accounting of our approach to risk management are hedging programme which is in place to standards, the 33.7 million of earnout provided in the Corporate Governance manage its UK businesss transactional shares are included as contingent share statement on pages 23 to 27. exposure to the US dollar.
It has also capital in the Groups balance sheet as at been offset by a 6 million positive 31 March 2004.
Foreign exchange impact on pre-tax profit as the euro has The Group conducts business in many appreciated against sterling and this has The increase in share capital and share currencies.
As a result, it is subject to had a beneficial impact on the Groups premium during the year is principally foreign currency exchange risk due to the UK businesss transactional euro exposure.
because of the shares issued as the initial effects that exchange rate movements consideration under the BrokerTec have on the translation of the results and The Groups overall pre-tax profit preacquisition.
underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
hedging sensitivities to movements in The Group also has transactional foreign exchange rates in respect of its Deferred consideration is also payable exchange exposures in its UK business transactional and translational exposures in respect of the First Brokers and APB which has underlying US dollar and euro are as follows: a 10 cent movement in acquisitions and is dependent on their revenue streams.
the US dollar equates to 7 million: a future performance.
At the Companys 10 cent movement in the euro equates option part of this consideration may be Currency movements had a net 4 million to 4 million.
paid by way of issue of shares and this adverse impact on the Groups pre-tax is reflected in the balance sheet as profit in the financial year to 31 March 2004 The Group policy, determined by the Treasury contingent share capital.
The Group has when compared with the prior financial year.
Committee, is to hedge its transactional foreign elected, where it has the option to pay in During the financial year, the US dollar exchange exposures by the use of foreign either shares or cash, to pay the first and depreciated significantly in value against exchange contracts and options.
The Groups second instalments of consideration due in sterling.
With the Groups substantial US major transactional exposures are to US connection with both of these acquisitions operations, in terms of both profit and net dollar and euro inflows into the UK.
The cash element of the second assets, this has had a number of cent movement in the US dollar before instalments is included within creditors ramifications for the financial year ended hedging, at current exposure levels and under one year, the first instalment having 31 March 2004.
The average US exchange rates, has a 2.5 million impact been paid in cash during the financial year dollar sterling rate in the financial year on pre-tax profit.
A 10 cent movement in to 31 March 2004. was $1.70 compared with $1.54 in the the euro before hedging has a 4 million previous financial year and this has impact.
As at the date of this report the Risk management resulted in a 12 million adverse impact Group has 100% of its US dollar exposure The identification, control and monitoring on pre-tax profit.
The translation of the for the year to 31 March 2005 hedged at of risks facing the business remain a Groups US dollar profits in sterling had an $1.72 worse case basis and for the year management priority and steps continue 8 million impact and the transactional to 31 March 2006, 4% is hedged at to be taken to further improve our risk exposure to the US dollar in the UK $1.74.
As at the date of this report the management procedures.
The risks monitored business had a 4 million impact.
This has Group had 61% of its euro exposure for include credit, market, treasury, been mitigated by 2 million of hedging the year to 31 March 2005 hedged at a ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 16 from $1.58 at 31 March 2003 to $1.84 setter, the International Accounting Standards blended euro rate of 1.45.
There is no at 31 March 2004, there is a 27.5 million Board IASB, has undertaken an extensive euro cover in place for the financial year exchange adjustment taken to reserves.
exercise to develop new standards and to 31 March 2006. improve existing ones.
Credit and interest rate risk The Group does not hedge its translational We continue to ensure that strict investment The Group recognises the significant profit and loss foreign exchange exposures.
criteria apply to the management of the complexities which such a conversion The impact of foreign exchange movements Groups cash balances.
Investments must involves and is working to ensure a timely on the translation of the Groups overseas be AA rated or better and for a duration of and efficient transition.
A Group-wide project subsidiaries profits into sterling is mitigated no longer than two years.
Limits are also with the objective of ensuring compliance by the Groups policy of translating overseas in place to restrict the amount of funds with International Financial Reporting profits at average exchange rates.
Where that can be invested in any one institution.
Standards is well advanced but the impact appropriate, structural hedges via interCompliance with policy and criteria is on the Group cannot be definitively company debt are put in place to further subject to regular review by the Treasury quantified at this juncture.
We believe, mitigate translational foreign exchange Committee.
The overall Group philosophy however, that the major areas of impact for exposures.
The only major translational is one of capital preservation, liquidity the Group will include goodwill amortisation foreign exchange exposure is to the US dollar, management and then yield enhancement.
where a 10 cent movement would have a 4.5 million impact on pre-tax profit.
The Group has an exposure to interest rate The new financial year movements in a number of geographic The financial priorities for the new financial The Groups only significant balance sheet regions.
The main exposures are to US year are to increase profit through a translational foreign exchange exposure is to interest rates where a 1% movement in combination of growth in market share the US dollar.
This exposure, after structural interest rates has a 0.6 million sensitivity to and continuing effective cost hedging, is some $270 million the Groups pre-tax profit and loss account management.
A key factor in achieving represented by US dollar net assets and to UK interest rates, where a 1% these objectives will be our ability to take excluding goodwill.
The Group has hedged movement impacts profits by 0.4 million.
advantage of operational leverage through 37% of this exposure at $1.80 through to The Group has hedged the following variable increased trading volumes on the Groups March 2005 using a cross currency interest rate exposures: UK 10% is fixed, electronic trading platforms.
The impact of exchange rate US 35% is fixed.
movements on the translation of non-sterling denominated net assets into sterling for International Financial Reporting Jim Pettigrew accounting purposes is shown as a unrealised Standards Group Finance Director exchange adjustment on net investments in Under the current proposed timetable we will overseas undertakings in the consolidated be required to adopt International Financial statement of total recognised gains and Reporting Standards in the preparation of losses shown on page 41 of the Financial our Financial Statements for the year ending Statements.
Mainly as a consequence of 31 March 2006.
The international standard the decline in the US dollar against sterling ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 17
