1 INSPIRE OUTSHINE Skys programming is fast-paced, topical and popular.
We are always looking to acquire the best for our subscribers to reward their loyalty.
Sky delivers the best in sport: the widest choice of movies: entertainment shows that break new ground: and it puts viewers on the front line for breaking news.
As a result of this we are now outshining the competition on all fronts.
Sky News is acknowledged as the leader in 24-hour news coverage.
The Sky Sports channels have seen a significant increase in their viewing share, and Sky One is consistently the most popular non-terrestrial channel in the UK.
10,000,000 SUBSCRIBER TARGET IN 2010 INVEST OUTPERFORM We continue to invest across our business to reach our full potential.
We are the leading digital television service in the UK and Ireland and we continue to outperform against expectations.
We have laid the foundations to grow an even bigger, even better Sky.
We still have a long way to go and were looking forward to the journey.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3 Operating and Financial Review SKY IS BRITAINS LEADING ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY.
ALTHOUGH STILL YOUNG, REACHING ONLY ITS FIFTEENTH BIRTHDAY IN FEBRUARY THIS YEAR, IT HAS GROWN FROM SMALL BEGINNINGS TO BECOME THE MOST POPULAR PROVIDER OF PAY TELEVISION SERVICES IN BRITAIN AND IRELAND.
The Company has also now completed other television markets, particularly the its transition from the investment US: by the Governments stated intention to phase that started when we launched switch off analogue terrestrial television the digital service, to a new phase in the next six to eight years: by other of superior financial health, as technological advances and enhancements, demonstrated by a second straight year such as the development of the Personal of profit on ordinary activities after Video Recorder PVR and high definition taxation, up 75% year-on-year.
television: and, importantly, by the attractive profile of consumers who have Thanks to the hard work and dedication yet to switch to pay television in the UK.
of the executive management team and We are very well placed to benefit from all of Skys employees, the financial and this potential growth.
operational position of the business today is extremely robust.
Total revenues Given the size of the potential opportunity, for the twelve months ending 30 June our focus will be on raising the rate of 2004 increased by 15% year-on-year, subscriber growth by addressing the to 3,656 million.
Meanwhile, total key barriers to consumer take-up.
operating costs before goodwill and We have several initiatives in place to exceptional items increased by only address these barriers, including the 8% to 3,056 million, generating an reintroduction of the Sky brand: operating profit before goodwill and emphasising the broad range of entry exceptional items of 600 million.
The points to pay television: and continued operating profit margin before goodwill disciplined investment in must-see James Murdoch, Chief Executive Officer and exceptional items was 16.4%, up programming.
We are focused on both from 11.4% in the comparable period, new things to do, and on doing better and the Company generated free what we already do well.
The 2004 financial year has been another busy period at Sky.
cashflow of 676 million, reducing net debt to 429 million.
We are confident that these initiatives The Company has reached a number of significant operational will deliver improved subscriber and and financial milestones, including the achievement in The next phase of our growth will turnover growth, and will drive capitalise on this extraordinary position.
shareholder value by creating a highly September 2003 of our previous subscriber target of seven We have now laid out a new strategy to profitable business with greater scale million DTH customers, some three months early.
build on this robust foundation, which in the longer term.
will ensure the long-term durability of the business, together with strong In addition, our financial strategy will be growth and sustained cashflow consistent with our desire to maintain generation going forward.
an investment grade credit rating and retain financial flexibility going forward.
In 2004 my colleagues and I have We also expect the financial strategy to focused our attention on the means by include returns to shareholders in which Sky can achieve its full potential, addition to the ordinary dividend that and on the nature of that potential in a was resumed earlier this year.
Following the development of our We believe that, in the long-term, pay strategy, we have set out our new television penetration will reach around targets for the business, and the vision 80% of UK television households.
With for the business that those targets will pay television penetration of households help us achieve.
We believe we can have in the UK and Ireland at 43% at 30 June over 10 million DTH subscribers in 2004, we believe that a further 10 million 2010, six years out, and furthermore, homes will take pay television services that the mix of our customers, in terms over time.
This view of the market of what they buy from us, will be potential is supported by evidence from exceedingly attractive.
4 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Driven by innovation One of the lowest rates of pay television churn Our Sky subscriber target in the world demonstrates the customer loyalty was reached three months generated by Skys high quality products.
early and there are now 397,000 Sky subscribers.
9.7% Our rate of churn The business, its objectives and its strategy British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the achieving this priority.
The CRM centres channel: together with Sky One Mix, Investment in infrastructure to support Company, BSkyB and its subsidiaries deal with the handling of orders from which was launched in December subscriber growth Sky, the Group operate the leading subscribers, the establishment and 2002, it has a viewing share of 1.7%.
In order to support its growth strategy, pay television broadcasting service in maintenance of subscriber accounts, Sky News has a reputation for the Group intends to invest in the the United Kingdom UK and Ireland, the invoicing and collection of revenue, impartial, authoritative and up-to-the following programmes: deriving revenues from television and telemarketing and customer minute coverage of breaking news.
broadcasting services and certain services.
These activities, together As the universe of multichannel homes CRM The Group intends to continue ancillary functions, which are provided with a high level of customer service, has grown, Skys channels have been the programme of work started in to both retail and wholesale customers.
allow the centres to play a key role, able to grow their share of the UK 2002, to maintain its first-class customer both in customer acquisition and television advertising market, and Sky service which is fundamental to the Sky is an established and widelycustomer retention.
expects this trend to continue.
recognised brand, with a reputation for offering choice, quality and innovation.
Maintenance of subscriber quality Innovation in products and services Property The Group intends to invest Sky operates and distributes 26 whollySky continues to develop the Sky has a strong track record of in a property programme to ensure owned channels via its digital service programming and other services innovation and operates in a highly that its Osterley campus is a flexible, and retails a further 104 third party it offers on the Sky digital platform, competitive environment, which is efficient and  channels to DTH viewers.
In addition resulting in high satisfaction and reliant on technology that is subject place to work, and fully scalable with to this, Sky operates the Sky Box Office perception of value for money.
to rapid change and development.
the long-term growth and expansion service SBO, which provides pay-perThe financial return on an incremental Sky therefore looks to invest and of the business.
view services covering films, sporting subscriber is a function of the revenue, adapt in order to remain competitive, events and concerts.
direct costs and expected duration of and keeps under review emerging Advanced Technology Centre The the subscription.
Sky manages its product technologies for the distribution of Group is currently building this facility Skys main objective is to maximise value portfolio and supplier relationships to entertainment content and for the as the final part of its business continuity for shareholders by focusing on profitable ensure that it can achieve an attractive provision of new services to Skys programme to mitigate further any growth in subscribers to its digital pay return, regardless of the tier of subscriber base.
single points of failure in its Broadcast television services in the UK and Ireland.
to continue to invest in subscriber Sky has successfully introduced new Sky has established a series of key acquisition, including the cost of products and services such as Sky Increased contact and training facilities operational and financial targets, which subsidising set-top boxes, adjusting the and Multiroom subscriptions, which - The Group has identified the need ensure focus on certain priorities that will value of such subsidies according to the continue to increase in popularity.
to increase capacity at its call centres drive the business to achieve its main profile of new groups of subscribers.
Sky will launch an enhanced version to service future subscriber growth.
These are as follows: of Sky in October 2004, offering The Group is also planning to build a Investment in programming around 160GB of storage capacity new training centre for its customerContinued expansion of the DTH Investment in attractive programming and extra connectivity through two facing staff, that will help keep subscriber base is a key factor in generating the USB ports.
This will further Skys customer service standards at the Sky looks to achieve this expansion in subscription revenues that make up goal of introducing a wider range forefront of the industry.
two main ways: through the acquisition 79% 2003: 80% of Skys total of hardware and service options for of new DTH subscribers, and through revenue and, here, Skys strategy is to subscribers, tailored to different needs.
The capital expenditure on these the maintenance of a low churn rate.
acquire exclusive and premium pay Sky has set targets for Multiroom projects is expected to total 450 Sky is on track to reach its target of 8 television rights for films, live sporting penetration of 30% of DTH subscribers million, which will be incurred over million DTH subscribers by December events and for other general in 2010 and Sky penetration of 25% the next four years, in addition 2005 and has announced a new target entertainment programming.
of DTH subscribers in 2010. to core capital expenditure which of 10 million DTH subscribers in 2010. is expected to remain at around Growing the popularity of Skys Skys DTH customers also have access 100 million annually.
Maintaining churn at a low rate is a key channels to Sky Active and a range of other digital component of maximising the return Skys channels generate significant interactive services.
These services Sky makes on its investment in customer advertising revenues for the Group include betting, games-playing, acquisition.
Skys customer relationship and contribute to the appeal of the shopping, interactive programming, management CRM centres, principally Sky digital platform.
Sky One remains interactive advertising and telephonybased in Scotland, play a key role in the UKs most watched non-terrestrial based services, such as voting.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 Operating and Financial Review continued Operating review OVERVIEW Sky has delivered another year of strong At 30 June 2004, the total number of a package of reception equipment, DTH digital satellite subscribers in the UK including viewing card and professional financial results, producing its second full year of positive and Ireland was 7,355,000, representing installation, directly from Sky for a cost earnings since the launch of Sky digital.
This has been driven a net increase of 510,000 subscribers of approximately 150.
This offers an on the comparable period.
The mix of easy upgrade path to a Sky subscription by double-digit revenue growth and strong operational packages taken by subscribers continues for viewers who choose subsequently to gearing.
Total revenues for the twelve months ending 30 June to be weighted towards premium add a pay television service to their packages, with 52.4% of all DTH viewing options.
2004 the year increased by 15% over the twelve months subscribers taking the top tier Sky World to 30 June 2003 the comparable period to 3,656 million.
package at the end of the year, a decline DTH churn for the year stands at 9.7%.
of just one percentage point from the Annualised average revenue per DTH Total operating costs before goodwill and exceptional items level of 53.4% at 30 June 2003. subscriber ARPU was 380 in the increased by 8% to 3,056 million, generating an operating last quarter, an increase of 14 on the The total number of households in the same quarter last year.
The Group profit before goodwill and exceptional items of 600 million.
UK and Ireland receiving one or more expects the next increase in ARPU to The operating profit margin before goodwill and exceptional Sky channels increased to over 14 million take place during the second quarter of in the year.
This was driven by DTH the 2005 financial year as a result of the items was 16.4%, up from 11.4% in the comparable period.
growth, a small increase in the number recently announced changes in UK and of households subscribing to a television Ireland retail pricing, which start to service via cable, and an increase in the become effective from September 2004.
Profit after tax increased by 138 million to 322 million.
number of households receiving the Earnings per share before goodwill and exceptional items Freeview, free-to-air FTA digital The number of Sky households terrestrial channels, as FTA-only homes continued to grow strongly, increasing was 18.3 pence, representing an increase of 79% on the continued to replace analogue with by 292,000 to reach 397,000.
continues to drive new subscribers to Sky, with 22% of new Sky customers Sky announced on 9 June 2004 that it in the last quarter being new to Sky will be introducing a free satellite service digital.
The growth in Sky penetration offering access to almost 200 television continues to drive the uptake of the and radio channels, and interactive Multiroom product, with the number services, to be available later this year, of households taking two or more without a monthly subscription fee.
digiboxes increasing from 165,000 to Consumers will be able to purchase 293,000 in the year.
DTH SUBSCRIBERS Million 02 6.1 03 6.8 04 7.4 TOTAL REVENUE million 02 2,776 03 3,186 3,656 04 OPERATING MARGIN Before goodwill and exceptional items 02 6.7% 03 11.4% 04 16.4% 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Programming Multichannel televisions combined which game they watch through the share of total television audience interactive service, Sky Sports Active.
continues to grow, increasing by 9% over the previous year to 26% in the Sky Movies viewing share for the year last quarter and overtaking BBC1s was 3.4% in multichannel homes.
Over share 25% for the first time ever, the Easter weekend the multi-start according to viewing figures from premiere of Harry Potter and the the Broadcasters Audience Research Chamber of Secrets achieved a total Board BARB at 30 June 2004. audience of over 900,000 viewers.
Despite the intense competition in the Following the success of shows from the Top: Interior of Sky mobile service unit with people using Sky terminals last quarter from one-off events on US such as Nip Tuck and 24, Sky One Sky is promoting awareness of Sky through innovative terrestrial channels, the viewing share continues to add unique programming mobile showrooms featuring a rear walk-in section with live Sky terminals.
These tour the country at major of Sky channels across all UK television with the HBO production, Deadwood, events and exhibitions, allowing consumers to experience homes has been maintained comfortably to be launched exclusively on Sky One the benefits of Sky by sampling its features hands on.
in September 2004, and Battlestar Bottom: Sky News Galactica.
Significant one-off events Sky News was awarded the contract to produce five News Sky Sports enjoyed another strong year, continue to differentiate Sky One, with output from 2005.
It was, for the third year running, the RTS News Channel of the year, with a unanimous verdict with an 11% increase in viewing share Rebecca Loos My Story attracting 1.7 from RTS judges: None of Britains other 24 hour news across UK television homes over the million viewers in April: the climax of channels yet matched the winner, who had continued to comparable period.
David Blaines Above the Below, where innovate in their coverage of the war and elsewhere and, as a news channel, remains simply the best.
he was suspended over the River Thames The 2004 05 football season, which in a perspex box, attracting over 2 million starts in August 2004, will be the most viewers in August: and an episode of televised on Sky Sports, with viewers The Simpsons featuring Tony Blair also offered over 450 live matches.
With attracting over 1 million viewers.
the commencement of new Football Association Premier League broadcast Sky was awarded the contract to supply Sky digital continues to offer the widest contracts, Sky Sports will now show 88 five with its news service in March 2004, choice in multichannel television in the live games from the Barclays Premiership, and Sky News launched a dedicated UK and Ireland.
up from 66, and an additional 50 live news service for Ireland on 10 May Premiership games, up from 40, will 2004.
At the Royal Television Society be offered on the pay-per-view service, Journalism Awards in February 2004, PREMPLUS.
A new interactive service, Sky News was named News Channel of Football First, will offer one match per the Year for the third successive year week in full on a delayed basis plus and won an innovation award for its extended highlights of every match played coverage of the Hutton Inquiry and the that day.
Sky digital viewers can choose Soham trial.
OPERATING PROFIT Before goodwill and exceptional items million 02 186 03 364 04 600 99% CHURN RATE Year to date COVERAGE 02 10.5% 03 9.4% 04 9.7% SKY HAS COMPREHENSIVE REACH ACROSS THE UK AND IRELAND.
99% OF HOUSEHOLDS FALL WITHIN THE FOOTPRINT OF SKYS DIGITAL SATELLITE SERVICES, MORE THAN ANY OTHER DIGITAL TELEVISION SERVICE.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7 Operating and Financial Review continued Financial Review Turnover Total revenues grew by 15% Programming costs Programming costs on the comparable period to 3,656 for the year increased by 107 million million, reflecting continued growth in on the comparable period to 1,711 the average number of DTH subscribers, million.
Gross margin total revenues the second successive year of doubleless total programming costs for the digit advertising revenue growth, and year increased to 53.2% from 49.7% higher interactive revenues.
DTH revenues for the year increased Sports costs, which accounted for 75% by 14% from 2,341 million for the of the total increase in programming comparable period to 2,660 million.
costs, grew by 80 million to 803 This was principally due to the 10% million, driven by contractual increases growth in the average number of DTH in rights costs and the addition of UEFA subscribers and the 4% increase in Champions League football this year.
average DTH revenue per subscriber.
A decrease in movie costs of 4 million Advertising revenue continued to on the comparable period to 393 million outperform the advertising market, reflected continued weakness of the increasing by 10% on the comparable US dollar and therefore a favourable period to 312 million, principally due movement in the average rate at which to growth of 6% in the Groups share of the Group was able to purchase dollars total UK advertising revenue.
The Group versus the comparable period.
These remains confident of outperforming UK savings were partially offset by increased Martin Stewart, Chief Financial Officer advertising market growth for the subscriber volumes and pricing increases remainder of this calendar year.
Cable wholesale revenues increased to Third party channel costs increased by 215 million for the year, an increase of 9 million on the comparable period 6% on the comparable period.
Increases due to the mainly attributable to the one-off receipt 10% increase in the volume of DTH of audit monies from ntl and increases subscribers and new channels added to the average revenue per subscriber to the platform were partially offset Total revenues grew by 15% on the resulting from changes to wholesale by savings resulting from contractual comparable period to 3,656 million.
pricing from January 2004. renegotiations as the Group renewed carriage deals with MTV, Nickelodeon, Total interactive revenues, which Paramount, Music Choice, E4, Film Four includes both Sky Active revenues and Eurosport.
ANALYSIS OF TURNOVER and betting revenues, increased by 2004 41% to 307 million.
Entertainment and News costs increased by 22 million on the comparable period 1 DTH subscribers 73% 1 Programming 56% 5 6 4 5 2 Advertising 9% 2 Marketing Sky Active revenues increased by 15% 13% to 155 million.
This was mainly due to 3 4 3 Interactive 8% 3 Subscriber 12% on the comparable period to 116 million.
re-evaluation of entertainment programme 2 3 management 4 Cable subscribers 6% This was due to a combination of increases stock balances during the year, which 5 Other 4% 4 Administration 8% 1 1 2 5 Betting 6% in retail revenues through SkyBuy, third resulted in the acceleration of certain 6 Transmission & 5% party betting, revenues from interactive amortisation charges totalling 17 million, related functions advertising, premium rate telephony in accordance with the Groups policy in revenues and platform access fees paid respect of programme stock accounting.
by third party broadcasters and interactive ANALYSIS OF OPERATING EXPENSES, NET service providers.
2004 SkyBet revenues increased by 63% on 1 DTH subscribers 73% 1 Programming 56% 5 6 4 5 the comparable period to 191 million, 2 Advertising 9% 2 Marketing 13% 3 4 3 Interactive 8% 3 Subscriber 12% driven mainly by the 85% increase in 2 3 management 4 Cable subscribers 6% the total number of bets placed across 4 Administration 8% 5 Other 4% 1 1 2 5 Betting 6% all platforms.
Consequently, betting 6 Transmission & 5% costs, which include payouts, duty, related functions levies and taxes, increased by 67 million to 175 million.
8 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Professional Installation Skys professional installers carried out over 800,000 installations this financial year, with each installation taking about two hours on average.
The average lead time between booking and installation is nine days.
7.4 million SKYS DTH SUBSCRIBER BASE HAS GROWN FROM 6.8 MILLION TO 7.4 MILLION IN THE COURSE OF THE YEAR.
Other operating costs Marketing costs to 146 million.
Administration costs to the profit and loss account.
The Gross margin for the for the year were 396 million, a decrease before goodwill and exceptional items remaining joint ventures goodwill of 4 million on the comparable period.
increased by 14 million on the amortised during the year principally year has increased This decrease was predominantly driven comparable period to 257 million, relates to goodwill that arose from the by a 22 million reduction in acquisition due mainly to increased technology and purchase of a 50% stake in Artsworld to 53.2%.
marketing costs to 256 million, due to facilities costs and costs resulting from in December 2003. lower set-top box unit prices and fewer increased compliance obligations.
Retention marketing also Interest Total net interest payable for decreased by 2 million on the comparable Goodwill Goodwill amortisation decreased the year decreased by 33 million on the period to 32 million.
These decreases by 2 million on the comparable period comparable period to 81 million as were partly offset by increased aboveto 119 million.
This was primarily due a result of the lower level of indebtedness.
the-line expenditure, up 10 million on to the 5 million provision made in the On 29 June 2004, a 200 million tranche the comparable period to 49 million, comparable period against goodwill of the Groups revolving credit facility and other marketing costs up 10 million which originally arose on the acquisition RCF which was undrawn at this date, to 59 million, as a result of the Sky of OPTA Index Limited.
matured in accordance with its terms, and programming campaigns which leaving total available facilities going have been run this year.
Average Exceptional items Total exceptional items forward of 600 million.
This 600 subscriber acquisition costs SAC for the year amounted to a net credit of million facility, which was also undrawn remained around 200 for the year.
This consists of a 49 million as at 30 June 2004, is due to mature in profit on disposal of the Groups 20% March 2008.
Subscriber management costs, which shareholding in QVC UK : a profit on include CRM costs, supply chain costs, disposal of 2 million and a provision Taxation The total net tax charge for and associated depreciation, increased release of 33 million relating to the the period of 158 million includes by 47 million on the comparable Groups sale of its 9.9% shareholding in a current tax charge of 127 million period to 371 million.
Supply chain Manchester United plc: partly offset by a and a deferred tax charge of 34 million, costs, including the cost of goods sold 9 million provision against the Groups offset by a 3 million net adjustment in in respect of Sky and Multiroom setremaining football club investments.
Excluding the top boxes, represent 70% of the increase, effect of goodwill, joint ventures and reflecting the strong growth in Sky Joint ventures and associates The Groups exceptional items, the Groups underlying customers during the year.
Also included share of the net operating losses of joint effective tax rate on ordinary activities within supply chain costs is the cost ventures and associates before goodwill was 30% during the period.
of stock for SkyBuy, the Groups retail increased to 5 million in the year.
This operation, which increased by 12 mainly reflects a one-off write down of After removing the effect of deferred tax, million in the year.
CRM costs represent 11 million by attheraces ATR in the Groups share of joint ventures tax 19% of the increase in subscriber respect of capitalised infrastructure and prior year adjustments, the mainstream management costs, but the CRM cost costs and media rights prepayments.
corporation tax liability for the period per subscriber has declined by 3%.
After utilising all the Depreciation costs increased by 5 On 30 April 2004, Sky and Arena Leisure Groups remaining Advanced Corporation million on the comparable period, plc acquired Channel 4s shares and loan Tax, this was reduced to 70 million.
At mainly due to increased depreciation notes in ATR, increasing the Groups 30 June 2004, 35 million had been paid, in respect of CRM assets.
At the same time, with the balance of 35 million due for the shareholder loans were capitalised, payment by 31 December 2004.
Transmission and related costs increased giving rise to negative goodwill of 11 by 3 million on the comparable period million which was immediately released British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 9 Operating and Financial Review continued Earnings The profit after tax for the year was 322 million.
Earnings per share before goodwill and exceptional items was 18.3 pence compared to 10.2 pence restated for the application of Urgent Issues Task Force abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts for the comparable period.
At 30 June 2004, the total number of shares outstanding was 1,941,712,786.
Cashflow Earnings before interest, Left: Sky Talent Search tax, depreciation and amortisation Sky Talent Search is Skys original initiative to develop internal EBITDA before exceptional items talent and discover future television presenters from its own employees.
From over 300 applicants, 12 were selected by a increased by 52% on the comparable panel of presenters and producers to go on a professional period to 702 million.
With an additional four-day presenting course.
Three of the Talent Search Stars will win a one-off slot on a Sky programme.
180 million of cash inflow, principally from a 182 million movement in Right: Skys training schemes working capital due to the unwinding Sky is committed to the continuous development of its employees so that everyone has the skills and knowledge of programming prepayments, the to undertake their current and future roles.
This is achieved timing of DTH revenue collection and through the provision of tailored training and personal development opportunities for all employees at all stages the timing of payments to third party of their careers.
channels and movie studios, the Group generated an operating cash inflow of 882 million.
This represents the conversion of 147% of operating profit before goodwill and exceptional items to operating cash inflow.
After taking into account cash outflows, principally comprising capital expenditure of 132 million: net interest payments of 82 million: tax paid of 58 million which includes 20 million relating to the 2003 financial year and 3 million consortium relief : dividends paid to shareholders in April 2004 of 53 million: and one-off receipts from the sale of the Groups shareholdings in QVC UK 49 million, Manchester United plc 62 million and Chelsea Village plc 6 million, the million 600 Group reduced net debt by 676 million, from 1,105 million at 30 June 2003 to 429 million at 30 June 2004. Dividend In light of the Groups OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE GOODWILL continued strong cashflow generation, AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS INCREASES the Board proposes a final dividend of BY 65% TO 600 MILLION.
3.25 pence per share, payable on 19 November 2004 to shareholders on the register on 29 October 2004, subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General meeting in November 2004.
10 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 6 PENCE PER SHARE RESUMPTION OF DIVIDEND PAYMENTS Balance sheet respect of 50 million of this debt, into a further interest rate hedging against the Groups minority investments Financing whereby the previously fixed rate of arrangement to fix the rate at 6.130% in football clubs of 9 million.
The Groups principal source of liquidity 7.750% was swapped to a floating from 15 April 2002, payable semiis its operating cashflow.
Long-term rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 2.050% annually for the remainder of the life Net assets increased by 242 million, funding comes primarily from its US from July 2004 to July 2005.
principally caused by increased cash held, dollar and sterling-denominated public 2005, and every 9 July thereafter, the partly offset by continued amortisation bond debt, together with its 600 million counterparty has the right, but not Revolving credit facility of goodwill and the final proposed RCF, each of which is described below.
the obligation, to cancel this swap, At 30 June 2004, the 600 million dividend.
returning the Group to its previous facility was undrawn and was available Guaranteed notes fixed rate of 7.750%.
Under The Group anticipates issuing and serving During the current and prior year the terms of the facility, interest was a claim in the near future for a material the Group had in issue the following US$600 million of 6.875% Guaranteed fixed at 1.125% per annum above amount against an information and publicly-traded guaranteed notes: Notes, repayable in February 2009.
At LIBOR until June 2004, and thereafter technology solutions provider, which the time of issuing these notes, the US accrues at a margin between 0.600% had provided services to the Group as US$650 million of 8.200% Guaranteed dollar proceeds were swapped into and 1.125% per annum above LIBOR, part of the Groups investment in CRM Notes, repayable in July 2009.
At the pounds sterling 367 million at an depending on the Groups ratio of net software and infrastructure.
The amount time of issuing these notes, the US average fixed rate of 8.200%, payable debt to EBITDA, provided that the rate that will be recovered by the Group will dollar proceeds were swapped into semi-annually.
In July 2003, the Group does not fall below 0.700% per annum not be finally determined until resolution pounds sterling 413 million at an entered into a further interest rate prior to March 2006.
The facility has of the claim.
average fixed rate of 7.653% payable hedging arrangement in respect of a maturity date of March 2008. semi-annually.
In December 2002, 61 million of this swapped debt.
The Reserves March 2003 and July 2003, the Group effect of this new hedging arrangement At 30 June 2004, the ratio of net debt On 10 December 2003, the High Court entered into further swap arrangements was that, from July 2003 until February to EBITDA was 0.6 2003: 2.4.
Interest approved a reduction in the Companys relating to 64 million of this debt, 2009, the Group will pay floating six cover the ratio of EBITDA to net interest share premium account of 1,120 million, the effect of which was to fix the months LIBOR plus a margin of 3.490% payable was 8.7 2003: 4.1.
The Group resulting in the elimination of the interest rate on 64 million at 5.990% on 61 million of its swapped debt.
currently expects these ratios to continue Companys deficit on its profit and loss until January 2004, after which time However, at each six monthly reset to improve.
account of 1,106 million, and creating it reverted to floating six months LIBOR date, the counterparty to this a non-distributable special reserve of plus a margin of 2.840%, except that transaction has the right to cancel Both the bank facilities and the publicly- 14 million, which represents the excess should LIBOR be less than 2.750% for the transaction with immediate effect.
traded guaranteed notes have been entered of the share premium reduction over the period January to July 2004, 2.890% In October 2003, the Group entered into by the Company and guaranteed by the deficit.
for the period July 2004 to January into a further interest rate hedging British Sky Broadcasting Limited and Sky 2005, or 2.990% thereafter, the arrangement in respect of a further Subscribers Services Limited.
A new Employee Share Ownership Plan effective rate shall be deemed to 61 million of this swapped debt, ESOP reserve has been created be 7.653%.
In order to increase its the effect of which was to reduce the Fixed and current assets following the adoption of UITF 38, when exposure to floating rates, in August rate payable to 7.950% for the period Intangible assets decreased by 119 a prior year adjustment was made as at 2003, the Group entered into another August 2003 to February 2004. million, from 536 million to 417 30 June 2003 to reclassify 35 million interest rate hedging arrangement in Thereafter, until August 2006, the million, due to the amortisation of from fixed asset investments to the new respect of a further 64 million of the rate payable is 7.950% plus any margin goodwill.
Intangible assets comprise ESOP reserve.
During the year, the ESOP above-mentioned debt, the effect of by which the floating six monthly LIBOR the goodwill that arose on the reserve has decreased by 5 million, which was that, from July 2003 until reset rate exceeds the sum of the previous acquisitions of British Interactive due to the exercise of 27 million July 2009, the Group will pay floating reset rate plus 0.500%.
Thereafter, Broadcasting Holdings Limited BiB, executive share options, partly offset by six months LIBOR plus a margin of the rate reverts to a fixed 8.180%.
Sports Internet Group plc SIG and the purchase of 22 million additional 2.818% on a further 64 million of WAPTV Limited WAPTV.
its swapped debt, except that should US$300 million of 7.300% Guaranteed LIBOR be less than 2.750% for the Notes repayable in October 2006.
At Tangible fixed assets increased in the Treasury policy and risk management period January to July 2004, or less the time of issuing these notes, the year by 30 million, mainly due to The Groups treasury function is than 2.990% thereafter, the Group Group entered into swap transactions 133 million of additions, including responsible for raising finance for the shall revert back to 7.653%.
At 30 June to convert the dollar proceeds to pounds investment in CRM and new premises, Groups operations, together with 2004, none of the floor levels had been sterling 189 million, half of which partly offset by depreciation of 102 associated liquidity management, and breached, therefore the Group continues carries a fixed rate of interest of 8.384% million and a disposal of 1 million.
the management of foreign exchange, to pay the relevant floating rates.
Assets in the course of construction interest rate and counterparty risks.
The remainder was fixed at 7.940% increased by 72 million in the year, Treasury operations are conducted 100 million of 7.750% Guaranteed until 15 April 2002, thereafter floating mainly due to the investment in CRM.
within a framework of policies and Notes, repayable in July 2009.
The at 0.620% over six months LIBOR, Fixed asset investments decreased by guidelines authorised and reviewed by fixed coupon is payable annually.
In respect 42 million, mainly due to the sale of both the Audit Committee and the Board, March 2004, the Group entered into of this remaining floating exposure, the Groups investment in Manchester who receive regular updates of treasury an interest rate swap arrangement in on 16 January 2002, the Group entered United plc and a further provision activity.
Derivative instruments are British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11 Sky One Operating and Financial Review The UKs leading non-terrestrial entertainment channel.
Rebecca continued Loos My Story drew over 1.7 million viewers in April 2004, the climax of David Blaines Above the Below attracted over two million viewers in August 2003, and an episode of The Simpsons, featuring Tony Blair, attracted over 1 million viewers.
transacted for risk management purposes currency swap arrangements, which, matures over a period of years.
At 30 generated from subscribers in Ireland.
It is the Groups policy that all in addition to the translation of the June 2004, 31% of the Groups available These Euro-denominated revenues are hedging is to cover known risks and that principal amount of the debt to sterling, funding was due to mature in more offset to a certain extent by Eurono trading in financial instruments is also provide for the exchange, at than five years 30 June 2003: 47%.
denominated costs, relating mainly to undertaken.
Regular and frequent reporting regular intervals, of fixed-rate amounts certain transponder rentals, the net to management is required for all of dollars for fixed-rate amounts of Currency exchange rates The Groups position being a Euro surplus.
transactions and exposures, and the sterling.
All of the Groups debt revenues are substantially denominated internal control environment is subject exposure is denominated in sterling in sterling, although a significant proportion During the year, surplus Euros were to periodic review by the Groups internal after cross-currency swaps are taken of operating costs is denominated in US exchanged for sterling on currency spot audit team and by the Treasury Committee.
into account: at 30 June 2004, the split dollars.
In the year to 30 June 2004, 14% markets.
In the twelve months to 30 June The Groups principal market risks are of aggregate borrowings into their core of operating costs 439 million were 2004, Euro 15 million 2003: Euro 59 its exposures to changes in interest rates currencies was US dollar 90% and denominated in US dollars 30 June million was exchanged at spot rates for and currency exchange rates, which arise sterling 10% 30 June 2003: US dollar 2003: 15%: 424 million.
A further Euro 122 million has both from the Groups sources of finance 84% and sterling 16%.
The Group relate mainly to the Groups long-term been retained to meet obligations under and from its operations.
Following also enters into sterling interest rate programming contracts with US suppliers.
forward foreign exchange contracts for evaluation of those positions, the Group swap and swaption arrangements, the purchase of Swiss francs see below.
selectively enters into derivative financial which provide for the exchange, at The Group currently manages its instruments to manage these exposures.
specified intervals, of the difference US dollar sterling exchange rate risk The Group has purchased the programming The principal instruments used are interest between fixed rates and variable rates, exposure by the purchase of forward rights to certain UEFA Champions League rate swaps and swaptions to hedge calculated by reference to an agreed foreign exchange agreements for up football matches until the end of the interest rate risks, forward rate notional sterling amount.
The fair value to 18 months ahead.
Payments in respect agreements to hedge transactional of interest rate and cross-currency agreements are in respect of firm of these rights are made pursuant to currency exposures and cross-currency swaps held as of 30 June 2004 was commitments only, and represent the contract in Swiss francs, which interest rate swaps to hedge exposures approximately 105 million against approximately 80% 30 June 2003: means that the Group will be exposed on long-term foreign currency debt.
the Groups favour 30 June 2003: 90% of dollar-denominated costs over to the Swiss franc sterling exchange 7 million in the Groups favour.
In line with the Group's policy of Interest rate management The Group limiting foreign exchange transactions has financial exposures to both sterling The Group is also exposed to floating At 30 June 2004, the Group had outstanding to fixed price instruments, 90% of this and US dollar interest rates, arising interest rates under its RCFs.
At 30 June commitments to purchase in aggregate exposure CHF 100 million has been primarily from bank borrowings and 2004, the RCFs were not drawn upon US$705 million at average rates of hedged via the use of forward contracts long-term bonds.
These exposures are 30 June 2003: RCFs represented 7% US$1.62 to 1.00.
Although these financial for the exchange of Euros and sterling managed by borrowing at fixed rates of the Groups total debt.
77% of the instruments can mitigate the effect of for Swiss francs.
Since 30 June 2004 all of interest and by using interest rate Groups total debt at 30 June 2004 is short-term fluctuations in exchange rates, of this exposure has been hedged.
swaps to adjust the balance between fixed-rate after taking account of there can be no completely effective fixed and floating rate debt.
All of the interest rate swaps 30 June 2003: 93%.
hedge against long-term currency Groups dollar-denominated debt has To ensure continuity of funding, the fluctuations.
The Groups primary Euro been swapped to sterling, using crossGroups policy is to secure funding that exposure arises as a result of revenues EARNINGS PER SHARE 18.3 pence EPS BEFORE GOODWILL AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS INCREASES BY 79% TO 18.3 PENCE 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 882 million NET OPERATING CASH INFLOW INCREASES BY 33% TO 882 MILLION Risk identification and management In 2003, the Group established an IFRS Financial instruments and hedge Management continues to develop transition steering committee, comprising accounting and review its processes for the the Chief Financial Officer, senior finance The Group uses cross-currency and identification and management of management and an independent interest rate swaps and swaptions, business risks.
Examples of the risks adviser.
The Committee is responsible and forward purchases of US dollars facing the business include: the highly for monitoring the progress of a dedicated and Swiss francs to hedge its foreign competitive environment in which transition working group, for decisioncurrency and interest rate exposures.
the Group operates, which is subject making, and for reporting to the Audit Under UK GAAP, these financial to rapid technological change: reliance Committee in relation to the transition.
instruments are not recognised on on technology which is subject to The working group is undertaking an the balance sheet, however, under obsolescence, change and development: extensive analysis of the impact of IFRS IFRS, the Group will be required to changes in the broadcasting, across the Group, with the objective recognise its derivative financial telecommunications and competition of ensuring full compliance with IFRS by instruments on the balance sheet at regulatory environment, primarily in 1 July 2005.
Implementation plans are fair value, with changes in fair value the UK and the European Community: in progress to modify procedures, systems being recognised in the profit and reliance on intellectual property and and controls as necessary.
Where hedge accounting proprietary rights: reliance on a limited the Groups finance function in IFRS is achieved under IAS 39, the profit number of customers to generate commenced in 2004, and the Group has and loss impact of the changes in fair wholesale revenues: and the financial been active in responding to public value may be postponed and matched and other obligations imposed upon consultation documents issued by bodies to the profit and loss account impact the Group in a number of long-term including the International Accounting of the underlying hedged exposure.
agreements and or other arrangements.
Standards Board IASB, the Accounting The Group does not see a requirement Standards Board and the Securities and to change its current hedging policy The Group mitigates these risks as far Exchange Commission on issues relating as a result of the new requirements as possible through a number of risk to the mandatory transition of European for achieving hedge accounting under management processes.
These include listed groups to IFRS.
IAS 39 and expects to be able to a Risk Management Committee, chaired achieve hedge accounting for the by the Chief Financial Officer and Several uncertainties remain which majority of its financial instruments.
The affect the Groups ability to assess the Committee meets at least four times a impact of IFRS, including whether the Share-based payments year to review the adequacy of systems European Union will endorse the IFRS Under current UK GAAP, the Group and procedures controlling risks relating to financial instruments IAS 32 recognises a charge in the profit throughout the business.
In addition, Financial Instruments Disclosure and and loss account for its Long Term the Audit Committee monitors and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Incentive Plan LTIP, Equity Bonus reviews the effectiveness of the internal Instruments Recognition and Plan EBP and Key Contributor audit and risk management function.
Measurement and whether the IASB Plan KCP based on the difference and other related bodies will issue new between the exercise price of the Adoption of International Financial or revised standards which will either award and the price of a BSkyB share Reporting Standards Following a be mandatory for the Groups 30 June on the date of grant the intrinsic Regulation issued by the Council of the 2006 financial statements, or which the value.
Under IFRS 2 Share-based European Union, the Group, along with Group could adopt early voluntarily.
payment, the Group will be required all European Union listed groups, is However, based on the Groups initial to recognise a charge in the profit required to adopt International Financial assessment, the key changes to the and loss account for all share options Reporting Standards IFRS in the Groups accounting policies as a result and awards based on the fair value of preparation of its consolidated financial of the adoption of IFRS are expected to the awards as calculated at the grant statements from 1 July 2005.
The be in the following areas: date using an option-pricing model.
adoption of these standards will lead This will introduce an additional cost to significant changes in the Groups Intangible assets for the Group, as Executive Scheme accounting policies, results, and the IAS 38 Intangible assets provides options, which have an intrinsic value presentation of its financial statements, more detailed guidance on intangible of nil, and Sharesave scheme options, which are currently in accordance with assets than UK GAAP, which may which are specifically exempt from the UK generally accepted accounting result in the reclassification of certain scope of current UK GAAP accounting, principles UK GAAP.
costs into intangible assets, including will have a fair value attached to software development costs which them, and hence an associated profit are currently included within tangible and loss account charge under IFRS.
fixed assets within the Groups balance sheet.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 13 Left: Signing on Sky Sports Sky has received recognition for its disability strategy, at the Business In The Community BiTC Awards for Excellence 2004.
The BiTC Realising Ability Award went to the Sky Disability Strategy, for its work in promoting understanding of disability issues and providing dedicated services for disabled customers.
Right: PDA device mobile field force technology used by installers Sky has rolled out an integrated PDA and mobile phone device to all of its installers as one of its initiatives to improve information management.
Installers productivity is increased as the PDA is continuously updated with installation booking details and last minute changes as they occur.
Goodwill reaching their full potential.
The Reach The Sky Forum, a panel of Sky staff elected Under UK GAAP, the Group amortises for the Sky initiative was awarded a by Sky staff, was launched in July 2004. goodwill on a straight-line basis over Business in the Community Award for 70 Forum Members will represent 48 periods of up to 20 years.
Under Excellence from the Department of Trade constituencies across Skys businesses, IFRS 3 Business Combinations, and Industry DTI for its innovative locations and work patterns.
The ballot goodwill will no longer be amortised use of the power of the brand to process is being managed independently and will instead be subject to annual increase young peoples participation in by The Electoral Reform Society.
This will remove education and learning.
the cost of goodwill amortisation from Forum Members will help the Group the Groups profit and loss account, Full details of Skys corporate responsibility to achieve its business objectives by although impairment losses, if identified, activity are available in a separate creating an effective channel for would be recorded in the profit and document Corporate Responsibility dialogue, involving people from all loss account.
Review 2004 and on the web at levels and locations in the business.
In addition to discussing how the Group This list should not be taken as a can make Sky a better place to work, comprehensive or complete indication Employees the Group will also be consulting of the impacts that the adoption of IFRS The Groups aim is to provide a members on issues such as health Corporate responsibility may have on the Groups financial stimulating working environment and and safety, training and development at Sky is about making statements, but it is indicative of the support diversity within the workplace, and work practices.
In this way, the the Group flexible to major adjustments to its financial reporting to recognise the new ideas and Sky Forum continues the good work that the Group has identified to date.
dedication individuals bring to their of the previous Sky Speakers and market requirements roles and to seek their views on how Employee Forum initiatives.
and to the expectations Corporate responsibility to support their aspirations at Sky.
Corporate responsibility at Sky is about During the financial year, the average In addition to the learning and of its stakeholders.
making the Group successful and number of full-time equivalent development opportunities within the responsible, flexible to market requirements employees of the Group increased Group, the Group aims to incentivise as well as to the expectations of our by 4% to 9,500. and motivate its employees through stakeholders.
Following the publication benefits such as an Inland Revenueof our first corporate responsibility In order to develop employees skills approved sharesave scheme, a Give-Asreport in September 2003, the Group and knowledge, to motivate them in You-Earn Scheme, the BSkyB Pension has continued to work to address its their roles and enable them to meet the Plan, complimentary Sky standard responsibilities to its customers and Groups business objectives, the Groups installation and digital subscriptions, employees, to the environment, in our training and development policy aims a healthcare plan and an occupational supply chain and to the local and national to integrate learning within the work health department.
communities in which it operates.
environment: to develop the skills of employees and provide them with the Employee share option schemes In October 2003, the Board appointed knowledge to undertake their current The Group manages its risk in respect a Non-Executive Director to chair a newlyand future roles: to promote selfof certain employee share option schemes created steering committee on corporate development as a responsibility of every through a dedicated Employee Share responsibility.
The steering committee, individual: to support employees during Ownership Plan, which purchases the which includes the Chief Executive Officer, training and development in line with Companys shares in the open market senior executives and Non-Executive the needs of the business: and to motivate from time to time.
The accounting Directors, is tasked with setting the employees by providing them with policies in respect of market risk vision, values and reviewing the personal development opportunities.
sensitive instruments are disclosed achievement of corporate responsibility in the financial statements in notes goals for the Group.
In order to take The Group aims to achieve this through 1 and 20. account of social and environmental a number of methods, including a corporate risks, the Group developed its first induction programme, workplace training, 3 August 2004 corporate responsibility risk register coaching and professional updates, internal in April 2004.
Community investment, and external training and development through the flagship initiative Reach for courses, and continuous self-development the Sky, continues to demonstrate the support from heads of departments and Groups commitment to young people the Human Resources department.
14 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
