GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW David Prosser Group Chief Executive Legal & General performed well in 2004 with our excellent of these are our unit-linked investment products, many of which are new business performances being the highlight.
However, bought as ISA investments using our direct and internet purchasing more important in my view than these visible achievements facilities.
The majority of our current investment offerings contain are the many changes which we have made within the no performance or minimum value guarantees.
These are the ones which provide us with new number of investment products do feature minimum return capabilities to deliver further outperformance in the future.
These guarantees are Accordingly this review, as well as covering our 2004 charged for and hedged.
Alongside our unit trust products, we also performance and the opportunities and risks we now face, offer an extensive range of investment bonds, which are designed includes examples of actions we have taken to enhance to be held over the longer term.
Recent Market Performance and Outlook The review begins by focusing on our main market, that of savings The UK long term savings and protection market grew by 3.1% in and protection products to the UK retail and corporate marketplaces: 2004.
The housing market, which saw prices move ahead strongly continues by examining the institutional investment market where in the first half of the year, started to fall back towards the end of our subsidiary, Legal & General Investment Management, is so the year as the effect of increased mortgage rates began to be felt.
successful, and concludes by assessing the performance of our For 2005, we expect that house prices will be broadly stable, overseas subsidiaries.
although activity levels will fall back from those seen in 2004.
In the savings arena, the second half of 2004 saw the UK equity UK Business market recover strongly from a disappointing first half.
The Legal & General provides a wide range of life and pensions products.
FTSE 100 at year-end was up over 10% from its low point in August These products include protection business, where we are market and it has risen further since.
Previously, this review has drawn leader with a 17% market share.
Term assurance products are attention to the savings and pensions shortfall which has built up in often sold in conjunction with a mortgage as are the household recent years.
The improving performance of equity markets in the buildings and contents insurances offered by our general insurance last six months is, we believe, likely to encourage savers to return to subsidiary.
Such products are predominantly sold through our this class of asset.
Business Partners, mostly banks, building societies and estate Our forecast for 2005 is, therefore, for a further modest recovery agents.
Legal & General is, in addition, a leading provider of life in UK equity markets to occur alongside reduced housing market assurance to rms wishing to purchase such cover for their activity.
Though uncertainty exists around the outcome of the employees.
This group life product is mostly sold through expected General Election and the possibility of tax rises thereafter, independent employee benefit consultants.
Our pensions saving business distributes its products mainly Fig 2.
UK Individual Market Performance through independent intermediaries.
Most pension saving takes place through company-arranged schemes, the most successful 180 of these being ones into which employers make a contribution 170 to match the savings of their employees.
160 Individuals maturing pensions are required to be converted 150 into annuities by age 75.
However, the annuity purchase often 140 happens at the point of an individuals retirement.
These annuities, 130 known as compulsory purchase annuities, represent 50% of our annuity sales.
Legal & General also offers annuity products to the 120 corporate marketplace.
These are purchased as a block of annuities, 110 on either an immediate or a deferred basis, for all or part of 100 a pension schemes membership.
The demand for these bulk 90 purchase annuities is volatile, being inuenced by many factors, 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 including equity market levels and corporate merger and Legal & General Rebased 2000 100 acquisitions activity.
ABI In addition to pensions products, we also offer many other, Source: Association of British Insurers ABI data on the UK individual life and more exible, retail savings arrangements.
The most popular pensions and ISA PEP and Unit Trust market.
4 Legal & General Annual Report 2004 Our market share success has been founded on the consistent implementation of our now long-standing strategy and it has enabled us to generate attractive returns for you, our shareholders our view is that the balance of probabilities favours further overall is to generate attractive returns for you, our shareholders, by offering savings and protection market growth of around 5%.
good value products, supported by a quality service, through a multichannel distribution underpinned by Legal & Generals financial UK Insurance Market Structure strength and single, powerful brand.
The UK insurance industry has experienced significant change Crucial in this strategy is the continuing drive for better value in the last decade and Legal & General has played its part in that products.
Here, the significant increase in operational scale which change.
One of our long-standing objectives has been to achieve, we have achieved in recent years works greatly to our advantage.
on average, a rate of growth in our UK individual life and Scale efficiencies have pensions business at least 10% higher than that of the funded investment in At Legal & General, we market.
2004 was the seventh year in the past eight in further technological which we have achieved that level of outperformance.
advances, enabling both are now well accustomed These years of outperformance have seen our UK our distributors and the to adapting our business individual life and pensions market share increase administration teams dramatically.
From 3.1% in 1994, our share rose to 8.7% model to reect changes within Legal & General in 2004 and in the last quarter of the year reached 9.3%, to provide an even in regulation fully three times the share we had a decade ago.
However, more efficient service even at this level of market share, there is ample room to their customers.
Our business model is designed for growth.
Over the past three years, we have processed on average almost The message of our current market share, still in single gures, is that 50,000 protection applications per month and it is this scale of scope remains for further steady growth.
operation which has allowed us to invest in new technology to A second important point is that our growth in market share is deliver straight-through processing.
In 2004, over 120,000 protection a symptom of the consolidation which has taken place in the market applications were able to be processed without human intervention.
In 1994, the five largest companies represented 28% of the total market and the ten largest 43%.
In 2004, the top five made up Regulatory Changes 50% of the total market and the top ten 74%.
As competition has As shareholders will be aware, ours is a closely regulated industry.
become tougher, weaker and smaller companies have been shaken The FSA and the Government have, over the years, produced a out.
Thus companies have merged, have stopped writing business plethora of rules and requirements to which Legal & General and and gone into run-off or have simply withdrawn from major lines the rest of our industry must adhere.
Though outsiders may assume of business.
that the Tribunal Hearing, to which the Chairman referred, will Looking forward, our expectation is that the process of have dominated our recent dealings with regulatory bodies, in fact consolidation will continue.
Costs incurred by regulation are high the changes to capital adequacy requirements, described later in and show little sign of reducing signicantly.
Even simple product the Finance Directors Review, and the new rules on depolarisation changes can be costly but those which are mandatory in nature, have been, for us, the most important of the issues addressed by such as those required to implement the Governments Pensions the regulatory and accounting authorities in 2004.
Simplification agenda, can be very expensive indeed.
These The changes to the polarisation regime are far-reaching.
In costs not only create barriers to entry but also are hard for the past, distributors could either adopt an independent status those companies operating without adequate scale to absorb.
or they could operate as tied distributors of a particular provider.
They undermine the financial strength which is so important The FSAs new rules introduce the additional concept of a in a companys battle to win new business and attract multi-tie arrangement, under which distributors can offer products consumer confidence.
manufactured by a small panel of providers.
Legal & General Our belief therefore is that, facing these costs, some competitors is pleased to have been selected to join the multi-tie panels of will continue to exit or to downsize their operations.
In other words, many leading intermediaries, including Sesame, Bankhall, Tenet market consolidation is likely to continue, with benets in terms of and THINC Destini.
Our tied sales force also continues to grow.
both new business and profits for the winners.
Shareholders will recall the established relationships we enjoy with leading rms such as Alliance & Leicester, Lambeth Building Strategy and Scale Society, National Australia Group UK, Northern Rock, the Norwich Our market share success has been founded on the consistent and Peterborough and the Yorkshire Building Societies.
To this implementation of our now long-standing strategy.
That strategy prestigious list, we were delighted, last year, to be able to add Legal & General Annual Report 2004 5 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued 1 GROWTH BY DESIGN Bradford & Bingley.
Bradford & Bingleys decision to work with Legal & General was a strong endorsement, we felt, of our business, our products and our values.
The move to a depolarised world presents challenges to many in our industry.
To Legal & General, it has presented opportunities which we have exploited.
We expect to continue doing so.
At Legal & General, we are now well accustomed to adapting our business model to reect changes in regulation.
We are equally accustomed to adapting our model to reect the transformation David Prosser, Group Chief Executive in distribution and administration processes which technology can stimulate.
One illustration of this was our decision in 2004 to partner one of the UKs leading Independent Financial Adviser As Chairman of the Financial Services IFA platforms, Cofunds.
Using Cofunds, IFAs are able to offer Skills Council, David Prosser is very well their customers the investment funds of many different investment aware of the importance to our business houses, all administered within a single administration wrapper.
and to our success of ensuring that our To this capability will now be added Legal & Generals investment staff are not just fully skilled but also bond and personal pensions products.
In addition, all Cofunds products and capabilities, including the single administration receive regular training appropriate wrapper, will be available to our tied business partners, under to their current and prospective roles.
2004 Highlights The Future of the Pensions Market 457 managers achieved the Institute of As shareholders will be aware, the pensions industry in the UK Leadership and Management ILM Introductory has been subject to change and reform over many decades.
As Certicate in First Line Management a result, an extremely complex set of rules and regulations has 401 managers achieved the ILMs Introductory built up.
These rules are confusing and difficult for consumers to interpret and they are expensive for providers to administer.
Diploma in Management The net effect of all the many changes over recent years is that, as The pass rate of Legal & Generals actuarial a nation, we are undersaving for the retirement needs of the future.
trainees was 64% compared to an industry The Governments most recent responses to these problems have average of 50% been, first, to undertake a Pensions Simplication programme and Developments in our approach to learning, second, to establish a Pensions Commission with the remit to through the use of distance learning tools, has analyse the pensions shortfall and recommend ways of alleviating it.
more than doubled the amount of structured Implementing the requirements of the Pensions Simplication learning completed programme will, as I stated earlier, prove expensive for providers, including Legal & General.
However, we believe there will be Mix of learning benets from the effort involved, both to our customers and to ourselves, and therefore we approach this, the largest systems implementation we will be undertaking in 2005, confident of a positive medium term outcome for Legal & General.
The First Report of the Pensions Commission, issued in 2004, launched a consultation in which Legal & General has already participated.
Recommendations for ways to address the pension shortfall are due from the Commission later this year.
We urge the Commission to be far-reaching in its thinking.
The problems are long-standing and complex.
The solutions likewise must be radical 2003 2004 and enduring, since a period of stability for the pensions industry Classroom 97% Classroom 56% is now long overdue.
Computer based 3% Computer based 44% 6 Legal & General Annual Report 2004 people It has been good to see Anant Chavda Systems Actuary, Legal & General making Legal & General such a major commitment to management training.
The Introductory Diploma in Management course, which I have just completed, was certainly hard work, but it was also very relevant and useful GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Annuity Business tracking management, with its cost and predictability advantages, Legal & General has built up a strong competitive position in the has further to run in both the equity and bond asset classes.
annuities market, based on expert underwriting, responsive pricing The far-sighted establishment, almost 20 years ago, of what has and quality administration.
Our expectation is that this already very proved to be a highly successful tracking capability has assisted large market will expand further as the impact of the growth of Legal & General to become the leading provider of such funds dened contribution pensions at the expense of dened benefit to the UK pensions market.
We now manage in excess of 100bn arrangements is felt.
This will provide us and other participants with of index tracking funds.
the opportunity to continue to invest our capital in the market at Both the capabilities and the people who have brought good rates of return.
this achievement about are hard to match and harder to replace.
I join the Chairman in paying tribute to the enormous contribution Product profitability of our colleague, John Monckton.
He was the personication of Earlier in this review, I referred to the importance to our business gentleness and courtesy, supreme in his work with us and the model and to our profitability of Legal & General being a scale best of men.
participant in the main markets in which we operate.
Such scale Amongst his many contributions, John led the successful drive is a key element in our drive for cost competitiveness in both the to diversify our Investment Management earnings by building manufacturing and administration of our products.
Our model calls an admired active xed interest capability.
The team he ran won for continuing investment in efficiency and it is this no less than 4bn in approach, of cost gains won through scale and technology, mandates in the last which should enable us to continue to deliver good Legal & General Investment two years and regularly returns for our shareholders and good products to our achieved upper quartile Management is delivering customers, rather than the approach, in our view risky, rankings in the of transferring processes to distant countries.
This latter excellent value to its performance tables.
approach, whilst seeking to deliver a one-off step change customers and first-class Proving our strength in administration costs, can lead to significant business in active management returns to its shareholder disruption and future process inexibility.
will continue to be Our drive for efficiency has benefited shareholders important for us as we and customers alike.
Five years ago, the majority of term seek to expand further the size and profitability of our Investment assurance business was submitted to Legal & General by post and Management business.
Our profits are closely linked to market the cost to the customer then of a typical policy 100,000, 30 year movements and our new business success.
Accordingly, an old male, non-smoker, 20 year term was 8.90 per month.
Today, important goal for us is to win further active management more than 70% of our business received through business mandates by delivering superior investment performance.
partners and IFAs is received electronically and the cost of the Our Investment Management subsidiary is a business of same typical policy has fallen to 7.35 per month, a 17% saving.
increasing value to Legal & General.
Its new business track record Risk factors are, of course, important in setting insurance rates, but is remarkable.
It is efficiently run and it has market-leading benets of this scale do also reect back ofce efficiency savings capabilities, as evidenced by its success in winning numerous and reductions in the cost of distribution.
Further, it takes its role as the leading investor in the UK attract more customers, and are at the heart of the virtuous circle stock market both responsibly and very seriously.
Legal & General on which our business model is built.
Investment Management is delivering excellent value to its customers and first-class returns to its shareholder.
We are UK Institutional Investment confident that it will continue to do both in the years to come.
Shareholders will be aware of the difficulties encountered by many pension funds following the decline in equity markets between International Businesses 2000 and 2003.
That experience, coupled with the extra reporting Legal & Generals portfolio of overseas businesses performed well transparency required by a series of new accounting standards, led in 2004.
Our largest business is in the US, where focus and a highly many trustees to rebalance the asset weightings in their portfolios efficient, paperless operation have enabled us to carve out an away from UK equities towards bonds and a more balanced attractive niche in the high net worth term assurance marketplace.
That shift in asset weightings has Our business model is tried and tested and the support we receive not yet, we believe, fully run its course, despite the rise in equity from our Broker General Agents is both loyal and strong.
Similarly, we believe that the trend towards index 8 Legal & General Annual Report 2004 Fig 3.
Managing New Business Value Added Year ended 31 December 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 UK life and pensions new business APE m 722 592 608 584 442 Value of UK life and pensions new business m 272 271 211 183 118 Value new business APE 38% 46% 35% 31% 27% Legal & General America is now ranked the eighth largest producer but a constructive atmosphere.
That the relationship between of new individual term business by sums insured in the US life Legal & General and Amicus has developed so well has been due insurance industry.
Processing cost advantages are at the heart in no small part to Digby Jacks, Amicus Sector Secretary Financial of Legal & General Americas business model and this is further Services, who retires in 2005. enhanced by good quality service.
In 2004, not only were customer Legal & General is very grateful to Digby for his efforts.
We were service and agent productivity enhanced through improvements pleased for him, as well as for ourselves, that Legal & General was to our internet site but also faster feeds were chosen in September to be the established between external data and the internal first winner of Amicus Best Looking forward, my work ow systems.
judgement is that our In November 2004, Legal & General America issued an instrument into the capital markets which had the Conclusion prospects now are as good effect of reducing the cost of capital for term assurance 2004 was a good year for as they have ever been business nanced by the transaction.
In total, our achievement enhances the capital efficiency with brand attracted over 22bn of which Legal & General America operates.
This was more than the total of funds In Europe, our businesses in Holland, France and Germany which the Group had under management at the start of the last all made good progress.
We anticipate market growth in Europe decade.
This is a powerful indication of how much the Group has as Governments seek to address pensions issues and, ahead of achieved in the intervening years.
However, the future is more this, we have judged it better to extend our reach through existing important than the past.
Looking forward, my judgement is that and green-eld businesses rather than through acquisition, with our prospects now are as good as they have ever been.
We have its associated risks and costs.
Our European businesses generally the strategy, the business model, the financial strength and the operate the same good value product approach to that followed team to succeed.
The market opportunity is there.
Legal & General in the UK, and we were particularly pleased to see our recently can and will take a firm grasp of that opportunity and, in the established German business achieve good growth, especially future as in the past, I believe will again deliver both market towards the end of 2004, when our growth was aided by the outperformance and profitable growth.
anticipation of changes to the scal regime which took effect on 1 January 2005.
Also, the award to our Dutch subsidiary of Best Life Assurer in The Netherlands for the fourth year running is an accolade of which we can be very proud.
In Egypt, Commercial International Life Company SAE CIL, 40% owned by Legal & General, produced 4m APE, an 8% increase over the year.
By the end of 2004, CIL had been operational for four years, offering a range of level loaded David Prosser unit linked savings and annual renewable risk products, distributed Group Chief Executive primarily to customers of the local bank which is the other major shareholder in the company.
The company has yet to come into profit, and the loss for 2004 was just under 1m, similar to that for 2003.
Staff Contribution Underpinning all of the successes and achievements to which this Report refers has been the loyalty and commitment which our staff have once again shown in 2004.
Whilst we endeavour never to be less than challenging in the demands we make of our colleagues, we do always seek to be fair.
We are greatly aided in our dealings with our employees by the relationship which has built up over the years between our recognised trade union, Amicus, and ourselves.
Our many discussions with Amicus are typied by forceful debate Legal & General Annual Report 2004 9
