FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW Andrew Palmer Group Director Finance Legal & Generals financial strength has remained disclosure.
Legal & General welcomes these proposals as a key source of competitive advantage in 2004. an important step towards improving the consistency and This year, we have made a significant investment in comparability of supplementary accounts across Europe.
regulatory and financial reporting systems to prepare for the FSAs Prudential Source Book in 2004 and the International Financial Reporting Standards implementation of International Financial Reporting The European Commission has directed that all European listed Standards IFRS and of European Embedded Value companies must prepare their consolidated financial statements EEV methodology in 2005. under adopted IFRS from 1 January 2005.
Accordingly, the Groups primary consolidated financial statements will be prepared using IFRS from the 2005 Interims.
Comparative gures for 2004 will be Financial Reporting restated on an IFRS basis and published ahead of the 2005 interim The Modied Statutory Solvency MSS basis is the current primary results, together with reconciliations of income and shareholders reporting method in the UK for long term business.
It builds on equity to the previously reported gures.
the statutory requirements designed to demonstrate solvency, A groupwide programme was established in 2003 to deliver defers the recognition of profit and does not recognise fully the necessary changes and ensure a timely and efficient transition.
the shareholders interest in the in-force long term business.
The Our preparations for reporting under IFRS are well advanced in MSS results follow the requirements of the revised Statement of all our businesses.
Recommended Practice for Insurance Business, which was issued IFRS conversion has been a highly complex exercise for all by the Association of British Insurers ABI in November 2003. affected companies, particularly due to the continuing evolution In December 2004, the Accounting Standards Board ASB issued throughout 2004 of the accounting standards that are to apply Financial Reporting Standard 27 Life Assurance FRS 27, which from 2005.
In particular, International Accounting Standard 39 has been designed to promote better understanding of life assurers Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39, with-profits liabilities and capital management.
The Group has the standard which sets out the rules for valuing financial assets worked with the other leading insurers, the ABI and the ASB to and liabilities, attracted considerable debate within the EU.
We will be voluntarily adopting the standard amended version of the full IAS 39 was only adopted by the EU in full in 2005 and are already providing much of the required in November 2004.
This has created significant pressure on all information towards the end of this review.
The focus in this Operating and Financial Review is on Overall, we do not expect there to be a significant impact operating profit on the Achieved profits AP basis, which has been on the Groups shareholders funds as a result of the transition to developed by the ABI as a more appropriate method of accounting IFRS.
However, significant additional disclosure and presentational for long term business.
Such operating profit reects the change in changes will be required.
A summary of the accounting changes embedded value and excludes investment return variances and the likely to have the most significant impact is provided in the effect of economic assumption changes, to better reect current following paragraphs.
It also includes a longer term investment return on the capital regarded as supporting the business.
The exclusion of Insurance Contracts short term investment uctuations reects the manner in which The International Accounting Standards Board was unable insurers price and manage their business.
A longer term investment to complete its project on insurance contracts to its original return on shareholders and General Insurance funds held outside timetable.
Therefore a two-phase implementation has been the UK Long Term Fund LTF is also included.
For General Insurance, developed, with Phase I providing an interim solution from operating profit is shown before any transfers to or from the equalisation provision.
Achieved Profits New Business Contribution As the Chairman has mentioned in his Statement, we intend to adopt the new EEV methodology for preparing our supplementary 77% accounts in 2005.
This methodology was developed by a group 13% of leading European life insurers, including Legal & General.
It requires a more transparent approach to setting discount rates 10% and the explicit quantication of financial options and guarantees.
UK Life and Pensions In addition, companies are required to make an allowance for International Life and Pensions economic capital and the cost thereof and to provide enhanced UK Managed Pensions Funds Legal & General Annual Report 2004 17 FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW continued 4 GROWTH BY DESIGN 2005 until a comprehensive standard for insurance contracts is developed.
A key change is that, under IFRS, products must be classied as one of insurance contracts, investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF or investment contracts.
Under Phase I, contracts which meet the definition of insurance i. e. where there is transfer of significant insurance risk or investment contracts with DPF will continue to be accounted for under existing accounting policies, with some limited improvements.
Claims equalisation provisions currently required for the General John Pollock, Group Director Product and Corporate Insurance business are not permitted under IFRS and will be eliminated.
It is expected that a large proportion of the Groups contracts will meet the denition of insurance contracts or Legal & General is committed to investment contracts with DPF.
developing and delivering a wide range Investment contracts that do not contain DPF must be accounted of value for money protection, pension for in accordance with IAS 39.
The majority of the Groups contracts and investment products in the UK.
In in this category are unit linked and for these contracts the valuation 2004, we added two new funds to our of liabilities remains largely unchanged under IFRS.
Any change in reported profit is not expected to be significant.
Investment Bond range, the Managed A further presentational change, which will have no impact Bond fund, which invests in a diversied on net profit, is that investment contracts will be accounted for portfolio of corporate bonds, and the as deposits.
Thus, only policyholder charges and related expenses Protected UK Growth fund, which provides will remain in the income statement while premiums and related some protection against stock market falls.
Other additions to the product range were Pension Scheme Accounting an offshore bond aimed at the expatriate The Groups pension scheme deficit will be recognised in the market, our over-50s Life Insurance Plan balance sheet under IFRS.
The requirements of IFRS are largely in and a new Whole of Life plan.
line with FRS 17 Retirement Benets, the equivalent UK standard.
Disclosure of the FRS 17 impact on the Groups results is shown 2004 Highlights in note 34 of the financial statements.
29% increase in Individual Life and Pensions Convertible Debt new business Under IFRS, our convertible debt, which is repayable in No.
1 Unit Trust ISA provider December 2006, must be split into its equity and liability No.
This will result in an immediate moderate increase Group Personal Pension Provider of the in shareholders funds followed by increased annual interest Year Professional Pensions awards charges, which will ultimately eliminate the initial enhancement Term Assurance Company of the Year of shareholders funds.
Financial Adviser awards Consolidation Protection Sales m annual premiums IFRS consolidation requirements are wider than those in the UK, and, as a result, the Group will need to consolidate a number of 180 investment funds where it is deemed to have control.
The effect 150 of full consolidation will be to reect the underlying assets and 120 liabilities of the fund in the Groups balance sheet.
The majority 90 of these investments are made on behalf of policyholders, resulting in a gross up of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet but with 60 no impact on the underlying results of the Group.
30 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 18 Legal & General Annual Report 2004 products Jo Lee We are constantly being Pensions customer told that we have to invest more for our own retirement.
Being able to invest for my future through my work-based pension scheme, with Legal & General, leaves me with one less thing to worry about!
FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW continued Dividend Recognition Society Structure Dividends declared after the year end do not meet the IFRS denition Society comprises two principal components: the LTF, which of a liability and therefore cannot be recognised in the annual consists of those assets which are attributed to the long term accounts to which they relate.
The impact is that dividends proposed business, and the shareholders fund, which comprises surplus to shareholders after a period end will not be included in that periods assets held outside the LTF, our General Insurance business L&GI income statement.
Instead, the dividend will be disclosed and then and our European businesses in France and The Netherlands LGF included in the subsequent periods income statement.
A pictorial representation of the structure of Society is shown in Figure 13.
The combined value of the assets in the two The Prudential Source Book components of Society at the end of 2004 was 49.0bn 2003: On 31 December 2004, the Financial Services Authority FSA 44.1bn, of which 46.8bn 2003: 42.0bn was attributed to brought the long-awaited Prudential Source Book PSB into its the LTF.
Part of the LTF is attributed to with-profits business.
The PSB sets out the requirements which insurance balance of the LTF assets, less an amount to cover the liabilities companies must meet in relation to the calculation of liabilities, of the non profit business, represents the Shareholder Retained the capital they must hold and the management of risks which Capital SRC and a sub-fund, which is available to support the might reduce their capital.
The retention of the SRC within the LTF The PSB builds on initiatives developed by the FSA over provides financial strength to support existing, and fund new, the last three years.
It brings into the Handbook some relaxation non profit business.
The SRC comprises accumulated profits of the previous rules where these exceeded EU requirements but retained in the LTF from existing non profit business together with introduces more demanding requirements for with-profits contracts subordinated debt of 0.6bn 2003: 0.6bn.
At the end of 2004, the which incorporate options or guarantees.
For the first time, the assets supporting the with-profits business amounted to 26.8bn Handbook introduces rules relating to the quality of an insurance 2003: 25.3bn and the assets supporting the non profit business companys capital and its ability to absorb losses.
The SRC amounted to The other major new requirement is for insurers to perform 2.2bn 2003: 2.2bn and the sub-fund 0.2bn 2003: 0.2bn.
their own assessment of capital requirements reecting the operation The shareholders fund assets amounted to 2.2bn 2003: 2.1bn.
The FSA will compare this assessment with the Societys structure is a source of competitive advantage since rules-based requirement and will, privately, advise companies it provides financial strength to policyholders whilst retaining if they need additional capital.
considerable exibility in delivering profits to shareholders.
Financial Strength UK Long Term Fund Transfer Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Society, the Groups The changes to the operation of the LTF implemented in 1996 main operating subsidiary, continues to be highly rated and remains enabled transfers from the LTF to increase progressively to a one of the top two major European life assurers in terms of financial target level, which would deliver an appropriate return on the strength.
As at March 2005, Standard & Poors continues to rate shareholders interests in the LTF.
This level is the aggregate of the Society at AA and Moodys maintained their second highest rating, shareholders share of the with-profits surplus including surplus on Aa1.
In November 2004, A. M. Best lowered Societys financial strength the sub-fund and smoothed investment returns on the embedded rating to A Superior from the previous highest A Superior values of the SRC and the non profit business.
Since 2002 transfers rating, which reected their concerns over quality of capital and have been at target level.
Future investment returns and the effect pressure on business margins within the market.
Notwithstanding of operational performance will not be reected immediately in this action, all agencies have now assigned a stable outlook.
the transfer, but will be smoothed over future periods.
Superior financial strength is a valuable competitive advantage for the Group and provides a source of security and confidence Group Dividend for policyholders.
We aim to maintain a level of capital support to Dividends from the Groups operational subsidiaries, together the long term business which gives us greater investment freedom, with the LTF transfer, provide a sound base for our dividend to thus providing the potential for enhanced returns and the capacity shareholders.
It is recommended that the final dividend per share to deliver profitable market share growth.
The Groups Capital for 2004 be increased by 3.6% to 3.45p 2003: 3.33p.
The rate of Position Statement is included within the FRS 27 section of this growth in the final dividend has been determined by the Board, review which demonstrates the different sources of capital held having regard to our model for prospective LTF transfers and within the Group.
other income streams, as well as to worldwide equity market 20 Legal & General Annual Report 2004 Fig 13.
Society Structure Contribution to dividend Up to 10% of Return on Transfer of income, distributed surplus embedded value realised gains and dividends With-profits Non profit Shareholder business business surplus assets With-profits estate SRC, Sub-fund L&GI, LGF, LGN Long Term Fund Legal & General Assurance Society Limited performance.
Dividend recommendations in future periods Fig 15.
FSAs Classication of Capital most junior to most senior will similarly be made in the light of prospective income ows Forms of capital Regulatory classication and equity market conditions at the time.
The 2004 dividend cover, based on MSS operating profit after tax, is 1.3 times Ordinary shares Core Tier I 2003: 1.2 times.
Non-cumulative preference shares Tier I Cumulative perpetual securities Innovative Tier I Treasury The Group has a central treasury function which is responsible Perpetual subordinated debt Upper Tier II for the Groups external financing and related interest rate Dated subordinated debt Lower Tier II exposure.
It manages the Groups balance sheet foreign currency Senior debt Debt translation exposure as well as its limited transactional exposure.
It also manages the liquidity requirements of the Group through short term investments and loan facilities.
Group Treasurys plus 0.3bn of non recourse Triple X funding.
The debt is analysed authorities are approved by the boards of the companies for by type in Figure 14.
1.5bn 2003: 1.1bn carried a xed rate which transactions are undertaken and are reviewed annually of interest.
The weighted average cost of the Groups core debt by the Audit Committee of the Group Board.
2003: 3.9% p. a.. Access to the capital markets is maintained through a 2bn All core debt is raised by Legal & General Group Plc or Medium Term Note MTN programme, which allows for debt by Legal & General Finance Plc and guaranteed by Group.
The capital to be raised in both senior and subordinated form.
The Group complies with all its borrowing covenants, none of which latter satisfies the FSAs Upper Tier II and Lower Tier II forms of represents a restriction on funding or investment policy.
The capital for insurance companies.
In March 2004, the Group raised Groups current long term and short term debt ratings are, from 400m of Upper Tier II capital with a coupon of 5.9% under Standard & Poors, AAand Al and, from Moodys, Al and P1.
The Group also makes use of a US$2bn Commercial Paper programme, which facilitates access to both Tax international and domestic money markets.
These programmes, The reported rate of tax charge on the AP basis was 29% together with a number of committed bilateral bank facilities, 2003: tax charge 23%.
The principal reason for the rate being satisfy the Groups liquidity and working capital needs.
slightly lower than the UK corporate tax rate of 30% was the In November 2004, Legal & General America LGA issued lower rate of tax on shareholder net worth held within the LTF.
US$550m of non recourse debt in the US domestic capital markets At the time of the Chancellors pre-Budget report in as oating rate securities repayable in 2025.
The transaction provides December 2004, the Government published further proposals capital to meet the Regulation Triple X reserve requirements on the for changes to the taxation of life assurance business, effective term insurance business written by LGA without affecting the from 2005.
There were two principal measures.
The first would Groups debt raising capacity.
Total core debt at the end of 2004 was 1.5bn 2003: 1.5bn increase the tax payable both on the profits from writing, predominantly, non profit pension business and on the investment return on shareholder net worth held within the Fig 14.
Analysis of Debt by Type m LTF.
The second would increase the tax chargeable on the investment return on surplus assets supporting with-profits 394 business.
On 3 December 2004, Legal & General announced 597 that the first measure would give rise to a one-off reduction in the reported embedded value of Societys LTF not exceeding 521 300m.
A reduction of this order would also reduce the net 1 of tax transfer from the LTF on a MSS basis by up to 20m.
275 Subsequently, the industry managed to secure considerably Undated Subordinated Notes more time for consultation on these measures and constructive Long Dated MTNs consultation is still in progress.
The changes will require the Convertible Bond enactment of a Finance Act.
In view of this, the Groups 2004 Bank Loans Non Recourse Financing Triple X 2025 results do not incorporate any impact from these proposals.
Legal & General Annual Report 2004 21 FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW continued 5 GROWTH BY DESIGN FRS 27 Disclosure The Groups FRS 27 disclosure is set out in the rest of this review.
It covers three areas the realistic value of the with-profits business, the Groups capital position and financial options and guarantees.
With-profits Realistic Liabilities An explanation of the structure of Society has been provided earlier in this review.
The Realistic Balance Sheet of the with-profits business of Society is given in Fig 16.
At 31 December 2004, the realistic value Andrew Palmer, Group Director Finance of the with-profits liabilities was 18,229m on a FRS 27 basis and the excess of realistic assets over realistic liabilities was 1,311m.
Legal & Generals careful management The realistic liability includes an assessment of the cost of any options and guarantees included in this business on a market of its financial condition is one of consistent basis.
The calculation has also taken account of bonus the key ingredients of our success.
decisions which are consistent with Societys Principles and Our reputation for prudent financial Practices of Financial Management.
The shareholders share of the management not only underpins our future cost of bonuses has been excluded from the assessment credibility with intermediaries and of the realistic liability.
policyholders but also supports financial Capital Position strength ratings which are not bettered The Groups capital position is provided in Fig 17.
It demonstrates by any other UK life insurance company.
the different sources of capital held within the Group.
The Groups total available capital resources are 4,705m of which 4,293m is 2004 Highlights held by life businesses.
400m of Upper Tier II Capital issued on The capital held by the UK and overseas life businesses is attractive terms to secure cost effective funding generally constrained by local regulatory requirements.
This means US$550m of non recourse debt raised to finance it may not be possible for the capital to be used to provide funding Legal & General Americas Triple X reserves for other businesses.
As explained in the above section on Society Structure, retention of the SRC in Societys LTF provides funding Societys financial strength as measured by to support existing and fund new non profit business.
the Form 9 Free Asset ratio is estimated to have increased to 15.5% at 31 December 2004 Capital Position Sensitivities 13.0% at 31 December 2003 The capital position is sensitive to changes in market conditions, FSAs Prudential Sourcebook implemented on time both due to changes in the value of the assets and the effect IFRS project on schedule that changes in investment conditions may have on the value of the liabilities.
It is also sensitive to assumptions and experience Solvency position Form 9 Free Asset ratio % Fig 16.
Realistic Balance Sheet 2000 16.8 As at 31 December 2004 m 2001 15.3 Total realistic basis assets 2002 12.1 including options and guarantees 19,540 2003 13.0 Policyholder realistic basis liabilities 17,617 2004 15.5 Other liabilities 612 2001-2004: Including implicit item Estimate Total liabilities 18,229 Realistic basis assets in excess of total liabilities 1,311 22 Legal & General Annual Report 2004 finances Paul Hogarth In our judgement, Joint Chief Executive Legal & General is one Bankhall company which has managed its nances really well in recent years.
Today, their financial strength is an important reason why they are a natural company to be recommending to our clients FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW continued relating to mortality and morbidity and, to a lesser extent, expenses specified, stressed financial conditions or as the result of applying and persistency.
fixed percentages to the insurance companys liabilities and risk The most significant sensitivities arise from the following exposures.
Further details are given in the paragraphs below.
four risks: Market risk in relation to the UK with-profits business, UK Regulatory Basis which would arise if adverse changes in the value of the Required capital is based on the rules of the FSA.
It is the total assets supporting this business could not be fully reected in of two amounts.
The first amount is based on the most onerous payments to policyholders because of the effect of guarantees of a number of stress tests which are applied to both assets and and options.
The capital position of this business would also insurance liabilities.
There are further stress tests for with-profits deteriorate if increases to the market cost of derivatives resulted liabilities as measured in the Realistic Balance Sheet, which may in an increase in the liability for guarantees and options in the increase the required capital.
The second amount is calculated by realistic balance sheet.
applying xed percentages to liabilities and sums assured at risk.
Mortality risk in relation to the UK annuity business, which would arise if the mortality of annuitants improved more US Regulatory Basis rapidly than the assumptions used for reserving.
Required capital is based on the National Association of Insurance Market risk in relation to the UK annuity business, which would Commissioners Risk Based Capital model.
arise if the return from the xed interest investments supporting this business were lower than that assumed for reserving.
French and Dutch Regulatory Bases Mortality risk in relation to the UK and US term assurance The minimum required capital is defined by the French business, which would arise if mortality of the lives insured Ministry of Finances Code des Assurances and the Pensioen were heavier than that assumed, possibly because of an & Verzekeringskamer Dutch Supervisory Body respectively.
The basis of the calculation is a percentage of the liabilities plus The timing of any impact on capital would depend on the a percentage of the sum assured at risk and, for some French interaction of past experience and assumptions about future protection contracts, the premium.
In general, if experience had deteriorated or was on the guarantees given and the amount of reinsurance cover.
expected to deteriorate and management actions were not expected to reduce the future impact then assumptions relating Financial Options and Guarantees to future experience would be changed to reect it.
In this way, Some of Legal & Generals products give potentially valuable liabilities would be increased to anticipate the future impact of the guarantees, or give options to change policy benets which can worse experience with immediate impact on the capital position.
be exercised at the policyholders discretion.
These products are Examples of possible management actions include changes to withdescribed below.
Most are with-profits contracts and the realistic profits bonus rates and changes to discretionary surrender terms.
value of the UK with-profits liabilities, which includes the cost of The Groups approach to managing risks is detailed in the any options and guarantees, has been given in the Realistic Balance Corporate Governance section of this Report and Accounts.
Where the contracts are non profit or have been written by our overseas subsidiaries, appropriate quantication Basis of Regulatory Capital and Corresponding Regulatory is given of any potentially significant guarantees.
Capital Requirements In each country in which the Group operates, the local insurance UK Options and Guarantees regulator species the minimum amount and type of capital which Most with-profits contracts give a guaranteed minimum payment the Groups long term insurance subsidiaries must hold in addition on a specified date or on death before that date.
For pensions to their insurance liabilities.
The minimum required capital must be contracts, the specified date is the policyholders chosen retirement maintained at all times, not just at the year-end.
This helps to ensure date.
For endowment contracts, it is the maturity date of the that payments to policyholders can be made as they fall due, if contract.
Annual bonuses when added to with-profits contracts experience is less favourable than that assumed in the increase the guaranteed amount.
There are guaranteed surrender values on a small number The required capital is generally calculated by one or both of of older contracts.
two methods: either as an assessment of the additional assets which Some older pensions contracts include guaranteed annuity would be required to meet the insurance companys liabilities in options which expose the Group to interest rate and longevity 24 Legal & General Annual Report 2004 Fig 17.
Capital Position Statement UK non profit Shareholders UK with-profits business, SRC Overseas funds and other business and sub-fund and PMC Total Life activities Total Available capital resources m m m m m m Shareholders funds outside the LTF Note 1 717 717 1,027 1,744 Shareholders funds held in the LTF 1,632 1,632 1,632 Total shareholders funds 1,632 717 2,349 1,027 3,376 Adjustments onto regulatory basis Note 2 : Fund for future appropriations FFA Note 3 1,311 241 981,650 1,650 Other Note 4 447 335 294 1,076 1,076 Other qualifying capital: Internal loans Note 5 602 13 615 615 0 Implicit items Note 6 755 755 755 Total available capital resources 864 2,895 534 4,293 412 4,705 Note 1 Society shareholder capital of 1,972m is included within Shareholders funds outside the LTF.
Note 2 Figures extracted from draft regulatory returns.
Note 3 The FFA reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is 806m higher than the FFA reported in the Capital Position Statement.
787m of the difference arises because the FFA for the UK life business has been calculated on a realistic basis and the 19m arises because the US FFA is not an available capital resource on the US regulatory basis.
Note 4 Shareholders share in realistic liabilities of 447m and changes to the value of assets and liabilities on a regulated basis of 629m are included within Other.
Note 5 Legal & General Group Plc has subscribed for a total of 602m of perpetual subordinated loan stock issued by Societys LTF.
This loan qualies as Upper Tier II capital of the LTF.
Legal & General Overseas Holdings Limited has subscribed for a total of 18m of perpetual subordinated loan stock issued by Legal & General Holdings France S. A.
This loan qualies as hybrid capital for L&G Holdings France S. A.
Note 6 The implicit item recognises profits in relation to in-force business written in the non profit part of Societys LTF which are expected on a prudent assessment to emerge over the next 5 years.
The maximum amount permitted is determined by the FSA.
Where permitted by the terms of the contract, the Group concerned.
Internal statistical investigations are carried out to reviews these guaranteed rates regularly.
determine the Groups experience relative to a chosen standard Some older with-profits pensions contracts include a table.
To derive the assumptions used to measure the liabilities, guaranteed minimum rate of roll up of the policyholders fund adjustments are made to the observed experience to reflect up to the date of retirement.
This guarantee has been removed statistical uctuation and uncertainty over future experience.
where permitted by policy conditions.
For annuities the assumptions will also include an allowance With-profits deferred annuities participate in profits only up for future mortality improvement, based on trends identied to the date of retirement.
At retirement, a guaranteed cash option by the CMIB.
allows the policyholder to commute the annuity benefit into cash For with-profits realistic liabilities, generally best estimates on guaranteed terms.
are used for non-economic assumptions.
There is a block of immediate and deferred annuities within For the measurement of financial options and guarantees, the UK non profit business where benets are linked to changes assumptions and methods are used which would reproduce in the Retail Price Index RPI but with contractual maximum or the market cost of similar financial instruments, so-called market minimum increases.
In particular, most of these annuities have a consistent valuation.
Generally, because of the complexity of the provision that the annuity will not reduce if RPI falls.
The total of options and guarantees, these assumptions are implemented by such annuities in payment at 31 December 2004 was 163m.
Thus means of stochastic models.
These models generate thousands of 1% negative ination, which was reversed in the following year simulations of future investment experience and of the resulting would result in a guarantee cost of approximately 2m.
Negative impact on assets and liabilities.
The value of options and guarantees inflation sustained over a longer period would give rise to is then derived by applying appropriate probability distributions signicantly greater guarantee costs.
to the outcome of the simulations.
The measurement of RPI related guarantees on annuities is Assumption Setting also made using a stochastic model of ination, but the model For the UK long term insurance businesses, the full set of is not market consistent because there is no recognised market assumptions used for the measurement of insurance liabilities is price for these risks.
set out in detail in the annual return to the FSA.
The principal MSS Overseas Options and Guarantees basis assumptions are provided in Note 19 to the Accounts.
The LGF distributes a number of life assurance products that are assumptions which have the greatest effect on the measurement of invested or have the option to invest in the Guarantie Long Terme liabilities are those for investment returns, mortality and morbidity.
Contracts written before April 2000 give policyholders Investment return assumptions are based on the yield on the a minimum guaranteed return of between 2.0% and 4.5% per assets backing the contracts.
For xed interest securities, the gross annum depending on when the contract was purchased and the redemption yield is used: for equities, a blend of the earnings yield money invested.
The length of the guarantee is for the duration and the current dividend yield, and for property, the current rental of the policy.
Contracts written from April 2000 onwards have yield.
Adjustments are made for tax, for possible default by an issuer a minimum guaranteed return of 2% for an eight year period only.
or tenant and for investment mismatch.
A further deduction may Bonuses to policyholders correspond to the total net investment be made in respect of monies to be invested at a future date.
income of the GLT fund, less the guaranteed interest payments, less Mortality and morbidity assumptions are set with reference to the contractual management fees of the company.
If the return of standard tables drawn up by the Continuous Mortality Investigation the GLT fund is below the weighted average of the rates guaranteed, Bureau CMIB of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
These amounts will be payable under the guarantee.
The current return tables are based on industry wide experience of the products Legal & General Annual Report 2004 25 FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW continued 6 GROWTH BY DESIGN is 5.3%.
The reserves for the GLT fund are n1,200m including a specific reserve of n17m for guarantees.
A fall in the rate of return of the GLT fund below 2.9% would lead to an increase in required reserves.
LGA has an in-force block of universal life insurance and smaller blocks of deferred and immediate annuities, all with guaranteed minimum crediting rates.
The rate is 4% for universal life and between 4% and 5.5% for older annuity products.
The rate for annuities currently being issued is 1.5%.
LGA has exposure to loss Tim Breedon, Group Director Investments should interest rates decrease and LGA be unable to earn enough on the underlying assets to cover the guaranteed rate.
Reserves on the universal life block and on the annuities blocks amounted During 2004, LGIM continued to generate to US$807m and US$310m respectively at 31 December 2004. significant new business from its index Testing of changes in earned interest rates, consistent with current product range reflecting the strength regulatory guidance, indicates that an increase or decrease of 1% of its franchise in this investment area.
would not lead to additional liabilities on a US GAAP basis.
The company has also generated The deferred annuity block also contains a provision that, substantial new business and revenue at maturity, a policyholder may move their account value into an immediate annuity, at rates that are either those currently growth from its very successful fixed in effect, or rates guaranteed in the contract.
New business levels are LGN has not written any business which includes material underpinned by additional investments options or guarantees.
from existing customers, reecting both the strength of LGIMs fund range and the quality of client service.
2004 Highlights Record new business gures consolidates Andrew Palmer LGIMs position as the largest manager Group Director Finance of UK corporate pension funds Over 55% of corporate pensions new business in 2004 was from existing clients Dened Contribution Scheme assets under management exceeds 6bn from over 750 clients IMA Asset Management Survey confirms LGIM is the largest manager of assets in the UK Growth in Corporate Pension Funds: Clients and Funds Under Management bn 3,000 120 2,500 100 2,000 80 1,500 60 1,000 40 500 20 0 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Funds Under Management Number of Institutional Clients 26 Legal & General Annual Report 2004 funds Penny Green Legal & General Secretary to the Trustees Investment Management of the Superannuation may well be the UK Arrangements of the equity markets largest University of London investor but that hasnt stopped it from giving a superbly efficient and personal service
