INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the directors of Legal & General Group Plc on the supplementary financial statements We have audited the supplementary financial information for the Basis of audit opinion year ended 31 December 2004 that comprises the Consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards profit and Loss Account Achieved profits and Consolidated Balance issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our audit included Sheet Achieved profits and the relevant notes 1 to 9, which has been examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts prepared in accordance with the Achieved profits basis set out in Note and disclosures in the supplementary financial information.
The 1 and which should be read in conjunction with the audited financial evidence included an assessment of the significant estimates statements prepared on the Modied Statutory Solvency basis.
and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the supplementary financial information, and of whether the accounting Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, applied and adequately disclosed.
including the financial statements prepared on the modied statutory We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the solvency basis.
Our responsibilities in relation to the Annual Report, information and explanations which we considered necessary including those financial statements, are set out in the Independent in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Auditors Report to the members of Legal & General Group Plc.
The assurance that the supplementary financial information is free directors are also responsible for preparing the supplementary from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other financial information on the above Achieved profits basis.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, in relation to the the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the supplementary financial information as set out in our letter of supplementary financial information.
engagement agreed with you dated 7 January 2005, to report to you our opinion as to whether the supplementary financial Opinion information has been properly prepared in accordance with the In our opinion, the supplementary financial information has been Achieved profits basis.
We also report to you if we have not received properly prepared in accordance with the Achieved profits basis all the information and explanations we require for our audit of set out in Note 1. the supplementary financial information.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company in accordance with our letter of engagement dated 7 January 2005 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We also read the other information in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent  LLP Chartered Accountants misstatements or material inconsistencies with the supplementary financial information.
London, 23 February 2005 FINANCIAL CALENDAR Ex-dividend date 30 March 2005 Annual General Meeting 27 April 2005 Payment of Final Dividend for 2004 to members registered on 1 April 2005 3 May 2005 Publication of Half Year Results for 2005 and Declaration of Interim Dividend 28 July 2005 Ex-dividend date 7 September 2005 Payment of Interim Dividend for 2005 to members registered on 9 September 2005 3 October 2005 Legal & General Annual Report 2004 89
