Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 19 Financial Review Financial Review The Man Group has had another very successful year with continued strong profits growth and the achievement of our financial objectives.
We have successfully integrated the RMF and GNI businesses acquired last year and the contribution from these businesses has met, or exceeded, our expectations.
The financial position of the Group remains There has also been strong growth in the strong.
Our aim remains to adopt conservative statutory measure diluted earnings per accounting policies that give a true and fair share on total operations.
This has increased view of the Groups results and financial by 36% over last year and has grown by position, and to be transparent and helpful 29% compound per annum over the last in our analysis of the Groups Accounts.
This Report sets out our financial objectives Diluted earnings per share pence and analyses our results, cash flows, balance sheet and funding and liquidity capacity.
EPS on total operations In addition there is a discussion of the Underlying EPS accounting developments that are affecting 48.1 the Group in particular the advent of the 2001 30.4 conversion to International Financial Reporting 56.8 2002 Peter Clarke Standards and a summary of the processes 45.7 Finance Director and procedures we use to manage our key 75.8 2003 risks.
Risk Management across the Group 60.7 is continually being reviewed due to both the 103.1 2004 83.1 growth of the business and in anticipation 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 of changes in the regulatory environment to be implemented through the Integrated Prudential Source Book effective late 2004 As well as seeking growth that is profitable and the Basel II Capital Accord Basel II, and sustainable, our second financial which is expected to be effective on objective is to target an efficient capital 31 December 2006. structure so as to maintain high levels of post-tax return on equity whilst retaining a Financial objectives strong Group balance sheet.
Within the The Board believes that long-term Group, our businesses are allocated and shareholder value will be achieved through charged for their use of both capital including the continued delivery of significant growth goodwill and credit so as to ensure business in underlying earnings per share and the unit alignment with the Groups objective.
maintenance of high levels of post-tax return The Groups post-tax return on equity for the on equity.
For this reason these two measures year was 32.2%.
This compares to 26.9% continue to be the basis for the Groups financial last year, which was lower than in previous objectives and are also the performance criteria years mainly due to the Groups capital base used for the Groups long-term incentive doubling as a result of the RMF acquisition.
The Group has achieved these The successful integration and subsequent objectives in the current year, as it has in performance of RMF, coupled with significant each year since they were set in March 2000. growth in the existing businesses, has led to the post-tax return on equity in the current Diluted underlying earnings per share has year increasing to the higher levels seen grown by 37% over the last year and by previously.
The appropriate capital structure 40% compound per annum over the last for the Group reflects not only the wish for four years.
Underlying earnings represent financial efficiency but also the need to net management fee income from Asset maintain a robust capital base to support Management plus Brokerage net income.
changing regulatory capital requirements and This measure excludes the net performance to ensure financial flexibility in changing fee income from Asset Management, Sugar capital markets.
These issues are discussed Australia, goodwill amortisation and later in this Review.
exceptional items a full reconciliation of Post-tax return on equity % underlying earnings and underlying earnings per share to their corresponding statutory 2001 32.1 figures is shown in note 12 to the Accounts.
2002 30.7 Underlying earnings per share are lower than 2003 26.9 total earnings per share but we target this 2004 32.2 measure when reviewing results because it 01 5 0152025303540 does not include performance fee income which, although valuable to shareholders, is volatile when looking at year-on-year comparisons.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 20 Financial Review WACC Summary of results to the consent of various third parties.
The Groups estimated weighted average Profit before tax on total operations was up The Group has made a total provision of post-tax cost of capital WACC is just over 46% to 434.6 million.
Excluding goodwill 11.9 million for the loss on impending sale 6.5%.
This figure is based on a cost of equity amortisation and exceptional items, pre-tax of this business.
11.7 million of this provision of 6.9% using CAPM and assuming a beta of profits increased 39% in the year to 484.5 relates to the write back of goodwill previously 0.5 source: Bloomberg and a post-tax cost million.
Underlying pre-tax profit increased written off to reserves at the time of the of debt of 4.8%.
The WACC of any company 49% in the year to 341.9 million.
This years formation of the Sugar Australia joint venture.
reflects its mix of debt and equity funding, results have been achieved despite the The remaining 0.2 million provision relates to and the factors influencing the Groups view impact of a negative currency translation in impairment of fixed assets.
The total provision of the appropriate mix are discussed in this excess of 30 million, largely due to the US has been classified as a non-operating Review.
With a post-tax return on equity of dollar weakening against sterling.
Most of the exceptional item.
32.2% for the year, the Groups shareholders Groups revenues arise in US dollars as the are seeing a return of almost five times the majority of our business is denominated in In Asset Management net management fee Groups cost of capital.
Over the last four that currency and the average exchange rate income increased 50% from 181.1 million years returns have varied between four and for the year was $1.6938 2003: $1.5471.
Net performance fee five times the Groups WACC, with the level of The Group does not hedge its US dollar income increased 21% from 115.0 million performance fee income in the year being the earnings into sterling.
The Groups hedging to 139.1 million.
As discussed in previous main cause for variation.
policy is set out in this Review in the market annual and interim reports, performance fee risk section.
income will typically exhibit volatility, which Returns to shareholders can be pronounced when comparing one Pre-tax profits million Total shareholder return is measured as the accounting period with another.
However, Underlying PBT change in the value of a share plus the value year-on-year performance fee income is PBT on total operations of the dividends paid, assuming that the becoming less volatile as the diversity of our PBT before goodwill amortisation and exceptionals dividends are reinvested in the Companys managers and styles of funds increases.
In shares on the day on which they were paid.
order to provide some analysis of the 100.9 2001 159.0 On this basis, the Group returned 84% during relationship between management fees, 178.7 the year, compared to the FTSE 100 return of performance fees and funds under 155.9 25% and a return of 59% from our industry management, the table below shows these 193.1 2002 sector Speciality and Other Finance.
Over as a percentage of average funds under 213.2 the last five years the Groups return to management FUM for the last five years.
229.4 2003 296.9 shareholders has averaged 45% per annum.
Prior to 2003, the management fee FUM ratio 348.1 had been falling slightly.
This was not due to 341.9 We have grown the total dividend by over any reduction in the profitability of the Groups 2004 434.6 29% from last year.
This years dividend is core private investor products, but rather to 484.5 covered 2.8 times by underlying earnings and an increasing level of institutional FUM as a 0 100 200 300 400 3.4 times by total earnings.
The Groups percentage of the total.
Institutional FUM policy is to grow the level of dividend, whilst typically carry a lower management fee in maintaining cover of at least two times The Groups profit before tax, goodwill return for scale.
In 2003, the acquisition of underlying earnings.
The Group also typically amortisation and exceptional items by RMF had a significant effect on the ratio since earns substantial performance fees in addition business segment is set out in the table it manages almost exclusively institutional to underlying earnings, and as previously below: money.
However, the Groups private investor 2004 2003 stated it is the Boards long-term strategy FUM also continued to grow strongly in the m m to enhance the existing share repurchase year at the same fee levels as historically.
In Asset Management activity by using an amount of up to the net management fee income 271.1 181.1 2004, the slight increase in the ratio is mainly Groups post-tax performance fee income in Asset Management due to an increase in the proportion of private net performance fee income 139.1 115.0 the repurchase of its own shares.
This share investor FUM from 52% to 55%.
Going Brokerage 70.8 48.3 repurchasing will take place in the market on forward this ratio will reflect the relative mix Sugar Australia 3.5 3.7 a continuing basis from year-to-year rather of institutional and private investor FUM at 484.5 348.1 than being confined within the accounting the time.
The performance fee FUM ratio will periods during which performance fees are be a function of the underlying performance earned.
During the first half of the year Sugar Australia reflects the contribution from of the Groups products during the relevant 1.4 million shares were repurchased at an a minority interest in an independently accounting period.
An increase in the average cost of 12.34 per share more managed, unincorporated joint venture sugar proportion of institutional FUM will result in a details are given in the Directors Report on refinery.
This is a residual investment from the decrease in the performance fee FUM ratio page 37.
This repurchasing activity was Groups historical physical trading activities as institutional fund products are structured earnings enhancing.
and, although profitable, is non-core.
The to target a lower return and lower volatility Group announced on 2 April 2004 that it and also they tend to pay a lower level of had signed an agreement to sell its Sugar performance fee.
Australia business to CSR Limited, subject Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 21 Financial Review 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Asset Management Brokerage Sugar Australia Group Total Year to 31 March 2004 m m m m Net Management Fees and commissions receivable 674.9 615.3 1,290.2 fee income m 271.1 181.1 117.6 70.7 55.5 Fees and commissions payable 103.3 400.5 503.8 Management fees FUM 1.4% 1.3% 1.9% 2.0% 2.1% Net trading interest income 6.1 52.2 58.3 Net performance Other operating income 26.2 2.9 29.1 fee income m : Total operating income 603.9 269.9 873.8 First half of year 34.1 35.9 33.5 1.0 15.7 Operating expenses 211.1 213.0 0.4 424.5 Second half of Operating profit 392.8 56.9 0.4 449.3 year 105.0 79.1 21.7 75.0 14.5 Associates and JVs 17.7 4.3 22.0 Full year 139.1 115.0 55.2 76.0 30.2 Net interest income expense 0.3 13.9 0.4 13.2 Performance fees FUM 0.7% 0.9% 0.9% 2.2% 1.1% Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptionals 410.2 70.8 3.5 484.5 Goodwill amortisation 39.4 6.0 45.4 Allocated exceptional items 5.3 11.9 17.2 Profit and loss account Unallocated exceptional items own share sales 12.7 In order to analyse the performance of the Profit before tax on total operations 370.8 59.5 8.4 434.6 Groups two principal businesses, the table Taxation 95.6 above provides a split of the Groups profit Minority interests 0.3 and loss account into its components: Profit for the financial year 338.7 In Asset Management, fees and commissions receivable are principally management fees, In Brokerage, commissions receivable and The tax charge for the year amounts to performance fees and brokerage fees.
Fees payable arise from those businesses where 95.6 million.
The effective rate on total and commissions payable are mainly sales we act as intermediary and also from those operations was 22.0% compared to 21.0% commissions.
Other operating income businesses where we act as a matched last year.
The bulk of the Groups profits comprises mostly gains on seeding principal broker, such as foreign exchange, continue to be earned in Switzerland and the investments in some of our funds and securities, metals and energy trading.
UK and the current effective tax rate is structuring and arrangement fees in relation Net trading interest income is earned on consistent with this profit mix.
In future years, to loans to funds.
Total operating income has segregated customer balances that are held the effective tax rate may increase if earnings increased by 39% over last year, reflecting off balance sheet in accordance with UK grow significantly in higher tax locations, for the strong growth in management fees off accounting practice.
Total operating income example if our Asset Management activity higher levels of funds under management and has increased 30% reflecting a full years sees strong sales growth from the recent US the increase in performance fees.
Operating contribution from GNI, the continued recruitment private client initiative.
expenses, after Group allocations, are 35% of producer teams and the benefits of active of total operating income.
Operating expenses have increased The growth in the Groups profitability has margin is consistent with the average by 26% from 168.4 million in the prior year.
resulted in a significant increase in earnings over the last five years, and reflects the The full year impact of the acquisition of GNI per share.
Full details of earnings per share attractiveness of Asset Managements accounts for the largest component of this and the weighted average number of shares business model.
Net interest income mainly arises is given in note 12 to the Accounts.
increased by 45% from 146.0 million in the on non-segregated cash balances and prior year.
The increase is largely due to the investments.
The largest component of Investment in the business growth in infrastructure to support the strong goodwill amortisation relates to the GNI The Group continues to invest in its growth of the business and to higher variable acquisition made in the prior year 3.6 million businesses, not only through acquisition but employee compensation, reflecting the and the remainder to smaller acquisitions also in people, operations and systems to increase in income.
Associates and JVs is made previously.
The GNI goodwill is being provide scale for continued strong profitable the contribution from financial interests in amortised over 10 years.
The operating growth in both its activities.
This has involved established managers, such as Aspect and exceptional costs of 5.3 million, which were recruitment at all levels across the businesses BlueCrest, and in new managers.
The small incurred in the first half of the year, relate to in particular in sales and distribution, fund net interest expense largely arises from GNI integration costs, principally redundancy administration and risk and compliance and borrowings to finance recent acquisitions costs.
further investment in systems and business and working capital requirements, offset continuity management.
by the margin earned on loans to funds.
Goodwill amortisation principally relates to the RMF acquisition made in the prior year 28.0 million and also to the Glenwood, OM Strategic Investments and BlueCrest acquisitions.
The RMF, Glenwood and BlueCrest goodwill are being amortised over 15 years and the OM Strategic Investments goodwill over eight years.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 22 Financial Review Cash flow During the year the Group extended its debt The acquisition of GNI in November 2002 Net Group cash inflow for the year was maturity profile and further diversified its has also had a positive impact on the Groups 386.3 million, driven off strong cash sources of funding through issuing 10-year results.
The full integration of GNI, which has generation from net operating profits.
subordinated debt of $160 million to the been completed, has provided significant An analysis of the Groups cash flows in US private placement market.
This largely cost savings, as anticipated at acquisition, the year is shown below: explains the switch between short and and GNI client volumes have been maintained m long-term debt.
Further details are given and even increased in the areas of financial Operating profit pre-amortisation and depreciation 482.0 in the funding and liquidity management futures, energy and metals.
In the year, GNI Decrease in working capital 89.3 section.
contributed net pre-tax profits of 17 million Taxation paid 62.3 before exceptional integration costs and Dividends paid 75.4 At 31 March 2004, shareholders equity was goodwill amortisation and was accordingly Acquisitions 6.4 up 18% at 1,149.1 million.
At 31 March enhancing to underlying earnings per share Net capital expenditure and financial investment 54.9 2004 the Group had a net cash position of for the year and represented an annualised Other 14.0 327.4 million 2003: net debt position of post-tax return on investment of 12%, compared Cash inflow for the year 386.3 15.3 million.
The decrease in working capital is largely due The Groups balance sheet, as presented in As well as focusing on fully incorporating the to a decrease in the funding requirements for sterling, is affected by currency movements RMF and GNI businesses, the Group has our futures and stock lending businesses in since the majority of the Groups net assets made some smaller acquisitions during the Brokerage.
There was a small increase in are in US dollars.
Reflecting this, the Group year.
In April 2003 we increased our holding working capital in Asset Management due to chooses to hold a significant amount of its from 12.5% to 67.5% in Westport, a private an increase of 53 million in sales commissions borrowings in US dollars but does not hedge equity manager, for 4.2 million.
In July paid as a result of the high level of sales in its US dollar net assets into sterling.
Currency 2003, we acquired the remaining 50% of the year and 57 million invested in a Note moves in the year gave rise to a translation Ord Minett Strategic Investments OMSI for a in relation to third party financing of loans to loss of 150.8 million which is included in the consideration of the equivalent of 22.9 million, funds as discussed in the credit and counterstatement of total recognised gains and having acquired an initial 50% stake in party risk section below.
In addition, there losses in the year.
In the future the impact of November 2000.
OMSI is based in Sydney was an increase of 21 million in other this translation difference will be significantly and operates as a sponsoring broker of debtors, net of a decrease in loans to funds reduced as a result of the decision to switch alternative investment funds, which it structures, of 118 million.
to reporting in US dollars.
OMSI has now been renamed Man Investments Australia.
Net capital expenditure and financial The Group uses a risk-adjusted capital In the nine months since acquisition, the investment largely relates to the part of the methodology to allocate capital across its additional 50% stake contributed 7.0 million consideration for BlueCrest that was funded business activities.
The model quantifies to pre-tax profits.
In December 2003, we by debt and to refurbishment costs of offices credit, market and operating risks within each acquired a 25% stake in BlueCrest Capital and DR sites.
business unit and assigns capital accordingly.
Management BlueCrest for 105.8 million, In addition, capital is also allocated to a funded by equity 72.5 million and cash Other cash flows largely relate to net interest limited number of other factors, principally 33.3 million.
BlueCrests core fund is a receivable of 14.0 million, dividends goodwill, as well as an allocation to reflect the fixed income arbitrage fund, which has a receivable from associates and joint ventures need to maintain certain minimum levels of compound annual return of around 16% of 7.9 million and to additional cash paid in capital for regulatory purposes where since inception.
BlueCrests asset base is relation to GNI integration costs of 8.9 million.
These methods have been rapidly growing.
Its funds under management applied in disclosing the segmental net are currently just under $4 billion, having Balance sheet assets in note 2 c to the Accounts.
grown from just over $3 billion at the time of The main changes to the Groups balance acquiring our 25% holding.
In the three sheet from the prior year are discussed below: Acquisitions months to 31 March 2004 our share of The full integration of RMF, which was BlueCrests net management fee income was The increase in investments in associates is acquired in May 2002, into the Asset 1.2 million.
Performance fees lock-in due to the acquisition of a 25% stake in Management business was completed annually, each December.
The first time our BlueCrest Capital Management, a fund ahead of schedule.
RMF has contributed share of performance fees will be included in manager focused on fixed income and 48.6 million 2003: 25.6 million and the Groups profit and loss account will be for currencies.
Further details are given in the 31.4 million 2003: 6.0 million to Asset the financial year ending 31 March 2005. acquisitions section below.
Managements net management fee income and net performance fee income respectively.
Regulatory capital The growth in the futures and stock lending This is ahead of the Groups expectations at This was the first full year that the Group has businesses in GNI have had the effect of the time of acquisition.
The post-tax return on reported to the FSA under the Consolidated increasing both current assets and short-term investment before goodwill amortisation for Supervision capital adequacy rules.
In addition, there has RMF for the year was 12%, compared to the Group submitted its initial return as at been a 53 million increase in unamortised Group WACC of 6.5%.
During the year the Group sales commissions in Asset Management, success of RMF post-acquisition has ensured has focused on increasing the level of surplus reflecting the strong level of sales in the year.
that the acquisition achieved the stated regulatory capital and, at 31 March 2004, the Despite the high level of sales, loans to funds objective of exceeding the Group WACC and Board considers that the Groups regulatory were 118 million lower at 192 million, being earnings enhancing before goodwill capital headroom is sufficient to meet the reflecting the success of the externalisation amortisation in the year to March 2004.
Groups current business plans and programme, which is discussed in the Credit objectives.
and Counterparty risk section below.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 23 Financial Review The Group has increased its headroom In July 2003 the Group entered into a new External financing initiatives during the year largely as a result of the $1.75 billion syndicated credit facility which Other than for acquisitions, the Group following: increased and replaced the previous facility.
requires funding liquidity to finance some Significantly increasing its Financial At 31 March 2004 $1.54 billion of this facility working capital investment but principally for Resources through continued profits was unused.
It has two equal tranches, which providing discretionary loans to the Groups growth and temporarily discontinuing the expire in July 2004 and 2006 respectively.
composite fund products immediately after programme of share repurchases using Negotiations are advanced to extend this a product launch.
These loans to funds, post-tax performance fee income: facility.
which are shown on balance sheet, are Focusing on the key drivers of the Financial serviced as to interest and principal by the Resources Requirement so as not to Exchangeable bond independent fund entity, and are a temporary increase the capital requirement where The Group has a 400 million seven year facility until permanent financing is put in there would be no significant detriment to Exchangeable Bond with a coupon of 3.75% place directly between the fund entity and the development of the business: which has no put option and which can be external providers.
The level of loans to funds Increasing Financial Resources by issuing called by the Group from its fifth anniversary therefore tends to be higher at times of subordinated debt of $160 million: in certain circumstances.
Its final maturity is strong product sales until such time as they Paying for acquisitions with an appropriate in 2009. are externally refinanced.
During the year the mix of equity and debt: externalisation initiative arranged $1.76 billion Restructuring the method by which the Subordinated debt for a series of fund trading companies.
At 31 Group covers its obligations in relation During the year the Group issued $160 million March 2004 the total borrowing requirement to the various share awards options given of subordinated debt as part of the continuing of these fund entities was $4.1 billion, 91% of to directors and employees this will not focus on having an efficient capital structure.
this requirement was provided directly to the impact the profit and loss account going This issue was done by way of a private fund entities by banks and other financial forward, although an exceptional profit of placement in the US and has a 10-year final institutions.
The Group provided the remaining 12.7 million was realised in the year on maturity with a call option in year 5.
The residual risk that the Group has sale of shares.
The intention is to reduce will qualify as Tier II capital for regulatory resulting from those external financing the number of our own shares purchased in capital purposes.
initiatives is discussed in the credit and the market and held on the Groups balance counterparty risk section.
sheet until the awards vest.
For some Bilateral loan facilities schemes shares will be issued, for other Apart from the committed bilaterals of $254 Accounting standards and developments awards the Group intends to enter into million, included above, the Group also has The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee derivative contracts on its own shares with uncommitted bilateral facilities of another review, update and clarify the Groups third parties: and $330 million.
These facilities are all on broadly accounting policies and disclosures.
There Continuing to externalise assets currently similar terms to the main syndicated facility have been no significant changes from last on our balance sheet, such as loans to and are renewed annually.
These financial statements incorporate funds.
the principles of Financial Reporting Standard Maturity profile FRS 18 Accounting Policies, which seeks Funding and liquidity management The following table summarises the Groups to ensure that the most appropriate Group funding and liquidity risk is managed available debt by maturity as at 31 March accounting policies are adopted for the centrally.
The Group finances its operations 2004 based on final stated maturity and purpose of giving a true and fair view.
by a mixture of cash flow from operations, shown in US dollar terms.
bank borrowings on both a committed and Maturity by period In last years Annual Report it was stated Less uncommitted basis plus finance from the that the Group had started to plan for the than 1-3 4-5 After wider capital markets.
Substantially all of the Total 1 year years years 5 years conversion to International Financial Reporting US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Groups borrowings are via Man Group plc Standards IFRS, which we will be required Short-term bank debt 1,460 1,460 - - - the Company or its two central finance to implement for the financial year ending Long-term bank debt 875 - 875 - - companies, which on lend to the divisions.
31 March 2006 including restating the Exchangeable Bond 735 - - - 735 comparatives for 2005.
This means we will Subordinated Debt 160 - - - 160 The Groups broad funding strategy is to announce results under IFRS for the first time Total facilities 3,230 1,460 875 - 895 ensure that sufficient funding and liquidity is when we report the interim results for the available to meet the needs of the Group period to 30 September 2005. whilst maintaining a substantial cushion of Ratings unused liquidity at all times.
There is a The long-term credit ratings of the group are The Groups conversion project has progressed continuing focus on managing the maturity A3 from Moodys and Afrom Fitch.
significantly during the last year with the main profile of the debt and diversifying its sources.
focus being on the identification and resolution As at 31 March 2004 the Group had total of significant changes in accounting treatment, facilities of $3.23 billion of which $2.13 billion data and system gaps and the provision of was unused.
IFRS training and awareness sessions across the business worldwide.
The adoption may Committed credit facilities have a significant impact on the presentation The Group had committed credit facilities of of the Groups results and financial position: $2.0 billion at 31 March 2004, of which $1.75 however, it is not possible at this stage to billion relates to a syndicated credit facility quantify the impact accurately.
Set out below and $0.25 billion to committed bilaterals.
is a commentary on the more significant impact areas applicable to the Groups conversion to IFRS: Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 24 Financial Review Change in presentation currency Exchangeable bond Groups profit and loss account will be As indicated in last years Annual Report, the Under current UK GAAP the entire exchangeable exposed to increased volatility.
However, due Group had decided to change its presentation bond, issued by the Group in November 2002, to the limited application of hedge accounting currency from sterling to US dollars with is treated as a debt instrument.
Under IFRS in the Groups financial statements, the effect from 1 April 2004 the Groups IFRS the bond, as it is currently structured, would impact of the IFRS hedging rules for the transition date.
This means that the first be accounted for as a debt instrument Group is likely to be significantly lower than report published in US dollars will be the containing an embedded derivative being the for most other financial services groups.
The Group is currently majority of the Groups revenue streams, working with its advisors to achieve a result Goodwill amortisation and impairment testing assets and liabilities are denominated in US whereby the conversion rights would be Under IFRS the Groups capitalised goodwill dollars, it is consistent to present the Groups treated as an equity instrument, which will will be frozen and subject to impairment financial statements in the same currency.
not be subsequently fair valued after initial testing rather than systematic amortisation recognition.
This split accounting will result in over the life of the goodwill.
This is likely to Redenomination of share capital a reported finance cost, which does not occur reduce the goodwill charge to the profit and The Group Board considers it appropriate to under UK GAAP, being charged to the profit loss account.
redenominate the share capital of Man Group and loss account over the life of the bond plc to bring it into line with its functional relating to the discount on the debt element Cost of share awards and options currency and the functional currency of the of the bond and will also increase the Under IFRS the profit and loss account main operating subsidiaries.
Shareholder Groups equity relating to the conversion charge relating to share awards and options approval for this redenomination into US rights.
If the conversion rights are not granted to directors and employees will dollars will be sought at the AGM.
The US classified as an equity instrument they will change.
The charge will be based on the fair dollar shares will be quoted on the London be fair valued through the profit and loss value of the share awards options at date Stock Exchange and settled in sterling as is account, resulting in increased volatility in of grant.
The impact for the Group is likely the case with the existing shares.
to be insignificant as the number of share will still be paid in sterling except where private options granted to directors and employees overseas shareholders have elected to receive Netting is small and shares awarded to directors and dividends via the Transcontinental Automated IFRS requires that an entity must have the employees under the Co-Investment Scheme Payment Service TAPS.
intention to settle on a net basis or and Performance Share Plan have historically to realise the asset and settle the liability been purchased in the market and the Measurement of financial assets and liabilities simultaneously for a financial asset and purchase cost amortised in full through the IFRS allows and in many cases requires the financial liability to be offset.
Under UK GAAP profit and loss account.
measurement of financial assets and liabilities an intention to settle net is not a requirement at fair value.
Establishing the fair value of for set off, although the entity must have the Pensions these instruments and of any identified ability to insist on net settlement.
On adoption The Group continues to implement the embedded derivatives will require the Group of IFRS, it is likely current assets and current transitional arrangements of FRS 17 to employ some complex valuation models.
liabilities on the Groups balance sheet will Retirement Benefits in these accounts.
In addition, the requirement to discount need to be grossed up in relation to Man The full adoption of FRS 17, and IAS 19, certain instruments may have significant Financials matched principal stock borrowing accounting treatments is unlikely to have systems implications for the Group.
there is likely to be a significant impact for the Group in terms of updating valuation Application of hedge accounting Fund entities systems, putting in place processes for IFRS imposes onerous hedging The Group is currently focusing on the identification of embedded derivatives and documentation and effectiveness testing accounting treatment of the fund entities of developing discounting models, the impact requirements on entities wishing to apply which the Group is the investment manager.
on the financial statements is unlikely to hedge accounting.
The result of these Under UK GAAP these fund vehicles are be material.
This is due to: a the Group requirements is that it is more difficult to typically not included in the Groups consolidated currently using the true and fair override to achieve hedge accounting than under UK balance sheet.
A similar treatment is expected mark-to-market through the profit and loss GAAP.
The main area in which the Group under IFRS, although the Group will continue account most of its financial assets and currently applies hedge accounting is the to monitor accounting regulations and best liabilities: b the limited use of proprietary hedging of its future, anticipated sterling practice in this area, as it does currently derivatives in the Group: and c the shortand Swiss franc overheads into US dollars.
term nature of most of its financial assets The Group intends to try to achieve hedge and liabilities, thus reducing the impact of accounting for these overheads but will Management of risk discounting.
not know if it has satisfied the retrospective Risk is inherent in the Groups business effectiveness testing until the future and activities.
The Groups ability to identify, anticipated cash flows have actually assess, monitor and manage each type of occurred.
If hedge accounting cannot be risk to which it is exposed is an important achieved for these overheads then the factor in its financial soundness, performance, reputation and future success.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 25 Financial Review The Group uses an Enterprise Wide Risk The Groups activities are subject to Leverage is monitored daily for these different Management process ERM to identify, regulatory oversight in many jurisdictions, fund products and a review is triggered if monitor and control the full spectrum of risks particularly the UK and the US.
Reputation levels approach certain pre-defined multiples facing each of its businesses.
Through this risk is a key risk in any financial services of prevailing net asset value.
These multiples process the Groups risk profile and the business and the Group allocates significant are derived from computer supported models attendant control environment is assessed resources to ensure compliance with that calculate proprietary risk indicators, and recorded.
The ERM process is applicable regulation in all its markets.
similar to value at risk, which provide an embedded within each business activity and Compliance and risk issues are standing estimate of risk, based on the positions held the output of the process is reviewed centrally agenda items on the divisional boards and and margin exposures, sector investments, by the Board in the context of the Groups risk the Group Board, and the Audit and Risk correlation between markets and individual appetite, which is determined by the Board.
Committee is provided with compliance market volatility.
Through this strict The Audit and Risk Committee has oversight reports at least annually.
mechanism and the ability to liquidate most over the process.
The control environment for positions quickly, Man can confidently significant risks identified by ERM is signed off In its business activities the Group is exposed manage its credit risk exposure.
by the relevant business unit and is tested by to strategic, credit, market, operational and Internal Audit.
The Groups system of internal liquidity risks.
Where loans to funds are refinanced externally, control and risk management, and the Boards it is usually in the form of total return swaps review of its effectiveness, is set out in the Strategic risk or other similar over-the-counter contracts.
The Group is subject to the risk that its When executing these transactions the profitability may be eroded by changes Group often enters into a committed purchase The Group seeks to mitigate the risk inherent in the business environment or by failures agreement under which, in the event of default, in its business through the application of of strategy or execution.
The Board is the external provider has the right to require strict limits and controls over the level of responsible for determining the long-term the Group to buy underlying fund assets.
The Board operates a tiered strategy of the business and the markets in In previous years, in a few instances the approval process with limits set out in a which the Group will operate.
Strategic risks Group has also granted a small first risk formal delegated authority paper which are identified and assessed as part of the of loss guarantee to the external provider.
is reviewed regularly in light of operating planning process and are formally reviewed experience and market conditions.
The total theoretical exposure on these execution of risk management discipline is first risk of loss guarantees was 7.0 million the responsibility of business management Credit and counterparty risk at 31 March 2004.
However, risk modelling within these delegated authorities.
The Credit and counterparty risk is the risk arising techniques indicate that the probability of the principle of individual accountability and from the possibility that the Group may Group incurring any loss from any element of responsibility within a disciplined approach incur losses from the failure of borrowers or any of these guarantees is less than 0.5%.
to risk management is an important feature counterparties to meet their obligations.
This Non-statistical risks have not been included of the Groups culture.
includes indirect credit exposures where the in this analysis.
In relation to the committed Group has issued guarantees to third parties.
purchase agreements a loss could arise if the Close attention is also paid to the formal It also includes the risk that the settlement or cost of holding the underlying fund shares segregation of duties within business units clearance of transactions may fail.
exceeded the fee that would be charged for and the establishment of independent reporting this service.
In these circumstances, there are lines in key compliance, risk and financial In the Asset Management division the Group a number of actions available to mitigate the activities.
The Group Risk Committee and is exposed to direct credit risk mainly in market risk of owning the underlying fund Divisional Risk Committees meet regularly respect of loans to funds and indirect risk in shares such that the risk of any loss being and perform risk and oversight reviews as respect of contingent exposures to third party incurred is assessed to be remote.
well as monitoring compliance with limits and lenders to the funds.
The constitution and terms of In Asset Management, private client investors reference of the Group Risk Committee are The Group makes loans available to many in the Groups composite products are described in the Directors Report.
of its composite fund products, immediately typically offered guarantees of return of capital following their launch, with the intention of at maturity of the product by highly rated and providing temporary funding until more internationally recognised banks.
In most permanent financing structures are put in cases, the guarantee is fully collateralised by place with external providers.
In addition the US Treasury zero coupon bonds or bank Group provides short-term loans to certain deposits and there is no residual risk to the fund structures to enable the funds to pay Group.
On a small number of products, a margin calls without being required to sell partially defeased structure has been utilised investments to meet this cash requirement.
whereby the bank will provide a guarantee with no, or only partial, collateral being The aggregate amount of loans to funds and provided up front.
In exchange, Man has the amount lent to an individual fund are provided a first risk of loss guarantee to the subject to limits approved under delegated bank, up to a level of 5%.
The total authorities from the Board.
The risk exposure theoretical exposure arising from this was is modelled extensively before any credit is 8.9 million at 31 March 2004, although risk extended to a fund and loans are modelling techniques indicate that the predominantly repayable on demand.
probabiity of the Group incurring any loss from any element of any of these guarantees is remote.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 26 Financial Review The Group has also during the year set up Generally, credit lines are provided for initial In relation to interest rates, the Groups policy two external facilities under which third parties margins or variation margins only for metals is to manage the profile of its debt to optimise make financing available to its products for and energy customers, in line with market the funding costs of the Group.
Borrowings shorter periods, usually whilst the product is practice.
Approvals for credit lines up to preare arranged on both a fixed and floating rate commencing operations and before they are determined levels are given by the Brokerage basis and sourced from the capital markets refinanced for longer periods.
One of these Division Credit Committee or by the Group as well as the banking market.
The Group required the Group to invest in a Note issued Risk Committee in the case of larger lines.
uses interest rate swaps, as required, to vary by the third party rated A1 and A by Moodys All credit lines are reviewed at least annually.
this mix and to provide continued management and Standard & Poors respectively, which is The credit risk is diversified, with the majority of the Groups interest rate exposure.
After repayable at less than par if the borrowing of customers and counterparties operating taking into account interest rate swaps, at product defaults to the third party.
As discussed in OECD countries.
The Group grades the year-end none 2003: 9.5 million of the above there are extensive controls in relation countries according to its perception of risk, Groups borrowings were at fixed rates as to the loans that the Group makes available and rates counterparties according to their shown in note 21 d to the Accounts.
This is to fund products and the same controls are in creditworthiness.
This process is used to representative of the whole year.
place with regard to this product.
It is expected limit and monitor country and counterparty therefore that this Note will be repaid in full.
Brokerage generally utilises its own treasury This Note, amounting to $105 million at management function to manage interest 31 March 2004, is included within current The Group also guarantees its share of Sugar income and interest rate exposures on asset investments on the Group balance sheet.
Australias operating leases, which amounts segregated balances held on behalf of to 13.7 million.
customers in accordance with regulatory The Group has never experienced a loss in requirements.
Interest income retained by the respect of any direct or indirect credit Market risk business on these balances is shown as net exposure to its fund products.
Market risk is the risk that the Groups trading interest income in the segmental profit earnings may be adversely affected by and loss account of Brokerage shown earlier Brokerage is primarily an intermediary and changes in the level or volatility of market in this Review.
matched principal business offering execution rates or prices such as exchange rates, and trading services, mostly in exchange interest rates or the value of other The Group is also exposed to market risk traded products.
For execution only customers, investments.
within the Asset Management division.
This the only credit risk arising is that of collection arises on proprietary investments by the of commissions receivable after invoicing.
The Most of the Groups revenues arise in US Group in various fund products typically in the credit risk for cleared customers is in paying dollars as the majority of its business is early stages of testing the trading systems variation margin to the exchange before denominated in that currency.
The Groups and styles of new managers before receiving it from the customer.
A key control day-to-day management accounting is in US committing client money to these funds.
to mitigate credit risk on cleared business dollars, although for UK statutory purposes it Extensive qualitative due diligence and is the initial margin paid by customers as a reports in sterling.
However the Group incurs quantitative modelling is carried out before deposit before they can commence trading.
certain costs in other currencies, principally such investments are made.
A series of risk Brokerage uses software to test the sterling liabilities for overheads, dividends and measures relating to these investments is adequacy of initial margins and sometimes taxation.
Since earnings are principally in US reviewed regularly usually weekly and sets margins at higher levels than those dollars, appropriate hedges, using mainly appropriate action is taken if the risk deviates requested by the exchanges to minimise forward foreign exchange contracts, are put from predetermined tolerance bands.
in place for the following year to fund the risk exposure associated with the Groups majority of these anticipated sterling liabilities proprietary investments is modelled using Most customers are required to cover initial in accordance with criteria laid down by the a proprietary risk indicator similar to value and variation margins with cash.
The Group does not seek to hedge its at risk.
At 31 March 2004, the annual risk of activity levels are monitored daily to ensure US dollar earnings into sterling.
loss was modelled at 13.1 million at a 99.9% market and credit exposures are maintained confidence level for a 365 day holding period.
in accordance with agreed risk limits.
Daily Similarly, the majority of the Groups net The gains and losses from all proprietary and even intra-day margin calls are made on assets are in US dollars and in currencies investments are included within Asset clients to reflect market movements affecting other than sterling, with the result that the Management net performance fee income.
Stress testing is performed Groups sterling balance sheet is affected by to evaluate the effect of potential market currency movements.
The Group partially movements on customer positions and may hedges this effect by borrowing in currencies result in customers being asked to reduce other than sterling, principally in US dollars.
Note 21 c to the Accounts shows exposures that give rise to the net currency gains and losses recognised in the profit and loss account.
As that note shows, unmatched net assets are not significant.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 27 Financial Review In addition, as part of the enhanced liquidity A key operational risk is business interruption.
The Group also continues to diversify the service offered to investors in a number of Risk of disablement of the Groups business sources of its funding, accessing both capital composite products, Asset Management critical systems at any key location is and banking markets.
During the year the will hold units in Glenwood funds, RMF funds mitigated by the geographical spread of the Group issued $160 million ten-year and other underlying managers for short Groups main offices and the existence of subordinated notes, extending the tenor of periods.
The annual risk of loss associated dedicated communication links between key its debt.
The maturity of borrowings is shown with these activities was modelled at offices.
Key trading, risk management and in note 19 and the maturity profile of undrawn 1.0 million at a 99.9% confidence level operational functionality can be provided from committed facilities is shown in note 21 g. for a 365 day holding period.
Data back-up to The Groups financial capacity is analysed remote locations is designed to ensure that in more detail in the funding and liquidity In most markets Brokerage acts as information can be recovered rapidly and management section above.
intermediary, resulting in limited market risk independently of any disabled location.
The exceptions are intra-day Reputation risk positions in foreign exchange and metals Disaster recovery facilities are provided for In common with other financial services where Brokerage acts as principal and there key centres, replicating as necessary the businesses, the Groups success depends may be time delays between opening and functionality of that location.
The Group has not only on its effective management of the closing a position.
The Group imposes tight formal invocation procedures for each risks outlined above, but also on the limits on end of day positions and risk location in the event of disruption and maintenance of its reputation among many management staff monitor adherence to incident management committees to stakeholders shareholders, investors in its these limits.
determine the nature and scale of any event funds, lenders, regulators, key business and trigger the relevant level of response.
All partners and the general public for the way Operational risk disaster recovery plans and facilities are in which it conducts its business.
Operational risk is the risk that the Group subject to regular testing, maintenance and suffers a loss directly or indirectly resulting updating.
The Group has established policies and from inadequate or failed internal processes, procedures to ensure that high standards of people and systems or from external events.
Where appropriate and cost-effective, ethical conduct are applied across its This includes events such as human error, insurance is purchased to transfer certain business globally.
These address issues such fraud, external threats and IT failures.
types of operational risk to creditworthy as its fiduciary duty to investors and Operational risk ranges from routine insurers.
customers, sales and trading practices, new processing incidents to potentially significant products, potential conflicts of interest, incidents arising from, for example, major The Group is also subject to extensive money-laundering, know your customer systems failures.
reporting requirements for regulatory requirements and confidentiality and privacy.
purposes and the businesses work closely These policies and procedures are Operational risk is inherent in all the Groups with the regulators to ensure that operating continuously reviewed to ensure that they are businesses and support activities.
It is standards are properly maintained.
consistent with the Groups high standards managed through a framework of governance, and regulatory requirements.
policies and controls and through the training, Liquidity risk supervision and development of our staff.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may be The management of operational risk is an unable to meet its financial commitments intrinsic part of every managers role and when they fall due or can secure financial during the year the Group implemented a resources to meet them only at excessive risk self-assessment and certification process cost.
to ensure this is embedded in management routines.
A computer-based risk management The Group seeks to maintain flexibility in its solution has been developed to support this funding, whilst ensuring that there is and has now been implemented across a substantial headroom to meet the anticipated large part of the Groups activities.
maximum requirements of its businesses even in times of market stress.
Funding The management of operational risk also projections, including stressed scenarios of includes the segregation of duties and maximum liquidity usage, form part of the independent risk, compliance and internal Groups three-year medium-term planning audit functions.
Internal audit regularly reports process.
on the effectiveness of internal controls to executive management and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 28 Financial Review Capital Future developments The FSA supervises the Group on a The Basel Committee on Banking consolidated basis and the Group submits Supervision is finalising the development of returns to the FSA on its capital adequacy.
the New Basel Capital Accord referred to Various individual subsidiaries within each of as Basel II, which is focused on regulatory the Brokerage and Asset Management capital requirements for credit and operational Divisions are directly regulated by the FSA or risk exposures.
These changes to the regulatory supervisors in other countries, which set and capital framework will be applied to all financial monitor their capital adequacy.
services firms within the European Union through Capital Adequacy Directive 3.
This will The Groups policy is to maintain a strong be embodied in the FSAs rules and guidance, capital base to support the development of the Integrated Prudential Source Book IPSB, its business in a prudential manner.
As and will apply to the Group.
discussed in the regulatory capital section above, the Groups financial resources at In addition the FSA is revising its current 31 March 2004 adequately exceeded the regulatory framework commencing with new financial resource requirements set by requirements for systems and controls due to regulators.
The Group separately reviews its internal To ensure readiness for these changes, capital requirement.
At 31 March 2004 the the Group has established an integrated Groups capital exceeded its estimate of the programme across all its principal businesses capital required to cover the risks to which it and locations.
Senior management from all is exposed, leaving a surplus for strategic use divisions, under the leadership of the Finance to provide for continued growth across the Director, are overseeing this programme, business.
which includes a large number of projects to address all the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the regulatory change.
The Board views this as an opportunity to ensure that risk management practices across the Group are continually developed to meet what it regards as best practice for asset management and brokerage businesses, rather than just as an exercise in ensuring regulatory compliance.
Peter Clarke Finance Director Man continues to extend its global reach so as to provide services to a worldwide investor and client base.
