Financial review Investing Peter Harris Finance Director Favourite artist: Queen First single: The Wonder of You, Elvis Presley Best gig: Madonna at Wembley Capital Radio plc | www.
com 30 Group revenues and profitability The advertising environment improved slightly in 2004 despite increased competition in our local markets.
The Groups revenue was up 4% year on year at 119.9 million.
The Capital FM network saw a decline in revenue due to audience pressures at 95.8 Capital FM and BRMB.
The Century FM network showed a very impressive revenue performance with growth in revenue of over 35% compared with last year.
Xfm also performed well with its advertising revenues up over 20% year on year.
Choice FM, which we acquired in March 2004, has got off to an encouraging start with its like-forlike revenues up over 20% since its acquisition.
The Capital Gold network suffered as advertisers increasingly became challenged with the AM frequency.
We believe that the advent of digital radio will greatly improve the prospects for this brand.
Group operating profit before goodwill and exceptional items was up 8% at 23.7 million and analogue radio profit was up 11% to 29.1 million.
During the year we increased the marketing investment on 95.8 Capital FM around the launch of the Johnny Vaughan Breakfast Show.
However, the Groups overall marketing budget stayed the same year on year and we diverted resources from other group stations.
Costs were closely managed resulting in an increase in our underlying operating margins.
Group revenue 2003 2004 Total radio revenue 115.3m 119.9m Analogue radio revenue 114.6m 119.0m Analogue radio operating profit 26.2m 29.1m Analogue radio operating margin 22.9% 24.5% Underlying Group profit before tax increased 4% year on year to 23.7 million.
The effective rate of tax on our underlying profits for the year was 29.0% 2003: 30.5% and our underlying earnings per share was 20.1p 2003: 19.3p.
The profit before tax was 12.6 million 2003: 13.3 million.
Basic earnings per share was 7.1p 2003: 7.7p.
Associated companies Our associated companies contributed 1.6 million 2003: 2.1 million to the Groups profitability, before a tax, interest and goodwill amortisation charge of 0.6 million 2003: 0.8 million.
com 31 Financial review Investment in our business Group cash ow We invested 5.4 million 2003: 4.2 million in our 2003 2004 wholly-owned digital operations, and our net investment m m in digital radio, including our associated companies, Net cash inflow from operating was 4.9 million 2003: 3.6 million.
As a major player activities 27.0 25.5 in the development of digital radio, it remains a key part Exceptional items 0.8 1.3 of our strategy for growth.
In the coming financial year, Net capital expenditure 3.5 1.6 as more of our radio brands are transmitted on digital platforms, we plan to increase our investment by an Underlying operating cash flow 24.3 25.2 additional 0.8 million to 6.2 million.
Underlying operating profit 22.0 23.7 Underlying operating profit Xfm is now included in the national RAJAR survey, adding into cash 110% 106% 107,000 listeners to the station on digital platforms in addition to its analogue listener base.
This has created additional revenue opportunities for the Group and we Dividend anticipate that the majority of our brands will be in the national RAJAR sample by the end of next year.
Our strong balance sheet and robust cash flow position allows us to maintain the dividend level.
Therefore, the At our interim results in May, we reported ongoing annual Directors are recommending a final dividend of 12.5p per savings of 2 million from savings in sport commentary share to be paid on 28 January 2005 to shareholders on costs.
We are planning to re-invest 1.5 million of these the register on 3 December 2004 ex dividend date savings behind Xfm and Choice FM this year, in order to 1 December 2004.
Including the interim dividend of ensure that we take maximum commercial advantage 6.0p, our total dividend for 2004 is unchanged year on in building our London portfolio.
Strong cash conversion Current trading Our cash generation remained exceptionally strong with Our first quarter from October to December, 2004 106% of our underlying operating profit being converted is looking more challenging as the market has seen some into trading cash flow.
Net cash inflow from operating slow down in spend among key advertisers, particularly activities was 25.5 million 2003: 27.0 million.
Revenue in October was down 7% against dividend payments of 15.3 million 2003: 15.2 million a relatively strong performance during the same period and tax payments of 6.2 million 2003: 7.2 million, last year and November looks to be down around 5%.
our net debt was reduced by 0.6 million to 27.0 million December is showing a slight improvement on this trend 30 September 2003: 27.6 million.
but is still likely to be down marginally year on year.
Interest cover on our continuing radio business was 15x We remain optimistic about the prospects for radio in 2003: 16x, with a net interest charge of 1.6 million general and believe that it will continue to outperform 2003: 1.5 million.
the display advertising market for the foreseeable future.
Reduction in net debt Capital Radios current trading 2004 Oct-Dec 03 8% m 2% Jan-Mar 04 Net debt as at 1 October 2003 27.6 Apr-Jun 04 5% Cash generated from operations 1.9 Jul-Sep 04 4% Acquisitions and disposals 1.3 -7% Oct 04 Net debt as at 30 September 2004 27.0 Nov 04 -5% Source: Company data Capital Radio plc | www.
com 32 Contents 34 Report of the Directors 39 Corporate Governance 44 Directors Remuneration Report 55 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts 56 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital Radio plc 58 Group Profit and Loss Account 59 Group Balance Sheet 60 Group Cash Flow Statement 61 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 61 Statement of Group Total Recognised Gains and Losses 62 Company Balance Sheet 63 Notes forming part of the Accounts 85 Principal Investments 86 Financial Record and Key Statistics 87 Shareholder Information 88 Company Secretary and Advisers 89 The Capital Radio Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 90 Notice of Annual General Meeting Capital Radio plc | www.
com 33 Report of the Directors The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report together with the audited accounts for the year ended 30 September 2004.
Principal Activities and Business Review The Groups principal activity is that of a local commercial radio broadcaster in the United Kingdom.
Other activities include the provision of services to the radio industry, the operation of entertainment-based internet sites, record production and distribution.
The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries are set out on page 85.
A full review of the Groups activities for the year and its future prospects is set out in pages 1 to 32, including the Chairman and Chief Executives review on pages 2 to 7.
Financial results Details of the Groups profit, taxation and dividends are set out in the Group Profit and Loss Account on page 58 and in the Notes to the Accounts.
Dividend The Directors have decided to recommend a final dividend of 12.5p 2003: 12.5p net per share payable on 28 January 2005 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 3 December 2004 ex-dividend date: 1 December 2004.
With the interim dividend of 6.0p 2003: 6.0p net per share paid on 28 June 2004, this makes a total for the year of 18.5p 2003: 18.5p net per share.
Donations During the course of the year, the Group raised over 4,100,000 for its own charity, Capital Charities, which includes Help a London Child, Help a Local Child, 21st Century Kids and Help a South Wales Child, as well as for third party charities such as The Princes Trust and many local charities.
In addition, the Groups own donations to external charities in the year amounted to 13,654 2003: 5,099.
These were principally to support the musical and artistic life in London and Birmingham, and charities mainly supporting needy children.
No contributions were made to political organisations.
Staff policies The quality, commitment and effectiveness of the Groups staff are crucial to its continued success.
Staff policies and programmes are designed to encourage employees to become interested in the Groups activities and to reward all staff according to their contribution and capability.
Employee communications are a high priority and regular staff briefings are used to ensure that all staff are kept properly informed.
Employee share ownership is encouraged through savingsrelated and other employee share schemes.
Employment policies do not discriminate between employees or potential employees on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic or natural origin, sex, marital status, religious beliefs or disability.
If an employee were to become disabled whilst in employment and, as a result, was unable to perform his her duties, every effort would be made to offer suitable alternative employment and assistance with re-training.
Directors The names and details of the Directors holding office at 30 September 2004 are given on pages 28 to 29.
Under Article 112 of the Articles of Association of the Company, David Mansfield, Peter Harris and Barbara Thomas retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, notice of which is set out on pages 90 to 91.
David Mansfield, Peter Harris and Barbara Thomas being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In relation to the re-elections of David Mansfield, Peter Harris and Barbara Thomas, the Board is satisfied that each of these Directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the Company.
Details of all Directors offering themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting can be found on page 90.
com 34 Information on Directors remuneration and share option rights is given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 54.
Significant shareholdings At 25 November 2004 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its Ordinary Shares: Number of Ordinary Shares % Fidelity Investment Services 12,813,756 15.00 Morgan Stanley Investment Management 8,622,353 10.09 M&G Investment Management 6,871,374 8.04 Taube Hodson & Stonex Partners 4,294,293 5.03 Threadneedle Asset Management 3,738,065 4.38 Legal & General Investment Management 3,471,796 4.06 Morley Fund Management 2,810,782 3.29 Share allotment and pre-emption rights In accordance with the Companys normal practice, a resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew the Boards authority to allot unissued Ordinary Shares up to a maximum amount of 364,374 being the lesser of the unissued share capital of the Company and 33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this report.
This authority will expire on the fifth anniversary of the date of the resolution.
A resolution will also be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew the Boards authority to issue shares for cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis.
The authority will expire on the earlier of 25 April 2006 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and is limited to Ordinary Shares having an aggregate nominal value of up to 106,781 which is equivalent to approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this Report.
Save in connection with the allotment of Ordinary Shares pursuant to the exercise of options under the Companys employee share schemes and in relation to the proposed merger with GWR further details on page 7, the Directors have no present intention of issuing any Ordinary Shares.
If the pre-conditions to the merger with GWR are satisfied or waived, further resolutions will be proposed at a meeting of shareholders in relation to the creation and allotment of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of that merger.
Authority to buy-in shares Under Article 9 of the Articles of Association, the Company is empowered to purchase its own shares.
The Directors consider that it is prudent to maintain the power to make purchases in the market of the Companys own shares and the necessary special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The maximum number of shares which may be acquired pursuant to the authority is 8,542,504 which is equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this report and the maximum price exclusive of expenses payable for each Ordinary Share is 105% of the average closing middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the purchase.
The authority will expire on the earlier of 25 July 2006 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board has no immediate intention to exercise the authority and purchases will only be made if the Board believes that to do so would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
The authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting has not been used in the past year.
com 35 Report of the Directors continued Extension of the SavingsRelated Share Option Scheme Since 1995, Capital Radio has encouraged employees to become shareholders via the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
The Scheme is an Inland Revenue approved savings-related share option scheme which enables employees to purchase ordinary shares at a favourable price, using the proceeds of a savings account to which they make monthly contributions.
The Scheme was approved by shareholders in 1995.
The Scheme now requires renewal.
As the underlying UK legislation has not changed materially since 1995, Capital Radio is proposing to extend the life of the existing Scheme by a further ten years, until 2015.
Resolution 9 on page 90 sets out the relevant resolution which shareholders will be invited to approve at the AGM.
A summary of the Scheme is set out on page 89.
Supplier payment policy Community involvement is a mainstay of the Groups radio operations and the Group considers that this extends equally to its position in the business community.
The Group does not follow a code but operates a payment policy to agreed terms in settling outstanding debts.
For certain types of regular contracted services, the Group encourages direct debit or standing order arrangements.
Most other supplies are on an ad hoc basis and the terms of payment are agreed when the order is placed.
The majority of payments are made by electronic transfer direct to suppliers bank accounts.
The amount of trade creditors shown in the balance sheet at 30 September 2004 represents 41 days 2003: 56 days of average purchases during the year for the Company and 52 days 2003: 51 days for the Group.
Directors shareholdings, share options and conditional share awards The beneficial interests of the Directors at 1 October 2003 or date of appointment if later and the end of the financial year were: At 30 September 2004 At 1 October 2003 Conditional Conditional share share Shares Options awards Shares Options awards D Mansfield 120,823 315,017 220,900 111,320 214,688 141,220 P Davies 45,321 185,827 133,370 39,895 124,798 85,380 P Harris 36,640 153,675 115,860 31,724 100,489 73,020 L Smith 14,492 145,776 110,910 10,679 92,590 66,480 N Schwarz Appointed December 2003 4,429 154,932 97,680 624 108,273 51,380 P Cawdron 3,200 3,200 A Illsley 4,200 4,200 T Mason P Mitchell 1,000 1,000 B Thomas 2,414 2,414 P Williams Appointed December 2003 1,500 The share amounts as at 30 September 2004 include shares awarded under the Annual Bonus Scheme on 1 December 2004.
Please see page 46 for further details of the Annual Bonus Scheme.
Please note that, in addition to the individual shareholdings set out above, the Directors are for Companies Act purposes deemed to be interested in the 610,536 Ordinary Shares held in the Capital Radio Employee Trust.
The market value of these shares as at 30 September 2004 was 2,509,303.
There were no changes in the Directors registered interests in the shares of the Company during the period from 1 October 2004 to 25 November 2004.
None of the Directors had any interest in the shares of any subsidiary company.
Further details of options and conditional share awards held by the Directors at 30 September 2004 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
com 36 Environmental policy The Group recognises the importance of environmental responsibility and, where practicable, has an environmental policy in place for the relevant business areas of the Group.
The nature of its activities has a minimal effect on the environment but, where it does, the Group acts responsibly and is aware of its obligations at all times.
Treasury The Groups financial instruments comprise borrowings, some cash and liquid resources, and various items, such as trade debtors and trade creditors, that arise directly from its operations.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The principal risk arising from the Groups financial instruments is interest rate risk.
The Board has reviewed and agreed policies for managing this risk and this is summarised below.
This policy has remained unchanged since the beginning of the year.
Short-term debtors and creditors that meet the definition of a financial asset or liability under Financial Reporting Standard 13 have been excluded from the disclosures as permitted by the Standard.
Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
The Group borrows at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
The Groups operating activities are principally financed by floating rate borrowings, whereas significant investment and acquisition activities are generally financed through fixed interest borrowings.
Liquidity risk Short-term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
The Groups operations are typically cash generative, so exposure to liquidity risk is considered insignificant.
Foreign currency risk The Group has no exposure to foreign currency risk as it has no significant investments or financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The consolidated accounts of the Group will need to be prepared in accordance with IFRS for the year ended 30 September 2006.
The Board has developed a project plan, and a steering group has been set up, to ensure that the timetable for conversion to IFRS is met.
At this stage it is too early to predict the financial impact the change to IFRS will have on the Group's results and financial position, but the areas of greatest impact will relate to the accounting for share options and employee benefits.
IFRS2 Share Based Payments encompasses the issuance of shares, or rights to shares in return for goods or services.
The main impact of the new standard is to introduce a charge to the profit and loss account for the fair value of options granted.
IAS19 Employee Benefits requires that the cost of providing employee benefits should be recognised in the period in which the benefit is earned by the employee.
One of the major differences between UK GAAP and IAS19 is the accounting treatment for defined benefit pension schemes.
com 37 Report of the Directors continued Auditors Resolutions are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Board to fix their remuneration.
The remuneration and expenses of the Auditors are fully disclosed in note 3 to the accounts.
By order of the Board Cliff Fluet Company Secretary 30 Leicester Square London WC2H 7LA 25 November 2004 Registered Number 923454 Capital Radio plc | www.
com 38 Corporate Governance The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
In June 1998 the Combined Code was published which embraces the work of the earlier Cadbury, Greenbury and Hampel Committees.
This statement, together with the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 44 to 54, describes how the Company has applied the principles of good governance as set out in the Combined Code.
A revised version of the Combined Code was published in July 2003 following the Higgs Report and applies to the Company for the financial year commencing 1 October 2004.
Directors The Board of Capital Radio plc is responsible and accountable for the Groups operations.
Its principal focus is the overall direction and control of the Group.
As at the date of this Report, the Board currently comprises the Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other Executive Directors and five other Non-executive Directors.
Their biographies set out on pages 28 and 29 illustrate the Directors breadth of experience which should ensure an effective board to lead and control the Group.
The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of non-executive presence.
All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Non-executive Directors bring individual judgement to Board decisions and extensive expertise at a senior level of business operation and practice.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and each Director receives appropriate training on appointment and subsequently if necessary.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and, in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
The Board met 12 times throughout the year and the annual programme is approved by the Board.
Currently, the programme includes reviews of strategy together with the operations and results of the main business units, as well as the approval of annual budgets.
Actual results for the Group and individual business units are reported to all Directors each month.
These procedures, together with other regular and ad hoc reports, are intended to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information that is appropriate to the discharge of its duties.
The Board reserves to itself certain key matters to approve or monitor, such as the Groups strategic plans, annual operating plan and budget and the Groups operating and financial performance.
The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Executive Committees.
Reflecting the important role played by the independent Non-executive Directors in ensuring high standards of corporate governance, the Audit and Remuneration Committees comprise Non-executive Directors as detailed below.
The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Committees and to the Executive Directors as described below: The Audit Committee at the beginning of the financial year, comprised Tony Illsley as Chairman, Peter Cawdron, Barbara Thomas, Peter Mitchell and Tim Mason.
In July 2004, Tony Illsley retired as Chairman of the Committee and Peter Williams was appointed in his place.
Peter Williams has recent and relevant experience for his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee, having been, until recently, Chief Executive of Selfridges and is a qualified chartered accountant.
Tony Illsley remains a member of the Audit Committee, whilst Tim Mason and Peter Cawdron retired as members of the Committee on 1 July 2004.
Peter Mitchell retired as a member of the Committee in October 2004.
The Committee met three times during the financial year to review the half year and full year results and the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee has also reviewed the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, policies and procedures and is responsible for the appointment of external auditors.
The Group has an internal risk and audit function that conducts a rolling programme of reviews and introduces improvements to the Groups financial controls.
The Committee believes that this function will continue to prove beneficial in identifying and correcting any control deficiencies.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Finance Director and by other Directors and the Groups external and internal auditors as appropriate.
com 39 Corporate Governance continued The Remuneration Committee is currently comprised of Peter Mitchell as Chairman, Tim Mason, Tony Illsley and Peter Williams.
Peter Cawdron and Barbara Thomas retired as members of the Committee in October 2004.
The Committee met three times during the year to review the Companys general policy on Executive Remuneration and the application of this policy to the remuneration and benefits of the Executive Directors and other senior executives of the Company.
The Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 44 to 54 contains a more detailed description of the Companys policy and procedures for Executive Remuneration.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman and Chief Executive as appropriate.
The Nominations Committee currently comprises Peter Cawdron as Chairman, Barbara Thomas, Peter Mitchell and Tony Illsley.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman and meets as required to select and propose to the Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for appointment as Non-executive Directors.
It met in November 2003 in respect of the appointment of Nathalie Schwarz and Peter Williams in December 2003.
The Executive Committee currently comprises the Executive Directors.
The Committee meets every week and has the responsibility of dealing with the day to day management of the Group.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association, currently the nearest number to, but not exceeding, one third of the Board shall retire each year by rotation Directors may submit themselves for re-election.
In practice, all Directors usually offer themselves for re-election at least every three years and the Articles will be amended to reflect this practice when they are next revised.
Details of appointments during the year and Directors retiring and submitting themselves for re-election can be found in the Directors Report on page 34.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees and the Strategy Conference during the financial year together with details of attendance.
Strategy Board Audit Remuneration Conference No of Meetings 12 3 3 1 D Mansfield 12 n a n a 1 P Davies 12 n a n a 1 P Harris 12 n a n a 1 L Smith Note 1 9 n a n a 1 N Schwarz Note 2 9 n a n a 1 P Cawdron Note 3 12 1 3 1 A Illsley 12 3 3 1 T Mason Note 3 9 1 2 1 P Mitchell 12 3 3 1 B Thomas 12 3 3 1 P Williams Note 4 9 1 2 1 Note 1 Linda Smith was absent on maternity leave from 20 October 2003 to 20 February 2004.
Note 2 Nathalie Schwarz was appointed to the Board in December 2003 and was therefore only eligible to attend 10 Board Meetings as a Director.
Note 3 Tim Mason and Peter Cawdron retired from the Audit Committee in July 2004.
Note 4 Peter Williams was appointed to the Board in December 2003 and was therefore only eligible to attend 10 Board Meetings, 1 Audit Committee Meeting and 2 Remuneration Committee Meetings.
Directors remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 44 to 54 and contains a statement of remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of each Director.
Shareholders will be invited to consider separately the Directors Remuneration Report at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 January 2005.
com 40 Relations with shareholders The Company maintains an active dialogue with its shareholders through a planned programme of investor relations.
This activity is a keystone of the Companys corporate communications programme and is headed by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
The programme includes formal presentations in London of the Companys full-year and interim results and meetings between institutional investors, analysts and senior management on a regular basis.
Regular communication with shareholders also takes place through the Companys Annual and Interim Reports and via the Company website www.
com which contains up to date information on Group activities.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an important opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders, and also involves a short statement on the Companys latest trading position.
Shareholders may ask questions of the full Board, including the chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The results of the proxy votes submitted by shareholders in respect of each resolution are declared at the Annual General Meeting.
Internal control In September 1999, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance was published to assist Directors in complying with the internal control elements of the Combined Code.
The Financial Services Authority requires all listed companies to follow this guidance when determining the extent of their compliance with the Combined Code.
Associated companies have not been dealt with as part of the Group for the purposes of applying these guidelines.
The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Although no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or detected on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Board confirms that there are ongoing procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group and these accord with the Turnbull Guidance which the Board has fully adopted.
These procedures have been in place for the financial year covered in this Annual Report and Accounts and up to the date of its approval, and their effectiveness is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the financial year.
In particular, the Board has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
There are supporting Group policies and procedures for the reporting and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
The Board has an established internal risk management function and appointed a Head of Risk Management to identify, with relevant management, the major business risks facing the Group and put in place appropriate policies and procedures to manage those risks.
Internal and external risks are assessed on a continual basis, and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
These involve a process of control, self-assessment and hierarchical reporting that has been established to provide for a documented trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across Group operations and provide successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
com 41 Corporate Governance continued Management regularly reports on its review of the risks and how they are managed to both the Board and the Audit Committee, whose role is to review the key risks inherent in the business and the systems of control necessary to manage those risks.
The Audit Committee presents its findings to the Board as appropriate.
Management also reports to the Board on significant changes in the business and the external environment which affect significant risks.
The Board is provided with monthly financial information, which includes key performance and risk indicators.
Where areas for improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by management and the Audit Committee.
As in prior years the Internal Audit programme was managed by the Head of Risk Management and monitored by the Audit Committee.
For a period during the year, due to an internal promotion, the function was, however, without an additional dedicated resource which delayed some projects.
This issue has been addressed by the recruitment of a new internal auditor in early October 2004.
The Board believes that it is not appropriate to establish a separate Risk Committee, as risk is properly the responsibility of the full Board.
The Board reviews the risk management and control process and considers the: authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the identification, assessment and management of significant risks faced by the Group: response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others: monitoring of reports from Group management: maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk: and annual reporting procedures.
Compliance with the Existing Combined Code The Company complied with the requirements of the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the financial year.
Compliance with the New Code The Company is not formally required to report compliance with the New Combined Code until the publication of the Annual Report for the financial year ending 30 September 2005.
However, the Board believes that the Company should outline in this Annual Report the extent of the current level of compliance with the New Code.
During the year, the Board commenced a formal evaluation of the Board and its performance by way of a detailed questionnaire.
Furthermore, Peter Mitchell, the Senior Independent Director, led the Directors in evaluating the performance of the Chairman where the Chairman was not present.
All new Directors receive a full induction into the Company as soon as possible after appointment.
The induction process involves meeting with representatives of all areas of the Companys business and visits to key locations.
The role of the Board and its Committees, as well as a directors responsibilities, are also explained.
Directors have opportunities to receive training and these opportunities are to be developed further to include areas that affect each Directors role within the Company, including corporate governance and risk management.
All Directors are kept regularly updated on the Companys business throughout their period of office.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings with the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
In addition, there are presentations of the annual and interim results and other topics.
com 42 Going concern The Group continues to generate a strong positive operating cash flow.
As a result, the Directors are confident in making the following formal statement on going concern: After making appropriate enquiries, including a review of budgets and other plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
com 43 Directors Remuneration Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2004.
This Report, which complies with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, sets out how the principles of the Combined Code relating to Directors remuneration are applied.
A revised version of the Combined Code was published in July 2003 and applies to the Company for the financial year commencing 1 October 2004.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee has, during the last financial year, taken steps to comply with the provisions of the revised Combined Code relating to Directors remuneration.
The information that has been audited in this Report comprises the Directors emoluments table on page 50, the share options table on page 51, the Long-Term Incentive Plan table on page 52 and the pensions disclosure on pages 53 and 54.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 25 January 2005 inviting them to consider and approve this Report.
1 Remuneration Committee The Board has overall responsibility for determining the framework of Executive Remuneration and is required to take account of any recommendations made by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee, through formal terms of reference, oversight of the specific remuneration packages for the Executive Directors, Chairman and Company Secretary and consideration of Executive Remuneration issues generally, including the use of share incentive plans.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Peter Mitchell and consists exclusively of independent Non-executive Directors.
Members throughout the course of the financial year were Peter Mitchell, Peter Cawdron, Barbara Thomas, Tim Mason, Tony Illsley and Peter Williams.
The Committee, which met three times during the year, reviews and advises the Board on the Companys general policy on Executive Remuneration and applies it when considering the terms of service, remuneration, share options and other benefits of the Executive Directors, including where appropriate, severance payments.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive normally attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee, but are not present at any discussions concerning their own remuneration.
The terms of reference permit the Remuneration Committee to obtain its own external advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
For the financial year under review, the Committee was assisted internally by the Companys Director of Human Resources.
2 Remuneration policy for Executive Directors The Companys policy on Directors remuneration will continue to apply to each Director for the financial year to 30 September 2005 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
The Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Companys business environment and in remuneration practice.
Any changes in policy for subsequent years will be described in future reports, which will continue to be subject to shareholder approval.
All statements in this Report in relation to remuneration policy for subsequent years should be considered in this context.
The Committee aims to provide a competitive remuneration package to attract, retain and motivate the Executive Directors and senior executives of the highest calibre and with the experience needed to shape and execute the Companys strategy and deliver shareholder value.
The Committee takes account of external market data supplied by independent professional advisers and is sensitive to the wider scene, including pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, especially when determining annual salary increases.
The Committee also takes account of the remuneration paid by the Companys comparator group in the market.
com 44 Capital Radio has made a number of changes to Executive Remuneration over the past few years and the Committees policy is for a significant proportion of executive reward to be variable and dependent upon the Groups performance, and for target performance-related incentives for Executive Directors to equate to well over half of the total potential remuneration.
Variable reward components provide an opportunity for higher levels of remuneration where this is supported by exceptional performance whether at an individual level or in relation to the Groups short-term and longer-term business priorities.
Variable rewards will continue to be provided through a balanced mix of performance-related elements.
The Annual Bonus Scheme supports operational objectives over the financial year, whilst the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan will reward superior performance over a longer period and the 1998 Share Option Scheme will support the Companys growth objectives and reward share price improvement.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors consists of: Basic salary which is based on comparable positions in leading businesses of similar size and complexity.
Annual bonus scheme which is based on achievement of stretching revenue and financial targets and individual performance-related targets.
The bonus is paid partly in cash and partly in shares with a deferred share element if the individual remains in service for three years.
Details of performance criteria are set out on page 46.
Share option scheme under which an annual grant of up to 110% of basic salary is made during the financial year at the market price on the date of grant.
Details of performance criteria are set out on page 48.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP under which an annual conditional share award of up to 110% of basic salary measured in terms of share price on the date of grant is made during the financial year entitling a Director, at the end of a three-year period, to a number of shares in the Company determined by reference to the achievement of demanding performance criteria.
Details of performance criteria are set out on page 47.
Pension a part of the package is to provide appropriate pension arrangements, having regard to individual circumstances.
These are either final salary or money purchase arrangements.
There are no elements of remuneration, other than basic salary, which are pensionable.
Profit related bonus under which all employees may receive a bonus up to a maximum of 10% of salary, dependent on the Group meeting its profit targets.
Further details of each element of the Executive Directors remuneration package, together with details of interests in shares and share options, are set out below in this Report.
com 45 Directors Remuneration Report continued Pursuant to the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the following graphs show Capital Radios Cumulative Total Shareholder Return TSR for the five years to 30 September 2004.
This is compared against the Companys specific peers in the FTSE Media and Entertainment Index, as well as for general purposes monitored against the FTSE 250 Index in which the Company is also listed and is therefore of interest to our shareholders.
Both of these indices are used as performance criteria for determining the exercisability of share options granted to Directors under the 1998 Share Option Scheme.
Five-year Capital Radio vs FTSE Media Five-year Capital Radio vs FTSE 250 Cumulative TSR Cumulative TSR 180 180 160 160 140 140 120 120 100 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 2000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2004 2000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2004 Capital Radio T Capital Radio Total R otal Return Index eturn Index Capital Radio T Capital Radio Total R otal Return Index eturn Index FTSE Media & Entertainment T FTSE Media & Entertainment Total R otal Return Index eturn Index FTSE MID 250 T FTSE MID 250 Total R otal Return Index eturn Index 3 Executive Director Remuneration a Basic Salary and Benefits In formulating and reviewing pay packages for the Executive Directors, the Committee will normally receive comparator group information and assistance from independent remuneration consultants.
Capital Radios policy has been to maintain a salary structure based upon the mid-market of its comparator group of companies.
The Company structures remuneration packages which are appropriate to the particular function and level of responsibility of each individual executive and which are designed to attract, retain and motivate the individuals.
It takes into account the remuneration structures and levels at other companies, in particular in the media sector.
The Remuneration Committee is made aware of pay conditions around the Group when it is considering annual salary increases.
All Executive Directors receive company car and private healthcare benefits.
Life and disability insurance is provided as part of the pension arrangements for each Executive Director.
b Annual Bonus Scheme The Company operates an annual bonus scheme which is reviewed each year by the Remuneration Committee and under which each Director is able to earn a bonus of a maximum of 100% of basic salary, dependent upon performance conditions being met.
The bonus is payable 65% in cash and 35% in shares.
The cash element and half of the share allocation is payable immediately after announcement of results for the financial year.
The remaining balance of the shares will be awarded after three years, provided the Director is still in employment and has retained his original share allocation.
The value of the deferred element is derived from annual bonus criteria and the release of shares under this element is not dependent on satisfaction of a further performance condition.
com 46 For the financial year ended 30 September 2004, challenging performance targets were set on a sliding scale and included a mix of financial, personal and strategic measures whereby a maximum of 80% of basic salary is payable for achievement of targets for the Group underlying profit before tax and a maximum of 20% of basic salary is payable for achievement of personal targets.
c Share Incentive Plans It is the Remuneration Committees policy that Executive Directors should participate in the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the 1998 Share Option Scheme because these schemes align the Directors interests with those of our shareholders by linking the reward available to participants to total shareholder return and share price performance respectively.
Executive Directors may also participate in the Capital Radio Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE, which was adopted in January 1995 and is due for renewal in January 2005.
This is open to all full time members of the Group who have been employed for more than 12 months at the date of grant of the options.
Details of all share incentive awards outstanding for each Executive Director are set out on page 51.
All Executive Directors future entitlements are subject to the performance conditions applicable to the relevant scheme as set out below: Long-Term Incentive Plan Under the LTIP, the Executive Directors may be granted each year up to 110% of basic salary measured in terms of share price on date of grant in conditional performance-related awards entitling them, at the end of a three-year period, to a number of shares in the Company determined by reference to growth in total shareholder return over that period.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is defined as the aggregate of a the increase or decrease in the market value of a share over the three-year period, b the aggregate of gross dividends paid in respect of a share over the three-year period and c the value arising from the re-investment of those dividends in further shares.
The figure is then expressed as an inflation-adjusted compound annual rate of growth over the market value of a share at the start of that period.
Awards generally lapse if a participant leaves the employment of the Group before the end of the three-year period.
There is no performance retest for these awards.
The Remuneration Committee selected this performance condition for the LTIP because it aligns the Directors interests with those of our shareholders by linking the reward available to participants to total shareholder return growth achieved by the Company.
The extent to which a participants conditional award vests at the end of the three-year period is set out in the following table: Percentage Total annual of conditional shareholder return award realisable Up to 7.5% 0% Above 7.5% and up to 8.5% 25% Above 8.5% and up to 9.5% 30% Above 9.5% and up to 10.5% 35% Above 10.5% and up to 11.5% 40% Above 11.5% and up to 12.5% 45% Above 12.5% and up to 13.0% 50% Above 13.0% and up to 14.0% 60% Above 14.0% and up to 15.0% 70% Above 15.0% and up to 17.5% 80% Above 17.5% and up to 20.0% 90% Above 20.0% 100% Awards under the LTIP can be satisfied by the issue of new Ordinary Shares, as well as the purchase of existing Ordinary Shares.
Any new Ordinary Shares issued under the Plan would count towards the overall limits on the percentage of the Companys equity which may be issued for employee share scheme purposes.
The LTIP is operated in conjunction with a discretionary trust operated by an independent Trustee.
Cash amounts may be lent by the Company to the Trustee in order to acquire shares on the London Stock Exchange for the purpose of fulfilling the awards.
The cost of funding projected awards under the Plan is amortised over the performance period of three years in accordance with guidance given by the Accounting Standards Board.
com 47 Directors Remuneration Report continued 1998 Share Option Scheme It is the Remuneration Committees policy that the value of options granted to Executive Directors each year measured in terms of the exercise prices of those options under the 1998 Share Option Scheme should not exceed 110% of the individuals base salary, other than in exceptional circumstances.
Share option awards granted to the Executive Directors are subject to stringent performance conditions.
First, in common with other participants in the scheme, options will only normally be exercisable if the growth in the Companys earnings per share in any three-year period between the grant and exercise exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices Index over the same period by an average of at least 3% per annum.
Secondly, options granted to Executive Directors are split into two separate option pools: each pool will have its own separate hurdle, performance against which will be measured at the third anniversary of grant the Test Date.
For options granted before 16 December 2004, if options are not exercisable in full after the third anniversary of grant when measured against the performance condition of each option pool, the performance period may be extended for a maximum further two years, with a retest on the fourth and fifth anniversary of grant the Retest Dates.
For these options, in relation to each type of target the level of exercisability will increase if the Companys performance has improved as at any Retest Date, provided that the relevant option has not been exercised.
Once a particular level of exercisability has been attained, an option holder who delays exercise will not be prejudiced if performance subsequently falls.
Options granted after 16 December 2004 will only be exercisable to the extent that the performance condition of each option pool has been satisfied at the end of a single three-year performance period.
There is no performance retest for these options.
In the case of one half of the shares under option, the performance target will relate to the Companys percentage share price growth compared to the percentage growth in the FTSE 250 Index.
If at the Test Date, or, if applicable, the Retest Dates, the Companys percentage share price growth equals or exceeds the percentage growth in the FTSE 250 Index over the same period share price growth being computed on the same basis as Index growth, then 50% of the option would be exercisable.
If the Companys percentage share price growth exceeds the percentage growth in the FTSE 250 Index by at least 25%, then 75% of that half of the option would be exercisable.
If the Companys percentage share price growth exceeds the percentage growth in the FTSE 250 Index by at least 50%, then that half of the option would be exercisable in full.
In the case of the other half of the shares under option, the performance target will relate to the TSR ranking against a comparator group.
The comparator group is the Media and Entertainment Index on the date of grant at each award a copy of the full list of comparator companies is available from the Company on request.
If at the Test Date, or, if applicable, the Retest Dates, the Company ranks at the median point, 50% of the shares under the option would be exercisable: if the Company ranks at the 65th percentile, 75% of the shares under the options would be exercisable: at the 75th percentile, all of the shares under the option would be exercisable.
The Remuneration Committee selected these performance conditions for the 1998 Share Option Scheme because they align Directors interests with those of our shareholders by linking the reward available to participants to the share price performance of the Company relative to two key indices used by shareholders the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE Media and Entertainment Index.
d Service Contracts The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews all aspects of executive service contracts in the light of current practice and the specific circumstances of the Group.
All Executive Directors hold contracts terminable on 12 months notice.
The Committee recognises the advantage of service contracts including an explicit calculation of compensation payable on early termination, other than for misconduct or in other circumstances justifying summary termination.
The Committee believes that it is in the best interests of shareholders to retain key Executive Directors whilst providing certainty, and facilitating a speedy and clean break on early termination by agreeing liquidated damages which reflect a discount to take account of an agreed level of mitigation.
com 48 Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract, the notice periods of which are described below: David Mansfield was appointed a director in January 1993.
His service contract, which is dated 5 February 2001, provides for a rolling notice period of 12 months.
It can be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice, or by Mr Mansfield on 12 months notice.
The Company may at its discretion terminate the service contract without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice to Mr Mansfield equal to 95% of the sum of 12 months salary and the value of other benefits including annual bonus.
In the event of a constructive dismissal, Mr Mansfield is entitled to receive liquidated damages equal to the amount calculated on the basis of a termination by the Company.
Paul Davies was appointed a director in October 1997.
His service contract, which is dated 23 January 2001, provides for a rolling notice period of 12 months.
It can be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice, or by Mr Davies on 12 months notice.
The Company may at its discretion terminate the service contract without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice to Mr Davies equal to 95% of the sum of 12 months salary and the value of other benefits including annual bonus.
In the event of a constructive dismissal, Mr Davies is entitled to receive liquidated damages equal to the amount calculated on the basis of a termination by the Company.
Peter Harris was appointed a director in September 1996.
It can be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice, or by Mr Harris on 12 months notice.
The Company may at its discretion terminate the service contract without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice to Mr Harris equal to 95% of the sum of 12 months salary and the value of other benefits including annual bonus.
In the event of a constructive dismissal, Mr Harris is entitled to receive liquidated damages equal to the amount calculated on the basis of a termination by the Company.
Linda Smith was appointed a director in February 2002.
Her service contract, which is dated 14 February 2003, provides for a rolling notice period of 12 months.
It can be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice, or by Ms Smith on 12 months notice.
The Company may at its discretion terminate the service contract without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice to Ms Smith equal to 95% of the sum of 12 months salary and the value of other benefits including annual bonus.
In the event of a constructive dismissal, Ms Smith is entitled to receive liquidated damages equal to the amount calculated on the basis of a termination by the Company.
Nathalie Schwarz was appointed a director in December 2003.
Her service contract, which is dated 1 December 2003, provides for a rolling notice period of 12 months.
It can be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice, or by Ms Schwarz on 12 months notice.
The Company may at its discretion terminate the service contract without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice to Ms Schwarz equal to 95% of the sum of 12 months salary and the value of other benefits including annual bonus.
In the event of a constructive dismissal, Ms Schwarz is entitled to receive liquidated damages equal to the amount calculated on the basis of a termination by the Company.
e External Appointments Capital Radio recognises that its Directors may be invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies or to become involved in charitable or public service organisations.
As the Board believes that this can broaden the knowledge and experience of the Companys directors to the benefit of Capital Radio, it is the Companys policy to approve such appointments provided there is no conflict of interest and the commitment required is not excessive.
The Director concerned can retain the fees relating to any such appointment.
None of the Executive Directors holds any significant business directorships which are not directly related to the business of the Group.
Fees payable in relation to the services of Directors representing the Group on the boards of other companies are received and retained by the Group.
com 49 Directors Remuneration Report continued 4 Non-executive Directors a Remuneration Policy for Non-executive Directors The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is a matter reserved to the Executive Committee and the Chairman.
Non-executive Directors receive an annual fee and are reimbursed expenses incurred in performing duties.
They do not receive any performance-related bonuses, pensions provision, share options or other forms of benefit.
Under Article 101 of the Companys Articles of Association, a limit of 500,000 is placed on the aggregate amount of fees that can be paid to Non-executive Directors.
This limit does not apply to Executive Directors, who have salaried employment with the Company.
In addition, under Article 103, the Board may grant extra remuneration to any Director who performs special services at the request of the Company.
The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
In reaching future decisions on appropriate levels of pay, the Remuneration Committee will continue to have regard to the packages awarded to Chairmen of other UK listed companies of a similar size and complexity.
The President is paid an annual fee of 13,000, which has not increased since his appointment in 1992. b Appointment of Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years.
Their appointment can be terminated by the Company giving notice in writing.
Re-appointment may be made after one or two three-year term s. In special circumstances, Non-executive Directors may be re-appointed for a third three-year term.
Any re-appointment beyond three terms of three years would be subject to annual review.
Non-executive Directors serve the Company under letters of appointment and do not have service contracts.
Directors remuneration The remuneration excluding pension contributions which are set out on page 54 of each of the Directors and the President for the year ended 30 September 2004 was as follows: Salary Benefits 2004 2003 and fees Bonus in kind Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors: D Mansfield 415 168 18 601 487 P Davies 250 93 14 357 292 P Harris 220 87 14 321 259 L Smith 220 85 13 318 267 N Schwarz appointed December 2003 161 63 10 234 Total: Executive Directors 1,266 496 69 1,831 1,305 Other Directors: P Cawdron Chairman 95 95 90 A Illsley 35 35 34 T Mason 32 32 30 P Mitchell 37 37 34 B Thomas 31 31 30 P Williams appointed December 2003 34 34 Total: Other Directors 264 264 218 Total Directors remuneration 1,530 496 69 2,095 1,523 President Lord Attenborough 13 13 13 The benefits in kind shown in the above table relate principally to a fully expensed company car and medical health cover for the Directors and their immediate family.
com 50 Share Incentive Plans The total interests of current Directors in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on page 36.
Options were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant and are exercisable during the period between three and ten years from the date of grant.
The exercise of share options under the Capital Radio 1986 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme is not subject to satisfaction of a performance condition as it was not market practice to impose such a condition at the time the scheme was implemented.
The last grants were made in December 1996 and no further grants can be made under this scheme.
com 51 Directors Remuneration Report continued The exercise of share options under the Capital Radio Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE is not subject to satisfaction of a performance condition as the scheme is Inland Revenue approved and open to all eligible employees.
Details of the performance conditions applicable to options granted under the 1998 Share Option Scheme are described on page 48 of this Report.
As at 30 September 2004, the market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares of 2.5p was 4.11.
During the year ended on that date, the share price moved within the range of 3.975 and 5.64.
No share options have been exercised by any Director during the financial year.
Details of the shares conditionally awarded to the Directors under the LTIP at 1 October 2003 or date of appointment if later and at the end of the financial year are given in the table below.
Subject to the conditions described earlier in this Report page 47, a proportion of the shares will vest with the individuals on the vesting dates.
The awards made in November 2001, November 2002, January 2003 and November 2003 vest in November 2004, November 2005, January 2006 and November 2006 respectively.
At the date of this Report the performance percentage, reflecting performance to date, was 0% for the awards vesting in November 2004, November 2005, January 2006 and November 2006.
The shares which vested on 15 November 2003 were awarded on 15 November 2000.
The market price of an Ordinary Share at the time of award was 1320p.
The shares vesting on 4 December 2006 were awarded on 4 December 2003.
The market price of an Ordinary Share at the time of award was 499p.
The shares vesting on 1 December 2007 were awarded on 1 December 2004.
The market price of an Ordinary Share at the time of award was 398p.
Pension Schemes David Mansfield and Paul Davies are members of the Capital Radio Final Salary Pension and Assurance Scheme the Defined Benefit Scheme.
The first table below shows pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values under the Defined Benefit Scheme.
Peter Harris, Linda Smith and Nathalie Schwarz are members of the Capital Radio Group Personal Pension Plan the Group Personal Pension Plan, to which the Company contributes.
In addition, the Company contributes to Personal Money Purchase Pension Schemes and Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Schemes FURBS on behalf of all of the Executive Directors.
The second table shows the amounts paid as money purchase contributions to the Executive Directors.
Defined Benefit Scheme Transfer Transfer Increase in Increase in Increase in value value transfer Accrued accrued accrued of accrued of accrued value pension at pension pension Transfer rights at rights at net of 30 September excluding including value of 30 September 30 September members 2004 inflation inflation increase 2004 2003contributions D Mansfield 14,438 868 1,238 10,726 143,825 127,389 13,466 P Davies 71,094 6,253 8,019 72,537 657,091 571,017 78,844 The accrued pension for the highest paid Director for the financial year ended 30 September 2003 was 13,200.
com 53 Directors Remuneration Report continued Money Purchase Schemes In the financial year, the Company contributed the following amounts to Personal Pension Plans on behalf of the Directors: Money Personal Total Total FURBS purchase pension plan 2004 2003 D Mansfield 95,450 95,450 88,300 P Davies 30,000 30,000 27,840 P Harris 39,300 20,100 59,400 54,540 L Smith 39,300 20,100 59,400 67,153 N Schwarz 32,892 13,750 46,642 Included within these amounts are payments enabling the Directors to discharge their income tax liability on the contributions made by the Company into the FURBS pension scheme.
This Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Peter Mitchell Chairman Remuneration Committee 25 November 2004 Capital Radio plc | www.
com 54 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those accounts the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
com 55 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital Radio plc We have audited the accounts on pages 58 to 84.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
As described on page 55, this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on page 42 reflects the Companys compliance with those provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our Report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
com 56 Opinion In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 September 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 25 November 2004 Capital Radio plc | www.
com 57 Group Profit and Loss Account For the year ended 30 September 2004 2004 2003 Note 000 000 Turnover 2 119,898 115,328 Operating profit Before goodwill and exceptional operating costs 2 23,677 21,982 Exceptional operating costs 2, 4 782 Amortisation of goodwill 2 10,273 9,372 Operating profit 3 12,622 12,610 Share of operating profit of associated companies 2 1,572 2,113 Profit on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 2 14,194 14,723 Net interest payable and similar items 6 1,638 1,465 Underlying profit before taxation 4 23,680 22,795 Goodwill and exceptional items 4 11,124 9,537 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 12,556 13,258 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 7 6,641 6,939 Profit for the financial year 5,915 6,319 Dividends 9 15,642 15,191 Retained loss for the financial year 19 9,727 8,872 Basic earnings per share 10 7.1p 7.7p Loss per share on goodwill and exceptional items after taxation 13.0p 11.6p Underlying basic earnings per share 10 20.1p 19.3p Diluted earnings per share 10 7.1p 7.7p All results related to continuing operations.
com 58 Group Balance Sheet 30 September 2004 2003 2004 Restated Note 000 000 Fixed assets Intangible assets goodwill 11 159,818 152,076 Tangible fixed assets 12 17,520 16,858 Investments 13 2,619 5,492 179,957 174,426 Current assets Debtors 15 21,575 20,958 Cash 400 21,975 20,958 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 16 45,913 63,323 Net current liabilities 23,938 42,365 Total assets less current liabilities 156,019 132,061 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 16 20,000 Net assets 136,019 132,061 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 18 2,136 2,075 Share premium account 19 78,965 78,965 Shares to be issued 19 400 Merger reserve 19 36,695 23,767 Profit and loss account 19 17,823 27,254 Equity shareholders funds 136,019 132,061 These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 November 2004 and were signed on its behalf by: Peter Cawdron Chairman David Mansfield Chief Executive Capital Radio plc | www.
com 59 Group Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 30 September 2004 2004 2003 Note 000 000 000 000 Net cash inflow from operating activities 20 25,473 26,962 Dividends from associated undertakings 1,045 1,684 26,518 28,646 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Interest received and similar income 220 35 Interest paid 1,764 1,661 Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 1,544 1,626 Taxation paid 6,225 7,117 Capital expenditure Proceeds from sale of tangible fixed assets 52 76 Purchase of tangible fixed assets 1,604 3,541 Cash outflow on capital expenditure 1,552 3,465 Acquisitions and disposals 21 1,260 145 Cash outflow from equity dividends paid 15,335 15,180 Cash inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 602 1,403 Management of liquid resources 400 Cash outflow from financing 22 167 2,686 Increase decrease in cash in the period 35 1,283 Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt note 23 Increase decrease in cash in the period 35 1,283 Cash flow from increase in bank loans and overdrafts 1,500 Monies transferred into deposit account 19 400 Repayment of finance leases 31 Repayment of loan notes 167 4,186 Movement in net debt in the period 602 1,434 Net debt at 1 October 27,565 28,999 Net debt at 30 September 23 26,963 27,565 Capital Radio plc | www.
com 60 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds For the year ended 30 September 2004 2003 2004 Restated 000 000 Group Profit for the financial year 5,915 6,319 Dividends 15,642 15,191 Retained loss for the financial year 9,727 8,872 New share capital issued 61 31 Merger reserve arising on acquisition 12,928 Movement on shares to be issued 400 Movement on LTIP 200 222 Movement on Quest 96 183 Net increase decrease in shareholders funds 3,958 8,436 Shareholders funds at beginning of year 2003: originally 140,883,000 before deducting prior year adjustment of 386,000 132,061 140,497 Shareholders funds at end of year 136,019 132,061 Company Profit for the financial year note 8 47,346 6,770 Dividends 15,642 15,191 Retained profit loss for the financial year 31,704 8,421 New share capital issued 61 31 Merger reserve arising on acquisition 12,928 Movement on shares to be issued 400 Movement on LTIP 200 222 Movement on Quest 96 183 Net increase decrease in shareholders funds 45,389 7,985 Shareholders funds at beginning of year 2003: originally 174,747,000 before deducting prior year adjustment of 386,000 166,376 174,361 Shareholders funds at end of year 211,765 166,376 Statement of Group Total Recognised Gains and Losses For the year ended 30 September 2004 2004 2003 000 000 Group Profit for the financial year: Group 4,820 4,888 Share of associates 1,095 1,431 Total gains and losses recognised for the financial year 5,915 6,319 Capital Radio plc | www.
com 61 Company Balance Sheet 30 September 2004 2003 2004 Restated Note 000 000 Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets 12 9,615 10,346 Investments 13 260,561 245,499 270,176 255,845 Current assets Debtors 15 41,800 52,895 Cash 400 42,200 52,895 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 16 80,358 142,341 Net current liabilities 38,158 89,446 Total assets less current liabilities 232,018 166,399 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 16 20,000 Provisions for liabilities and charges 17 253 23 Net assets 211,765 166,376 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 18 2,136 2,075 Share premium account 19 78,965 78,965 Revaluation reserve 19 429 429 Shares to be issued 19 400 Merger reserve 19 50,170 37,242 Profit and loss account 19 79,665 47,665 Equity shareholders funds 211,765 166,376 These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 November 2005 and were signed on its behalf by: Peter Cawdron Chairman David Mansfield Chief Executive Capital Radio plc | www.
com 62 Notes forming part of the Accounts 1 Accounting policies A summary of the principal Group accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year, is set out below.
a Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost accounting rules, modified to include the revaluation of certain fixed assets, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards, including for the first time UITF abstract 38, Accounting for ESOP Trusts see page 65 Own shares held under trust.
Prior to becoming a subsidiary undertaking, Tainside Limited trading as Choice FM was accounted for as an associated undertaking.
In accordance with FRS2, and in order to give a true and fair view, purchased goodwill has been calculated as the sum of the goodwill arising on each purchase of shares in Tainside Limited, being the difference at the date of each purchase between the fair value of the consideration given and the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities attributable to the interest purchased.
This represents a departure from the statutory method, under which goodwill is calculated as the difference between cost and fair value on the date that Tainside Limited became a subsidiary undertaking.
The statutory method would not give a true and fair view because it would result in the Groups share of Tainside Limiteds retained reserves, during the period that it was an associated undertaking, being recharacterised as goodwill.
The effect of this departure is to decrease retained profits and decrease purchased goodwill by 637,000. b Basis of consolidation i The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 September 2004.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
An associate is an undertaking in which the Group has a long-term interest, usually from 20% to 50% of the equity voting rights, and over which it exercises significant influence.
The Groups share of the profits less losses of associates is included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its interest in their net assets is included in the consolidated balance sheet.
Other fixed asset investments in the Group accounts, and all fixed assets in the accounts of the Company, are stated at cost less amounts written off in respect of any impairment in value.
ii Purchased goodwill both positive and negative arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions before 1 October 1997, when Financial Reporting Standard 10, Goodwill and intangible assets, was adopted, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent disposal occurs, any related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given and any related costs over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 October 1997 is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful life, being deemed to be 20 years.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired since 1 October 1997, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging crediting the unamortised amount of any related goodwill negative goodwill.
com 63 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued iii Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The profit for the financial year dealt with in the financial statements of the holding company was 47,346,000 2003: 6,770,000. c Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Freehold buildings 2%-4% per annum Long leasehold premises 4%-6% per annum Short leasehold premises over the term of the lease, or where the lease is renewable, 5% Office and studio equipment 10%-20% per annum Digital equipment over the term of the contract Computer equipment 33% per annum Motor vehicles 25% per annum Freehold land is not depreciated.
d Investments In the Companys accounts, investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost less provisions where, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been an impairment in the value of the investment.
Dividends receivable from subsidiary companies are credited to the Companys profit and loss account.
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions where, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been an impairment in the value of the investment.
e Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. f Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
g Finance leases Assets held under finance lease agreements are included in tangible fixed assets and are depreciated in accordance with the depreciation policy.
Obligations under such agreements are included in creditors net of finance charges allocated to future periods.
Finance charges are taken to the profit and loss account so that the annual rate of charge on the outstanding obligation at the end of each accounting period is approximately constant.
h Turnover Turnover comprises income from the sale of advertising airtime, sponsorship and promotions net of agencies commissions and income from advertising on the Internet.
Turnover is stated excluding VAT, trade discounts, and intra group transactions and derives from goods and services provided in the normal course of business.
Airtime revenue is recognised on the date of broadcast.
Sponsorship revenue and internet advertising are recognised over the life of the contract.
com 64 i Licences Expenditure incurred on the purchase of, application and re-applications for, licences is written off to the profit and loss account as it is incurred.
j Pensions The Group provides for and funds pension liabilities on a going concern basis, on the advice of external actuaries.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account is calculated to produce a level percentage of the current and future pensionable payroll.
The Group has adopted the transitional arrangements under Financial Reporting Standard 17, Retirement Benefits, and these disclosures can be found in note 24. k Own shares held under trust Shares in the Company issued to cover SAYE schemes are held in a qualifying Share Ownership Trust QUEST.
Shares in the Company issued to cover the Long-Term Incentive Plan Capital Radio Restricted Share Plan are held in the Capital Radio Employee Trust.
UITF abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts changes the presentation of an entitys own shares held in an employee share scheme from requiring them to be recognised as assets to requiring them to be deducted in arriving at shareholders funds.
It also has consequential changes to UITF17 requiring that the expense to the profit and loss account should be the difference between the fair value of shares at the date of award and the amount that an employee is required to pay for the shares i. e. the intrinsic value of the award.
The reclassification of the shares acquired by the share trust own shares from fixed asset investments to equity has reduced shareholders funds by 386,000 at 1 October 2002.
There is no effect on the profit and loss account for the year ended 30 September 2004. l Employee share schemes The cost of awards to employees that take the form of shares or rights to shares are recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the employees related performance.
Where there are no performance criteria, the cost is recognised when the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
No cost is recognised in respect of SAYE schemes that are offered on similar terms to all or substantially all employees.
m Development expenditure Development expenditure is written off to the profit and loss account in the year in which it is incurred.
n Restatement of prior year The prior year has been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF abstract 38 see note k. Capital Radio plc | www.
All exceptional costs relate to analogue commercial radio activities.
Net assets cannot be split between analogue and digital.
During the year the Group entered into Barter agreements worth 191,000 2003: 407,000.
This is recognised at the Company's airtime rates in accordance with UITF 26.
com 66 3 Operating profit 2004 2003 000 000 Turnover 119,898 115,328 Direct costs 14,618 14,406 Gross profit 105,280 100,922 Staff costs 30,739 27,827 Other operating charges 48,075 48,078 Exceptional operating costs 782 48,857 48,078 Depreciation and amortisation 13,062 12,407 Total operating costs 92,658 88,312 Operating profit 12,622 12,610 Exceptional costs consist of 560,000 of staff redundancy costs and 222,000 of exceptional operating charges.
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging crediting 2004 2003 the following items: 000 000 Hire of plant or machinery 715 869 Other operating lease charges 2,103 2,062 Auditors remuneration: Audit services 110 100 Further assurance services 22 24 Tax services 4 54 Other services 3 3 Loss profit on disposal of fixed assets 1 41 Profit on disposal of investment 20 Fees paid to the auditor for the audit of the Company amounted to 25,000 2003: 25,000.
Auditors fees have been reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Within prepayments and accruals is 218,000 in respect of costs invoiced to Capital Radio plc for other services provided by the auditors in relation to the proposed merger.
4 Underlying profit before taxation Underlying profit before taxation from continuing operations has been calculated as follows: 2004 2003 000 000 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 12,556 13,258 Exceptional costs 782 Amortisation of goodwill radio 10,273 9,372 Amortisation of goodwill associates 69 165 Net excluded items 11,124 9,537 Underlying profit before taxation from continuing operations 23,680 22,795 Exceptional costs in the period relate to management and post Choice acquisition restructuring costs and the provision for redundancies following the discontinuing of sports commentaries.
com 67 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 5 Staff The aggregate payroll costs of the persons employed by the Group during the year were as follows: 2004 2003 000 000 Wages and salaries 26,236 23,441 Social security costs 3,033 2,589 Other pension costs see note 24 1,470 1,317 30,739 27,347 Redundancy costs included within exceptional costs this year 560 480 31,299 27,827 The above analysis includes the costs relating to Directors.
The figures exclude radio presenters engaged under shortterm and part-time contracts.
The total cost of these persons amounted to 9,219,000 2003: 8,937,000.
The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year was as follows: 2004 2003 Number Number Radio: Management and administration 142 125 Sales 323 315 Programming 161 168 Engineering and IT 51 54 677 662 The breakdown of staff numbers has been reclassified to reflect current operational structures.
Details of individual Directors emoluments, pension entitlements, long-term incentive schemes and share options including gains on exercise are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 54.
6 Net interest payable and similar items 2004 2003 000 000 Interest receivable and similar income: Bank interest 211 40 Bank interest attributable to associated undertakings 37 60 248 100 Interest payable and similar charges: Bank loan and overdrafts, wholly repayable within 5 years 1,825 1,444 Interest on Capital Radio plc loan notes 60 114 Hire purchase, finance leases and other interest 1 Bank interest attributable to associated undertakings 1 6 1,886 1,565 1,638 1,465 Capital Radio plc | www.
com 68 7 Taxation 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 Corporation tax at 30% 6,407 6,215 Share of associated companies taxation 513 736 Adjustment relating to prior years 647 130 Total current tax 6,273 6,821 Deferred tax see note 17 Origination reversal of timing differences 245 250 Adjustment in respect of prior years 123 132 368 118 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 6,641 6,939 Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The current tax charge for the year is higher 2003: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30%.
The differences are explained below.
2004 2003 000 000 Current tax reconciliation Profit on ordinary activities before tax 12,556 13,258 Current tax at 30% 2003: 30% 3,767 3,977 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes: Goodwill amortisation including that in respect of associated undertakings 3,103 2,861 Other 120 99 Depreciation for period in excess of capital allowances 46 14 Utilisation of tax losses 116 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods 647 130 Total current tax charge see above 6,273 6,821 Capital Radio plc | www.
com 69 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 8 Profit for the financial year The profit for the financial year dealt with in the accounts of the Company was 47,346,000 2003: profit 6,770,000.
A reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds is shown on page 61.
9 Dividends 2004 2003 000 000 Interim dividend of 6.0p 2003: 6.0p per share, paid on 28 June 2004 5,073 4,925 Proposed final dividend of 12.5p 2003: 12.5p per share, to be paid on 28 January 2005 10,569 10,266 Total dividend of 18.5p 2003: 18.5p per share 15,642 15,191 Shares held in the Capital Radio Employee Trust, Capital Radio Restricted Share Plan and QUEST have waived their right to receive dividends.
10 Earnings per share The calculation of earnings per share is based on the profit after taxation of 5,915,000 2003: 6,319,000 and on the weighted average of 83,521,690 2003: 82,070,658 Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
The underlying earnings per share from operations is included to show the effect of adjusting for the impact of goodwill and restructuring costs which results in earnings increasing by 11,124,000 2003: 9,537,000, see note 4.
After the effect of a related tax credit of 227,000 2003: nil, this results in earnings of 16,812,000 2003: 15,856,000.
Dilution increases the weighted average number of shares to 83,562,055 2003: 82,160,899.
The dilution effect is caused by the inclusion of 40,365 share options 2003: 90,242.
There is no change in profit after taxation.
11 Intangible assets goodwill 000 Group Book value Beginning of year 192,136 Additions see note 14 18,015 End of the year 210,151 Amortisation Beginning of year 40,060 Provided during the year 10,273 End of year 50,333 Net book value Beginning of year 152,076 End of year 159,818 Capital Radio plc | www.
The depreciation charge in respect of these assets amounted to nil 2003: 61,000.
The gross book value of freehold property includes 3,388,000 2003: 1,488,000 of depreciable assets.
com 71 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 13 Fixed asset investments Details of the Groups principal investments are given on page 85.
Associated Other companies investments Total 000 000 000 Group Book value Beginning of year restated 5,805 592 6,397 Additions 4 4 Transfer to subsidiary 3,304 3,304 Share of retained profits 97 97 End of year 2,602 592 3,194 Provisions Beginning of year restated 330 575 905 Provided during the year Amortisation of goodwill 69 69 Transfer to subsidiary 399 399 End of year 575 575 Net book value Beginning of year restated 5,475 17 5,492 End of year 2,602 17 2,619 All fixed asset investments in the Group were unlisted at 30 September 2004 and 2003.
Subsidiary Associated Other companies companies investments Total 000 000 000 000 Company Book value Beginning of year restated 293,577 4,762 584 298,923 Additions 15,0584 15,062 Moved to subsidiary 3,565 3,565 End of year 312,200 1,201 584 313,985 Provisions Beginning and end of year restated 52,437 415 572 53,424 Net book value Beginning of year restated 241,140 4,347 12 245,499 End of year 259,763 786 12 260,561 All fixed asset investments in the Company were unlisted at 30 September 2004 and 2003.
com 72 14 Acquisition of Tainside Limited On 1 March 2004 Capital Radio plc completed the acquisition of Tainside Limited trading as Choice FM in accordance with the original agreement signed on 25 October 2001.
Consideration amounted to 18,623,000 resulting in purchased goodwill of 18,015,000 see note 1.
Fair value adjustments totalling 650,000 have been included in these figures in respect of revaluations and accounting policies.
The Group has used acquisition accounting to account for this purchase.
Fair value adjustments Fair value Book Accounting of assets values policies Revaluations acquired 000 000 000 000 Tangible fixed assets 1,199 44 a 745 b 1,900 Total fixed assets 1,199 44 745 1,900 Debtors 262 262 Current assets 262 262 Overdraft 431 431 Creditors due within one year 1,709 51 c 1,760 Net current liabilities 2,140 51 2,191 Current assets less net liabilities 1,878 51 1,929 Total net liabilities 679 44 694 29 Consideration: Cash 286 Shares issued 16,553 Deferred shares 400 Deferred contingent consideration 900 Costs of acquisition 484 Adjustment relating to Choice being an associate 637 Goodwill arising 18,015 The fair value adjustments relate mainly to the following: a Alignment of accounting policies for radio licences b Revaluation of fixed assets c Reflection of previously unrecognised liabilities The results directly prior to and post acquisition: Year to 30 5 months to 7 months to September February 30 September 2003 2004 2004 000 000 000 Turnover 1,929 818 1,296 Operating loss Operating loss profit from analogue 479 265 105 Operating loss from Digital 508 208 319 Exceptional items 158 Total operating loss 987 473 372 Interest payable 8 4 33 Loss on ordinary activities before taxation 995 477 405 Taxation 243 Loss on ordinary activities after taxation 995 477 162 Capital Radio plc | www.
Bank overdrafts carry interest at 1% over bank base rate and are repayable on demand.
Capital Radio plc loan notes Capital Radio plc loan notes amounting to 1,493,000 2003: 1,660,000 were issued in June 2000 and have a five-year term.
Interest is paid six monthly in arrears at 1% below London Inter-Bank Offered Rates.
The loan notes may be redeemed at the holders option on interest dates until 2005, or by the Company on 31 March 2005.
Capital Radio plc loan notes amounting to 134,000 2003: 134,000 were issued in August 2000 and have a five-year term.
com 74 17 Provisions for liabilities and charges Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 Deferred tax liability at 1 October 23 Charge to the profit and loss for the year Additional amounts provided 230 23 Deferred tax liability at 30 September 253 23 The elements of deferred taxation are as follows: Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 Accelerated capital allowances 94 85 456 360 Other timing differences 103 369 203 337 Tax losses 23 116 Deferred tax asset see note 15 32 400 Deferred tax liability 253 23 No account has been taken of UK tax losses which are not expected to be utilised in the foreseeable future.
The total amount unprovided in respect of these losses is 1,719,000 2003: 1,300,000.
18 Share capital 2004 2003 000 000 Authorised 100,000,000 2003: 100,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each 2,500 2,500 Allotted, called-up and fully paid 85,425,040 2003: 82,990,505 Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each 2,136 2,075 The increase in the issued share capital was due to: Number Number Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each issued fully paid during the year: on acquisitions 2,434,535 on issue of own shares to LTIP 516,129 on issue to QUEST not exercised 250,000 on exercise of option rights 13,046 2,434,535 779,175 The Group issued 2,434,535 Ordinary Shares at 5.335 for the acquisition of Tainside Limited.
com 75 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 18 Share capital continued At 30 September 2004, the Company had options outstanding to subscribe for 4,119,865 2003: 3,796,534 Ordinary Shares.
Options over 767,037 shares lapsed during the year.
The number of shares held in the Quest as at 30 September 2004 was 263,136 and their market value was 1,081,000.
Share options under the Capital Radio 1986 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme and the Capital Radio 1998 Share Option Scheme and the Capital Radio Presenters Share Option Scheme expire ten years after the date of grant.
Options under the Capital Radio Savings-Related Share Option Scheme expire six months after the date on which they can first be exercised.
com 76 19 Reserves The movement on reserves during the year was as follows: Profit Share Revaluation Shares to Merger and loss premium reserve be issued reserve account 000 000 000 000 000 Group Beginning of year restated 78,965 23,767 27,254 Retained loss for the year 9,727 Movement on Quest 96 Movement on LTIP 200 Reserves arising on acquisition 400 12,928 End of year 78,965 400 36,695 17,823 Company Beginning of year restated 78,965 429 37,242 47,665 Retained profit for the year 31,704 Movement on Quest 96 Movement on LTIP 200 Reserves arising on acquisition 400 12,928 End of year 78,965 429 400 50,170 79,665 The 400,000 included within shares to be issued represents monies held in a deposit account relating to conditional issue of shares as part of the purchase of Tainside Limited.
The merger reserve arises on the acquisition of Tainside under s131 relief.
The cumulative total of goodwill written off against the Group profit and loss account reserve in respect of acquisitions prior to 1 October 1997, when Financial Reporting Standard 10: Goodwill and Intangible Assets was adopted, amounts to 45,941,000 2003: 45,941,000.
20 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities 2004 2003 000 000 Operating profit 12,622 12,610 Depreciation 2,789 3,035 Amortisation of goodwill 10,273 9,372 Loss profit on disposal of tangible fixed assets 1 41 Increase in debtors 522 694 Increase in creditors 110 2,478 Profit on disposal of investment 20 Change in provisions against investments in own shares 200 222 Net cash inflow from operating activities 25,473 26,962 Exceptional costs of 782,000 are included within operating profit see note 4.
com 77 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 21 Cash flows from acquisitions and disposals 2004 2003 000 000 Acquisition of subsidiary 770 Net proceeds from sale of other investments 50 Overdraft acquired with subsidiary 431 Purchase of fixed asset investments 59 16 Repayment of associate set-up costs 111 Net cash outflow inflow from acquisitions and disposals 1,260 145 The subsidiary undertaking acquired during the year contributed 220,000 to the Groups net operating cash flows, paid 33,000 in respect of interest, nil in respect of taxation and utilised 337,000 for capital expenditure.
22 Cash flows from financing 2004 2003 000 000 Proceeds from issue of shares 31 Bank loans 20,000 Repayment of bank loans 18,500 Repayment of loan notes 167 4,186 Capital element of finance leases 31 Net cash outflow from financing 167 2,686 23 Analysis of net debt Net debt at Other Net debt at 1 October Cash non-cash 30 September 2003 flow changes 2004 000 000 000 000 Bank overdrafts 5,771 35 5,736 Bank loans falling due in less than one year 20,000 20,000 Bank loans falling due in more than one year 20,000 20,000 Loan notes 1,794 167 1,627 Monies held in deposit account 400 400 27,565 602 26,963 24 Pension funds The Group operates four pension schemes on behalf of its employees.
The Capital Radio Plc Pension and Assurance Scheme CRPPAS and the Midlands Radio Group Pension Scheme MRGPS are contributory defined benefit schemes.
Both schemes were closed to new employees from 31 March 1995.
At 30 September 2004, 17 employees of Capital Radio plc and five employees of Birmingham Broadcasting Limited respectively were active members of these schemes.
The Border Television Radio Companies Group Pension Plan BTRCGPP is a defined contribution scheme which is now closed to new members but at 30 September 2004 had 13 active members.
All other employees in the Radio Group, and in particular new employees, are eligible to join the Capital Radio Group Personal Pension Plan, which was established on 1 April 1995.
This scheme is a contributory defined contribution arrangement and as at 30 September 2004, 218 employees were active members of this scheme.
The Group makes age related contributions to the scheme.
For both defined benefits schemes, the assets are held separately from those of the Group, being invested with insurance companies.
Independent actuarial valuations are obtained every third year.
Contributions to the pension schemes are made in accordance with advice given by independent qualified actuaries.
com 78 24 Pension funds continued Details of the most recent actuarial valuations of the defined benefit pension schemes, insofar as they relate to the Group, are as follows: MRGPS CRPPAS Date of last valuation 30 September 2002 1 April 2002 Method used Minimum Funding Minimum Funding Requirement MFR Requirement MFR Assumptions: Annual salary increase 6% 4.5% Annual investment return before retirement 9% 6% Annual investment return after retirement 8% 5% Market value of scheme assets 2,735,000 9,422,000 Percentage of liabilities 86% 76% Under the MFR method of valuation, the current service cost of members will increase as members approach retirement.
The contribution to the CRPPAS made by the Company in the year was 748,000.
The Company has agreed to redress the deficit over five years at the funding rate of 21% plus the cost of insured death in service benefits plus 31,500 per month as recommended by the actuary.
The contribution to the MRGPS made by the Company in the year was 138,000.
The Company has agreed to redress the deficit over five years at the funding rate of 16.2% of pensionable salaries plus 5,800 per month for three years as recommended by the actuary.
Additional disclosures in accordance with FRS 17 An actuarial estimate performed by independent qualified actuaries, based on the last full valuations as above, has been undertaken to provide the information required for FRS 17 as at 30 September 2004: The major assumptions used by the actuary were: MRGPS and CRPPAS MRGPS and CRPPAS MRGPS and CRPPAS 30 September 2004 30 September 2003 30 September 2002 Rate of increase in salaries 4.50% 4.25% 4.00% Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.25% 3.25% 3.00% Discount rate 5.50% 5.30% 5.40% Inflation assumption 2.75% 2.50% 2.25% The assets in the MRGPS and the expected rates of return were: Long-term rate of return expected at 30 September Value at 30 September 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 000 000 000 Assets in the scheme Equities 7.0% 7.0% 7.0% 2,708 2,367 1,756 Gilts 4.75% 4.5% 4.5% 878 847 723 Cash other 4.75% 4.0% 4.0% 173 30 248 3,759 3,244 2,727 Capital Radio plc | www.
com 79 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 24 Pension funds continued The assets in the CRPPAS and the expected rates of return were: Long-term rate of return expected at 30 September Value at 30 September 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 000 000 000 Assets in the scheme Equities 6.5% 6.0% 6.5% 3,953 3,515 3,156 Gilts 6.5% 6.0% 6.5% 3,953 3,515 3,156 Cash other 4.75% 6.0% 5.4% 2,714 2,540 2,191 10,620 9,570 8,503 The following amounts at 30 September 2004 and 30 September 2003 were measured in accordance with the requirements of FRS 17: MRGPS 2004 2003 2002 000 000 000 Total market value of assets 3,759 3,244 2,727 Present value of Scheme liabilities 5,961 5,923 5,255 Deficit in Scheme 2,202 2,679 2,528 Related deferred tax asset 661 804 758 Net pension deficit 1,541 1,875 1,770 CRPPAS 2004 2003 2002 000 000 000 Total market value of assets 10,620 9,570 8,503 Present value of Scheme liabilities 13,437 12,784 12,042 Deficit in Scheme 2,817 3,214 3,539 Related deferred tax asset 845 964 1,062 Net pension deficit 1,972 2,250 2,477 If the above amounts had been recognised in the financial statements, the Groups net assets and profit and loss reserve at 30 September 2004 and 30 September 2003 would be as follows: 2003 2002 2004 Restated Restated 000 000 000 Net assets excluding pension deficit 136,019 132,061 140,497 Pension deficit MRGPS 1,541 1,875 1,770 Pension deficit CRPPAS 1,972 2,250 2,477 Net assets including pension deficit 132,506 127,936 136,250 Profit and loss reserve excluding pension deficit 17,823 27,254 39,159 Pension reserve MRGPS 1,541 1,875 1,770 Pension reserve CRPPAS 1,972 2,250 2,477 Profit and loss reserve 14,310 23,129 34,912 The Company participates in a multi-employer pension scheme and is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS17 Retirement benefits, accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period.
com 80 24 Pension funds continued The following amounts would have been recognised in the performance statements in the year to 30 September 2004 under the requirements of FRS 17: 2004 2003 MRGPS CRPPAS MRGPS CRPPAS 000 000 000 000 Operating profit Current service cost 54 161 51 141 Loss on settlements curtailments 38 35 Total operating charge 54 199 51 176 Other finance income Expected return on pension scheme assets 208 607 174 531 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 314 673 285 647 Net return 106 66 111 116 Statement of total recognised gains and losses Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 198 169 47 327 Experience gains and losses on pension scheme liabilities 188 18 115 489 Change in assumptions underlying pension scheme liabilities 113 101 268 544 Actuarial gains and losses in STRGL 499 86 336 272 2004 2003 MRGPS CRPPAS MRGPS CRPPAS 000 000 000 000 Movement in deficit during the year Deficit in Scheme at beginning of year 2,679 3,214 2,528 3,539 Movement in year: Current service cost 54 161 51 141 Contributions 138 748 347 345 Other finance income 106 66 111 116 Loss on settlements curtailments 38 35 Actuarial gain 499 86 336 272 Deficit in scheme at end of year 2,202 2,817 2,679 3,214 Details of experience gains losses for year to 30 September MRGPS 2004 2003 2002 000 000 000 Difference between actual and expected return on assets Amount 198 47 341 Percentage of Scheme assets 5.3% 1.4% 12.5% Experience gains and losses on Scheme liabilities Amount 188 115 242 Percentage of the present value of the Scheme liabilities 3.2% 1.9% 4.6% Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses: Amount 499 336 1,095 Percentage of the present value of the Scheme liabilities 8.4% 5.7% 20.8% Capital Radio plc | www.
com 81 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 24 Pension funds continued Details of experience gains losses for year to 30 September CRPPAS 2004 2003 2002 000 000 000 Difference between actual and expected return on assets Amount 169 327 329 Percentage of Scheme assets 1.6% 3.4% 3.9% Experience gains and losses on Scheme liabilities Amount 18 489 35 Percentage of the present value of the Scheme liabilities 0.1% 3.8% 0.0% Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses: Amount 86 272 1,860 Percentage of the present value of the Scheme liabilities 0.6% 2.1% 21.9% In accordance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 17, the deficits on the above schemes have not been recognised in the accounts.
The total pension payments for the period were 1,741,000 2003: 1,172,000.
Pension costs for the two defined benefit schemes are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the Group.
The pensions charge for the other scheme represents the contributions paid.
The outstanding creditor to pensions schemes at 30 September 2004 was 101,000 2003: 103,000.
25 Financial commitments Annual operating lease commitments as at 30 September 2004 analysed by expiry date are as follows: 2004 2003 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other 000 000 000 000 Group Less than one year 97 437 Within one to two years 93 208 Within three to five years 424 149 In more than five years 2,109 2,094 2,109 614 2,094 794 Company Less than one year 76 54 Within one to two years 70 49 Within three to five years 292 35 In more than five years 1,472 1,472 1,472 438 1,472 138 Contracted capital expenditure at 30 September 2004 not provided for in the accounts amounts to: 2004 2003 000 000 Group 143 Company Capital Radio plc | www.
com 82 26 Related parties The Group has trading relationships with Independent Radio News Limited IRN, the Radio Advertising Bureau Limited RAB, Hit 40 UK Limited and CE Digital Limited.
The Group holds significant shareholdings in all of these companies and has representatives on their boards of directors, and is therefore in a position to exercise significant influence over these companies.
All transactions were conducted at normal commercial rates.
IRN supplies the UK radio industry with a news service in return for airtime adjacent to news bulletins.
This airtime is sold as the Newslink national advertising product by Capital Radios Commercial Division, as agent for IRN.
An element of the profits of IRN are repaid to participating stations as a payment for airtime given.
The Group also supplies accounting services to IRN.
During the year, the Group received 1,835,000 2003: 1,757,000 of income from IRN, representing Capital Radios Commercial Divisions commission income, airtime rebate, payment for accounting services and non-executive director fees.
The value of airtime transferred to IRN during the year was 1,899,000 2003: 1,697,000.
At 30 September 2004 there was an outstanding creditor to IRN of 1,423,000 2003: 1,717,000.
The RAB is a trade body promoting commercial radio with advertisers.
The RAB is funded by levies paid by the commercial radio industry in the UK based on volumes of advertising.
During the year, the Group paid 823,000 2003: 817,000 in levies to the RAB and at 30 September 2004 had an outstanding debtor of 6,000 2003: debtor 16,000.
Hit 40 UK operates a chart show which is broadcast over various radio networks.
The related airtime is sold by Capital Radios Commercial Division, as agent for Hit 40 UK.
During the year, the Group received 426,000 2003: 243,000 of income from Hit 40 UK representing commercial commission, share of revenue and certain management services.
At 30 September 2004 there was an outstanding creditor to Hit 40 UK of 911,000 2003: 844,000.
CE Digital operates three local digital radio multiplexes.
During the year, the Group paid 1,241,000 2003: 1,056,000 to CE Digital in respect of radio broadcasts and received 145,000 2003: 145,000 from CE Digital in respect of legal expertise and engineering time.
At 30 September 2004 there was an outstanding creditor of nil 2003: 129,000.
Wildstar Records Limited is a record label.
At 30 September 2004 there were no outstanding debtors or creditors with the Group 2003: nil.
During the year, the Group received nil 2003: 400,000 for management services.
Holiday FM broadcasts commercial radio services in Spain.
During the year, the Group received 60,000 2003: 50,000 from Holiday FM.
com 83 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 27 Derivatives and other financial instruments An explanation of the Groups objectives, policies and strategies for the role of derivatives and other financial instruments can be found in the Report of the Directors on page 34.
Short-term debtors and creditors that meet the definition of a financial asset or liability under Financial Reporting Standard 13, Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments have been excluded from the disclosures as permitted by the Standard.
Interest rate profile of financial assets and financial liabilities: Financial assets The interest rate risk profile of the financial assets of the Group as at 30 September 2004 was as follows: 2004 2003 000 000 Cash at floating interest rate 400 Debtors due after more than one year 983 967 Unlisted investments 17 17 1,400 984 Financial liabilities The Groups floating rate financial liabilities which had a weighted average interest rate at the year end of 3.24%, consist of: 2004 2003 000 000 Bank overdraft 5,736 5,771 Bank loans 20,000 20,000 Loan notes 1,627 1,794 27,363 27,565 The floating rate bank loans carry interest at 0.8% over LIBOR and are repayable by 31 March 2006.
The loan notes carry interest at 1% below LIBOR and are redeemable by the holders on interest dates or by the Company on 31 March 2005.
The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 30 September 2004 was as follows: 2004 2003 000 000 In one year or less, or on demand 7,363 27,565 In more than one year but not more than two years 20,000 27,363 27,565 Borrowing facilities The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The undrawn facilities available at 30 September 2004 in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met were as follows: 2004 2003 000 000 Expiring in one year or less 33,564 33,729 Fair value financial assets and financial liabilities There are no material differences between the carrying values and the fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities disclosed above.
com 84 Principal Investments At 30 September 2004, the principal investments of the Group were as stated below.
All the holdings are of Ordinary Shares, and are shown to the nearest whole percentage.
Proportion of shares held by: Principal Activity The Company Subsidiaries Total Principal subsidiary undertakings Beat 106 Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Birmingham Broadcasting Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Gold Birmingham Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Gold Hampshire Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Gold Kent Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Gold Manchester Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Gold Sussex Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Radio Management Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Cardiff Broadcasting Company Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Century Radio Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Century Radio 105 Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Century Radio 106 Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% First Oxfordshire Radio Company Limited Commercial radio 40% 60% 100% Radio Invicta Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Southern Radio Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% The Ocean Radio Group Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Xfm Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Radio Digital Limited Commercial digital radio 100% 100% Midlands Radio plc Holding company 100% 100% Southern Radio Group Limited Holding company 100% 100% Capital Radio Investments Limited Investment company 100% 100% Tainside Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Radio UBC Data Limited Issued share capital: 100,000 Commercial digital data 70% 70% Principal associated undertakings Independent Radio News Limited Programme production 37% 9% 46% Issued share capital: 374,535 Radio Advertising Bureau Limited Marketing of commercial radio 30% 15% 45% Issued share capital: 50,000 Wildstar Records Limited Record production 50% 50% Issued share capital: 600,000 Hit 40 UK Limited Commercial radio 38% 38% Issued share capital: 10,000 CE Digital Limited Commercial digital radio 50% 50% Issued share capital: 2 MXR Limited Commercial digital radio 24% 24% Issued share capital: 750,000 Digital News Network Limited Commercial radio 22% 22% Issued share capital: 600,000 All principal investments are incorporated in England and Wales except Beat 106 Limited, which is incorporated in Scotland.
Digital News Network Limited and MXR Limited have a 31 August year end.
Hit 40 UK Limited has a 31 December year end.
com 85 Financial Record and Key Statistics 2003 2002 2001 2000 2004 Restated Restated Restated Restated Profit and Loss Turnover million 119.9 115.3 120.0 123.2 124.9 Operating profit before taxation and exceptional items million 23.7 22.0 27.9 30.0 39.9 As a percentage of turnover 20% 19% 23% 24% 32% Operating profit million 12.6 12.6 15.0 20.3 30.5 As a percentage of turnover 11% 11% 12% 16% 24% Underlying profit before taxation million 23.7 22.8 27.8 30.1 41.2 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation million 12.6 13.3 14.6 27.9 30.4 Commercial Radio Analogue Turnover million 119.0 114.6 119.7 122.2 123.9 Underlying profit before taxation million 29.1 26.2 31.2 36.5 45.4 As a percentage of turnover 24% 23% 26% 30% 37% Profit on ordinary activities before taxation million 18.1 16.8 18.3 24.2 39.5 As a percentage of turnover 15% 15% 15% 20% 32% Balance Sheet Net debt million 27.0 27.6 29.0 32.9 100.7 Net assets employed million 136.0 132.1 140.5 146.3 141.1 Cash Flow Net cash inflow from operating activities million 25.5 27.0 30.1 34.8 44.4 Ordinary Shares Underlying earnings per share pence 20.1 19.3 23.5 26.3 39.2 Basic earnings per share pence 7.1 7.7 8.8 23.8 26.3 Dividends per share pence 18.50 18.50 18.50 18.50 18.50 Dividend cover times 1.1 1.0 1.3 1.4 2.1 Shares in issue at 30 September million 85.4 83.0 82.2 81.8 81.6 Share price during year High 5.64 5.90 8.48 15.05 19.53 Low 3.98 3.58 4.53 4.83 8.85 Share price at 30 September 4.11 4.73 4.90 5.20 14.38 Market capitalisation at 30 September million 351 392 403 425 1173 Average employees number 677 662 687 731 809 Notes 1.
The underlying operating profit, underlying profit before taxation and underlying earnings per share figures are stated after eliminating the effect of significant exceptional items, goodwill and discontinued operations.
Net debt represents the net total of cash at bank, loan notes, overdrafts and short-term lease finance debt, plus short-term investments.
3. Dividend cover is calculated using underlying earnings per share from continuing operations.
2000 was restated for discontinued operations.
2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 were restated to reflect adoption of UITF38.
com 86 Shareholder Information Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders at 25 November 2004 % of % of Number of Total Ordinary accounts accounts Shares Shares Holding of Up to 1,000 shares 2,052 68.10 981,775 1.15 1,001 to 5,000 shares 573 19.02 1,316,618 1.54 5,001 to 10,000 shares 87 2.89 637,607 0.75 10,001 to 1,000,000 shares 282 9.36 35,462,842 41.51 Over 1,000,000 shares 19 0.63 47,026,198 55.05 Totals 3,013 100.00 85,425,040 100.00 Held by Banks and Nominee Companies 707 23.40 78,303,131 91.65 Insurance Companies, Corporations and Institutions 84 2.80 2,169,002 2.55 Private Individuals 2,222 73.80 4,952,907 5.80 Totals 3,013 100.00 85,425,040 100.00 Holders of Ordinary Shares Registrar: The Companys Registrar is Lloyds TSB Registrars and all correspondence regarding Ordinary Shares should be sent to the address shown on page 88.
Dividends: The record date for this years proposed final dividend, payable on 28 January 2005, is 3 December 2004 and the shares will trade ex-dividend on the London Stock Exchange from 1 December 2004.
Holders of Capital Radio Variable Rate Unsecured Loan Notes 2005 Registrar: The Registrar for the Loan Notes is the Company at its registered office and all correspondence regarding the Loan Notes should be sent to the Companys registered office, marked for the attention of the Company Secretary.
Interest Payment and Redemption: Interest is payable on the Border Loan Notes six monthly in arrears on 31 March and 30 September each year.
The Loan Notes are redeemable by the Company on 31 March 2005.
However, a holder of Loan Notes may require the Company to redeem the whole or part, such part being for 5,000 or more, of their holding on any interest payment date falling on or after 31 March 2001.
Interest is payable on the Beat Loan Notes six monthly in arrears on 31 March and 30 September each year.
com 87 Company Secretary and Advisers Company Secretary and Registered Office Auditors Cliff Fluet KPMG Audit Plc 30 Leicester Square 8 Salisbury Square London WC2H 7LA London EC4Y 8BB Company Registration Number Brokers 923454 Cazenove & Co Ltd 20 Moorgate Solicitors London EC2R 6DA Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 65 Fleet Street Bankers London EC4A 1SH Bank of Scotland 38 Threadneedle Street Merchant Bankers London EC2P 2EH Credit Suisse First Boston One Cabot Square Registrars and Transfer Office London E14 4QJ Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Capital Radio plc | www.
com 88 The Capital Radio Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Summary of Scheme Capital Radio plc the Company wishes to obtain approval for the renewal of the Capital Radio SavingsRelated Share Option Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme was originally approved by shareholders in 1995.
It is proposed to extend the life of the Scheme for a further ten years.
The following paragraphs summarise the main features of the Scheme in the form in which it will be renewed.
The Scheme is as an Inland Revenue approved savings-related share option scheme.
The Scheme provides for eligible employees of companies in the Capital Radio Group who enter into a save-as-you-earn contract a Savings Contract to be granted an option to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company.
The price, which will be determined by the Directors of the Company Directors, may not be less than the higher of: i 80 per cent of the market value of such shares, and ii if the shares are to be subscribed, their nominal value.
The number of shares over which an option may be granted is limited to that number of shares which may be acquired at the exercise price out of the repayment proceeds of the relevant Savings Contract including any bonus thereon.
A Savings Contract must be taken out with an appropriate savings body approved by the Company for the purposes of the Income Tax Employment and Pensions Act 2003 providing for contributions to be made of between 10 and 250 a month for a period of three or five years dependent on the scheme duration offered by the Company from time to time.
The amount of the monthly contributions may be scaled down by the Directors if applications exceed the number of shares available for the grant of options.
A bonus is payable under the Savings Contract after the three or five-year period, as appropriate.
Alternatively, an eligible employee who has elected for a five-year savings period can elect to take a bonus after seven years.
All UK resident employees of companies in the Capital Radio Group are entitled to participate in the Scheme.
Invitations to apply for options may only be issued within four weeks after the announcement of the Companys results for any period.
No options may be granted more than ten years after the extension of the Scheme on 25 January 2005.
Options will normally only be exercisable for a period of six months commencing on the date the bonus is payable and if not exercised by the end of that period will lapse.
Options may, however, be exercised earlier than this in certain specified circumstances, including death, reaching age 60 or on ceasing employment due to injury, disability or redundancy, or on the sale of the business or subsidiary for which the employee works, or, provided the option has been held for at least three years, on the employee ceasing to be employed for any other reason.
If an employee leaves the Capital Radio Group in other circumstances, his option will lapse.
Exercise is allowed in the event of an amalgamation, reconstruction or takeover of the Company: alternatively, options may, with the agreement of an acquiring company, be exchanged for options over shares in the acquiring company or a company associated with the acquiring company.
Options may also be exercised in the event of the voluntary winding-up of the Company.
Where options are exercised before the bonus date, the employee may only acquire the number of shares that can be purchased with the accumulated savings up to the date of exercise plus interest if any.
Options are not transferable and may only be exercised by the persons to whom they are granted or their personal representatives.
Benefits under the Scheme are not pensionable.
No more than an aggregate maximum of 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital will be made available for issue under the Scheme and all other company share schemes in any ten-year period.
This percentage limit does not apply where options are satisfied by a transfer of existing shares.
In the event of any capitalisation or rights issue by the company, or of any consolidation, sub-division, or reorganisation of its share capital, the number of shares subject to any option and the exercise price may be adjusted by its Directors with the approval of the Inland Revenue, subject to the Companys auditors confirming that such adjustment is, in their opinion, fair and reasonable.
The Directors may amend the Scheme although no amendment may be made to the advantage of eligible employees or participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Scheme, and amendments to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants in the Scheme or the Company.
In addition, no alteration may be made that would materially affect any subsisting rights of any participants without their prior consent.
Amendments to the Scheme must be approved by the Inland Revenue.
com 89 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirty-first Annual General Meeting of the members of Capital Radio plc will be held on 25 January 2005 at One Whitehall Place Hotel, Whitehall Place, Westminster, London SW1 at 11.00am for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the accounts for the year to 30 September 2004 and the reports of the Directors and Auditors.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 30 September 2004.
To approve the payment of a final dividend of 12.5p net per Ordinary Share.
To re-elect as a Director David Mansfield who retires by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
To re-elect as a Director Peter Harris who retires by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
To re-elect as a Director Barbara Thomas who retires by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
That KPMG Audit Plc be and are hereby appointed as the Auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
That the Directors be and are hereby authorised to determine the remuneration of the Auditors of the Company.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 9 and 10 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: Ordinary Resolutions To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions: 9.
That: i the Capital Radio SavingsRelated Share Option Scheme, in the form described in the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company dated 16 December 2004, be and is hereby renewed and extended until 25 January 2015: ii the directors from time to time of the company be and are hereby authorised to be counted in the quorum at a meeting of the directors and to vote as directors on any matter connected with the Capital Radio Savings Related Share Option Scheme, notwithstanding that they may be interested in the same.
That: i for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 364,374 such authority to expire five years from the date of the passing of this resolution unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting : ii the Company may make an offer or agreement before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement: and iii this authority shall replace all existing authorities conferred on the Directors in respect of the allotment of relevant securities to the extent that the same have not been previously utilised.
Special Resolutions To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
That: i subject to and conditional upon the passing of resolution numbered 10 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 16 December 2004 the section 80 resolution, the Directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act pursuant to Capital Radio plc | www.
com 90 the authority conferred by the section 80 resolution or any renewal thereof as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities, whether by way of rights issue, open offer or otherwise, to ordinary shareholders and holders of any other shares or securities of the Company that by their terms are entitled to participate in such rights issue, open offer or otherwise where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders and such holders of other shares or securities are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them or into which their shares or securities are to be deemed converted in calculating the extent of their participation but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or stock exchange in, any territory: and b to the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above up to an aggregate nominal value of 106,781: ii this power expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting following the date of this resolution or 25 April 2006 unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in General Meeting : iii this power shall enable the Company to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of this power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry of this power and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement: and iv this power shall replace all existing powers granted to the Directors to allot equity securities as if the said section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to the extent that the same have not been previously utilised.
That, pursuant to Article 9 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company provided that: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is 8,542,504: ii the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is 2.5p exclusive of expenses: iii the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average closing middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day of purchase: iv this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting following the date of this resolution or 25 July 2006 whichever is the earlier: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares prior to the expiry of this authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and the Company may make purchases of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board Cliff Fluet Company Secretary 30 Leicester Square London WC2H 7LA 16 December 2004 Capital Radio plc | www.
com 91 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his or her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be effective, the accompanying Form of Proxy should be lodged together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified or office copy of such power or authority at Lloyds TSB Registrars not later than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the Meeting or adjourned meeting.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not affect the right of a member to attend and vote in person at the Meeting.
In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those members registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6pm on 23 January 2005 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their respective names at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
Copies of the Directors service contracts with the Company and of the Rules of the Capital Radio Savings-Related Share Option Scheme will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting itself and will be available for inspection at the Meeting and for a period of fifteen minutes before it commences.
The register of Directors share interests is available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded.
Designed and produced by Wechsler Ross & Portet.
com Typeset by Orb Solutions.
Printed in the UK by St Ives Westerham Press.
Storafine awarded the Nordic Swan Nordic Environmental Product Label Licence No 344043.
Totally recyclable and biodegradable including recyclable packaging and pallets.
Redeem 100% recycled post-consumer waste, produced without any secondary bleaching to the pulp whatsoever.
Our portfolio of brands The Capital FM Network 95.8 Capital FM | www.
com The Capital Gold Network | www.
com The Century FM Network 100-102 Century FM | www.
