Our business activities broken Turnover by Business Activity down by turnover Roads 8.2% and Financial Reporting Segment FM & services 10.6% Rail UK Building 27.1% 27.5% Business activities Financial reporting segments Support Investments Construction Health Services Services Investments 5.9% 3.1% Transport International Regions 17.6% Rail 547 million Roads 141 million 25 million Breakdown of turnover by financial reporting segments Health 43 million 76 million Support Services Business Services 46.
8% Investments UK Building 555 million 3.1% Construction FM & services 214 million Services 50.1% International Regions 355 million Private Finance 63 million Total 945 million 1,011 million 63 million Includes internal trading of 27 million.
developing and marketing integrated hospitals.
Carillion Health with its clinical Two specialist businesses, Carillion Private services partner, has also been selected as Finance and Carillion Developments solutions tailored to the needs of customers, including project finance, the preferred bidder for its first Independent complete the Group.
As well as providing Sector Treatment Centre, for which this joint expert support to our other businesses, design and construction, maintenance and lifetime asset management.
venture will provide a fully integrated service, Carillion Private Finance manages our including the provision and management of portfolio of PPP equity investments.
Carillion Our businesses the new Centre and all clinical services.
Developments specialises in the regeneration of brownfield sites and developments where To deliver our strategy we have created three main UK businesses, each focused Carillion Business Services brings risk can be minimised through pre-letting or together our design, building and facilities sale to occupiers in sectors where there is on selected growth markets and equipped with the skills and resources necessary to management services.
Carillion Building is continuing demand.
one of the UKs leading commercial building offer customers fully integrated solutions.
companies focused on the office, retail, Financial reporting high-rise urban residential and mixed-use We report our financial results in three Carillion Transport provides heavy rail and road infrastructure services.
Carillion Services segments Support Services, Construction provides integrated facilities management Services and PPP Investments.
In each Rail is a leader in delivering major projects to upgrade the UK rail network, track solutions for a portfolio of blue chip private segment we report the results of activities sector customers and for central Government of a similar type and risk profile to help renewals and specialist consultancy services.
It also maintains the Channel and Local Authorities.
TPS Consult offers a analysts and shareholders to value our wide range of design and consultancy services.
earnings on a reliable and consistent basis.
Our International Regional Businesses The table above shows our turnover by In the roads market, Carillion is a leading supplier of maintenance services to the are well established in Canada, the Middle business activity and the segments in which East and the Caribbean.
These businesses it is reported.
Highways Agency and to a number of Local Authorities.
We also have a first-class road are developing PPP investments and support services activities alongside a strong construction capability focused primarily on motorways and trunk road projects procured construction capability.
This includes PPP hospitals and road maintenance services in under the Governments Early Contractor Involvement programme.
Canada and facilities management in the Middle East and Caribbean.
In Scandinavia, Carillion Health provides a wide range of the heavy rail infrastructure business we acquired in 2003 is well positioned in a services in selected sectors of the UK health market.
It is a leading supplier of new PPP market where rail services are increasingly being outsourced to the private sector.
hospitals, including project finance, design, construction, maintenance and facilities management services for up to 30 years.
It is a framework contractor for publicly funded infrastructure under the ProCure 21 programme and a leading supplier of facilities management services to NHS 03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 What We Do 01
