This artists impression Financial Review shows the new Fort Shopping Centre in Thanet, Kent, currently under development by the Carillion Richardson joint venture partnership and being built by Carillion.
The redeveloped 25 acre site will house over 30 stores including Marks and Spencer and Debenhams.
Accounting policies result of the disposal of equity investments 5.6 million of costs associated The Group made one change to its in PPP joint ventures in November 2003 and with closure of a number of small accounting policies in 2004, with the June 2004. non-core businesses.
adoption of Urgent Issues Task Force UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
Disposals Goodwill amortisation As a result, we recognise the cumulative The Group continued to dispose of non-core Goodwill amortisation in 2004 was value of shares held by the Groups ESOP businesses during 2004.
trust as a deduction in shareholders funds we sold Crown House, a mechanical and rather than as a fixed asset investment.
This electrical engineering contracting business.
Taxation has reduced both fixed asset investments and The sale of this business, which had net The Groups effective rate of tax on profit equity shareholders funds by 6.2 million.
liabilities of 10.3 million, generated before exceptional items and goodwill We have restated the comparative balance proceeds of 3.2 million and a net profit amortisation fell to 21 per cent in 2004 sheet and cash flow statement accordingly.
of 8.1 million, after providing for retained from 28 per cent in 2003.
This was due contract liabilities.
Goodwill relating to to a number of one-off tax settlements We also changed the method by which we Crown House of 55.2 million had previously relating to prior years.
We have 61 million allocate attributable profits on incomplete been written off to reserves.
of corporate tax losses in the UK, only major construction contracts.
Previously, some of which are recognised as deferred profit was recognised broadly in proportion In November 2004, the sale of Carillion BTP, a tax asset, that are potentially available to turnover after taking into account the a contracting business in France, generated to reduce future tax liabilities.
In 2005, remaining risks and uncertainties.
In proceeds of 10.9 million and net loss of we expect our tax rate to move closer addition, we now take no profit on the 0.4 million before writing off goodwill.
to its 2003 level and remain there for the first 20 per cent of turnover and this profit The goodwill associated with Carillion BTP next few years.
is deferred until contracts are completed.
was 14.7 million, of which 1.2 million This method, which better reflects the risk was capitalised in the Group balance sheet Pensions profile of our construction activities, reduced and 13.5 million had previously been The pensions charge to the profit and loss reported profit in Construction Services by written off to reserves.
account, calculated on the basis of SSAP 24, 3.3 million in 2004. amounted to 29.5 million in 2004, The costs associated with the closure of compared with 22.1 million in 2003.
Interest and cash a number of small non-core businesses However, the 2004 charge included The Group net interest credit of 3.4 million amounted to 5.6 million.
the cost of writing off a 7.2 million 2003: a net charge of 0.5 million reflected prepayment relating to the Railway our strong operating cash inflow of Exceptional items Pension Scheme, following the transfer 92.8 million and proceeds of 34.6 million The net exceptional charge in 2004 of of rail maintenance contracts and our rail from the sale of businesses and PPP equity 57.2 million before tax comprised the maintenance employees to Network Rail.
Net cash at 31 December following items 2004 was 153.6 million December On an FRS 17 basis, the Groups pensions 2003: 75.8 million, excluding finance 7.7 million net profit from the sale schemes had a net deficit of 59.6 million lease liabilities of 24.2 million of Crown House and Carillion BTP at the end of 2004, compared with a net 2003: 15.6 million.
69.9 million goodwill write back deficit of 76.6 million in December 2003. associated with the sale of Crown Subsequent to the closure of a number Capital expenditure was 15.0 million.
House and Carillion BTP, of which of our pension schemes to new entrants, Corporate tax paid was 13.0 million.
68.7 million had previously been the trustees revised their investment Dividend payments were 16.4 million.
written off to reserves policy in 2004 to increase progressively 7.7 million profit on the sale of two the proportion of our pension fund The Groups share of net interest payable PPP equity investments assets that is invested in bonds, with a arising in joint ventures reduced to 3.4 million 2.9 million profit on the sale of corresponding reduction in the proportion 16 in 2004 2003: 4.9 million, largely as a fixed assets to Network Rail invested in equities.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03 Financial reporting segments increasing the number of financially Construction Services, is now included in Investments closed projects in our portfolio to 18.
In this segment we report the equity returns are also the preferred bidder for another on our investments in Public Private four projects, including our first Independent The overall margin in Support Services Partnership PPP projects.
Sector Treatment Centre in Basildon for returned to a more normal level after an which we were appointed preferred bidder increase in 2003 due to favourable settlements in September 2004. on a number of old Railtrack contracts.
2004 2003 Turnover 62.5m 67.5m As a result, we now have commitments The progress made by our rail business in Operating profit 6.3m 8.6m to invest a further 18 million in projects 2004, which included new contracts for Pre-tax profit 3.7m 3.5m already financially closed.
In addition, we enhancement projects and for the renewal plan to invest around another 20 million in of track and switches and crossings, enabled Before goodwill amortisation of 0.3m 2003: 0.1m.
projects for which we are preferred bidder.
it to contribute nearly 550 million of These committed and planned equity turnover to this segment 2003: 567 investments will increase the equity invested million.
It also continued to perform well on Operating profit in this segment reduced in our portfolio from 29 million to some existing contracts, including West Coast as a result of our planned programme of 67 million over the next three or four years.
Route Modernisation projects, a wide range equity sales.
However, this was offset by a We are also shortlisted for a further three of regional projects and the construction and reduction in the interest charge on debt in PPP projects with a total potential equity maintenance of the Channel Tunnel Rail Link.
our joint venture PPP concession companies, requirement of up to 30 million.
to leave pre-tax profit some six per cent As we transferred our rail maintenance higher than in 2003.
In our first equity sale Support Services contracts to Network Rail in stages over the in November 2003, we disposed of our In this segment we report the results of first seven months of 2004, the full effect 4.1 million investment in the Darent Valley our activities in rail infrastructure, roads of this will be felt in 2005.
As previously Hospital concession, generating a net maintenance, facilities management and indicated, total turnover from the contracts exceptional profit of 11.2 million.
we sold a further 13 million of equity However, we expect to continue rebuilding investments our holding in the M40 2004 2003 turnover in rail through further opportunities motorway concession and 50 per cent to increase our share of the UK and Turnover 944.9m 933.5m of our holding in the A249 road concession Scandinavian rail infrastructure markets.
Operating profit 45.6m 51.1m generating a net exceptional profit of Margin 4.8% 5.5% 7.7 million.
The proceeds generated by Our roads maintenance business also made all these sales have consistently supported good progress in 2004, increasing its turnover Before exceptional operating charges of Nil the Directors valuation of our portfolio of 2003: 33.1m and goodwill amortisation of to some 141 million 2003: 115 million.
The Directors valuation This increase reflects a full-year contribution is currently 83 million, based on discounting from the contract won in 2003 to maintain the cash flows expected from our remaining approximately half of Surrey County Turnover in this segment remained broadly 29 million of equity investments over their Councils road network, worth up to unchanged despite the loss of around respective concession periods, at 10 per cent.
160 million over ten years, and two new 100 million of turnover in 2004 as a result long-term maintenance contracts won in of transferring rail maintenance contracts In 2004, we continued to build a strong 2004 one for Warwickshire County Council to Network Rail during the year.
This loss pipeline of future investments.
We reached and one for Wolverhampton City Council, has been offset largely by growth in financial close on four projects in 2004 the with an estimated total value of up to other rail infrastructure activities and road William Osler and Royal Ottawa Hospitals in 94 million.
We believe we can continue maintenance.
Also, some 20 million of Canada, the Birmingham and Solihull LIFT this progress in 2005, as we expect more turnover from our consultancy business, Local Improvement Finance Trust project opportunities to bid for local authority road 17 TPS, that was previously reported in and the A249 road project in Kent maintenance contracts during the year.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03 Reported operating profit in this segment activities of the Group.
In addition, the Financial Review was reduced by some 3.3 million as a result ability of the Group to pay dividends to continued of changing the method by which we allocate shareholders will be unaffected by IFRS.
profit on major construction contracts Had IFRS been adopted for reporting the see Accounting Policies on page 16, Groups 2004 financial results, our best under which profit on the first 20 per cent estimates of the main effects are set out of turnover is deferred until contract in the table below and described in the completion.
Therefore, operating profit notes that follow it.
These estimates and would have been approximately 15 million comments are based on published standards if it had been reported on the same basis as and interpretations issued by the IASB to profit in 2003.
Overall performance in this date and may therefore change as the segment has returned to a satisfactory level.
The sound performance we reported for Profit Profit our UK Building business in the first half of before before Net the year continued in the second half.
m unaudited tax tax Assets This business, which accounted for some Per 2004 Annual Report 6 55 187 507 million of 2004 turnover in this segment IAS 19 Pensions 3 3 71 2003: 444 million, has remained focused IFRS 2 Share options on its three main market sectors of retail, IFRS 3 Goodwill office and high-rise residential developments.
amortisation 73 4 By the end of 2004 its order book for 2005 IAS 1 Presentation was largely secure and around half its order of JV tax 2 2 book for 2006 was secure or probable.
We IAS 12 Deferred tax 3 therefore expect turnover in our UK Building IAS 10 Dividends 10 business to grow in 2005, including an increased contribution from PPP construction.
Revised under IFRS Overall, turnover from facilities management GAAP 68 56 127 and support services in 2004 was broadly Turnover from UK civil engineering was some EPS UK GAAP basis 8 p 20p flat at 257 million 2003: 252 million.
This EPS IFRS GAAP basis 28p 21p This reflects the increasingly competitive declined as expected, in line with our selective private sector market, which offered fewer approach to this market.
Turnover in 2005 is Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
opportunities to bid for contracts consistent likely to remain at broadly the same level as in with our selectivity criteria.
We will continue to focus selectively outlook in the public sector facilities on the UK road construction sector and IAS 19 management market is much more positive, particularly on Highways Agency contracts This standard replaces SSAP 24 with an particularly as Local Authorities are increasingly procured under the Early Contractor FRS 17 approach, under which pension seeking to outsource activities for which Involvement programme, which offers scheme deficits are included on the balance Carillion is well placed to provide integrated acceptable levels of risk and reward.
Going forward, the annual charge to service solutions.
our profit and loss account under IAS 19 is The contribution to turnover from our expected to be similar to that under SSAP 24.
The acquisition of Planned Maintenance International Regional businesses increased The positive impact on profit in 2004 reflects Group will add substantially to turnover and to 355 million in 2004 2003: 324 million, the reversal of the 7.2 million charge profit in this segment.
It will also considerably reflecting our successes in the highways under SSAP 24 for writing off the pension strengthen the breadth and quality of our maintenance market in Canada and in our prepayment relating to the Railway Pension service offering and create new opportunities Middle East construction market.
In 2005, Scheme, as a result of transferring our rail to cross sell our services in both the public and we expect further opportunities for growth maintenance employees to Network Rail.
in these markets and also in the facilities impact on net assets includes the elimination management market in the Middle East.
of existing SSAP 24 prepayments and is net Construction Services Construction work on our two PPP hospitals of a deferred tax asset of 26 million on our In this segment we report the results of our in Canada, on which we reached financial pension deficit.
UK building and civil engineering activities close late in 2004, will also contribute to and International Regional businesses.
IFRS 2 This standard requires the fair value cost 2004 2003 Our Developments business continues to of providing share option schemes to Turnover 1,010.8m 1,001.8m perform well, pursuing its strategy of specialising employees to be expensed.
It applies only in the regeneration of brownfield sites and Operating profit 11.6m 5.6m to schemes that started after 7 November developments where risk is minimised through 2002 and the effect in 2004 is less than Margin 1.1% 0.6% pre-letting or sale to occupiers in sectors where 0.5 million.
In 2005, the cost of providing Before goodwill amortisation of 0.1m 2003: 0.1 m. there is continuing demand.
such schemes is expected to be up to 1 million.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Turnover in Construction Services was broadly IFRS 3 unchanged, with increased contributions In accordance with the requirement for all This standard will reverse goodwill listed European companies, the Groups to turnover from our UK Building and amortisation in 2004 and replaces International Regional businesses offsetting financial statements for 2005 will be prepared amortisation with annual impairment under EU endorsed International Financial reductions in UK civil engineering and in testing.
Goodwill previously written off mechanical and electrical contracting due to Reporting Standards IFRS.
to reserves as at 1 January 2004 will no the sale of Crown House.
The sale of Carillion longer be included in the profit and loss BTP, our contracting business in France, late in The adoption of IFRS will have no impact account when the businesses to which it upon the underlying cash flows or trading 2004 had little impact on our 2004 results.
18 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03 IAS 1 existing standards and some have yet to be hedged using matching currency loans.
Profits This standard requires the Groups share of endorsed by the European Union.
Carillions arising within overseas subsidiaries are not joint venture profits to be reported on an after IFRS project team will continue to monitor hedged unless it is planned to make a tax basis, but within pre-tax profit.
However, developments and their potential effects on distribution.
Such distributions are then as the Groups tax charge will no longer the Group.
Overall, we do not expect these treated as currency transactions and include tax on joint venture profits, there is to have a significant effect on the Groups hedged accordingly.
no affect on earnings per share.
Interest rate risk IAS 12 The Groups interim results for the period Borrowing facilities are designed primarily The effect of this standard reflects an ending 30 June 2005 will be the first period to finance short-term working capital additional deferred tax provision required for which the Group will report its results requirements and are at floating rates of for un-remitted profits of overseas entities.
Prior to reporting those results, interest linked to LIBOR.
The Group has the Group will publish fully restated not entered into interest rate derivatives to IAS 10 comparative information for its 2004 fix or hedge interest rate risk and none are This standard requires the Group to account interim and full-year results.
Certain longer-term assets have for dividends to shareholders in the period in been financed using fixed-rate leases.
which they are approved rather than accruing Treasury policy and risk management for them in the period to which they relate.
The Group has a centralised Treasury Carillion has equity in a number of PPP joint function whose primary role is to manage venture Special Purpose Companies SPC.
Carillion has decided to take the available funding, liquidity and financial risks.
In SPCs obtain funding for these projects in the exemption from applying IAS 39 Financial addition, Treasury sources and administers form of long-term bank loans or corporate Instruments to its 2004 comparative contract bond and guarantee facilities for bonds on a non-recourse basis to the joint information.
At present, the application the Group.
Treasury is not a profit centre and venture partners and secured on the assets of IAS 39 from 1 January 2005 could does not enter into speculative transactions.
A number of SPCs have entered potentially reduce the Groups net assets The Board of Directors sets policies within into interest rate derivatives as means of at that date by approximately 22 million, which Treasury operates that ensure the most hedging interest rate risk.
These derivatives net of deferred tax.
This reflects the Groups effective financing of the Groups operations are interest rate swaps that fix the rate of share of the fair value liability of interest and limit exposure to financial risk.
rate derivatives within a number of joint venture PPP concession companies.
On During the year, the Group has renegotiated Performance management 3 March 2005, the International Financial its committed borrowing facilities.
At As well as routine business planning, Reporting Interpretations Committee 31 December 2004 these amounted to budgeting and quarterly forecasts, the IFRIC issued draft guidance on accounting 170 million, which mature in 2009.
In Group utilises a number of comparative for service concession arrangements.
The January 2005, a 20 million bilateral loan measures for assessing the performance Group is in the process of determining facility, which expires in 2008, was of its business units.
These include the implications of this draft guidance and established to increase the Groups total consequently the impact of IFRS on PPP borrowing facilities to 190 million.
Interest comparisons of long-term contract concession companies remains uncertain payable on borrowings under these facilities profit and cash performance to at this time.
is at floating rates linked to LIBOR.
These original estimates facilities are unsecured and have covenants sector margin and net operating asset In addition to the effects on financial that are typical for the Groups credit profile performance targets reporting outlined above, there are a and these types of arrangements.
At internal rates of return on UK PPP and number of other areas where presentation December 2004, 137 million of these other investments versus the Groups and disclosures in financial statements will facilities were un-drawn.
weighted average cost of capital change under IFRS.
The significant areas are controls over PPP bid costs by reference as follows.
The areas of significant financial risk to expected future discounted cash flows.
exposure facing the Group relate to The Groups share of turnover in joint funding and liquidity, foreign exchange The primary tools in working capital ventures will be excluded from total Group and interest rates.
management are outstanding debtor and turnover and its share of profits from joint trade creditor days.
ventures will be excluded from the Funding and liquidity risk segmentation of profit from operations.
The Groups policy is to avoid carrying Going concern Acquisitions may give rise both to significant net debt over the medium term.
The Directors confirm that, after making goodwill and intangible assets, such Carillion plcs principal borrowing facilities enquiries, they have a reasonable as customer contracts or customer lists, are provided by a group of core relationship expectation that the Company and the which must be disclosed separately on banks in the form of syndicated and bilateral Group has adequate resources to continue the balance sheet.
Unlike goodwill, loans and short-term overdraft and money in operational existence for the foreseeable intangible assets with a finite life will market facilities.
Finance and operating leases future.
For this reason, they continue to be amortised.
are also employed to fund longer-term assets.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing The cash flow statement will contain The quantum of committed borrowing the financial statements.
three main categories compared with facilities available to the Group is regularly nine under UK GAAP.
The definition of reviewed and is designed to satisfy the cash and cash equivalents is wider under requirements of the Groups business plan.
IFRS and includes cash on deposit.
Other specific areas requiring increased Currency risk disclosure include segmental results, The Group hedges all significant currency Chris Girling leases, construction contracts, financial transaction exposures using foreign Finance Director instruments and related parties.
In order to protect the 9 March 2005 Groups balance sheet from the impact of The International Accounting Standards exchange rate volatility, a majority of net Board is still in the process of reviewing assets denominated in foreign currencies is 19 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03
