AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2004 37 Financial Review Introduction Business background and Over the longer term, the success of The purpose of the Financial Review, our research and development is crucial.
major events affecting 2004 which should be read in conjunction with The business background is covered in the In common with other pharmaceutical the Operational Review on pages 11 to 36, Operational Review and Global Market companies we devote substantial resources is to provide a balanced and comprehensive Overview and describes in detail the to R&D, the benefit of which emerges over analysis, including the key business factors developments in both our products and the long term and carries considerable and trends, of the financial performance geographical regions.
The following uncertainty as to whether it will generate of the business during 2004, the financial comments highlight how these and other future products.
position as at the end of the year and the factors affect our financial performance.
main business factors and trends which The business events which were the most could affect the future financial performance Our operations are focused on prescription significant for our financial results in 2004 of the business.
pharmaceuticals and more than 97% of are as follows: our sales are made in that sector.
Sales The key sections of the Financial Review are: of pharmaceutical products tend to be Strong sales performances from our relatively insensitive to general economic key growth products to $11,161 million Business background and major events circumstances in the short term.
They are 52% of sales, particularly in the second affecting 2004. more directly influenced by medical needs half of the year.
and are generally financed by health Slowing rate of decline of patent expired Results of operations summary insurance schemes or national healthcare products, again in the second half of analysis of year to 31 December 2004. budgets.
Financial position, including cash flow Growth of Crestor sales to $908 million, and liquidity.
Our operating results in both the short and despite what we believe are unfounded Capitalisation and shareholder return.
long term can be affected by a number allegations about safety.
of factors other than normal competition: Following a period of high investment Future prospects.
in selling and marketing in support of Critical accounting policies and The risk of generic competition following Nexium and Crestor in the first half of estimates.
loss of patent exclusivity or patent 2004, we have reduced our cost Off-balance sheet transactions, expiry with the potential adverse effects growth rate significantly in the second contingent liabilities and commitments.
on sales volumes and prices.
The timings of new product launches The decision by the FDA not to International accounting.
which can be influenced by national approve Exanta, whilst not materially Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404. regulators and the risk that such new affecting sales in 2004, has led us products do not succeed as to make provisions against product Additionally, in accordance with US anticipated.
stocks, goodwill and other assets requirements: The rate of sales growth and costs of $151 million.
Similarly, the preliminary results of Results of operations summary The adverse impact on pharmaceutical the ISEL study on Iressa reported in analysis of year to 31 December 2003. prices as a result of the regulatory December 2004 have led to provisions US GAAP information 2002-2004. environment.
Although there is no direct against product stocks and governmental control on prices in the manufacturing assets of $85 million.
US, pressures from individual state In the year, we disposed of our programmes and health insurance investment in the joint venture Advanta bodies are leading to downward forces BV, realising an exceptional gain of on realised prices.
In other parts of $219 million.
the world, there are a variety of price and volume control mechanisms Key performance indicators and retrospective rebates based KPIs on sales levels which are imposed The primary KPIs used by management by governments.
to understand and manage the financial Currency fluctuations, which can performance of the business include: significantly affect our results.
Our functional and reporting currency The analysis of sales growth with is US dollars as this is our single largest products allocated to three groups: currency, but we have substantial growth, patent expiry and base exposures to other currencies, which allow us to understand how the in particular, significant euro and business is regenerating itself in the Japanese yen denominated income short term.
and sterling and Swedish krona Trends in prescription volumes which denominated costs.
give insights into the underlying AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 38 Form 20-F Information 2004 Financial Review continued Sales by therapy area 2004 and 2003 2004 2003 2004 compared to 2003 Growth due to Growth exchange Growth Growth underlying effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m %% Cardiovascular 4,777 653 214 3,910 17 22 Gastrointestinal 5,918 278 253 5,943 4 Infection 539 33 30 476 713 Neuroscience 3,496 542 121 2,833 19 23 Oncology 3,376 437 196 2,743 16 23 Respiratory and Inflammation 2,583 176 146 2,261 814 Other pharma 177 10 15 152 717 Others 560 6 23 531 15 Total 21,426 1,579 998 18,849 914 Sales by growth, patent expiry and base products 2004 and 2003 2004 2003 2004 compared to 2003 Growth due to Growth exchange Growth Growth underlying effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m %% Growth 11,161 2,476 441 8,244 30 35 Patent expiry 2,521 889 189 3,221 28 22 Base 7,744 8 368 7,384 5 Total 21,426 1,579 998 18,849 914 Atacand, Arimidex, Casodex, Crestor, Faslodex, Iressa, Nexium, Seroquel, Symbicort and Zomig Losec, Zestril and Nolvadex business growth, as opposed to relative to the prior period.
However, we Underlying performance invoiced sales which depend on recognise that CER growth should not be Sales the timing of wholesaler demand.
used in isolation and, accordingly, we also After excluding the effects of exchange, Cost growth rates, through which discuss the comparable GAAP actual underlying sales for the full year increased we manage the cost base to ensure growth measures which reflect all the by 9%.
Global sales of key growth that it is growing appropriately in factors that affect our business in the products reached $11,161 million for the relation to sales.
reported performance sections of this full year up 30% and now comprise 52% Operating profit margin progression document.
Underlying CER growth is of total sales compared to 44% in 2003. over time, which demonstrates the calculated by retranslating the current Patent expiry products declined by 28%, overall quality of the business.
year performance at the previous years recording sales in aggregate of $2,521 exchange rates and adjusting for other million in 2004, 12% of our total sales Financial growth rates in sales, costs exchange effects, including hedging.
Sales of base and operating profit, both in US dollar products remained constant, although the and percentage terms, are not referred relative percentage of total sales fell from to specifically in the Financial Statements Results of operations 39% in 2003 to 36% in 2004. but, as indicated above, we use them summary analysis of year extensively as part of our KPIs and, In the Gastrointestinal therapy area, Nexium to 31 December 2004 accordingly, include them in our discussions The tables on this page show our sales sales reached $3,883 million for the full year, in both the Operating and Financial analysed both by therapy area and by up 15%.
Sales in the US reached $2,716 Reviews.
In particular, we calculate growth patent expiry base products and million on strong growth in dispensed underlying growth using constant exchange operating profit for 2004 compared to 2003. tablet volume up 20%.
Pricing was broadly rates CER, which is defined as a nonneutral in its impact for the full year: the GAAP measure because, unlike actual Reported performance reported 10% sales growth rate in the US growth, it cannot be derived directly from Our sales increased by 14% compared to for the full year was lower than underlying the information in the Financial Statements.
2003, representing a rise of $2,577 million growth as a result of wholesaler stock This measure removes the effects of from $18,849 million to $21,426 million.
Sales outside the US increased currency movements to focus on the Operating profit increased by 16% from 29% to $1,167 million.
changes in product sales and expenses $4,111 million to $4,770 million.
driven by volume, prices and cost levels AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2004 39 Operating profit 2004 and 2003 2004 2003 2004 compared to 2003 Growth due to Growth exchange Growth Growth underlying effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m %% Sales 21,426 1,579 998 18,849 914 Cost of sales 5,150 421 260 4,469 9 15 Other operating costs 11,821 651 709 10,469 6 13 Other operating income 315 91 24 200 558 Operating profit 4,770 598 53 4,111 15 16 Sales of Cardiovascular products increased Symbicort sales growth of 32% to $797 Operating margin and retained profit by 17% for the full year, chiefly on sales million was the principal contributor Gross margin decreased by 0.2 percentage of Crestor which totalled $908 million to growth of 8% in Respiratory and points to 76.0% including a negative including $543 million in US sales.
currency effect of 0.1 percentage points.
US, market share has been volatile, as a Lower payments to Merck, amounting to result of episodic media coverage of In the US, the Inventory Management 4.9% of sales for the year, benefited gross challenges to the Crestor safety profile, Agreements IMAs entered into during margin by 0.9 percentage points.
The despite mounting evidence amassed from 2004 have successfully reduced wholesaler resulting underlying decline in gross margin clinical trials experience and thorough stock volatility and by the end of the year of 1.1 percentage points is entirely analysis of post-marketing surveillance wholesaler stocks were close to target attributable to the provisions and write-offs reports supporting our view that the safety levels.
Over the year wholesaler stocks against Exanta $151 million and Iressa profile of Crestor is in line with that of other are estimated to have declined by around assets $85 million.
Adjusting both 2004 and 2003 US Senate hearings related to Mercks for net wholesaler stock movements, it is R&D and SG&A combined grew by 6%, Vioxx fuelled news reports on Crestor and estimated that total sales growth for 2004 with R&D growing by 3% and SG&A by four other products, which has interrupted would increase from 9% to 11%.
These growth rates have slowed market share progress.
In the week ending considerably during the year as product 14 January 2005, Crestor share of new We discuss the performances of the launch cost growth, which commenced prescriptions was 6.0%.
Market share in therapy areas and the individual products in in the second half of 2003, has reached the dynamic segment new and switch those areas in more detail in the appropriate a plateau.
This, together with continued patients was 8.2%.
We are determined sections of the Operational Review.
strict cost control, has reduced R&D as to restore market share momentum, as a percentage of sales by 0.6 percentage we have done previously.
In addition, Geographical analysis points to 17.7% of sales while SG&A as a discussions with the FDA are ongoing Underlying sales growth in the US was percentage of sales has slightly improved to determine whether there is a realistic 10%.
However, growth for the full year to 36.6% of sales both movements prospect of bringing Exanta to the US was estimated to be 15% when adjusted excluding currency.
market following the FDAs decision in for net wholesaler stock movements in October 2004 not to approve the product.
Increased sales of Crestor, Other income benefited from the disposal Seroquel, Nexium and Arimidex more than of the Durascan business in the second Oncology sales enjoyed strong growth, offset a further $500 million decline in quarter of the year and disposals of short with a notable performance from Arimidex sales of Prilosec for the year.
The disappointing results from remained broadly unchanged.
a preliminary analysis of the ISEL study into Sales in Europe were up 3% for the full year, Iressa patients survival had little impact with increased volume partially offset by Operating margin increased by 0.5 outside the US on sales in 2004.
In 2005 in declining realised prices.
The launch roll out percentage points from 21.8% to 22.3%.
the US, we anticipate a rapid reduction in for Crestor and good growth for Nexium Currency depressed operating margin new prescriptions and sales will be up 26%, Symbicort up 29%, Arimidex by 0.9 percentage points implying an recognised on confirmed patient usage.
up 48% and Seroquel up 45% more than underlying margin improvement of 1.4 While commercial prospects have certainly offset declines in Losec down 25% and percentage points.
been reduced in Western markets, the other mature products.
positive results in patients of East Asian origin The disposal of the Advanta joint venture offer the prospect of a continuing successful Sales in Japan were up 11% for the full was completed on 1 September 2004 business in these important markets.
year on strong performance in Oncology for net cash of $284 million.
All payments products up 19% and for Losec up 24%.
due have now been received.
The profit Neuroscience also saw significant growth on disposal, after transaction costs and driven by Seroquel sales which increased We discuss the geographic performances warranty and indemnity provisions, was by 33% to exceed $2 billion for the first time.
in more detail in the appropriate sections $219 million.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 40 Form 20-F Information 2004 Financial Review continued Net interest and dividend income for the full assets amounted to $151 million, outflow on debtors $209 million.
Cash flow year was $96 million 2003 $91 million, and whilst amortisation totalled $311 million.
from working capital in the fourth quarter $26 million in the fourth quarter 2003 $20 There was a small write-off of goodwill in was notably strong due mainly to stocks million.
As previously reported, net interest connection with Exanta of $10 million.
which, when compared with September includes a gain arising from the close out Additions included an intangible arising 2004, fell for the reasons above and of an interest rate swap of $30 million.
from the collaboration agreement with debtors, which also fell because sales in Cambridge Antibody Technology of December were lower than in September.
Excluding exceptional items, the effective $34 million and capitalisation of software.
Cash expenditure on exceptional items tax rate for the full year 2004 was 27.1% Combined with the effects of exchange, was $8 million compared with $391 million compared with 27.2% for 2003.
An agreement however, the carrying value of goodwill in 2003 which included the payment of has been reached with US tax authorities and intangible assets fell slightly from $355 million in settlement of the Zoladex that a portion of the Zoladex settlement, $2,884 million to $2,826 million.
Tax paid for the year was recorded as an exceptional item in 2002, is $1,246 million, compared to $886 million in deductible for tax purposes.
This increase in 2004 compared to an exceptional tax credit of $58 million was Stock levels at $3,020 million were 2003 was due to the greater utilisation of recorded in the year.
This credit, together unchanged from 2003.
Reductions in stock foreign exchange losses in 2003, reduced with tax relief of $9 million on costs from tight operational management, high trading losses brought forward to 2004 associated with the tax free gain on the sale second half sales and provisions against and a reduction in the level of accelerated of Advanta BV, resulted in a post Exanta and Iressa stocks were offset by capital allowances tax reliefs in excess exceptional tax rate of 24.7% for the year.
In 2004, a settlement was reached in Debtors and creditors Investments, divestments and capital respect of currency losses arising on Debtors increased from $5,960 million to expenditure intra-group balances in 2000 and a credit $6,274 million.
This reflected the increased In 2004, we entered into a strategic alliance of $357 million has been recorded in the trade debtors from higher sales in the fourth with Cambridge Antibody Technology statement of total recognised gains and quarter of 2004 particularly in December investing a total of $138 million to acquire losses.
No benefit had previously been compared with the same period in 2003 a 19.9% interest and an intangible asset.
recognised owing to the uncertainty of the together with exchange effects offset by We disposed of Advanta BV in the second losses being allowed for tax purposes.
half of the year resulting in net cash proceeds of $284 million.
Earnings per share before exceptional items Creditors have risen from $7,595 million to grew by 18% from $1.78 in 2003 to $2.11 $7,718 million.
Increases in trade creditors, Capital expenditure, including new fixed in 2004. exchange effects and the final dividend asset investments and intangible assets, were compensated by decreases in tax totalled $1,296 million.
Net funds cash flow and liquidity All data in this section is on an actual basis Cash flow During the year, an SEC-registered shelf unless noted otherwise.
We continue to be a highly cash generative debt programme was established with a business.
Although future operating cash total capacity of $4 billion and in conjunction The net book value of our assets increased flows may be affected by a number of with this a $750 million bond, repayable from $13,257 million at 31 December 2003 factors as outlined in the business in 2014, was issued.
to $14,519 million at 31 December 2004. background section on page 37, we The increase was driven primarily by retained believe our cash resources will be sufficient After accounting for dividends paid of profit after dividends of $2,258 million and for our present requirements and include $1,378 million, net share re-purchases of exchange benefits of $1,092 million, less sufficient cash for our existing capital $2,110 million and exchange of $34 million, share re-purchases of $2,212 million.
programme, share re-purchases and any there was a $478 million increase in net costs of launching new products, as well cash funds, which totalled $3,974 million Tangible fixed assets as the potential buy-out of Mercks interests at 31 December 2004.
Capital expenditure totalled $1,063 million, in 2008. compared with $1,282 million in 2003.
Capitalisation and shareholder Major investments continued, particularly in Cash generated from operating activities return R&D facilities.
Depreciation of $916 million before exceptional cash outflows was All data in this section are on an actual basis was lower than 2003 due principally to $6,069 million compared with $4,617 unless noted otherwise.
accelerated depreciation in 2003 not million in 2003.
The increase in cash is due repeated in 2004.
The net book value of to higher profits and minimal working capital Capitalisation tangible fixed assets rose from $7,536 outflows $9 million in 2004 compared to At 31 December 2004, the number of million to $8,083 million, including exchange $1,101 million in 2003.
In 2003, all three shares in issue was 1,645 million.
components of working capital led to reserves were increased by $1,092 million substantial cash outflows whereas, in 2004, due to the effect of exchange rate Goodwill and intangible assets there were inflows on stocks $129 million movements after tax on translation of nonAdditions to goodwill and intangible and creditors $71 million offset by an dollar denominated assets and liabilities.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2004 41 Shareholders funds increased by a net We regard our free cash as being cash Future prospects $1,240 million to $14,418 million at year flow before returns to shareholders and The setbacks with Exanta and Iressa are end.
Minority interests increased from financing.
For 2004 free cash was disappointing but the business remains $79 million at 31 December 2003 to $3,932 million net cash inflow before robust.
We expect continued sales growth, $101 million at 31 December 2004. management of liquid resources and including strong prospects for Nexium, financing of $2,554 million before Symbicort, Seroquel, Arimidex and, Dividend and share re-purchases $1,378 million dividends paid compared with restoration of market share progress During 2004 we returned $3,590 million to $1,899 million in 2003. in the US, for Crestor.
This sales growth in cash to shareholders through a mix coupled with disciplined cost management of share buybacks and dividends.
We paid a first interim dividend for 2004 and productivity improvements should on 20 September 2004 of $0.295 per lead to good earnings growth in the next Under the programme of share re-purchases, Ordinary Share.
A second interim dividend three years.
approved by the Board in January 2004, for 2004 of $0.645 per Ordinary Share has we have re-purchased and cancelled been declared, which the Annual General Financial risk management 50.1 million shares in 2004 at a cost of Meeting will be asked to confirm as the final policies $2,212 million.
Together with the previous dividend.
This, together with the first interim Insurance programme begun in 1999, the total dividend, makes a total of $0.940 for the Our risk management processes are number of shares re-purchased to year.
It is our intention that dividends will described in the Directors Report on page date is 142.9 million at a cumulative cost increase broadly in line with earnings 54.
An outcome of these processes is that of $6,171 million.
Under a new policy growth whilst maintaining dividend cover they enable us to identify risks which can approved by the Board in January 2005, in the two to three times range.
be partly or entirely mitigated through use we aim to distribute the free cash generated of insurance or which we can self-insure.
over the next three years to shareholders.
Ratios As at and for the year ended 31 December 2004 2003 2002 Return on shareholders equity % 27.6 24.9 27.3 Equity assets ratio % 56.3 55.9 51.8 Net funds equity ratio % 27.6 26.5 34.4 Number of employees 64,200 61,000 59,400 Sensitivity analysis 31 December 2004 Market value change favourable unfavourable Market value Interest rate Exchange rate 31 December 2004 movement movement 1% 1% 10% 10% $m $m $m $m $m Cash and short term investments 5,150 38 38 Long term debt, net of interest and currency swaps 1,055 Foreign exchange forwards 10 75 75 Foreign exchange options 32 24 185 137 298 Sensitivity analysis 31 December 2003 Market value change favourable unfavourable Market value Interest rate Exchange rate 31 December 2003 movement movement 1% 1% 10% 10% $m $m $m $m $m Cash and short term investments 4,039 2 2 37 37 Long term debt, net of interest and currency swaps 315 24 30 Foreign exchange forwards 7 71 71 Foreign exchange options 148 114 162 22 28 80 128 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 42 Form 20-F Information 2004 Financial Review continued We negotiate best available premium rates and Swedish krona.
As a result, our Funding risk with insurance providers on the basis of operating profit in US dollars can be The management of our liquid assets our extensive risk management procedures.
affected by movements in exchange rates.
and debt balances are co-ordinated In the current insurance market, level of and controlled centrally by our treasury cover is decreasing whilst premium rates The significant weakening of the US dollar operations.
We have significant positive are increasing.
Rather than simply paying against sterling, the Swedish krona and the cash flows and the liquidity of major higher premiums for lower cover, we focus euro has continued in 2004.
This has had subsidiaries is co-ordinated in cash our insurance resources on the most critical the effect of increasing the dollar value of pools and concentrated daily in London.
areas, or where there is a legal requirement, our European sales compared with the The cash balances and unutilised debt and where we can get best value for money.
previous year whilst our UK and Swedish programme are available to finance the Risks which we give particular attention costs have also increased correspondingly.
ongoing working capital and capital to include product liability, business Our approach to managing currency investment requirements of our operations.
interruption, directors and officers liability, exposures to mitigate these and other and property damage.
currency effects is described below.
Interest rate risk Our policy is to match the interest rate Taxation Currency exposure is managed centrally exposure on our gross debt balance with We operate in most countries in the world using rolling 12 month currency cash flow that arising on our surplus cash position.
and are subject to many tax jurisdictions forecasts for our major currencies of The net effect of this is to use interest rate and rules.
As a consequence we are subject Swedish kronor, sterling and euros and swaps to receive fixed rate interest on our to tax audits, which by their nature are often monthly updated foreign currency working two outstanding bonds $1,030 million in complex and can require several years to capital forecasts reported by subsidiaries.
exchange for paying floating rate interest conclude.
We draw a distinction between We use derivative financial instruments, referenced to six month US$ LIBOR.
The tax planning using artificial structures and principally currency options and forward majority of our cash balance is held with optimising tax treatment of business foreign exchange contracts, to manage third party fund managers who return a transactions and only engage in the latter.
potential extreme movements in the target yield referenced to seven day US$ exchange rates that underlie our currency LIBID.
In addition to interest rate swaps, Treasury exposure.
It is our policy neither to engage we also use forward rate agreements to Our financial policies covering the in any speculative transactions nor to hedge manage any short term timing difference management of cash, borrowings and currency translation exposures arising from between the swapped debt interest foreign exchange are deliberately the consolidation of our non-US dollar expense and cash interest income.
During conservative and intended to support our subsidiaries.
Key controls, applied to 2004, interest rate swaps which partially objective of maintaining shareholder value transactions in derivative financial hedged the 2023 bond $300 million were by managing and controlling our financial instruments, are to use only instruments terminated and replaced with new swaps, risks.
Our treasury operations are where good market liquidity exists, to which hedged this bond more effectively.
conducted in accordance with policies revalue all financial instruments daily using and procedures approved by the Board.
current market rates and to sell options Credit exposure The treasury activities are managed only to offset previously purchased options.
Our exposure to financial counterparty centrally from London.
Over 90% of our The transaction exposures that arise from credit risk is controlled by our treasury team cash and short term investments are non-local currency intercompany sales centrally by establishing and monitoring managed directly from London where and transactions with third parties of our counterparty limits.
Our centrally managed possible and practicable.
With only limited subsidiaries are, where practicable, fully funds are invested almost entirely with and specifically approved exceptions, hedged using forward foreign exchange counterparties whose credit rating is A all currency and interest rate hedging is contracts and purchased currency options.
External fund managers which conducted from London.
Operating units Longer term forecast cash flow currency accounted for $2.5 billion of our cash are benefit from local currency billing which exposure is managed by forecasting cash rated AAA by Standard & Poor.
Trade has the effect of consolidating their foreign flows by major currency for 12 months debtor exposures are managed locally exchange exposures to central treasury.
forward on a monthly rolling basis.
In 2004 in the operating units where they arise.
we modified our policy whereby we now We are exposed to customers ranging Foreign exchange seek to limit the potential downside by from large private wholesalers to The US dollar is our most significant hedging 95% of these cash flows, using government backed agencies and the currency.
As a consequence, we have a mixture of purchased currency options underlying local economic and sovereign chosen to account for our results in US generally out of the money and forward risks vary throughout the world.
Where dollars and manage our exposures against exchange contracts.
This new policy only appropriate, we endeavour to minimise US dollars accordingly.
Approximately 55% hedges currency movements outside risks by the use of trade finance instruments of our sales in 2004 were denominated in specified limits: within these limits we are such as letters of credit and insurance.
currencies other than the US dollar, while a effectively unhedged.
significant proportion of our manufacturing Sensitivity analysis and R&D costs are denominated in sterling The sensitivity analysis, set out in this review on page 41, summarises the sensitivity of AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2004 43 the market value of our financial instruments especially subjective or due to their from sales contracts with managed to hypothetical changes in market rates and complexity.
We believe that the most critical care organisations and hospitals and prices.
Changes to the value of the financial accounting policies and significant areas from Medicaid best price contracts.
instruments are normally offset by our of judgement and estimation are in revenue The estimates are made on a customer underlying assets and liabilities.
The range recognition, research and development, by customer basis taking into account of variables chosen for the sensitivity goodwill and intangible assets, provisions specific contract provisions and are analysis reflects our view of changes which for contingent liabilities, post-retirement reviewed each month.
We believe are reasonably possible over a one year benefits, taxation and share-based that we have been reasonable in our period.
Market values are the present value compensation.
We believe these will estimates for future rebates using a of future cash flows based on market rates continue to be the critical accounting similar methodology to that of previous and prices at the valuation date.
Market policies when we transition to international years.
Inevitably, however, such values for interest rate risk are calculated accounting as discussed below, although estimates involve judgements on future using third party systems that model the the provisions of certain policies will change.
sales levels and the extent to which present value of the instruments based on customers will access different incentive the market conditions at the valuation date.
Experience has shown that For long term debt, a favourable change in Revenue represents sales of products net these estimates have been substantially market value for interest rate risk results in of estimated rebates to external third parties accurate in the past.
a decline in the absolute value of debt.
and excludes intercompany income and value added taxes.
We also receive income A further feature that significantly The sensitivity analysis on page 41 assumes from royalties and from sales of intellectual influenced our sales in the US market an instantaneous 100 basis point change property, brands and product lines which was wholesaler buying patterns.
in interest rates in all currencies from their are included in other operating income.
Wholesalers would place orders which levels at 31 December 2004, with all other were significantly larger than their variables held constant.
Because all our Sales of products to third parties: normal levels of demand ahead of debt was hedged effectively to floating rate Sales revenue is recorded as turnover anticipated price increases or would in 2004, changes in interest rates will not in our Financial Statements and valued seek to build up or run down their change the carrying value of debt after at the invoiced amount excluding sales stock levels for other reasons.
If such interest rate and currency swaps.
Based and value added taxes less estimated speculative orders were shipped shortly on the composition of our long term debt provisions for product returns and before a quarter or year end, revenue portfolio as at 31 December 2004 which is rebates given to managed care and could be recorded in the current predominantly floating rate, a 1% increase other customers a particular feature financial period in respect of the in interest rates would result in an additional in the US.
Cash discounts for prompt following periods underlying demand, $10 million in interest being incurred per payment are also deducted from sales.
distorting the financial results from one year.
The exchange rate sensitivity analysis Revenue is recognised when title period to the next.
During 2003, we on page 41 assumes an instantaneous 10% passes to the customer which is usually began negotiations with wholesalers change in foreign currency exchange rates either on shipment or on receipt of to enter into inventory management from their levels at 31 December 2004, with goods by the wholesaler depending agreements with the aim of minimising all other variables held constant.
The 10% on local trading terms.
Industry practice stock movements caused by case assumes a 10% strengthening of the in the US allows wholesalers and speculative purchasing.
These US dollar against all other currencies and pharmacies to return unused stocks negotiations continued in 2004 and the 10% case assumes a 10% weakening within six months of shelf-life expiry.
we now have agreements with 15 of the US dollar.
At point of sale, we estimate the wholesalers, providing more quantity and value of goods which predictability to shipments in the US.
Critical accounting policies may ultimately be returned.
Our We continue to track wholesaler stock returns provisions are based on actual levels by product, using our own and and estimates Our Financial Statements are prepared in experience over the preceding 12 wholesaler data and, where we believe accordance with accounting principles months, although in certain situations, such distortions occur, we disclose in generally accepted in the UK UK GAAP for example a new product launch the Annual Report for each product and the accounting policies employed are or at patent expiry, further judgement where shipments may be out of line set out under the heading Financial may be required.
When products face with underlying prescription trends.
Statements Accounting Policies on generic competition, we give particular We do not offer any incentives to pages 76 and 77.
In applying these policies, attention to the possible level of returns.
encourage wholesaler speculative we make estimates and assumptions that Overall, we believe that our estimates buying and attempt, where possible, affect the reported amounts of assets are reasonable.
to restrict shipments to underlying and liabilities and disclosure of contingent demand when such speculation occurs.
The actual outcome Similarly, at the time of invoicing sales, could differ from those estimates.
Some rebates which could be paid out over Royalty income: of these policies require a high level of the following six to nine months are Royalty income is recorded under other judgement, either because the areas are estimated.
These rebates typically arise operating income in the Financial AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 44 Form 20-F Information 2004 Financial Review continued Statements.
Royalties tend to be linked example, payments in respect of rights to Contingent liabilities to levels of sales or production by a a compound in early stage development In the normal course of business, third party.
At the time of preparing the would normally be expensed immediately contingent liabilities may arise from Financial Statements, we may have against income on the basis that, at this environmental liabilities connected with to estimate the third partys sales or point, the probability of the compound our current or former sites, from product production when arriving at the royalty successfully reaching the market place is specific and general legal proceedings, income to be included.
Payments in respect of rights to a or from guarantees.
Where we believe that estimates, which may differ from actual compound in late stages of development, potential liabilities have a low probability sales, do not result in a material impact however, or to one already being marketed, of crystallising or are very difficult to quantify on reported other operating income.
would probably be capitalised as an reliably, we treat these as contingent intangible asset see Goodwill and liabilities.
These are not provided for but Sales of intangible assets such as intangible assets below as the prospect are disclosed in the notes.
Further details intellectual property, brands, product of success is much greater.
On transition of these are set out in Note 30 to the lines and goodwill : to international accounting, more of these Financial Statements.
Although there can A consequence of charging all internal payments are likely to be capitalised.
be no assurance regarding the outcome of R&D expenditure to the profit and loss legal proceedings, we do not expect them account in the year that it is incurred Goodwill and intangible assets to have a materially adverse effect on our which is normal practice in the We have significant investments in goodwill financial position or profitability.
We also pharmaceutical industry is that we own and intangible assets as a result of have significant commitments which are valuable intangible assets which are not acquisitions of businesses and purchases not currently recognised in the balance recorded on the balance sheet.
We also of such assets as product development sheet arising from our relationship with own acquired intangible assets, which and marketing rights.
These are described more fully in may be included on the balance sheet these are amortised over their estimated Off-balance sheet transactions, contingent see Research and development useful lives.
Changes in these lives would liabilities and commitments below.
As a consequence of regular result in different effects on the profit and reviews of product strategy, from time loss account.
We estimate that a one year Post-retirement benefits to time we sell such assets and reduction in the estimated useful lives We account for the pension costs relating generate income.
In a simple situation, of goodwill and intangible assets would to the UK retirement plans under SSAP 24 the recognition of income may be easily increase the annual amortisation charge and under local accounting practices for defined but often the transfer of title by $25 million.
A substantial part of our non-UK subsidiaries due to the cost and can require ongoing commitment by us investments in intangible assets and difficulty of obtaining SSAP 24 information for example, ongoing manufacturing goodwill relates to the restructuring of the for non-UK schemes.
In all cases, the arrangements, technology transfer and Astra-Merck joint venture in 1998 and we pension costs are assessed in accordance transfer of product licences.
In these are satisfied that the carrying values are with the advice of independent qualified circumstances, the recognition of fully justified by estimated future earnings.
actuaries but require the exercise of revenue may be deferred over the Goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed significant judgement in relation to period of our ongoing commitment.
for impairment where there are indications assumptions for future salary and pension Profits or losses from the sale of product that their carrying values may not be increases, long term price inflation and related intangible assets are classified in recoverable and any impairments are investment returns.
SSAP 24 permits other operating income and are stated charged to the profit and loss account.
flexibility in the actuarial assumptions after taking account of product disposal Tests for impairment are based on and bases to be used and the application costs, the valuation of which includes discounted cash flow projections, which of different assumptions could have a a degree of judgement.
require us to estimate both probability significant effect on the amounts reflected adjusted future cash flows and an in the Financial Statements.
We consider Research and development appropriate risk-free discount rate.
that the assumptions and bases detailed Our business is underpinned by our Such estimates are inherently subjective.
in Note 28 to the Financial Statements are marketed products and development Other than the $10 million write-off in appropriate for the business.
The R&D expenditure to generate connection with Exanta, no impairments these products is charged to the profit and to goodwill or intangible assets were The off-balance sheet aspects of loss account in the year that it is incurred.
post-retirement benefits are discussed This policy is in line with practice adopted Under UK GAAP, the merger of Astra and on page 47. by all major pharmaceutical companies.
Zeneca in 1999 was recorded as a merger of equals pooling of interests.
Under US On pages 100 to 103, we also provide Purchase of, for example, intellectual GAAP, the merger has been accounted for additional disclosures in accordance with property and product rights to supplement as the acquisition of Astra by Zeneca as FRS 17.
Had FRS 17 been applied in 2004, our R&D portfolio can lead to differing discussed in more detail on page 125. the charge to profit and loss account for accounting treatment depending on our On transition to international accounting, the defined benefit schemes would have assessment of the nature of the acquisition goodwill amortisation will cease.
and the degree of risk involved.
For AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2004 45 FRS 17 became fully operational from 1 options granted and charge them against for the following ongoing payment and January 2005.
However, from that date income.
At present, US GAAP requires termination arrangements: the consolidated financial statements will some share option costs to be charged be prepared under international accounting to the profit and loss account and stipulates Annual contingent payments principles, as discussed on page 48. disclosure of the cost should all eligible Partial Redemption We intend to adopt the recently revised options be expensed as set out on page First Option provisions of the international post- 130.
Had a requirement to expense share Second Option retirement benefits standard which options been in place in 2004, we estimate are substantially the same as FRS 17. an additional charge of approximately In addition, included in the assets and $147 million would have arisen.
This charge liabilities covered by the Restructuring is Taxation has been calculated using the Blacka loan note receivable by us from Merck Accruals for tax contingencies require Scholes model as a valuation basis.
with a face value of $1.4 billion.
Each of management to make judgements and This would result in a charge to the profit these elements is discussed in further estimates in relation to tax audit issues and loss account but would have no impact detail below.
Amounts accrued are either on our net assets or on our current based on managements interpretation of or future cash flows.
Under the terms of the Restructuring, country specific tax law and the likelihood of the merger in 1999 between Astra and settlement.
Tax benefits are not recognised Off-balance sheet transactions, Zeneca triggered two one-time payments unless the tax positions are probable of from us to Merck: contingent liabilities and being sustained.
Once considered to be commitments probable, management reviews each Details of our contingent liabilities and a Lump Sum Payment of $809 million, material tax benefit to assess whether a commitments are set out in Note 30 to which was charged to the profit and provision should be taken against full the Financial Statements.
We have no loss account, as a result of which Merck recognition of the benefit on the basis of off-balance sheet entities and our hedging relinquished any claims to Zeneca potential settlement through negotiation activities are non-speculative.
The table products: and and or litigation.
All such provisions are below sets out our minimum contractual included in creditors due within one year.
obligations at the year end.
an Advance Payment of $967 million.
Any interest on tax liabilities is provided for This Advance Payment was calculated in the tax charge.
Arrangements with Merck as the then net present value of $2.8 Introduction billion discounted from 2008 to the date Deferred tax asset valuation allowances are In 1982, Astra AB set up a joint venture of payment at a rate of 13% per annum made where it is more likely than not that with Merck & Co. Inc. for the purposes of and caused Merck to relinquish any the asset will not be realised in the future.
selling, marketing and distributing certain rights, including contingent payments These valuations require judgements to Astra products in the US.
In 1998, this on future sales, to Astra products with be made including the forecast of future joint venture was restructured the no existing or pending US patents at taxable income.
Under the Restructuring, the time of the merger.
As the Advance a US limited partnership, in which Merck Payment provides us with relief from Share-based compensation is the limited partner and we are the general future payments on these products Through the Remuneration Committee we partner, was set up and we obtained control and relieves us also of any other offer share options to certain employees as of the joint ventures business subject potential obligations or restrictions in part of their compensation and benefits to certain limited partner and other rights respect of these products, this amount packages, designed to improve alignment held by Merck and its affiliates.
These rights has been capitalised as an intangible of the interests of employees with provide Merck with safeguards over the asset and is being amortised over 20 shareholders.
Details of these are given activities of the partnership and place some years.
The Advance Payment is subject in Note 29 to the Financial Statements.
limitations over our discretion to operate to a true-up in 2008, as discussed On transition to international accounting with complete commercial freedom.
in 2005, we will be required to value share The Restructuring agreements provide Contractual obligations Payments due by period Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years Over 5 years Total $m $m $m $m $m Bank loans and other borrowings 142 1,030 1,172 Operating leases 112 108 63 69 352 Merck arrangements 205 450 4,677 5,332 Other 298 298 Total 757 558 4,740 1,099 7,154 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 46 Form 20-F Information 2004 Financial Review continued Annual contingent payments In addition, in 2008 there will be a true-up Accounting treatment We make ongoing payments to Merck of the Advance Payment.
The calculation The precise amount of settlements with based on sales of certain of our products of this will be based on a multiple of the Merck under the Partial Redemption, the in the US the contingent payments on the average annual contingent payments from First Option and the true-up of the Advance agreement products.
As a result of the 2005 to 2007 in respect of all the agreement Payment cannot be determined at this time.
1999 merger, these contingent payments products with the exception of Prilosec and The Partial Redemption and true-up are excluding those in respect of Prilosec Nexium subject to a minimum of $6.6 calculated based, in part, on trading and Nexium cannot be less than annual billion, plus other defined amounts totalling performance between 2005 and 2007, and minimum sums between 2002 and 2007 $912 million.
It is then reduced by the payment of the First Option is contingent ranging from $125 million to $225 million.
Appraised Value whether paid or not, upon Merck or us exercising the First Our payments have exceeded the minimum the Partial Redemption and the Advance Option.
If Merck exercises the First Option level in 2002 to 2004 and we have no Payment at its undiscounted amount in 2008, the net minimum payment to be reason to believe that the annual payments of $2.8 billion to determine the true-up made to Merck, being the combined in the future will fall below the minimum amount.
The true-up will be settled in 2008 payments of $4.7 billion less the repayment obligations.
irrespective of whether the First Option is of the loan note of $1.4 billion, would be exercised and this could result in a further $3.3 billion.
Partial Redemption payment by us to Merck or a payment In 2008, there will be a partial redemption of by Merck to us.
In accounting for the Restructuring in Mercks limited partnership interest which 1998, the loan note was included in the will end Mercks interests including rights to Should Merck exercise the First Option determination of the fair values of the assets contingent payments in respect of certain in 2008, we will make payments in respect and liabilities to be acquired.
The loan of the agreement products by distribution of the Partial Redemption, the First Option note was ascribed a fair value of zero to Merck of an amount calculated as a and the true-up totalling a minimum of on acquisition and on the balance sheet multiple of the average annual contingent $4.7 billion.
If we exercise the First Option because we estimate that the net payments from 2005 to 2007 on the in 2010, the combined effect will involve minimum payment of $3.3 billion equated relevant products, plus $750 million.
a minimum aggregate amount payable to the fair value of the trading rights to be to Merck in 2008 and 2010 of the same acquired under the Partial Redemption Marketed products covered by the Partial amount.
Redemption include Toprol-XL, Pulmicort and Rhinocort.
The Partial Redemption Loan note receivable We consider that the payments described will also end Mercks interest in Symbicort, In 2008, at the same time as the settlement under the headings above, including the which is not yet launched in the US.
of the Partial Redemption and the true-up, Second Option, represent the acquisition Merck will settle the loan note receivable of future trading rights which will terminate First Option by paying us $1.4 billion.
Mercks interests in the agreement products In 2008, a calculation will be made of the including their rights to contingent Appraised Value, being the net present Second Option payments and which will provide us with value of the future contingent payments A Second Option exists whereby we have unencumbered discretion in our operations in respect of all agreement products not the option to re-purchase Mercks interests in the US market.
Mercks interests will only covered by the Partial Redemption, other in Prilosec and Nexium in the US.
This be terminated as and when the payments than Prilosec and Nexium.
Payment of option is exercisable by us two years after are made and, accordingly, the acquisition this amount to Merck in 2008 is, however, the exercise of the First Option, whether of these trading rights will only be reflected contingent on Mercks exercise of the First the First Option is exercised in either 2008 in the Financial Statements at that point.
Exercise of the First Option will or 2010.
Exercise of the Second Option The trading rights will be accounted for require us to buy out Mercks interest in by us at a later date is also provided for in under the extant guidance when the these products at the Appraised Value.
2017 or if combined annual sales of the payments are made, with allocations to Should Merck not exercise this option two products fall below a minimum amount intangibles and goodwill, as appropriate.
in 2008, we may exercise it in 2010 for a provided, in each case, that the First Option sum equal to the 2008 Appraised Value.
The exercise price As noted, the calculation of the purchase If neither Merck nor we exercise the option, for the Second Option is the fair value of price of the trading rights is based partially the contingent payment arrangements these product rights as determined at the on the contingent payments made in 2005 in respect of these agreement products time of exercise.
to 2007 subject to the minimum amount will continue as will our other potential and is likely to be substantially driven by the obligations and restrictions in respect of If the Second Option is exercised, Merck sales of Toprol-XL, Pulmicort, Rhinocort these products and the Appraised Value will relinquish all its interests including rights and Atacand.
However, we anticipate that will not be paid.
to contingent payments in our products.
the benefits that accrue to us from these payments will begin to be realised from Products covered by the First Option include Atacand, Plendil, Exanta and Lexxel, plus certain compounds still in development.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2004 47 2008 onwards based on contributions from Investment and liability decisions are based Taxation those products that have already been on underlying actuarial and economic We have various contingent tax liabilities.
launched for example, Rhinocort and circumstances with the intention of ensuring Details of material contingent tax Atacand, those that are due to be launched that the schemes have sufficient assets liabilities are: in the US in particular, Symbicort and to meet liabilities as they fall due, rather those that are in development.
We have made certain double taxation This actuarial approach tends to produce relief claims in accordance with our Our ongoing monitoring of the projected less volatility than is likely under FRS 17. understanding of existing law.
We payments to Merck and the value to us of As noted above, we will adopt provisions understand that other taxpayers have the related trading rights takes full account under the equivalent international standard recently been denied credit for foreign of changing business circumstances and on post-retirement benefits which are similar taxes in similar claims.
The estimated the range of possible outcomes to ensure to FRS 17. tax exposure provided for in respect that the payments to be made to Merck are of this issue is $197 million although covered by the benefits expected to be The overall deficit in the major defined the potential additional losses above realised by us.
Should our monitoring reveal benefit schemes increased from $1,521 and beyond the amount provided are that these payments exceed the benefits million at 31 December 2003 to $1,703 estimated to be up to $130 million: expected to be realised, we will recognise million at 31 December 2004.
This increase however, we believe that it is unlikely a provision for an onerous contract.
is due primarily to the effects of changes that these additional losses will arise.
in underlying assumptions with regard to We expect a definitive ruling or The annual contingent payments scheme liabilities.
For example, in the clarification of law on the availability of on agreement products are expensed largest scheme, in the UK, plan assets credit for foreign taxes in the next 12 as incurred.
have increased in sterling from 2,385 months.
Until these cases are resolved million to 2,564 million, reflecting strong either in Court or through clarification Post-retirement benefits performance.
Liabilities have increased of existing law, there is some risk that We offer post-retirement benefit plans from 2,875 million to 3,112 million with credits may not be allowed giving rise which cover many of our employees around changes in assumptions contributing to effective double taxation.
In keeping with local terms and significantly to this rise.
As a result, the event, we will seek relief under the conditions, most of these plans are defined deficit has risen by 58 million from 490 relevant double tax treaty.
contribution in nature where the resulting million to 548 million.
Exchange effects profit and loss account charge is fixed at have exacerbated these underlying effects We face a number of transfer pricing a set level or is a set percentage of in our reported US dollar amounts such audits in jurisdictions around the world.
However, several plans, that the corresponding increase in the UK The issues under audit are often mainly in the UK, which has by far the fund deficit is approximately $185 million.
complex and can require many years largest single scheme, the US and Sweden, At the last actuarial valuation at 31 March to resolve.
Accruals for tax are defined benefit plans where benefits 2004, the market value of the UK funds contingencies require us to make are based on employees length of service assets was 2,453 million, representing estimates and judgements with respect and final pensionable pay.
The UK and US a solvency ratio of 96.1% on the funds to the ultimate outcome of a tax audit schemes were closed to new entrants in liabilities.
The trustee manages both and actual results could vary from these 2000.
All new employees in these countries investments and liabilities closely and estimates.
The total accrual included are offered defined contribution schemes.
follows a strategy of awarding mandates in the financial statements to cover the to specialist, active investment managers.
worldwide exposure to transfer pricing Under FRS 17, the disclosures on page 101 audits is $400 million.
It is not possible highlight a deficit of $1,183 million, after to estimate any additional exposure that deferred tax, for the major Group postmay arise or the timing of tax cash flows retirement defined benefit schemes.
FRS 17 in relation to each outcome.
prescribes detailed rules for the calculation of scheme assets and liabilities and indicates New accounting standards the net accounting surplus or deficit that New UK or US applicable accounting exists at the balance sheet date.
Fluctuations standards which have been issued both in investment conditions and or FRS 17 adopted and not yet adopted are discussed prescribed assumptions can result in on pages 70 and 126 respectively.
significant volatility in the surplus or deficit.
Pension and other post-retirement schemes, The Accounting Standards Board has however, are managed over the long term.
issued a number of Financial Reporting Standards in 2004, many designed to align UK GAAP with international accounting.
Because of our transition to international accounting, discussed below, we will not be required to adopt these standards.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 48 Form 20-F Information 2004 Financial Review continued International accounting 2004 2003 Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 Net assets $m $m Under European legislation, we are required As a consequence of our listing on the to adopt International Financial Reporting New York Stock Exchange, AstraZeneca UK GAAP 14,519 13,257 Standards IFRSs and International is required to comply with those provisions Share-based payments 1 19 Accounting Standards IASs in the of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable Employee benefits 1,435 1,242 preparation of our Financial Statements to foreign issuers.
Section 404 of this Business combinations 106 57 from 2005 onwards.
Extensive work has legislation requires companies annually to been undertaken by the international assess and make public statements about Financial instruments 28 134 standard setter, the International the quality and effectiveness of their internal Income tax 128 8 Accounting Standards Board IASB, over control over financial reporting.
As a non-US Dividend 1,061 914 the past three years to improve existing company, AstraZeneca is first required Others 112 78 standards and develop new ones.
to report formally on its compliance with Application of a particular standard issued section 404 in respect of its financial year IFRS IAS 14,518 13,209 by the IASB by us is dependent on the ending 31 December 2005.
However we European Union EU endorsing that have already started preparations and standard.
The work of the IASB and the EU The major areas of ongoing impact on our initiated an internal project to review our in development and endorsement is now net profit and shareholders funds are likely readiness for compliance and to make largely complete and, except as disclosed to continue to be share-based payments, improvements to our internal control over below, the standards that we will apply from goodwill amortisation and deferred tax.
The reconciliation from UK GAAP income in 2004 was also impacted by one-off gains The project is being centrally directed Our project to manage the transition on financial instruments that have been and is being reviewed regularly by the of financial reporting from UK GAAP to recognised in earlier years under IFRS IAS.
Senior Executive Team and by the Audit international accounting has completed Committee.
Our external auditor, KPMG the majority of its work.
This work has Further details can be found on pages 139 Audit Plc, is involved, helping us to included assessing the impacts of individual to 146 and on our website, astrazeneca.
understand the standards we will be standards on financial information, The information was prepared on the basis required to meet by the end of 2005. providing comprehensive training to all our of our best understanding of the standards Our Audit Committee continues to monitor finance staff and appropriate non-finance endorsed by the EU that we will be subject KPMGs involvement to ensure the personnel and restating our financial data.
At present, the amendment to the independence of our external auditor In the case of the latter work, on 25 October international standard on post-retirement is not impaired.
2004 we published information with regard benefits, IAS 19, to allow full recognition to 2003 and the first half of 2004, whilst of actuarial gains and losses in reserves Our approach to the project has been on 27 January 2005, we issued data on has not been endorsed by the EU.
to select key transaction and financial the remainder of 2004.
The changes in Neither has the standard on share-based reporting processes in our largest operating income and net assets from UK GAAP payments, IFRS 2.
Similarly, changes units and a number of specialist areas such to international accounting can be in 2005 to the international standard on as financial consolidation and reporting, summarised as follows: recognition and measurement of financial treasury operations and taxation so that, instruments, IAS 39, may allow us to in aggregate, we have covered a significant use the fair value option for certain of proportion of each of the key line items in 2004 2003 our liabilities, if issued and endorsed.
Each of these Income $m $m The effects of having to change our operating units has ensured that its relevant UK GAAP 3,831 3,059 assumptions as a result of developments in-scope processes and controls are in these areas are not significant.
formally documented to the standards Share-based payments 167 136 required by the SEC, taking into account Employee benefits 15 the guidance provided by the US Public Business combinations 49 59 Company Accounting Oversight Boards Financial instruments 128 16 Auditing Standard No.
This phase of the project has largely been completed Income tax 66 82 although the ongoing requirements of Others 19 3 section 404 mean that we will need to IFRS IAS 3,670 3,036 institutionalise procedures to ensure that, henceforth, our documentation remains up-to-date at all times.
We have started the initial testing of these controls to satisfy ourselves as to their AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2004 49 Sales by therapy area 2003 and 2002 2003 2002 2003 compared to 2002 Growth due to Growth exchange Growth Growth underlying effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m %% Cardiovascular 3,910 92 249 3,569 310 Gastrointestinal 5,943 1,026 305 6,664 16 11 Infection 476 10 26 440 28 Neuroscience 2,833 289 126 2,418 12 17 Oncology 2,743 177 197 2,369 816 Respiratory and Inflammation 2,261 275 168 1,818 15 24 Other pharma 152 75 12 65 115 134 Others 531 2 35 498 7 Total 18,849 110 1,118 17,841 6 Sales by growth, patent expiry and base products 2003 and 2002 2003 2002 2003 compared to 2002 Growth due to Growth exchange Growth Growth underlying effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m %% Growth 8,244 2,435 413 5,396 45 53 Patent expiry 3,221 3,019 260 5,980 50 46 Base 7,384 474 445 6,465 714 Total 18,849 110 1,118 17,841 6 Atacand, Arimidex, Casodex, Crestor, Faslodex, Iressa, Nexium, Seroquel, Symbicort and Zomig Losec, Zestril and Nolvadex operational effectiveness.
Where the for AstraZeneca to review thoroughly Underlying performance documentation phase has indicated that its internal control environment and Sales controls are missing or not fully effective, to ensure that our operating units After the effects of changing product mix, we have planned remediation work as throughout the Group are using costand excluding the effects of exchange, necessary.
Similarly, if the results of our effective best practice.
our underlying sales remained virtually testing indicate that the controls are not unchanged.
Our sales performance was fully operational or that evidence of their The following information is provided affected by the loss of $3,019 million operation is lacking, we are building in accordance with US requirements.
underlying sales in Losec Prilosec, Zestril necessary remediation into the plans.
We and Nolvadex which was compensated plan to have remediation of key controls Results of operations by strong performances elsewhere in the substantially complete by mid-2005 to allow portfolio.
In particular, underlying sales summary analysis of year time for the controls to be operational and for key growth and launch products to 31 December 2003 to be formally tested by both management The tables on pages 49 and 50 show our increased by $2,435 million up 45% and our auditors in the second half of 2005. sales by therapy area and by growth patent to $8,244 million.
expiry base products and operating profit Our work has shown that, whilst most for 2003 compared to 2002.
Gastrointestinal was still our largest therapy controls function appropriately, some areas area, accounting for over 31% of total sales: require additional work and improvement.
Reported performance continued strong growth from Nexium We do not believe that any of these Our sales increased by 6% compared restricted the declines seen in the identified areas constitute a material to 2002, rising from $17,841 million to Losec Prilosec area.
In Cardiovascular, weakness nor do we anticipate that they $18,849 million.
Operating profit before Crestor and Seloken Toprol-XL sales more will affect our 2005 year end assessment exceptional items fell from $4,356 million than offset the 50% decline in Zestril sales of the effectiveness of our internal controls to $4,111 million, a decrease of 6%.
resulting in an overall underlying over financial reporting.
Oncology sales 2003 saw our portfolio transformation increased by 8% with Arimidex, Iressa and Clearly there are significant costs, both substantially completed.
We absorbed the Casodex all mitigating the fall in Nolvadex financial and time, involved in this project full year effects of generic competition for sales.
Neuroscience growth was 12% and the future compliance with section 404.
Losec Prilosec, Zestril and Nolvadex and driven by a 27% increase in Seroquel sales Nevertheless, we regard it as an opportunity launched Crestor.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 50 Form 20-F Information 2004 Financial Review continued Operating profit 2003 and 2002 2003 2002 2003 compared to 2002 Growth due to Growth exchange Growth Growth underlying effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m %% Sales 18,849 110 1,118 17,841 6 Cost of sales 4,469 211 160 4,520 5 1 Other operating costs 10,469 537 724 9,208 6 14 Other operating income 200 55 12 243 23 18 Operating profit 4,111 491 246 4,356 11 6 whilst Respiratory and Inflammation gross margin, the effect was negative Financial position including performance improved by 15% with on SG&A and R&D costs.
Gross margin cash flow and liquidity the most significant performance from increased 1.6 percentage points from The net book value of our assets increased Symbicort.
74.7% to 76.3% as a result of three factors from $11,226 million at 31 December 2002 reduced payments to Merck following the to $13,257 million at 31 December 2003.
Although wholesaler stocking patterns had lower proportion of sales of Merck-linked The increase was driven by the net profit for an impact on the quarterly phasing of sales products improved margin by 1.7 the year of $3,036 million and consolidation in 2003, for the year as a whole we estimate percentage points: underlying costs of sales translation gains of $1,427 million, offset that changes in excess wholesaler stocks declined by 0.7 percentage points, and the by re-purchases of shares and the 2003 had little or no effect on sales growth.
remainder was due to exchange benefits.
dividends, amounting to $1,154 million and These factors were marginally offset $1,350 million, respectively.
We discuss the performances of the by a provision for disposal of a surplus therapy areas and the individual products in manufacturing facility.
Cash flow those areas in more detail in the appropriate Before exceptional cash expenditure, sections of the Operational Review.
In aggregate R&D and SG&A grew by we generated $4,617 million cash inflow 5.8%, in underlying terms, with currency from operations in 2003, lower than the Geographic analysis movements adding 8%.
Against unchanged corresponding figure of $5,686 million In the US, sales declined by 6% for the sales, both R&D and SG&A increased as in 2002.
Lower profits after depreciation full year but, excluding the three products a percentage of sales and exchange added and amortisation addbacks accounted which faced generic erosion 0.6 percentage points to these lines in for $85 million but the major effects were Losec Prilosec, Zestril and Nolvadex combination.
R&D increased 1.1 from significant working capital outflows, increased 36%.
Growth products with percentage points to 18.3% with spending particularly from debtors and creditors.
strong performances included Nexium, including several up-front payments on Expenditure on exceptional items was Seloken Toprol-XL and Seroquel: Iressa collaboration agreements.
SG&A grew by higher than in 2002 due to the cash and Crestor were launched in the US in 2.8 percentage points to 36.4% as a result settlement of the US Department of Justice 2003.
Sales in Europe increased 2% for of the launches of Crestor and some field investigation into Zoladex.
Tax cash the full year, as strong sales growth for force increases in Europe and Japan.
outflows were $886 million including the Nexium, Symbicort, Seroquel and the transfer pricing settlement concluded in oncology products more than offset Other income was $43 million lower the year whilst cash inflows from interest declines in Losec Prilosec, Zestril and principally due to the gain on disposal improved to $76 million.
Sales volumes increased by 5% of Sular in the first quarter of 2002. remaining cash in continuing our share but overall prices were lower by 3%.
re-purchase programme, continued Net interest and dividend income was investment in fixed assets slightly higher Sales in Japan were up 14% for the full year, $91 million, benefiting in comparison with than 2002 at $1,635 million after the as a result of increases in Losec Prilosec, 2002 as several small exchange and market investment in Abgenix of $100 million Seroquel and a strong oncology portfolio.
revaluation losses were absent in 2003. and dividends $1,222 million.
As a result, our net cash outflow before non-equity We discuss the geographic performances Excluding exceptional items, the effective financing was $430 million compared to in more detail in the appropriate sections tax rate for the full year 2003 was 27.2% an inflow in 2002 of $902 million.
The increase in the effective rate reflected a Investments, divestments and capital Operating margin and retained profit change in the mix of countries where profit expenditure Underlying operating profit declined by was earned.
During the year a transfer There were no significant acquisitions 11%.
Operating margin fell from 24.4% pricing agreement was reached between or disposals in 2003 or 2002.
Currency had a neutral effect the US and UK governments for the years expenditure in 2003 on fixed assets on operating margin.
Although positive on 1987 to 2001. including intangible assets, goodwill and fixed asset investments totalled AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2004 51 $1,597 million net of disposals of expired products.
Net income and earnings Operating activities in 2003 resulted in a $38 million.
This expenditure was broadly per share were largely unchanged from cash inflow of $3,416 million, down from similar to 2003 expenditure of 2002 at $2,268 million and $1.33, $4,833 million in 2002.
Working capital $1,543 million net of $66 million disposals.
Higher amortisation and increases and exceptional item costs share-based payment charges and lower primarily the Zoladex investigation US GAAP information gains from deferred income and derivative settlement were the main reasons behind financial instruments were offset by lower the decline.
Total cash outflow in respect of 2002 2004 Our Financial Statements have been tax and the absence of the Zoladex investing activities was $746 million: inflows prepared in accordance with UK GAAP exceptional costs.
from liquidation of short term investments which differs in certain significant respects of $771 million and the sale of Marlow from US GAAP.
In particular, under US Further details of the impact of the Foods reduced the costs of fixed asset GAAP, the AstraZeneca merger has been differences between UK GAAP and US investing of $1,597 million.
The financing accounted for as a purchase accounting GAAP are set out in the Additional outflows represented absorption of funds acquisition of Astra AB Astra by Zeneca Information for US Investors on pages in respect of dividends $1,222 million, Group PLC Zeneca.
Although there are 125 to 135. share re-purchases $1,107 million and several differences between our net income loan repayments of $345 million.
and assets under UK and US GAAP, the Taxation difference in accounting for the merger Taxation in 2004 amounted to $881 million, In 2002, operating activities produced cash with Astra represents substantially all of an effective rate of 22.4% compared to inflows of $4,833 million after tax outflows the adjustments.
29.8% in 2003. of $795 million and interest inflows of $46 million.
There was a cash outflow in Results of continuing operations The gain on the sale of Advanta together respect of investing activities of $2,349 US GAAP with tax relief of $9 million on associated million, reflecting further investment in short costs, tax credits on the Zoladex settlement term investments and fixed deposits.
2004 compared with 2003 and reversal of deferred tax on rolled over Financing cash outflows absorbed $2,506 Sales increased to $21,426 million capital gains reduced the rate.
million through the share re-purchase in 2004 from $18,849 million in 2003. programme $1,154 million and dividends Improvements in revenues from growth In 2003 the total taxation amounted to $1,234 million.
products exceeded the declines in expiry $965 million compared to $1,035 million, products whilst base products remained an effective rate of 30% compared to 31% Net assets flat resulting in an underlying 9% increase in 2002.
Under US GAAP, net assets are significantly in sales.
These higher sales together with higher than under UK GAAP because the higher other income including the gain Cash flow merger between Astra and Zeneca has from the sale of Advanta more than Operating activities contributed $4,842 been regarded as a purchase of Astra.
compensated for the increased levels of million cash in 2004, an increase of $1,426 Goodwill on the acquisition of Astra costs resulting in net income before tax million over 2003.
This improvement was amounted to $15.1 billion up from the 2003 improving from $3,233 million in 2003 to a reflection of improved profitability and balance of $14.3 billion due to exchange $3,932 million in 2004.
Earnings per share working capital management countered by whilst adjustments to fixed assets both rose from $1.33 in 2003 to $1.82 in 2004. higher tax payments.
The cash was utilised tangible and intangible fell through in increasing investing activities in short depreciation and amortisation from The annual impairment tests on our US term and fixed deposits $862 million $7.7 billion to $7.0 billion.
Under US GAAP, GAAP goodwill balances resulted in no together with capital expenditure and our net assets totalled $35.3 billion at 31 impairments at 31 December 2004. acquisition and disposals net $910 million, December 2004 and comprised of $17.4 after receipts of $355 million on Advanta billion fixed assets, $16.1 billion goodwill 2003 compared with 2002 and Durascan.
Financing outflows and $13.7 billion current assets whilst Sales from continuing operations rose from remained at similar levels to 2003, but this total liabilities amounted to $12.1 billion.
Strong was the net effect of new loan proceeds performances from key growth and launch of $725 million and increased returns to products, together with exchange effects, shareholders through share re-purchases compensated for lost sales from patent and dividends totalling $3,488 million.
Income, shareholders equity and cash flow under US GAAP 2004 2003 2002 $m $m $m Operating income 3,932 3,233 3,342 Net income for the year 3,051 2,268 2,307 Shareholders equity 35,314 33,654 30,183 Increase decrease in cash 309 4 22
