Operating and financial review Summary Regulatory requirements Lines of business, products and locations The Department of Trade and Industry in the UK has Hanson is one of the worlds leading heavy building proposed new regulations for Operating and Financial materials companies.
Our core products are aggregates, Reviews.
Hanson intends to adopt the proposed regulations primarily crushed rock and sand and gravel, and building when further clarification is issued.
products, principally concrete pipe and products, and bricks.
Our main markets are the USA, the UK and Australia.
Our 2004 Annual Report includes certain additional information required by the Securities and Exchange Economic factors Commission SEC from public companies listed in the The key drivers of demand for our products are USA as this document also acts as the groups Form 20-F. demographics, population growth, economic activity and Accordingly, this document contains additional disclosure infrastructure spend.
Our products are used in housing, notes to those required under the Companies Act in the UK.
infrastructure and commercial and industrial projects.
In addition, we present a reconciliation of profit prepared Our customers are primarily from the public and private under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP as sectors of the construction and building materials industry.
applied in the UK to net income as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
This, along with reconciliations of shareholders Earnings and cash generation equity, earnings per share and an explanation of the key Our operations generate earnings and produce cash differences between UK and US GAAP, is disclosed in note ows by selling products and services to our customers, 33 of the Notes to the accounts.
A cross reference to Form by closely managing margins and by focusing on operating 20-F requirements is provided on page 106. costs.
Part of the operating cash ow is re-invested in the business to maintain plant and equipment, improve Denitions and interpretations efficiency and reduce cost.
Heritage operations References to heritage operations in the Operating and Opportunities and risks financial review section describe businesses that the group Our cash ow provides the opportunity to grow through has owned for more than 12 months.
Acquisitions in this bolt-on acquisitions, and to return cash to shareholders section refer to businesses which we have owned for less through dividends and capital returns as appropriate.
This denition of an acquisition is not the Risks include adverse changes to economic conditions, same as that contained within Financial Reporting Standard 3 government spending, weather, increased input costs and Reporting Financial Performance FRS 3, which defines adverse changes in foreign currency translation.
Hanson a business as an acquisition only for the financial period in is also subject to litigation risk, including asbestos claims which it is purchased, even if this is only a short time before against several of its US subsidiaries.
the end of the financial year.
In the profit and loss account and the Notes to the accounts, newly acquired businesses 2004 performance and 2005 outlook are presented as acquisitions, in accordance with the profit before taxation was 336.8m in 2004, 5.6% ahead FRS 3 denition above.
We believe that the non-FRS 3 of 2003.
Operating cash ow was 559.1m, 4.2% ahead of denitions of heritage businesses and acquisitions assist 2003.
Hanson anticipates further progress in 2005 and will the readers of this document in comparing the year-on-year continue with a focused strategy of organic and acquisitive performance of the groups underlying businesses from growth and financial discipline.
contributions of its newly acquired businesses.
Hanson also applies these non-FRS 3 denitions internally.
Exceptional items Under UK GAAP, the group is required to report separately items which are considered unusual due to their size or nature.
These items are described as exceptional items and the group identies them clearly on the face of the profit and loss account.
Exceptional items are classed as both operating and non-operating in nature.
Non-operating items include costs of resolving asbestos claims because they relate to activities of certain US subsidiaries which are no longer undertaken by the current business.
The majority of the groups other exceptional items reported in these financial statements are non-cash and non-trading in nature.
The group adopts the same presentation when it analyses its results.
Including joint-ventures and associates and pre-exceptional items 8 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Free cash ow Operating profit The groups free cash ow determines how much Hanson assesses the performance of its divisions internally discretionary spend is available for capital expenditure, using operating profit.
This includes income from the sale of acquisitions and returning capital to shareholders.
Free surplus properties, but is before interest and corporate costs, cash ow is dened as net cash ow arising from operating which the group does not allocate to its operating divisions.
activities, less net cash ows from returns on investments As such, references to divisions profit in this document and servicing of finance and taxation, as disclosed in under both UK and US GAAP, always refer to operating accordance with FRS 1 Cash ow statements revised profit.
A summary of cash ow is provided on page 26 of the Operating and financial review, which reconciles Property disposals free cash ow to net cash inow from operating activities.
The groups operating results include 21.4m 6.6m, 11.5m of profits from the disposal of properties.
The sale of Notes to accounts properties surplus to the groups requirements is an ongoing References to Notes to the accounts in this document aspect of our business.
Property income is included within are references to the notes to the consolidated financial each divisions operating profit and is detailed on page 54. statements contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F on pages 54 to 93.
Pensions An increase in the groups pension charge of 5.6m was Turnover incurred in 2004 consisting mainly of increased costs of Turnover for the year including joint-ventures and 13.8m in the UK and a 8.9m reduction in the USA.
Acquisitions Impact of currency movements contributed 27.9m to turnover, with adverse currency The US dollar rate used by Hanson to translate its North movements during the year reducing 2004 turnover by American revenues and profits into sterling moved from $1.63 202.0m.
The groups turnover from continuing operations in 2003 to $1.83 in 2004.
This had a significant effect on the including joint-ventures and associates was 3,781.4m groups sterling profits.
The table below shows the groups 3,781.6m, 3,688.0m, in line with 2003. profits on a constant currency basis, by restating its 2003 and 2002 profits at the 2004 exchange rates.
Currency movements reduced the sterling group operating profit by 20.3m, of which 18.6m relates to the movement in the US dollar.
