FINANCIAL SUMMARY Financial Highlights 2004 2003 million million Groupturnover....................................................... 1,248.5 1,178.9 Profitbefore taxation: ...................... 278.4 242.2 After ....................... 177.9 230.1 Adjusted basicearningsper OrdinaryShare EPSA......................... 21.14p 18.49p Basicearningsper OrdinaryShare........................................ 13.39p 15.92p Dividendsper OrdinaryShare........................................... 5.10p 4.95p 2004 Dividends The recommended final dividend of 3.20p per share together with the interim dividend of 1.90p makes a total for 2004 of 5.10p.
Approval by shareholders of the 2004 final dividend will be sought at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 5 May 2005.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 13 May 2005 to shareholders on the register at the closeofbusiness on22April2005.
Presentation Smith & Nephew believes that the reporting of profit and earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items provides additional information on underlying returns and trends to shareholders.
The Groups internal financial reporting focuses primarily on profit and earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items which are the key performance indicators used in budgets, monthly reporting, forecasts, long-term planning and incentive plans.
For this purpose exceptional items comprise operating exceptional items, share of exceptional items of joint venture and net profit on disposal of discontinued operations and associated undertaking.
Throughout this document earnings per share calculated in this way is termed adjusted basic earnings per Ordinary Share EPSA.
The calculation of profit before goodwill amortisation and EPSA is set out in the Five Year Record page 140.
Managements key indicator of sales performance is underlying growth in sales.
This is calculated by excluding the effects of foreign currency translation movements and acquisitions.
Management believes that sales growth on an underlying basis provides a consistent year-on-year measurement of performance without the distortions created by the translation effect of foreign currency movements and acquisitions which are separate from the Groups normal operations.
Underlying sales growth is used by management in its internal financial reporting, budgetingandplanning.
The Group, as an international business, operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies.
The results of the Group, as reported in Sterling, are therefore affected by movements in exchange rates between Sterling and overseas currencies.
The Group uses the average exchange rates prevailing during the year to translate the results of overseas companies into Sterling.
The currencies which most influence these translations are the US Dollar and the Euro.
During 2004 average Sterling exchange rates were strongeragainst the US Dollarby12% andstrongeragainst the Euroby2%, comparedwith2003.
The Group Accounts of Smith & Nephew in this Annual Report are presented in Sterling.
Solely for the convenience of the reader, certain parts of this Annual Report contain translations of amounts in Sterling into US Dollars at specified rates.
These translations should not be construed as representations that the Sterling amounts actually represent such US Dollar amounts or could be converted into US Dollars at the rate indicated.
Except as where stated otherwise the translation of pounds SterlingandpencetoUS Dollarsandcents appearing in this Annual Report has been made at the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers in Sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate on the date indicated.
On28February2005, the NoonBuyingRate was US$1.925 per 1.
TheAccountsofthe  are presented inmillions m unless otherwiseindicated.
2 Special Note Regarding  The Groups reports filed with, or furnished to, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, includingthis document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, statements regarding planned growth in our business and in our operating margins discussed under Outlook and Trend Information are forward-looking statements as are discussions of our product pipeline and discussions of the costs of future revisions of the macrotextured knee product under Recent Developments, Legal Proceedings and Operating and Financial Review, Liquidity and Prospects.
When used in this Annual Report, the words aim, anticipate, believe, consider, estimate, expect, intend, plan, well-placed, target and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors including, but not limited to, the outcome of litigation and regulatory approvals that could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Smith & Nephew, or industry results, to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Specificrisksfaced bythe Groupare described underRiskFactors onpage 23ofthisAnnualReport.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are based on information available to Smith & Nephew as of 8 March 2005.
All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Smith & Nephew or any person acting on behalf of Smith & Nephew are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing.
Smith & Nephew does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in Smith & Nephews expectation with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or  isbased.
Market Data Market data and market share estimates throughout this report are derived from a variety of sources including publicly available competitors information, internal management information and independent market research reports.
