C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 17 Financial review Basis of reporting and discussion %%%% NetherUnited Our accounting policies are based on United Kingdom generally UK lands States Germany accepted accounting principles GAAP and UK and Netherlands law.
These differ in certain respects from United States GAAP.
The Discount rate 5.3 4.5 5.7 4.5 Ination assumption 2.8 1.8 2.5 1.8 principal differences are described on pages 155 to 159.
We have Expected long-term rate of return: shown reconciliations to net income and capital and reserves Equities 8.0 7.6 8.2 7.6 under US GAAP on pages 154 and 155.
Bonds 5.0 4.1 4.6 4.1 Others 6.8 5.9 4.5 5.5 For denitions of key ratios referred to in this review please refer As required by FRS 17 these assumptions are set by reference to to page 149. market conditions at each year end.
Actual experience may differ from the assumptions made.
The effects of such differences are Reporting currency and exchange rates recognised through the statement of total recognised gains and Foreign currency amounts for results and cash ows are losses.
translated from underlying local currencies into euros using annual average exchange rates: balance sheet amounts are Share-based compensation translated at year-end rates except for the ordinary capital of the In line with recommendations of various standard setting bodies, two parent companies.
These are translated at the rate prescribed from 1 January 2003 we changed our accounting policy for share by the Equalisation Agreement of 1 Fl.
We hedge our existing share option programmes by euros at the ofcial rate of 1.00 Fl.
2.20371 see Corporate buying shares at the time of grant and taking the nancing cost Governance on page 52. within interest.
The accounting change was to include an additional non-cash charge against operating profit to reect the The gures quoted in the following discussion on pages 17 to 23 fair value to the employee of the share options granted.
The are in euros, at current rates of exchange, ie the average or impact of the adoption of this change was reected by means of year-end rates of each period, unless otherwise stated.
prior period adjustments to the profit and loss accounts and balance sheets.
In determining the additional charge, we apply a Critical accounting policies valuation based on modied Black-Scholes or multinomial models The accounts comply in all material respects with UK GAAP and spread over the vesting period of the option.
The fair value so UK and Netherlands law.
To prepare the accounts, we are calculated depends on certain assumptions which are described in required to make estimates and assumptions, using judgement note 30 on page 138.
The assumptions made in respect of share based on available information, including historical experience.
price volatility and expected dividend yields are particularly These estimates and assumptions are reasonable and are resubjective.
Unilever considers these and all other assumptions to evaluated on an ongoing basis.
However, actual amounts and be appropriate, but significant changes in assumptions could results could differ.
Critical accounting policies are those which materially affect the charge recorded.
are most important to the portrayal of Unilevers financial position and results of operations, and are described on pages 96 to 98.
Provisions Unilever complies with UK Financial Reporting Standard 18, Provision is made, among other reasons, for environmental and which requires that the most appropriate accounting policies legal matters and for employee termination costs where a legal or are selected in all circumstances.
Some of these policies require constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date and a difficult, subjective or complex judgements from management, reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
the most important being: Market development costs Retirement benets Expenditure on market development costs, such as consumer We account for pensions and similar obligations in accordance promotions and trade advertising, is charged against profit in the with United Kingdom Financial Reporting Standard 17 Retirement year in which it is incurred.
At each balance sheet date, we are Benets FRS 17.
Under this standard the liabilities and assets of required to estimate the part of expenditure incurred but not yet the plans are recognised at fair values in the balance sheet.
invoiced based on our knowledge of customer, consumer and promotional activity.
Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order to value our obligations and to determine the charges to be Goodwill, intangible and tangible xed assets made to the profit and loss account.
These gures are particularly Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and intangible xed sensitive to assumptions for discount rates, ination rates and assets are performed at least annually.
More regular reviews, and expected long-term rates of return on assets.
The table below sets impairment reviews in respect of tangible xed assets, are out these assumptions, as at 31 December 2004, in respect of the performed if events indicate that this is necessary.
Examples of four largest Unilever pension funds.
Details of all assumptions such triggering events would include a significant planned made are given on page 123. restructuring, a major change in market conditions or technology, expectations of future operating losses or negative cash ows.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 17
