Operating and Financial Review Group strategy direction and control are delivered, Reinvest in expansion: cash genDuring 2004, Vita adopted a new whilst enabling benefits of central erated by our businesses can be pictorial representation setting out purchasing, product development reinvested in new geographic and how we create value for shareholders.
and financing to be secured.
We product markets, rolling out successThe key facets of our shareholder believe this model helps deliver ful Vita operations and growing value creation model are: strong business performance: through product substitution and innovation.
Vita has a good record Strong business performance: within Focus on cash generation: our of bolt-on acquisition: each divisions area of strategic businesses seek to leverage their focus, Vita operates a series of fideprofit margins return on sales Returns to shareholders: underpinned centralised, autonomous businesses through a strong asset turn: that is, by a strong balance sheet, Vita within a global, coordinated framethe relatively asset-light nature of returns excess capital, not required work.
This gives an empowered, Vita businesses can enable strong to run or reinvest in the business, to responsive structure which is flexible return on assets to be achieved.
In 2001 to 2004 Vita to local market needs and can Vita businesses focus on generating returned 203m through share buyrespond rapidly to changing cash and many are naturally low backs and dividends.
Coordination ensures users of inventory capital: that proper governance, strategic REINVEST Vitas s model model of of shar shareholder eholder IN EXPANSION value value cr creation eation FOCUS ON STRONG CASH BUSINESS GENERATION RETURNS PERFORMANCE TO SHAREHOLDERS UNDERPINNED BY STRONG BALANCE SHEET Annual Report 2004 3 Operating and Financial Review continued Each business unit within Vita can be unities exist for Vita to consolidate its extending this to the automotive considered within one or more of leading role: industry.
It has also partnered a key three strategic phases: domestic appliance customer in Globalise: our business model industrial polymer compounds in Consolidate: the majority of our achieves geographic extension in Malaysia since 2003.
Both routes businesses operate in developed two ways.
Firstly, successful high offer further profitable growth: economies.
Strong profitability is added-value units expand to achieved by being the market achieve greater market presence Innovate: product substitution is a leader in size or approach, in having across developed economies.
key driver to the growth of polymer the best economics and competSecondly, there is an accelerating product usage.
With customers itive business model and in driving trend for customers to relocate striving for better product performcontinuous improvement.
Vita mainlabour and space-intensive prodance, new applications and greater tains tight economic disciplines and uction to lower cost developing recyclability, innovation will drive invests in rationalisation for greater economies.
Vita has considerable stronger growth and greater profitefficiencies.
Examples include our experience in ensuring continuity ability across all divisions.
Our furniture automotive foam businessof quality local supply to these strength in technical development es, together with our thermoplastic customers.
For 13 years Vita has alongside customers is a key sheet businesses across Western supplied foam to furniture customers enabler.
Further profitable opportin Eastern Europe and is currently Consolidate Globalise Innovate Recognised market leader Geographic extension of Product substitution successful businesses - performance innovation Proven technology Low cost country operations - cost advantage Competitive economics Customer partnering Engineered customer Operational excellence solutions Continuous improvement 4 For more information on British Vita visit www.
By contrast, profitability is poor Overview of performance Excluding Associates, headline profit in some lower added-value Following a strong start to the year, before tax fell 3% to 49.0m 50.7m.
businesses and action is ongoing to 2004 saw an increasingly difficult operThis reflected higher raw material reduce costs, with the standalone UK ating environment.
Initial sales growth prices and an increase in rationalispolyamide plant closed at the end of moderated as the year progressed.
ation cost, offset by a lower interest 2004 and production transferred to This increased the challenge of recovcharge.
The Group interest charge of other plants able to integrate the ering the significant and sustained 0.7m 2.9m benefited from lower volume with little on-cost.
In addition, increases in raw material costs which debt levels and reduced funding the carrying value of two other sites followed the rapid rise in world oil costs.
Rationalisation and prices and a growing demand for impairment costs totalled 2.8m chemicals in the Far East.
Whilst the immediate impact there was some short-term reduction rose 2%.
The principal factors were an of this rationalisation programme is to in margin, particularly in the second increase of 3% in like-for-like volumes, reduce profits, medium-term returns half of the year, as volumes were whilst acquisitions added 2% and will improve as payback benefits are defended.
currency translation reduced sales by delivered.
Sales in Vitas largest geographic Nevertheless, Vita continued to work market, Continental Europe, were The importance of International nonto defend margins and the majority of unchanged at 483.4m 483.8m European markets for Vita is demonbusiness units maintained or improved but were 2% higher in local currency strated by the 16% growth in Sterling profitability during 2004.
Eastern Europe continues to sales value from this area in 2004 to new growth opportunities continued, see strong growth from our existing 143.4m 123.5m.
The acquisition of with both building and commissioning operations which will be enhanced by Vitafoam Canada and the successful in progress for further greenfield sites, new greenfield capital expenditure.
scale-up of our Malaysian engineered and the acquisition of excellent The trend for furniture customers to polymer facility led this growth, suppbolt-on businesses in North America, relocate to this region, which Vita has orted by continued success in the Europe and Australia.
The Group partnered for the last 13 years, is now Asia-Pacific market through RLA implemented measures to increase being reflected in the car industry, Polymers, Australia.
Headline operatthe pace of innovation and the move and Vita is currently constructing its ing profit also showed progressive to higher value-added products.
first Eastern European automotive recovery, achieving 3.1m 0.3m Investment in rationalisation is a necfoam plant in Slovakia for commissionwith a margin of 2.2% 0.2%, despite essary part of managing profitability in ing later in 2005.
Headline operating a continued underperformance in the developed economies: costs of 5.5m profit in Continental Europe was slightly US automotive foam business.
Ration- 2.4m were charged to operating behind prior year at 34.8m 36.3m alisation costs totalled 0.3m Nil.
profit to reduce the number of sites on higher rationalisation spend but and improve critical mass across the margins remained robust at 7.2% The impact of currency on the transGroup.
Rationalisation costs were lation of overseas profits was a net 2.4m 1.4m.
The impact of Total profit before tax was 74.5m currency transaction exposure was 50.7m.
Excluding goodwill amortisUK sales were unchanged at 332.2m a net reduction in profits of 0.8m, ation, profit before tax was 81.0m 332.8m.
Headline operating profit primarily due to the effects of stronger 59.0m.
This included a profit of fell to 11.1m 17.4m and margin Sterling on UK exports and a weaker 28.4m on the successful completion was 3.3% 5.2%.
The UK includes Polish Zloty on imports in Eastern of the sale of our holding in our Assocseveral profitable businesses, benefitEurope.
As a result of this sale ing from a portfolio of technically and the acquisition in July of the superior and market leading products, remaining 50% of our Canadian coupled with lower cost economies of Associate, headline profit before tax from Associates fell to 3.6m 8.3m.
Annual Report 2004 5 Operating and Financial Review continued The Cellular Polymers division perlished Polish and Lithuanian furniture formed well in the key European foam operations, benefiting from markets.
Total sales rose 1% to 483.7m further relocation by customers who 479.9m, with volumes 2% higher, have been convinced by the cost excluding the positive impact of effectiveness and quality of the Vita Cellular acquisition and the negative overall model.
A new Romanian conversion effect of currency particularly the facility has been commissioned in Polymers weakness of the US Dollar.
Headline the rapidly expanding local furniture operating profit fell 4% to 30.7m market.
After start-up costs, this plant 31.9m, due to a weak US performshould become profitable in 2005, ance, with margin remaining strong supplied with foam from our new at 6.3% 6.6%.
Rationalisation costs Hungary plant which is due to be totalled 0.8m 2.3m.
commissioned by the middle of 2005.
After initial weakness, raw material The UK maintained profitability on 483.7m price rises became increasingly signifthe prior year, benefiting from growth Sales icant in the fourth quarter of the year.
of new products offsetting declining Increasing demand for chemicals in sales to the UK furniture industry.
Prodthe Far East, due to non-availability of uction in the latter will continue to be local supply, put pressure on European rationalised to improve performance.
raw materials, creating shortages of The successful and innovative carpet 30.7m some isocyanates and higher prices underlay business continued to take Headline operating profit for polyols.
Initial action taken to share from competitor products, protect our margins was broadly under the respected Cloud 9 brand.
successful, although some volume Despite significant raw material price and margin pressure was seen in increases, the polystyrene foam buseconomically weaker markets.
Further iness improved performance at its 6.3% raw material price increases were new facility.
Other industrial and Headline operating margin incurred at the start of 2005, recovery technical foam markets also perof which is currently underway.
Performance in the major ContinVitas presence in the North American ental European markets was robust.
market grew through the 16m acq- 22% In France, automotive business contuisition of our partners holding in Headline return on net assets inued to perform well, utilising Vitas Vitafoam Canada in July, bringing proprietary headliner technology in the unit under 100% Vita ownership.
partnership with the original equipAs a major national foam producer in ment manufacturers OEMs.
As a a geographically fragmented market, result of these relationships, Vita is Vitafoam Canada, with its proven extending its automotive foam prodtrack record offers closer ties with uction into Eastern Europe with a new Vitas established but regionally-based plant in Slovakia, alongside several US business.
The latter continued to major OEMs.
Technical product marksuffer poor margins, moving into losses ets also expanded with good sales in for the year, particularly due to price the Netherlands and Germany.
Other pressures in the automotive sector, end markets, particularly furniture, together with manufacturing problems were slower, however, with exports of which impacted the business in the higher value latex products remaining early part of 2004.
A targeted recovlimited, with the Euro up 10% versus ery programme is progressively restorthe US Dollar.
Germany maintained its ing profitability, although achieving recovery, despite difficult local market more realistic pricing within the market conditions.
By contrast, the US technical foams business remains strongly Eastern Europe continued its growth profitable and recent capacity expanwith buoyant sales across the estabsion should deliver growth in 2005.
6 For more information on British Vita visit www.
