FINANCIAL AND TREASURY REVIEW THE PURPOSE OF THIS REVIEW IS TO OUTLINE KEY ASPECTS OF THE GROUPS PERFORMANCE OVER THE LAST YEAR AND OF ITS FINANCIAL POSITION.
Accounts Peter Williams The Accounts reflect the introduction of two changes in financial Finance Director reporting requirements published this year.
First the Group has had to reclassify its investment in its own shares within shareholders' funds.
Secondly its policy in respect of revenue recognition has been amended so that the earnings of exhibitions are recognised over the life of the event, where appropriate, and advertising revenues from DMG Informations websites are spread over the term of contract.
These changes are mainly to the balance sheet only.
Otherwise the Accounts have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies adopted last year.
Once again they have been prepared under SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs with additional information included in Note 39 as required by Key figures FRS 17, Retirement Benefits.
Next year will be the last time that the Group Accounts will be Underlying turnover grew by 12% prepared on the basis of UK accounting standards.
From its year to 1st October 2006 DMGT, as a listed company, will be required to adopt international accounting standards in order to comply Operating profit grew by 26% with a directive from the European Union.
We have a transition project in place to enable the Accounts for that year to be reported on that basis, progress on which is well advanced.
Earnings per share grew by 25% Turnover The Groups turnover in the year of 2,109 million was 9% higher than the previous year.
For our newspaper divisions, we produce our accounts each year to the Sunday nearest 30th September: this year that meant 3rd October and thus the inclusion of an extra week, compared to 2003.
There was turnover growth from each division.
Taking out the effect of this extra week and excluding the impact of acquisitions and disposals, underlying turnover growth was 7%.
The analysis of turnover by activity, illustrated in graph 1, shows that there has been no change in the shape of the Group in terms of revenues.
Graph 2 shows the geographic split of turnover.
Adjusted before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 21 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Operating Profit Graph 1 The Groups adjusted operating profit before amortisation Turnover by activity million and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items amounted to 234 million, an increase of 26% on the equivalent National newspapers and related activities figure for last year.
This figure is stated before charging 18 Regional newspapers and related activities million of exceptional operating costs as a consequence of the Euromoney Institutional Investor decommissioning of press equipment at Harmsworth Quays.
The Broadcasting Exhibitions and related activities charge for amortisation of intangible assets increased from 54 Business to business information and careers million to 71 million and an impairment charge was made of Other activities 12.9 million due to a more conservative approach being taken to asset lives and to the carrying value of goodwill.
As a result, the Groups statutory operating profit rose by 4% to 182 million.
1000 800 The analysis of adjusted operating profit by activity is shown in graph 3.
This shows excellent growth from our national 600 newspapers, exhibitions and business to business information divisions and from Euromoney Institutional Investor.
400 Continued growth by the Groups newer businesses means that 200 40% of this years adjusted operating profit has been generated 0 by its non-newspaper divisions, up from 37% last year.
Profit before Tax The Groups share of net adjusted operating profits of its joint ventures and associates increased by 3.4 million due mainly to an increased contribution from GWR Group plc, its 29.9% associate.
There were also improved performances from nearly all of the Groups other interests including GLM, the North American gift exhibition organiser.
Profits on sale of fixed assets arose mainly from the sale of two million shares in Reuters Group plc.
Profit on disposal of businesses was mainly due to the sale of DMG Regional Radio.
Income from fixed asset investments fell by 1.6 million to 3.4 million due to a lower distribution from the Press Association.
Graph 2 Turnover by geographic area million The slight fall in net interest payable was due to a lower average level of debt, offset by a higher average interest rate, caused by UK the impact of a bond issue in the prior year.
Rest of Europe North America The statutory profit before tax of 125 million was 15% higher Rest of the world than last years figure.
Excluding amortisation and impairment and exceptional items, the adjusted profit before tax figure was 234 million, up 26% on last year.
Taxation 1800 The tax charge of 57 million represents 45.9% of profit before 1600 1400 tax and 25.1% of profit before amortisation and impairment.
The 1200 underlying tax on profits before amortisation and impairment of 1000 intangible assets, exceptional items and significant non-recurring 800 or prior year items, amounted to 62.2 million and the resulting 600 rate is 26.6%, up from 25.3% last year due to a different mix of 400 profits.
This is well below the UK corporate tax rate, where the 200 Group currently makes most of its profit.
The Groups effective tax 0 rate in the UK is higher than this due to expenditure disallowed for tax purposes.
This is offset by a lower rate of tax on our US profits, largely due to the recognition of prior year US tax losses.
This is likely to remain the case for a number of years.
Cash Flow and Net Debt Net debt at the end of the financial year was 780 million, a decrease of 93 million over last year.
The fall in debt was due to strong trading cash flows which, with the proceeds of disposals, exceeded the outflow from capital expenditure, acquisitions, taxation, interest and dividends.
Graph 4 summarises the Groups sources and use of funds during the year.
The net cash inflow from trading was 382 million, which represented 108% of operating profit before depreciation and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
In general, the Groups profits are converted rapidly into cash, but the positive cash flow was particularly high due to the timing of the year end.
Capital expenditure of 103 million was higher than last years level reflecting the final year of the UK press expansion Adjusted operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items.
programme that was completed in November 2004.
Acquisitions 22 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 and investments cost 214 million 64 million in 2003, the Graph 3 largest items being the purchase of Australian radio licences Operating profit by activity million of 106 million, Jobsite 36 million, Trepp 23 million and IMN 16 million.
Disposal proceeds amounted to National newspapers and related activities 101 million, principally being the sale of DMG Regional Regional newspapers and related activities Radio for 77 million.
Euromoney Institutional Investor Broadcasting Exhibitions and related activities The Groups interest cover, calculated as the ratio of adjusted Business to business information and careers profits before interest and depreciation EBITDA to net interest Unallocated central costs and other activities payable, was 6.1 times this year, an improvement on 2003 see Graph 5 and above the Groups current target of six times.
The Groups ratio of year end net debt to EBITDA was 2.1 times.
100 The Groups Standard & Poors credit rating remains at BBB.
80 At the year end, the Group had 181 million of Bonds and bank 60 facilities maturing in 2005 and 658 million of Bonds due for 40 repayment in 2013, 2018 and 2021.
In October 2004, it signed 300 million of new five-year committed banking facilities.
20 These have replaced the existing bank facilities, thereby 0 extending the maturity of the Groups debt.
Consequently, 20 the Group has sufficient committed debt facilities to meet its foreseeable requirements.
It had surplus committed facilities of 198 million at the year end.
Treasury Policies The following paragraphs are a summary of the Groups treasury policies.
Detailed information is given in Note 27 to the balance sheets.
DMGT aims to have sufficient liquidity to meet both operational and capital cash flows and to impose the minimum cash constraints on the management and operation of the Group.
Financial instruments, including derivatives, are used by the Group in order to manage the principal financial risks that arise in the course of business.
These risks are liquidity or funding risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and counterparty risk.
The instruments are used within the Graph 4 parameters set by the Finance Committee of the Board, Cash flows and are not traded for a profit.
Operating activities 382.4m Overview Disposals 100.8m The Group has adequate committed debt finance to meet Other non cash 32m current trading requirements.
Foreign exchange risk is not a Capital expenditure 102.8m large issue for the Group as the majority of its businesses are Acquisitions 214.4m Taxation 14.3m domestic.
In principle the underlying currency of net debt is Interest and dividends 90.3m in proportion to the EBITDA in each currency.
The Group has a prudent level of fixed interest rate debt to reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations.
Inflows 515.2m a Liquidity Risk It is the Groups policy to have sufficient surplus borrowing Outflows 421.8m headroom such that its development is not constrained.
The Group is funded by a mixture of equity, debt and retained profits.
Debt consists mainly of committed bank facilities and bonds.
The bank facilities provide the Group with flexibility for operational requirements and acquisitions.
Uncommitted and overdraft facilities are also utilised.
The bonds currently in issue consist of four sterling Eurobonds.
Maturities of debt are spread in order to avoid the requirement for significant repayments at any point in time, as shown in Graph 6.
Surplus funds are generally used to pay down debt: when they do arise, they are generally deposited in money market accounts with banks that provide bilateral credit lines.
Covenants on debt instruments are kept to a minimum, even if this results in marginally higher interest costs.
Apart from lease finance, external finance is unsecured and is usually an obligation of the central holding companies rather than of trading subsidiaries.
This gives management maximum flexibility to run the business without the distraction of meeting short term financing requirements.
b Foreign Exchange Risk i Transaction Risk Most of the Groups businesses do not transact cross-border: hence multi-currency transaction risk is not substantial.
The main exception is Euromoney which has net receipts in US dollars and net payments in sterling.
Euromoney has a series Adjusted operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items of US dollar forward sale contracts in place up to 18 months 23 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 forward to meet its sterling outgoings.
Other than Euromoney Graph 5 there were no significant foreign currency contracts in existence Ratio of earnings before interest, tax and depreciation and that hedge revenues or costs.
amortisation to net payable interest.
The sterling value of capital expenditure in foreign currency is EBITDA: Net interest fixed using forward currency purchases.
Tax on non-trading exchange rate movements is hedged.
ii Translation Exposure Borrowings are principally incurred in sterling, with lesser amounts in US dollars and Australian dollars.
Generally, the proportion of foreign currency debt after allowing for any 7.0 hedging instrument to total net debt is kept approximately equal to the proportion of foreign EBITDA, compared to total Group 6.0 EBITDA.
This is expected to continue.
A large proportion of US 5.0 dollar and Australian dollar liabilities are created through the 4.0 use of foreign exchange derivatives.
3.0 2.0 iii Netting 1.0 The Group may offset currency risks on trading, capital expenditure, 0.0 tax and borrowings and only hedge the net exposure.
c Debt Levels The Group has previously aimed to have a 5:1 ratio of EBITDA to net interest costs.
However, in view of the position of the advertising cycle this target has been tightened to 6:1.
In addition, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA should not normally exceed 2.5:1.
It is believed that this achieves the optimum level of gearing for the Group and keeps the Groups quoted debt as investment grade.
This ratio will not be met consistently but generates a medium term target level of net debt.
d Interest Rate Risk The Group aims to have approximately 70% of forecast net debt to 80% of target net debt as fixed interest rate liabilities.
It aims Graph 6 to achieve this ratio over the medium term and it is applied Maturity profile of Group Net Debt million to each of the Groups main currencies.
The predictability of interest costs is deemed to be more important than the possible opportunity cost foregone of achieving lower interest rates.
Borrowings are made in either fixed or floating rates.
Interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, caps and collars are used to help attain the Groups target level of fixed interest rate debt.
The maturity dates are spread in order to avoid interest rate basis risk and also to negate short term changes in interest rates.
At the year end, fixed interest rate debt represented approximately 90% of total net debt.
900.0 800.0 e Counterparty Risk 700.0 The Group has a deposit limit for banks with long term credit 600.0 ratings of AA or better, and a lower limit for single A rated 500.0 banks.
Institutions below this rating are not usually used for 400.0 deposits.
The Group is also exposed to credit related losses on 300.0 200.0 financial instruments used for hedging purposes.
The Group 100.0 does not expect any counterparties to be unable to meet their 0.0 obligations.
Counterparties and their credit ratings are regularly reviewed by Group Treasury.
Going Concern The Directors have continued to adopt the going concern basis for the preparation of the accounts.
This has been done since, after considering relevant information, they have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
