Financial review Earnings per share costs and goodwill amortisation.
Cash flow and net debt Basic earnings per share was 21.4 pence The final dividend will be paid on 16 July At the year end the Group had net compared to a proforma 17.3 pence to shareholders registered at the close debt of 272.0 million, a reduction in 2002 03.
Adjusted earnings per share of business on 18 June, subject of 96.0 million.
Strong cash generation before operating and non-operating to the approval of shareholders at the was achieved with a cash inflow from exceptional items and goodwill Companys Annual General Meeting.
operating activities of 296.6 million amortisation was 21.1 pence compared compared to 247.4 million in 2002 03.
Exceptional charges to a pro forma 19.8 pence in 2002 03.
Operating exceptional income totalled On demerger a 1 billion syndicated There was no difference between diluted 5.7 million.
Exceptional income of multi-currency term and revolving credit and basic earnings per share as shares 10.6 million relates to the repayment facility was established.
This related awarded under the Demerger Award of a fine imposed on Darty by the French to the refinancing of existing indebtedness Plan have already been included in the Competition Council, originally paid to members of the Kingfisher Group, the basic earnings per share calculation.
Exceptional charges were payment of costs and expenses incurred Dividend costs associated with the demerger in connection with the Demerger and for The Board has recommended from Kingfisher of 1.5 million and the general corporate purposes and working a final dividend of 7.5 pence per share, charge in respect of the Demerger capital requirements of the Kesa Group.
making a total dividend for the year Award Plan of 3.4 million.
The Facility Agreement consists of of 10.0 pence per share.
The dividend a five-year term facility of 750.0 million Non-operating exceptional charges of is covered 2.2 times by earnings and a five-year committed multi-currency 2.7 million relate to the loss on disposal before exceptional costs and goodwill revolving facility for 250.0 million.
amortisation 2.1 times after exceptional 12 Kesa Electricals Annual Report 2003 Group turnover was Net assets have grown 3,771.1 million, up from 230.5 million to 10.1 per cent on last year 323.2 million.
4.0 per cent in constant Basic and diluted currency.
Group retail earnings per share 1 profit was 202.7 million, were 21.4 pence.
up 4.9 per cent on last The Board recommends year down 2.7 per cent a final dividend of 7.5 in constant currency.
pence per share, making Operating exceptional a total dividend for items before taxation the year of 10.0 pence were a positive 5.7 per share, representing million largely relating 2.1times earnings cover.
to the refund of the fine imposed on Darty in 2002 10.6 million.
The cash generative nature of the business was demonstrated by an operating cash flow of 296.6 million, compared to 247.4 million for the same period last year.
1 Retail profit equates to operating profit including share of joint ventures and associates and after central costs but before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
The net interest charge for the year Currency The Group adopts a centralised amounted to 23.4 million.
The Group publishes its financial approach to foreign exchange risk statements in sterling and conducts management.
No foreign exchange Treasury Policy business in several foreign currencies.
transaction may be undertaken without Kesa Group Treasury manages liquidity As a result, it is subject to foreign the permission of Group Treasury, and exposure to funding, interest currency exchange risk due to exchange which is responsible for all hedging rate and foreign exchange rate risks.
movements affecting the Groups sterling transactions.
Any foreign exchange The Group Treasury uses a combination transaction costs and the translation transaction must be demonstrably linked of derivative and conventional financial of the results and underlying net assets to an underlying transaction exposure instruments to manage the underlying of its foreign subsidiaries.
and the hedge must be continually risks.
Treasury operations are conducted monitored through the life of the within a framework of policies and The Group hedges up to 55 per cent transaction to ensure it remains effective guidelines approved by the Board, which of its exposure to fluctuations on and appropriate.
are recommended and monitored by the translation into sterling of its foreign the Treasury Committee.
These guidelines currency net assets by holding net The Treasury Policy requires that include bank exposure limits and hedge borrowings in foreign currencies, primarily at least 75 per cent of transactional cover levels for each of the key areas the euro.
Exchange differences arising foreign exchange risk must be hedged, of treasury risk.
The Board and Treasury on the retranslation of foreign currency up to 13 months forward, using forward Committee receive monthly reports net borrowings are recognised in the foreign exchange contracts.
The gain of all Group Treasury activities.
The key statement of total recognised gains and or loss on the hedge is recognised at the elements of these activities are: losses to match exchange differences same time as the underlying transaction.
on foreign currency equity investments, in accordance with SSAP 20.
13 Kesa Electricals Annual Report 2003 Interest In France the main pension benefits In the UK, the Group continues to The Group has an exposure to interest are provided through the State system.
participate in the KPS as if the Demerger rate risk on its primary credit facility The Group is legally required to pay had not taken place, so it is not possible and manages this exposure using lump sums retirement indemnities to accurately determine the assets and interest rate swaps.
The Treasury Policy to employees when they retire from liabilities attributable to the employees requires that at least 50 per cent, but service.
The Group also provides a of the Group.
The Group has therefore no more than 100 per cent, of net debt supplementary funded, defined benefit taken advantage of the multi-employer in the Group must be fixed.
The current plan Supplementary Pension Plan exemption allowed by paragraph 9 b profile of fixed to floating rate borrowings for its top executives.
It has made an estimate of the are approximately 66 per cent fixed indemnities and Supplementary Pension potential deficit on an FRS 17 basis as and 34 per cent floating.
The percentage Plan are funded through insurance at 31 January 2004.
The net deficit totals of fixed rate borrowings will increase policies and direct payments to the 44.0 million, compared to a net deficit over the next four years due to the retiring employees.
of 31.0 million as at 1 February 2003. amortisation of the underlying floating Pension accounting Going concern rate credit facility but will remain within The Accounting Standards Board has After making enquiries, the Directors the Treasury Policy.
announced a deferral of full mandatory confirm that they are satisfied that the Credit risk adoption of FRS 17 following notification Group has adequate resources to Several major financial institutions of the intention by the International continue in operational existence for the are counterparties to the interest rate Accounting Standards Board that it is foreseeable future.
The Directors therefore swaps, foreign exchange contracts and to review IAS 19, the present international continue to adopt the going concern deposits transacted by the Group.
standard for post employment benefits.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
These transactions are only entered into The Group accounts for pension costs with counterparties with a minimum under SSAP 24 and the transitional long term credit rating of A.
The Treasury disclosure requirements for FRS 17. department monitors its credit exposure to its counterparties on a monthly basis, SSAP 24 together with their credit ratings.
For France, the Group determines Martin Reavley, Finance Director payments after taking actuarial advice.
Taxation The pension cost charged to the profit The tax charge of 35.9 per cent on preand loss account totalled 1.2 million.
tax profits reflects the estimated rate for the year and absence of the Kingfisher In the UK, a formal actuarial valuation tax grouping benefits in France as a of KPS was carried out by independent result of the demerger.
The contributions paid into KPS of 7.8 million Pensions are in line with the contribution rate For the UK, a deed of division was advised by the actuary following the 2002 entered into on 17 June between valuation.
Due to market movements Kingfisher, Kesa and the trustees of the since the date of this valuation the pension Kingfisher Pension Scheme KPS and cost for the Scheme is 2.4 million higher the Kingfisher Retirement Trust KRT.
As a result, The deed governed the Groups the provision on the balance sheet has participation in KPS and KRT after the increased from 2.0 million Demerger.
The Group has established to 4.4 million.
new pension arrangements from 1 April 2004.
All current and former members The total pension charge in the profit of the KPS who are Group employees and loss account includes 0.9 million will be transferred to the Comet Group for the KRT.
Pension Scheme, which will then be FRS 17 closed to new entrants from 31 March For France, the valuation of the defined 2004, apart from certain limited benefit schemes to 31 January 2004, exceptions.
All other employees will be as measured in accordance with FRS 17, offered access to the defined contribution was a net pension deficit of 12.0 million.
Comet Group Stakeholder Pension Plan.
This compares to a net deficit of 7.5 million as at 1 February 2003.
