Operating and Financial Review Local business There are two key objectives that underpin our strategy for the Local business.
The first relates to customer service.
Our customer surveys show that Aggreko is regarded by our customers as providing industry-leading levels of service.
Customers expectations of what Rupert Soames constitutes good service are constantly evolving, Chief Executive however, and we know that Aggreko is most successful when customers perceive clear differentiation between our offering and that of our competitors.
The first objective of our strategy therefore is to maintain as wide a differentiation as possible.
The biggest opportunity for differentiation lies in the area of customer service where the attitude and expertise of our staff, the geographic reach of our operations, the availability of a broad range of Angus Cockburn equipment, and the ability to respond 24 hours Finance Director a day 7 days a week all give us reasons to argue that our offering is superior.
Our first objective, therefore, is to find ways continuously to improve Our Strategy the service we offer to customers.
In March 2004 we announced the outcome of an in-depth review of Aggrekos strategy.
The second objective of our strategy is to be This review had started some nine months the most efficient specialist rental company.
earlier, and covered every aspect of our business.
This will not only improve customer service but It concluded that Aggreko needed to have two will also enable us to generate good returns on different business models: a Local business, capital, whilst enabling us to provide outstanding which markets the complete range of our services service at a price the customer is willing to pay.
to customers within easy reach of our service In a business in which there are large numbers of centres: and an International Power Projects relatively low-value transactions, short lead-times business which hires large power plants on a and complex logistics, an essential pre-condition global basis to power utilities, the military and of efficiency is having high quality systems and major industrial users.
Our second objective, therefore, is continuously to improve our systems and processes.
Both of these objectives are being addressed by a two-year restructuring programme, which commenced in March 2004, for our Local business which for some years had been suffering declining profitability and returns.
14 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 An underlying reason for the fall in profits This new model will deliver a range of benefits.
related to the way we had historically organised For our customers, it will mean higher and our Local business.
As the business had grown, more consistent levels of service and response.
each local service centre was established as For Aggrekos Local business, it will mean an an almost completely self-contained unit operating model which will allow us to increase with its own administration, management and revenues more cost-effectively.
In other words infrastructure: each depot collected its own to develop a more scalable business model and, debts, made its own local purchase agreements as revenues increase, to improve our margins.
and consequently carried a heavy overhead burden.
A further benefit of the new model will be that profit and capital employed can be measured at Accordingly, we are implementing a new the same point in the organisation.
Historically, operating model for our Local businesses in because of the size of our service centres and Europe and North America.
This hub-andthe frequency with which rental equipment had spoke model has two types of service centre: to move between them, capital employed was hubs hold our larger items of equipment and not measured at the same level as profitability.
provide service and repair facilities.
Spokes In our view, return on capital employed is the are smaller and act as logistics points from key metric of efficiency in any business as which equipment can be delivered quickly to capital-intensive as ours.
The hubs and spokes have of our organisation is to devolve responsibility been organised into areas in which a manager and authority to the lowest point at which we has responsibility for the revenues, profitability can measure return on capital employed.
and use of capital within that area.
An integral part of the strategy for the Local In North America, we have re-organised the business is the implementation of our new business into seven areas operating with twenty ERP system which will provide a single, global, four hubs and twenty one spokes.
In Europe, IT system for managing our business.
Many of we have twelve areas operating with fourteen our service centres are currently using inefficient hubs and twenty two spokes.
The difference and old software packages, some of which are in structures is a function of market density.
no longer supported by the original vendors.
Once our new system has been implemented, In this new model, most administrative functions we will have greatly improved visibility of are carried out in central locations.
In Europe we the business, which will enable us to drive have three rental centres supporting the business improvements in operating efficiency.
During which are located in Cannock in the UK, Paris, the next twelve months we will roll out the and Aachen in Germany.
The model in North new system throughout our North American America is to have four rental centres, of which and European businesses.
two are currently operational, as well as a national call-handling centre: the remaining two rental centres will open in 2005.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 15 Operating and Financial Review continued International Power Projects Business We will achieve this by: This business has grown rapidly over the last five years, building an enviable reputation in Re-structuring our Local business into a new delivering large power packages, often into hub-and-spoke model, delivering best-in-class remote locations around the world.
Historically customer service and efficiency.
the bulk of our business has been concentrated in Africa and the Middle East.
Our research has Driving the expansion of our International shown that these two regions account for less Power Projects business into new territories than 30% of the world market and, by rapidly and markets, and, thereby, making it a larger expanding our geographic coverage, we can and less volatile business.
address a greater proportion of the global market.
Of particular interest to us are power utilities Progress against the Strategy in 2004 which in many regions are highly reliant on Progress has been generally good against the hydro power.
Whilst this can be a cost-effective objectives set out in the Strategy Review, form of energy, it is very dependent on rainfall and is described in the Review of Trading.
which can vary widely from year to year, leading A summary is shown below: to potential short-term shortages in power supply.
Local business progress in North America Our strategy in the International Power Projects and Europe business therefore is to drive expansion into new Reorganisation into Areas regions and, in particular, into Asia and South Complete.
Seven areas created in America.
This will increase the revenues of the North America, and twelve in Europe.
business whilst reducing its volatility, since in a market in which events can move demand Implementation of new management structure rapidly between different parts of the world Complete.
Eighteen out of nineteen Area we will be able to address a greater proportion General Manager roles filled.
of the opportunities which arise each year.
Creation of National Rental Centres Summary Complete in Europe, with NRCs in Cannock, In summary, the overall objective of our strategy Aachen and Paris.
In North America, National is to develop Aggreko into a business which is Call Centre and two out of four rental centres growing revenues and earnings, and is producing operational.
Remaining two rental centres will healthy returns on capital: is positioned in go live in 2005. growing markets: and has a number of strategic options for further development.
16 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Implementation of Hubs and Spokes Complete in North America: partial implementation in Europe.
Lack of suitable properties is slowing progress in the UK.
Major new hub at Moerdijk in Holland purchased to cover operations in Benelux, to be commissioned in 2006.
Final production version developed and taken live in Benelux and Germany.
Implementation started in North America, with roll-out on a region-by-region basis in 2005.
French implementation to start in H1 2005, and UK late 2005. International Power Projects business Geographic expansion in South America Excellent progress.
Over 100 MW on hire in South America at year end.
Four fold increase in revenue from region in 2004.
Major projects running in Brazil and Venezuela.
Good progress in Local business operation in Macae, serving off-shore oil and gas operators.
Geographic expansion in Asia Early progress.
Senior management installed in region to develop business.
New contracts won in Indonesia, Philippines, South Korea and Malaysia.
Development of gas-fuelled temporary power solution Good progress.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 17 Operating and Financial Review continued Review of Trading The performance of each of our businesses is Aggrekos trading performance improved reported below.
significantly over the prior year, notwithstanding North America the disruption that we knew would be caused by 2004 2003 Change % As reported million million the far-reaching restructuring of our businesses in North America and Europe.
On a constant Revenue 107.4 110.8 3.1 Trading profit 16.5 8.9 84.7 currency basis revenues grew by 5.0%: trading 1 profit by 19.2%: trading margin increased from In local currency $ million $ million Change % 12.7% to 14.0%: and return on capital increased Revenue 196.8 181.3 8.6 by 1.3 percentage points.
This improvement has Trading profit 30.3 14.6 107.0 been driven by a sharp turnaround in North America, and a strong performance in Aggreko International.
The business performance in 2004 represented a welcome turnaround, with margins and return The underlying trading performance was diluted on capital both improving sharply.
by adverse currency movements, and most particularly, by the weakness of the US dollar Revenue for the year to 31 December 2004 of in which 58% of the Groups revenues and 72% $196.8 million was 8.6% ahead of the previous of the Groups trading profit are denominated year: trading profit more than doubled: and relative to sterling, which reduced reported trading margin increased from 8.2% to 15.4%.
revenues by 23.7 million and trading profit by The revenue growth was achieved despite a 4.1 million.
This is shown in the table below, reduction of 15% in the average headcount and which also highlights the impact of fuel which the closure of eight of our fifty-nine locations in we managed on behalf of a Sri Lankan customer North America.
On a like-for-like basis, excluding but pass through our books at nil margin.
service centre closures, revenue grew by $26.1 million or 15.4%.
Business performance was Group revenue enhanced by several large military contracts won 2004 2003 Change % in the early part of the year, a number of which million million continued into the second half, and the busiest As reported 323.6 331.8 2.5 hurricane season in many years.
Our employees Translational in North America responded superbly to the currency impact 23.7 Constant currency 323.6 308.1 5.0 considerable challenge of four major hurricanes Sri Lankan fuel 3.4 7.5 over a six week period, working long hours to Constant currency ensure our customers received the highest level excluding of service.
Importantly, whilst the business was Sri Lankan fuel 320.2 300.6 6.3 certainly helped by these exceptional events, revenues excluding exceptional events and the Group trading profit impact of service centre closures increased by 2004 2003 Change % million million 5% on the previous year thus reflecting a higher As reported 45.2 42.1 7.5 level of underlying business activity and a more Translational stable pricing environment.
currency impact 4.1 Constant currency 45.2 38.0 19.2 1 All references to profit in this section are pre-exceptional unless otherwise stated.
18 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Europe In terms of business mix, rental revenue grew 2004 2003 Change % 6% and services revenue grew 15%, with military As reported million million contracts pulling through a high level of valueRevenue 106.2 113.1 6.1 added services.
Power rental revenue for 2004 was Trading profit 7.1 12.3 42.5 8% ahead of prior year again mainly attributable to the military contracts.
emperature control In local currency million million Change % and oil-free air rental revenue grew during 2004 Revenue 156.6 163.3 4.1 by 4% and 5% respectively, reflecting a strong Trading profit 10.4 17.7 41.3 performance in both products during the year.
The service centre closures and headcount The European business had a difficult year, and reductions were implemented early in the year, profits fell sharply.
Revenues fell by 4.1%, while and formed part of a concerted programme of trading profit pre-exceptional items declined cost reduction.
The service centre closures also by 7.3 million, or 41%, to 10.4 million and allowed re-deployment of substantial amounts trading margin decreased from 10.8% to 6.6%.
of fleet to areas where it could achieve higher This was partly due to sluggish demand in levels of utilisation, thereby contributing to our core markets and partly because, as was improvements in fleet productivity.
anticipated at the time we announced the outcome of our Strategy Review, the roll-out of The management team was also reorganised, our new business model caused some disruption with general managers each having responsibility to the operations of the business.
for an area of North America.
The new teams have got to grips quickly with the new operating The scale of change which the European model and, together with the work that has been business has undergone as a consequence of done to improve our selling capability, this will the restructuring programme is underlined stand the North American business in good stead by the fact that, against a headcount of 744 for the future.
employees at 1st January 2004, 299 people left the business and 213 were recruited.
This Overall, we have had an extremely good year in inevitably caused a considerable degree of North America.
Progress is being made in many distraction as managers focused on establishing areas, notably with the opening of two rental a completely new set of processes and operating centres which are providing centralised procedures, as well as recruiting and training administration functions to several areas: the large numbers of new employees.
implementation of a national call centre: and the development of the hub-and-spoke network.
The weakness in European trading was most Preparations are also underway for a phased pronounced in the Northern Europe business, roll-out of the new ERP system commencing and particularly in the UK.
As the first, and during the first half of 2005. largest, of our businesses worldwide to implement a National Rental Centre, this unit has seen the most disruption.
It has also had to implement the new model without the benefit of our ERP system, which facilitates operating in a centralised environment.
In addition, volumes declined in the telecommunications sector in which Aggreko historically has had a strong position, as operators reached the final phases of their infrastructure roll-out programmes and, at the Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 19 Operating and Financial Review continued same time, the competitive environment became In terms of business mix, rental revenue in more intense.
Revenues in Northern Europe were Europe declined by 2%.
Within this, power also impacted in the second half as we closed our reduced by 2%, temperature control revenue was locations in Gothenberg and Helsinki which, in flat on the prior year, and our smaller product future, will be served out of our Norwegian hub.
In Central Europe, subdued market conditions and a cool summer led to a decline in revenues The European business is now about half-way and profits.
Considerable progress was made, through the two-year restructuring programme.
however, in implementing our new business Much has been achieved over the last twelve model.
A multi-lingual rental centre was opened months, and we now have firmly established a in Aachen in September, providing call-handling new management structure based around 12 and contract administration services across areas as opposed to 39 depots.
Following the successful Rental Centres are all operational, and growing implementation of our ERP system in Benelux, daily in effectiveness: our new ERP system has the system was rolled out in Germany and is been proved to work in practice as well as in now fully operational across our entire Central theory.
European business where it is beginning to deliver real operational benefits.
Encouragingly, The next twelve months will remain challenging: once the business in Benelux which is the first the ERP system will be implemented in our territory to have implemented both the new largest business in Europe the UK as well as structure and ERP system had settled down in France.
Against all this, the business is now following the implementation of the new business stronger and the people within it look forward model and people were able to focus solely to a year in which their attention can be focused on the day-to-day running of the business, we on winning and executing business rather than have seen a steady improvement in sales and on re-organising and re-structuring.
After two years of we expect to make progress in Europe this year declining revenues, the fourth quarter saw and to be ready to enter 2006 a much stronger solid growth both on the prior quarter and business.
International 2004 2003 Change % Our Southern Europe business continued to As reported million million grow both revenues and profits, with good Revenue 110.0 107.9 1.9 performances in France, Italy and Spain.
There Trading profit 21.6 20.9 3.8 were several major contract wins, including a In local currency $ million $ million Change % project to provide cooling in several French nuclear power plants, and the provision of power Revenue 201.5 174.8 15.2 Sri Lankan fuel 6.3 12.3 for the construction of the Viaduc fide Millau.
Local currency excluding The Southern European rental centre became Sri Lankan fuel 195.2 162.5 20.1 operational in Paris in the last quarter, and is Trading profit 39.7 33.3 19.2 preparing to implement our new ERP system in 2005.
Aggrekos International business performed very strongly in 2004, although this was masked on a headline basis by the weakness of the US dollar and dollar-linked currencies relative to sterling.
20 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 In local currency, revenues increased by 20.1% in support of the emergency relief efforts in excluding Sri Lankan fuel and trading profit by Sri Lanka, and we have told the authorities 19.2%.
On the same basis, trading margin was that we stand ready to assist in any way we can.
at a similar level to the prior year at 20.5%.
Given the substantial amount of rain in the recent monsoon, however, and the commissioning The strategy of our International Power Projects of two new permanent power stations in the business, which comprises about 64% of Aggreko country, it is likely that supplementary power Internationals revenues, has been to expand its requirements in Sri Lanka in 2005 will be geographical reach beyond its heartland of the substantially lower than in 2004.
Middle East, Sri Lanka and West Africa: and to grow the proportion of revenues generated The Local business performed well in all of by power utilities as opposed to military support Aggreko Internationals territories.
In the Middle work which, in the long term, is subject to East, a decline in military work was offset by greater volatility than the utility and industrial rapid deployment of our equipment into new projects market.
The business has made infrastructure projects across the Middle East, considerable progress in the last twelve months in and the business continues to grow well.
In implementing this strategy, although continuing Australia, a strong summer was followed by a high demand from military customers has meant good winter season as the business benefited from that a greater proportion of equipment remained the desire of clients to maximise production at a on military work than was initially anticipated.
time of high commodity prices.
Our development We have moved aggressively to consolidate our of several new specialised applications for power foothold in South America, which is a key target and temperature control equipment is now market.
On top of the 30 MW won in December paying dividends.
The Local business in 2003 in Venezuela, we won our first large project Singapore also had a good year.
in Brazil with 20 MW in Macapa commissioned in November 2004.
We have also continued to Overall, we had a good year in International, win business in the Oil & Gas sector through the making progress with the implementation of our recently-opened service centre in Macae, north strategy and continuing to build a broader base of Rio fide Janiero.
Revenues from South America on which to grow the business in the future.
increased fourfold in 2004 compared with 2003.
The investment we have made in establishing Progress was slower in Asia, where we have our business in South and Central America is reinforced our major projects capability by beginning to reap rewards: in December we installing new management in Singapore: new signed a new 25 MW contract in Suriname, projects were won in the Philippines, Malaysia, which took our power on rent in the region Korea and Indonesia.
Poor rainfall in Sri Lanka in 2002 and 2003 led Looking to the future, an opportunity to develop to low levels in the countrys hydro dams in the market for gas-fuelled temporary power 2004, resulting in strong demand for Aggrekos solutions was identified as part of our Strategy services, with a peak of 130 MW running from Review.
During 2004, we invested development February through to September.
In the last effort into identifying the right technical solution quarter, as the hydro dams filled during the and, recently, we secured our first customer for monsoon, demand for additional power reduced this technology.
Whilst we are at an early stage sharply, and we enter 2005 with 15 MW on rent in the development of this market, it has the in Jaffna.
Following the Tsunami, Aggreko was potential to be an important contributor to one of the first companies to make a donation Aggreko Internationals future growth.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 21 Operating and Financial Review continued Financial Review Cashflow and Net Debt Overview EBITDA earnings before interest, taxes, The profit and loss account for the year ended depreciation and amortisation pre-exceptional 31 December 2004 is summarised below: items, for the year amounted to 105.1 million, up 1.5% on 2003.
EBITDA post-exceptional 2004 2004 items amounted to 90.1 million.
The net cash PostPreinflow from operating activities during the year exceptional exceptional items items 2003 totalled 98.9 million 2003 96.6 million.
million million million This funded capital expenditure of 56.3 million, Revenue 323.6 323.6 331.8 which was down 5.6 million on 2003.
Net debt Operating profit 31.5 46.5 44.7 decreased by 17.8 million during the year.
Profit before tax 27.6 42.6 40.1 Taxation 8.8 13.6 12.8 Financial Position Profit for the financial year 18.8 29.0 27.3 As a result of the decrease in net debt, gearing net debt as a percentage of equity Earnings per Share at 31 December 2004 reduced to 46% from Basic earnings per share for the year of 10.86 54% at 31 December 2003. pence represent an increase of 6.8% over the 2003 figure of 10.17 pence.
Basic earnings per The net interest charge for the year was 3.9 share for the year post-exceptional items were million, a decrease of 0.7 million on 2003, 7.04 pence compared to 10.17 pence last year.
reflecting the lower level of net debt during the year.
Interest cover pre-exceptional items Exceptional items increased to 11.8 times from 9.7 times in 2003.
An exceptional charge of 15.0 million in Based on the proposed final dividend of 3.57 respect of our restructuring programme has been pence, which would result in a full-year dividend recognised in the year ended 31 December 2004. of 5.82 pence per ordinary share, dividend cover pre-exceptional items is 1.9 times 1.2 times postShareholders Funds exceptional items.
Shareholders funds decreased by 7.6 million to 178.3 million, represented by the net assets of The net operating assets of the Group at 31 the Group of 260.4 million before net debt of December 2004 totalled 295.7 million, down 82.1 million.
The movements in shareholders 28.0 million on 2003.
The return on average funds are analysed in Table 1 below: net operating assets, pre-exceptional items, has increased to 15.0% compared with 13.7% Table 1: Movements in Shareholders Funds in 2003. million million Currency Translation As at 1 January 2004 185.9 The Group has sought consistently to hedge its Profit for the financial year 18.8 1 net investment in overseas subsidiaries but not Dividend 15.5 its major currency translation exposures arising Retained earnings 3.3 from trading activities.
The net overall impact New share capital subscribed 0.3 Purchase of own shares held under trust 3.3 of exchange rates on currency translation in 2004 Credit in respect of employee share awards 0.8 was to reduce revenue and operating profit by Exchange 8.7 23.7 million and 4.1 million respectively.
As at 31 December 2004 178.3 Set out in Table 2 are the principal exchange 1 The proposed final dividend for 2004 is 3.57 pence per ordinary share which, rates affecting the Groups overseas profits when added to the interim dividend of 2.25 pence, gives a total for the year and net assets.
22 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Management of interest rate risk Table 2 per sterling 2004 2003 The Groups borrowings of 90.0 million at Principal Exchange Rates Average Year End Average Year End 31 December 2004 were principally drawn United States dollar 1.83 1.93 1.64 1.79 under bank facilities at floating rates.
In order to Euro 1.47 1.42 1.44 1.42 manage interest rate risk, the Group uses interest rate swaps where appropriate to vary the mix of Other Operational 2004 2003 Exchange Rates Average Year End Average Year End fixed and floating rates.
At 31 December 2004 UAE Dirhams 6.73 7.10 6.01 6.58 debt of 63.1 million, after interest rate hedging Australian dollar 2.49 2.48 2.51 2.38 activity, was at fixed rates of interest.
This Source: Reuters resulted in a fixed to floating rate net debt ratio of 77:23 2003 66:34.
Increasingly, Aggreko International Projects is entering into contracts where the majority of its Management of funding and liquidity risk revenues and costs are US dollar denominated or The Group maintains sufficient facilities to linked to the US dollar.
Therefore, for reporting meet its normal funding requirements over the purposes, the functional currency of this business medium term.
These facilities are primarily in the has been changed from sterling to US dollars form of bank borrowings arranged on a bilateral in 2004. basis with a number of international banks.
The Group does not consider that the financial Treasury covenants contained in the facilities are restrictive Role of group treasury to its operations.
The Groups treasury function is managed centrally to support the operating activities of the During the year, Aggreko concluded the Group.
Its primary role is to ensure that adequate refinancing of 200 million of debt facilities.
liquidity is available to meet the Groups funding The new bi-lateral multi-currency facilities have requirements as they arise, and that financial risk a range of maturities up to seven years with key arising from the Groups underlying operations financial covenants being unchanged from the is effectively identified and managed.
The Group does not undertake any trading Management of counterparty credit risk activity in financial instruments nor does it Cash deposits and other financial instruments enter into any leveraged derivative transactions.
give rise to credit risk on amounts due from counterparties.
The Group manages this risk Management of foreign exchange risk by limiting the aggregate amounts and their The Group manages its currency flows to duration based on the credit rating of the minimise foreign exchange risk arising on relevant counterparty.
transactions denominated in foreign currencies and uses forward contracts where appropriate in order to hedge net currency flows.
In order to reduce the currency risk arising on its net investments, the Group uses direct borrowings in the same currency as those investments.
Group borrowings are currently drawn down in the principal currencies affecting the Group, namely US dollar, sterling and euro.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 23 Operating and Financial Review continued Financial Indicators personnel concerned, and other communication The key financial indicators, which, when taken issues.
The Groups auditors have been kept together, are a measure of performance and the informed of, and consulted on, the development efficiency of the finance and risk management of the IFRS project and the preparation of the structures in place, are shown in Table 3. new Group accounting policies.
Table 3: Financial Indicators The restatement of the opening balance sheet 2004 2003 for IFRS purposes has now been completed and Interest Cover 11.8 times 9.7 times the new IFRS compliant accounting policies Net Debt Equity 46% 54% implemented from 1 January 2005.
There is no Net Debt EBITDA 0.78 times 0.96 times material impact on profit before tax, earnings Average Cost of Debt 3.9% 3.7% per share and net assets for the year ended Effective Tax Rate 32.0% 32.0% 31 December 2004.
It is likely, however, that pre exceptional items IFRS will introduce increased volatility in the reported financial results going forward, notably Taxation with respect to the implementation of IAS 39.
Taxation payable on the Groups profit on ordinary activities post exceptional items for A summary of the key areas of accounting policy 2004 was 8.8 million 2003 12.8 million.
and disclosure change for the Group is as follows: The Groups effective taxation rate for 2004 was 32.0% 2003 32.0%.
IAS 14 Segmental Reporting International Financial Reporting Standards IAS 19 Employee Benefits Under European Union legislation, all listed companies will be required to report under IFRS 2 Share Based Payments International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for accounting periods commencing on IAS 38 Intangible Assets or after 1 January 2005.
The first annual report and accounts for Aggreko prepared under IFRS IAS 39 Financial Instruments derivatives will be for the year ended 31 December 2005, with comparative information for 2004 stated in Segmental Reporting accordance with IFRS guidance.
Interim results The new IFRS requirements for segmental for the period to 30 June 2005 will also be reporting involves an increase in the amount prepared on an IFRS basis.
Consistent with the Groups published business strategy, the segmental An IFRS implementation project team was reporting disclosures will reflect the way in established at the end of 2003 to ensure that which management monitors the business, and appropriate processes and procedures were will be based on geography and business type.
put in place to achieve the transition to IFRS.
The segments will be Europe North: Europe The project is overseen by a steering committee Other: North America: Other, which together comprising the Group Finance Director and comprise the Local business and AIP which senior finance management, with the external comprises the projects business.
The steering committee meets on a monthly basis and reports to the Segmental disclosure will include revenue, Audit Committee.
The project team ensures operating profit, assets, liabilities, capital that the other change aspects of this project are expenditure and depreciation.
managed for example, business system change requirements, training programmes for the 24 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Employee Benefits Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting Under IAS 19 the net financial position of the The Group manages its currency flows to Groups defined benefit pension scheme, based minimise foreign exchange risk arising on on the market values for the schemes assets and transactions denominated in foreign currencies, scheme liabilities, will be included on the balance and uses forward contracts where appropriate sheet.
The initial adjustment on transition will be to hedge net currency flows.
The Groups made directly against retained earnings.
This borrowings are principally drawn under bank treatment and the related disclosures have many facilities at floating rates.
In order to manage similarities with the requirements of FRS 17, interest rate risk, the Group uses interest rate which are reflected in note 24 to the Groups swaps where appropriate to vary the mix of fixed Annual Report and Accounts.
Under IFRS the Groups hedging strategy has not changed and we Share Based Payments anticipate that the majority of its financial Under IFRS 2 share-based payments, the instruments will qualify for hedge accounting, Group will be required to recognise a charge in under IAS 39, thereby minimising the level of the profit and loss account for all share options earnings volatility arising as a result of changes and awards based on the fair value of the awards in the fair value of financial instruments.
as calculated at the grant date using an optionpricing model.
An expense is recognised in the Future IFRS Considerations profit and loss account, as the fair value of the Further International Financial Reporting award is charged over the vesting period.
For Standards and interpretations may be issued in Aggreko, the financial impact is not considered the future that will be applicable for financial to be material.
years beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Therefore, the Groups first audited IFRS Goodwill and Intangible Assets financial statements may be prepared in Under UK GAAP, the Group capitalises and accordance with different accounting policies amortises goodwill from business acquisitions.
We will monitor With respect to IFRS, we do not intend to take closely future IFRS developments and their the IFRS 1 exemption on business combinations.
impact on our financial statements.
Previous business acquisitions have been reviewed and individual intangible assets identified and separated from goodwill.
There will be an IFRS opening balance sheet adjustment to reduce the balance of goodwill.
Under IFRS, any residual goodwill will no longer be amortised and will Rupert Soames instead be subject to annual impairment testing.
Chief Executive Capitalised software costs will also be reclassified in the balance sheet from tangible fixed assets to intangible assets.
Angus Cockburn Finance Director 3 March 2005 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 25
