ElectroAR 14-23 rev tp 4 6 04 8:40 am Page 15 Electrocomponents plc 15 Operating and financial review OPERATING REVIEW Introduction For much of the year trading has been tough but the Group has returned to growth and has continued to invest in its businesses.
The Enterprise Business System EBS was implemented successfully in France, South Asia and Australasia.
We continued to develop our e-Commerce functionality leading to good growth and proven incremental sales.
We increased investment in sales activities and marketing to drive higher sales.
In the second half of the year, market conditions improved and our sales, profit and cash flow performance benefited.
Sales growth rose towards the end of the year, most notably in North America and the UK, and the Group exited the year growing at about 5%.
Group results Group 2004 2003 Richard Butler, Chief Process Officer: Ian Mason, Group Chief Executive: Turnover 759.3m 743.7m Operating profit 108.3m 102.1m Jeff Hewitt, Deputy Chairman and Group Finance Director Operating profit 98.1m 90.8m Interest 1.4m 1.2m Profit before tax 106.9m 100.9m Profit before tax 96.7m 89.6m Earnings per share 17.5p 16.5p elements of gross margin, including discounts and sales credits, rather Earnings per share 15.1p 13.9p than just selling prices and cost prices.
We have continued to take Dividend per share 18.2p 17.0p action on some elements that increase the gross margin, but in other Key statistics 2004 2003 areas, where effective for sales growth, we have reduced margins.
The Gross margin % 53.8% 52.7% gross margin increase this year was lower than in 2002 03 and, as we Operating return on sales % 14.3% 13.7% Effective tax rate % 29.0% 29.0% continue to invest in sales growth, we anticipate that overall gross PBT on net assets 30.9% 26.0% margin increases will slow.
Sales and marketing costs were increased by 3.7m over last year, Growth % 2004 2003 Turnover 2.1% 2.1% particularly in the UK and the US, as we continued to invest in growing Operating profit 6.1% 6.1% the businesses.
Profit before tax 5.9% 4.4% Process costs were 77.8m or 10.2% of sales, compared to 74.6m Earnings per share 6.1% 4.6% Dividend per share 7.1% 6.9% and 10.0% respectively last year.
Before the impact of projects, these costs are expected to flatten and then decline as a percentage of sales Before amortisation of goodwill over time.
The implementation of the EBS projects in Europe and Asia Group turnover increased by 2.1% reported to 759.3m.
Before has resulted in increased cost and higher depreciation charges of goodwill amortisation, operating profit rose 6.1% to 108.3m, profit 8.6m, an increase of 4.1m.
After adjusting for these costs, activity before tax rose 5.9% to 106.9m and earnings per share increased withdrawal costs last year and higher pension contributions, Process 6.1% to 17.5p.
After goodwill amortisation, earnings per share rose costs declined to 9.0% of sales from 9.2%.
Reported operating margins before amortisation of goodwill Exchange rate movements had a notable impact on Group turnover increased to 14.3% from 13.7%, although the like-for-like increase was and profit in the year, with the strengthening Euro overcoming the much smaller from 14.2%.
In overall terms, the increase in gross impact of the weakening US Dollar.
At constant exchange rates, the margin offset the selling, marketing and systems cost increases.
sales increase would have been 9.7m less and the operating profit The interest charge of 1.4m was 0.2m higher than last year, increase 2.3m less.
After adjusting for exchange rates, trading days mainly due to changes in interest rates.
Consequently, profit before tax and the withdrawal from the specialist telecommunications supply and goodwill was 106.9m, a reported increase of 5.9%, but like-for-like activity in the United Kingdom in 2002 03, like-for-like sales grew by the increase was 1.1%.
The tax rate of 29%, based on profit before tax 0.9% and operating profit by 1.4%.
and goodwill amortisation, was the same as last year.
The performance in the second half was much stronger than in the In accordance with FRS10, the 214.8m at acquisition exchange first: like-for-like sales grew 2.2% in the second half but declined 0.4% in rates of goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Allied is being written the first half: like-for-like the operating profit grew 11.3% in the second off over 20 years.
Taken together with the amortisation of goodwill on half versus a 9.4% decline in the first half.
another small prior year acquisition, the total goodwill amortisation in The gross margin was 53.8%, up 1.1 percentage points on last year.
In the first half, the increase against the first half of last year was 0.9 Profit before tax and after goodwill amortisation was 96.7m and percentage points to 53.5% and, in the second half, the increase was 1.1 the effective tax rate on this profit was 32.1%.
After tax, the profit for the percentage points to 54.0%.
The Group manages carefully all the year amounted to 65.7m, up 9.0%.
Earnings per share before goodwill ElectroAR 14-23 rev tp 4 6 04 8:40 am Page 16 16 Electrocomponents plc Operating and financial review continued amortisation increased 6.1% to 17.5p from 16.5p: after goodwill Exports from the UK to third party distributors and direct to overseas amortisation the increase was 8.6% to 15.1p.
customers were slightly lower than last year, depressed by the war in With the recommended final dividend of 12.6p per share, dividends Iraq and the strength of Sterling against the US Dollar.
Despite lower overall sales, the UK contribution margin improved slightly to 32.6%, notwithstanding the increased investments in sales UK and marketing.
Not only is our RS UK business highly profitable, it also RS UK 2004 2003 remains highly cash generative and is now back in growth.
Sales by destination 348.2m 353.7m Like-for-like sales decline 0.8% 6.7% Sales by origin 361.0m 366.9m Rest of Europe Like-for-like sales decline 0.9% 6.5% RS Rest of Europe 2004 2003 Contribution 117.8m 119.1m Sales 241.1m 224.3m Contribution % 32.6% 32.5% Adjusted sales growth 1.4% 1.5% Contribution 51.0m 44.1m Contribution % 21.2% 19.7% RS UK sales in the year declined by 0.9% like-for-like: adjusted for trading days and the prior year withdrawal of the specialised activity Rest of Europe sales declined by 1.4% adjusted for trading days and serving the telecommunications sector to 361.0m.
This reflected the at constant exchange rates to 241.1m but the reported growth in continued erosion of customers in the manufacturing sector, only partly Sterling was 7.5%, reflecting the stronger Euro.
Trading conditions offset by growth in the service sectors.
The rate of decline improved that were not easy throughout the year were made more difficult by through the year, being 1.6% in the first half and 0.2% in the second half, disruptive third party strikes and the hot summer, with prolonged and the business exited the year growing at a rate approaching 3%.
business shutdowns in the first half.
The rate of decline slowed in Customer numbers increased by 1.8% following the increased the second half and by the end of the year the region was in growth.
spend on sales and marketing during the year.
It takes time to build The region had flat customer numbers year on year and the number customer loyalty so increases in customer acquisition rates will reduce of products offered to the market was similar to last year.
the overall average order frequency for a period of time.
Our challenge e-Commerce sales continued to rise quickly in every market.
is to build the ordering frequency of acquired customers as quickly Overall, e-Commerce sales were 15% of the total up from 10% last year.
In March, e-Commerce accounted for nearly 18% of sales up from 12% We have continued to make progress in attracting customers from last year.
outside our traditional manufacturing sectors.
Based on our analysis The Enterprise Business System was implemented in France in of these customers, we believe they have the same propensity to June 2003.
The implementation was successful though some teething buy from our offer as customers in manufacturing, as reflected by problems had an impact on customer service, which constrained sales their similar average order values.
The market potential is large in during the second half, and led to some additional costs.
levels have now been restored and these are expected to further The investment in a larger sales force 50% increase will allow improve in the future.
Lessons have been learned from this first more time for customer acquisition and development in smaller implementation and will be deployed in future rollouts across Europe.
Around half of all territories have achieved year on year Our next rollout will be in Germany later in 2004 05. growth.
As expected, growth has been highest in the areas where the Sales by Radiospares in France showed a slight decline, partly sales presence has been most established.
due to the disruption associated with the systems implementation.
Trade counters opened in South Wales and Aberdeen last year have Following the experience gained in Italy, France reduced its catalogue performed well and the network now consists of 15 trade counters.
to one issue per year but increased its circulation and also issued more These provide face-to-face contact with customers, immediate service specialogues. '
and they also support differentiated services such as the successful In Germany, the new warehouse at Bad Hersfeld was operational Managed Stock Replenishment MSR programme.
MSR involves our for the full year and is working well.
Sales grew throughout the year management of the customers inventory requirements at the at a rate that increased as the year progressed.
The business has customers site, supported by local stock in the trade counters.
strengthened its sales force and broadened its customer base to e-Commerce has continued to grow strongly, rising year on year by support further growth.
e-Commerce now accounts for around 20% of sales, up from 15% at In Italy, there was a sales decline in the first half reflecting the the end of last year.
An indication of the Groups great success in this difficult economic conditions and the very hot summer.
We continued to area was the e-Business Strategy of the Year Award for 2003 at the develop our customer base in more attractive sectors and sales exited prestigious National Business Awards.
This complemented other awards the year in growth.
for our multichannel approach and catalogue activities.
The smaller businesses had varying results.
Spain continued its The review of the structure of the offer of 130,000 products has strong growth, Ireland and Benelux increased their growth rates while continued and has already demonstrated that more focused product Austria continued to grow.
ranges can increase overall sales by making it easier for customers to The contribution margin increased to 21.2% from 19.7%.
the contribution was after the 1.5m cost of the move to the new ElectroAR 14-23 rev tp 4 6 04 8:40 am Page 17 Electrocomponents plc 17 warehouse in Germany, whilst in 2003 04 there has been the Japan RS Japan 2004 2003 disruption of the EBS implementation in France with a similar Sales 14.4m 11.3m profit impact.
Adjusted sales growth 28.4% 31.6% We remain confident of the growth potential of this region and that Contribution 0.0m 3.3m it will continue to be an important component of the successful execution of the Groups strategy.
Sales grew by 28.4% adjusted for trading days and at constant exchange rates to 14.4m with a second half growth rate of 27.4%.
North America The Japanese market environment was weak for much of the year, Allied North America 2004 2003 but targeted actions in marketing and e-Commerce generated the Sales 102.8m 103.4m good growth.
Adjusted sales growth 9.7% 0.4% Contribution 13.3m 14.4m e-Commerce is becoming the most important way to market in Contribution % 12.9% 13.9% Japan.
Sales through e-Commerce are now 43% of total sales, up from 35% at the end of last year and grew by 59% over last year.
Having experienced a lengthy and deep electronics recession, Allied is The business broke even for the year at the contribution level, now starting to benefit from the continuing investments made in its in line with the original plan, following its first monthly break even sales, marketing and customer service activities.
Sales in Allied grew by in September 2003.
A successful and profitable business has been 9.7% adjusted to constant exchange rates although the weakness of established: we are confident that RS Japan will grow to be a major the US Dollar resulted in a reported decline in Sterling of 0.6%.
Allied contributor to the Group.
grew by 4.2% in the first half before accelerating to 15.2% in the second half of the year, with an exit rate of around 20%.
Rest of World RS Rest of World 2004 2003 e-Commerce in Allied is under review and we believe that there are Sales 40.0m 37.8m significant opportunities for improvement.
Adjusted sales growth 2.8% 5.7% Allied has an extensive national branch network of about 60 offices.
Contribution 4.0m 2.4m Contribution % 10.0% 6.3% Allied has rolled out its Customer First programme during the year to increase sales effectiveness and this has had a positive impact.
The initiative included: targets for customer numbers and gross margins: Sales in Rest of World grew by 2.8% adjusted for trading days and at local sales initiatives: training: and an improved structure of constant exchange rates.
There were many negative external commissions.
It was also supported by increased marketing pressures, including the SARS epidemic in Asia, that made for a difficult programmes to build more awareness of the Allied offer.
trading environment during the year.
China was the exception, with very In the October 2003 edition, the catalogue format and content were high economic and manufacturing output growth rates.
improved to make the catalogue more user-friendly and customers Sales in China, including Hong Kong, grew by 9.4% adjusted.
The catalogue production system was also improved During the year, the Same Day Offer SDO project was developed in the to make the content management process more effective.
The key customer benefit is that we can now despatch combination of the new catalogue and the sales activities helped the product on the day the customer makes the order.
This allows drive the second half sales growth.
delivery the next day or soon after.
This has required considerable Allied has worked increasingly closely with both existing suppliers preparation and the co-operation of customs and VAT officials and and new ones to broaden its product offer in certain areas and to bankers.
The SDO procedures were tested thoroughly from August 2003 provide deeper ranges in others.
The recent buoyancy of demand is and demonstrated good customer reaction and high sales growth.
The leading to some lengthening of lead times but Allieds strong supplier full launch in the Shanghai area took place in April 2004 and rollout to relationships should stand it in good stead.
other regions in China is being considered for later in 2004 05.
The SDO The contribution margin fell to 12.9% from 13.9% last year.
In the project has been supported by additional marketing expenditure and first half, the contribution margin was 11.3% but this improved with the stock.
Enhanced e-Commerce capability was also successfully stronger sales in the second half of the year to 14.5%.
The gross margin introduced into China.
fell by about two percentage points, mainly in the first half, due to the During the year, however, sales in China have been constrained by growth of not in catalogue sales, the introduction of higher ticket price the continued tightness of import regulations, particularly product products at lower gross margins and the greater emphasis on price safety compliance restrictions Compulsory Product Certification negotiation in the order taking process.
The gross margin stabilised in System and the more rigorous application of the Metrology Law in the second half at about 38% and is expected to improve as the which products that measure have to be calibrated in China.
We work experience from Europe in improving gross margin is applied.
continually with our suppliers to meet these regulations and will not sell products that do not conform, but this compliance takes time.
Our operations in China broke even in the year, though the further development of the SDO project may require some additional investment.
ElectroAR 14-23 rev tp 4 6 04 8:40 am Page 18 18 Electrocomponents plc Operating and financial review continued Elsewhere in Asia, sales in the Philippines and Malaysia both grew Information Systems though our sales in Singapore declined reflecting the difficult local The combination of numerous customers and small average order conditions.
Sales in Australasia continued to grow well and profitability values creates a very large number of transactions that must be continued to be good.
This is achieved through very reliable The Enterprise Business System was implemented in Singapore, the information systems.
Information Systems, including the costs of the Philippines, Malaysia and Australasia during the year.
As expected, there EBS projects, accounted for just under half of total Process costs.
were some minor initial problems but these have now been overcome.
The EBS projects are now well into the implementation phase.
These Sales in South Africa declined, partly due to the impact of foreign projects are wide ranging and involve our enterprise, customer contact, exchange fluctuations.
sales force, product information, stock management, warehouse operation and e-Commerce activities.
The projects drive a higher level e-Commerce of standardisation and effectiveness in our operational procedures and e-Commerce sales were about 15% of total Group sales for the year up this requires significant change management.
EBS was implemented from 11% last year and exited the year at around 17% 13% at the end in South Asia in March 2003 followed by France in June 2003 and of last year.
Our leadership is Australasia in October 2003.
Future rollouts are currently planned for reflected by this growth and in the various industry awards won during Germany in late 2004 05 and the UK in 2005 06.
subsequently be rolled out to the other European countries and China.
The continuation of the strong sales growth and the demonstrated Around 51m has been spent on the projects to date, over 80% of incremental sales means that the additional gross profit from e-Commerce the estimated total capital expenditure.
The total spend has increased more than covered the ongoing development and marketing costs.
since last year based on our experiences to date.
Development costs of about 5m were similar to 2002 03.
In 2003 04, the revenue cost, including depreciation charge, of the The advanced e-Commerce capabilities developed in Europe were EBS projects was 8.6m, up 4.1m from 2002 03.
Our current view is rolled out successfully across Asia during the year where they produced that the depreciation charge will peak at about 9m per year by a step change in e-Commerce sales.
The website was also introduced to 2006 07, which is approximately 5m higher than in 2003 04. our third party distributors so that we now serve a total of 66 countries.
EBS will provide wide-ranging benefits.
The most immediate will be The website continued to be the primary way that our customers the removal of the maintenance costs of the legacy systems.
Secondly, access our e-Commerce capability.
We have improved the search the availability of regional information on detailed product demand will functionality within the website so increasing the browse-to-order allow more effective management of stock levels, improvement in stock conversion rates.
turn and more robust customer service.
The new capabilities will The PurchasingManager application was developed further by support extra services to customers and drive significant internal adding more functionality and is now used by 800 customer accounts operating efficiencies.
We remain confident that the cost of the in ten countries.
PurchasingManager is a powerful tool in acquiring investment will be more than covered by the benefits.
new customers in new accounts and increasing penetration of existing accounts.
The combination of online control and lower transaction costs Supply Chain is a major customer benefit.
The role of Supply Chain is to ensure that whenever orders are placed by Our e-Procurement punch-out capability was also in strong customers the required products can be shipped the same day.
The demand in certain markets.
priority is high customer service, but efficient management of stock and The website, PurchasingManager and e-Procurement services are product movement costs are also important.
High levels of customer the powerful combination that generates our leadership in e-Commerce.
service were maintained during the year, although there was some Our focus is on driving the sales opportunities arising from this disruption following the EBS implementations.
The stock turn improvement to 2.7x from 2.6x was achieved through a number of initiatives.
In the UK, there was a major upgrade of GROUPWIDE PROCESSES our forecasting and stock replenishment systems, whilst new systems 2004 2003 were also implemented in Japan and as part of EBS South Asia and Total cost 77.8m 74.6m Australasia.
We continue to work closely with our suppliers to improve Cost as a % of sales 10.2% 10.0% their ability to deliver to us on time and in the form that we require.
Stock investments have been made to support projects, most notably The Groupwide Processes support our global network of operating in Shanghai where over 1m of additional stock was put in place to companies.
They ensure that the Group has the infrastructure and support the launch of the SDO.
expertise to provide the consistently good service demanded by The rollouts of EBS to Germany and the UK will be supported by our customers.
additional stock over the period of the rollout to ensure that we maintain The total cost of Processes in the year was 77.8m, up 4.3% from customer service.
Our current view is that around 20m of additional last year.
After adjusting for EBS costs, the costs of withdrawing from an stock will be built up in 2004 05 and will be maintained for part of activity last year and pension charge increases, Process costs declined 2005 06. to 9.0% of sales from 9.2% last year.
ElectroAR 14-23 rev tp 4 6 04 8:40 am Page 19 Electrocomponents plc 19 Product Management FINANCIAL REVIEW The total number of products on sale through RS and Allied worldwide is Turnover and profit have been reviewed in the section on Group results, approximately 300,000.
Product Management has to ensure that the above.
product selection for each market matches customer requirements.
Cash flow and balance sheet 2004 2003 Range effectiveness is a continued focus, to ensure that the product Decrease in stocks 1.0m 2.7m offer in each category is credible and comprehensive.
Increase in debtors 8.4m 0.2m Supplier relationships are increasingly important and many more Increase in creditors 10.9m 9.9m Working capital 3.5m 12.4m joint activities have been developed.
Our suppliers recognise that we Operating cash flow 134.8m 133.6m can be an important part of their sales and marketing efforts.
In the Capital expenditure 22.8m 31.3m light of new regulations suppliers are becoming more aware of the Free cash flow 83.0m 68.2m Net debt 34.5m 46.9m damage that can be done to their brands unless they maintain tight controls.
We continue to invest considerable time and resources Key statistics 2004 2003 in making sure we understand all of the evolving compliance Stock turn 2.7 2.6 Trade debtor days 52.8 49.4 requirements in the markets we serve, so that we can support our Trade creditor days 43.9 38.7 customers and suppliers.
In Europe, the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, which will take effect in July 2006, is already starting to have an impact on the demand for electronic components.
Operating cash flow was 134.8m, up from 133.6m last year.
Cash Similar regulations apply in other markets.
conversion remained high as operating cash flow was 124.5% of operating profit, before amortisation of goodwill 2002 03: 130.9%.
Media Publishing Working capital inflows amounted to 3.5m compared to 12.4m The Media Publishing Process manages and delivers all the major media last year.
The higher sales were largely supported by maintained stock for the Group: catalogues, specialogues, CD-ROMs and websites.
levels, hence the increase in stock turn to 2.7x from 2.6x last year.
An area of significant change has been the catalogue frequency.
Debtors increased by 8.4m and trade debtor days were 52.8, largely Following customer research, Italy moved to an annual catalogue in due to the acceleration of sales at the end of the year.
The cash inflow 2002 03, accompanied by increased investment in direct marketing from creditors was 10.9m and trade creditor days were 43.9, as a activity such as specialogues and France followed suit in 2003 04. result of increased stock purchases required to support the higher We continue to invest heavily to develop more effective customer demand at the end of the year.
In 2004 05, there will be a build up media.
During the year, the catalogue was extensively redesigned to of about 20m of additional stock to support the systems ensure the indices and the layout facilitate more easy location of implementations and this will be retained for part of 2005 06. products.
The CD in the UK has been upgraded and now mirrors the Free cash flow increased by 21.7% to 83.0m mainly reflecting layout on the website.
This new form CD will be rolled out to other the lower capital expenditure.
A large exercise was undertaken to develop the quality and Capital expenditure was 22.8m, significantly down from 31.3m quantity of our product data and information, which will support future last year and 47.2m the year before.
Of this, 9.9m was on EBS media developments.
projects, down from 12.5m last year.
The Group has now passed the An increasingly efficient desktop publishing team now enables the capital expenditure peaks of the new warehouses and the systems internal production of highly effective market communications, ranging investments.
Capital expenditure is expected to remain low in total for from fliers to specialogues.
Most critically, time to market has been the foreseeable future.
Capital expenditure as a multiple of depreciation dramatically reduced and, by sharing across more than one market has declined to 1.0x from 1.6x last year and 2.4x the year before.
where appropriate, the unit costs are also reducing.
During the year, a building was sold for its book value of 3.1m.
Interest and tax payments amounted to 32.6m.
The tax payments Group Facilities were about 2m lower than expected due to tax payment deferrals late The warehouses in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain that were in the year which will reverse in 2004 05.
The outflow on dividends was developed during the last two years are all operating efficiently.
Exchange rate movements benefited Group is now in a position where there is sufficient static and dynamic net debt by 4.7m to give an overall decrease in net debt of 12.4m to capacity to last for a number of years and no substantial investments 34.5m.
Upgrading has continued to take place, for example, there Gearing improved to 10.0% from 12.1% last year but interest cover has been investment in our UK sites to enhance the security and before amortisation of goodwill declined to 77x from 85x due to the workflow procedures.
The weakening of the US Dollar during the year had a significant exchange rate impact on the balance sheet, particularly on goodwill.
The overall translation impact on net assets was to reduce net assets by 29.2m reduction of 10.8m in 2002 03.
ElectroAR 14-23 rev tp 4 6 04 8:40 am Page 20 20 Electrocomponents plc Operating and financial review continued Financial returns public sectors should mitigate the risk but could take longer than Profit before tax and goodwill on net assets was 30.9%, up from 26.0% anticipated.
Our return to growth in the UK and Europe as 2003 04 last year and the highest for five years.
These returns remain progressed is an encouraging sign of success.
We have also recently substantially higher than the Groups cost of capital.
developed an advertising and marketing programme initially in the UK to make prospective customers more aware of RS and to reinforce the Pensions value we provide to existing customers.
Also, over the longer term our The Group has defined benefit schemes in the UK closed to new businesses in China and other low cost economies will benefit from the entrants in April 2003, Ireland closed to new entrants and Germany.
Elsewhere, schemes are defined contribution.
Our price levels are scrutinised for competitiveness and we SSAP 24 remains the accounting standard applied to pensions as make adjustments to our catalogue prices to ensure that our offer is described in Note 6 to the Accounts.
The last triennial valuation of the priced attractively to customers for the products and services that UK defined benefit scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2001 and are provided.
The triennial valuation as at 31 March The large projects we have underway inevitably carry 2004 is under way.
However, approximate funding updates are carried implementation risks.
The quality of the project teams and of the out each year.
As at 31 March 2003, there was a deficit of 64.1m, business commitment and engagement in the projects are the main though this is likely to have reduced since that date.
The statutory risk mitigating factors.
The largest and most risky of the projects is the minimum funding position of the scheme remains good with a Minimum systems project in Europe.
The first implementation in France has Funding Ratio estimated at between 125% and 130% as at 31 March shown that the operational change requirements can incur disruption 2004 2003: 120% to 125%.
The cost of the UK defined benefit scheme to customer service.
The lessons and implications are being applied to in the year was 5.7m, up from 3.9m last year, reflecting an additional future rollouts with the intent of there being no impairment of customer cost of 1.8m following a decision not to reflect the March 2001 surplus service during the future implementations.
To this end the training of in the pension charge during the year.
From 2004 05, we anticipate a all employees engaged in the change process has been intensified and further additional charge of ca 3m to recover the expected deficit over other support, such as more project team support and substantially an appropriate period.
The charge for all of the defined benefit schemes increased stock levels, are in hand.
The Board has had a vigorous risk review process for some years, Note 6 also indicates the impact of Financial Reporting Standard 17 including a specific annual meeting to consider the major risks and Retirement Benefits on the Group.
FRS 17 was due to replace SSAP 24 in managements mitigating actions.
Risk management techniques are 2005 but we have not implemented it as we anticipate moving to IAS 19 widely employed across the Group, especially in projects.
Under the FRS 17 rules, the defined benefit schemes continuity, disaster recover and other preventative practices are showed a combined deficit of 34.6m net of deferred tax compared well developed and appropriately tested.
Appropriate insurance is to a deficit of 30.1m at the end of last year.
Under FRS 17, the charge also carried.
to profits arising from these schemes would have been 10.4m Financial risks are considered in the Treasury section below.
Capital structure and treasury policy Business risks Treasury operates as a centralised service centre.
Its ethos remained In looking forward, the most significant potential business risk is that the managed reduction of the Groups financial risks.
The Treasury the RS business model of high service, low volume distribution has Committee continued to oversee any policy or procedural changes.
diminishing relevance to our customers so that they are less willing Treasury manages the Groups foreign currency transaction risks.
to pay the price levels implied by providing such service.
We monitor These typically arise because the Groups purchases in currencies other this risk through the actual results of our business, in particular the than Sterling are much less than its receivables from catalogues with development of the customer base, and through market research.
fixed prices in those currencies.
Substantial hedging of net currency These indicate that our model is robust and has relevance in all exposures over the catalogue lives was once again implemented in our markets.
order to shelter forecast gross profits through the catalogue lives.
In The sales decline in the UK and Europe in recent years could this way the impact of currency fluctuations are smoothed until selling suggest a risk that the market potential available to us in the UK or cost prices can be changed in light of the changed exchange rates.
and elsewhere might be smaller than anticipated, partly due to our The hedges are enacted through forward currency contracts entered exposure to the manufacturing sector.
Our customers have been into by Group Treasury on the basis of trading projections provided by disproportionately in manufacturing and in particular some of our local businesses.
Note 24 to the Accounts gives a summary of the most frequently buying customers have been in sectors such as Groups hedging positions at the year end.
These sectors have been hardest During the year, the Euro on average was stronger and the US Dollar hit by the restructuring of industry in the UK and Europe in recent weaker.
Over time this will tend to increase our gross margins because a years.
Although the pressures on manufacturing will continue to some large part of our product supply is directly or indirectly sourced in US degree our focus on broadening our customer base in the service and Dollars whilst a large part of our currency receipts are from sales in Sterling or Euros.
ElectroAR 14-23 rev tp 4 6 04 8:40 am Page 21 Electrocomponents plc 21 Specific cash flows relating to material transactions in currencies other Summary than the functional currency of the local business are hedged when the Sales and profit growth have been achieved despite trading conditions commitment is made.
remaining difficult for much of the year.
Our businesses in North Foreign currency translation exposures are not explicitly hedged, America and Japan have grown particularly strongly and the UK but local currency debt is used where economic and fiscally efficient in has exited the year in growth.
e-Commerce has been another area the financing of subsidiaries and this provides a partial hedge.
This was of notable success.
particularly so of the US Dollar over the year as a large part of the debt There have been further investments in sales and marketing and of the Group is in US Dollars arising from the acquisition of Allied and the also in systems to further drive sales growth.
Our systems projects are exchange rate movements relating to this debt offset the impact on demanding and require careful risk management.
Treasury guidelines are in place for reviewing the gross margin continued but these are now beginning to slow.
impact of translation exposures should there be any material changes.
Our belief in the potential of the Group remains strong.
Sales, profits Note 24 to the Accounts summarises the financial assets and liabilities and cash flows have all increased during the year and our net debt by major currencies at the year end.
position was significantly better than at the end of last year.
Multi-country cash pooling is in place across the Group with our banks to ensure daily netting of almost all the Groups cash flows in all currencies with consequent improvements in liquidity and reduced interest costs.
At the year end the Group had net debt of 34.5m.
Total debt was 107.8m, including 54.5m denominated in US Dollars, 32.4m in Yen Ian Mason and 20.9m in other currencies.
Financial assets comprised short term investments of 65.4m and cash of 7.9m.
Of total financial assets within net debt, 13.7m were denominated in Euro, 57.0m in Sterling and 2.6m in other currencies.
The net interest charge was therefore relatively low compared to net debt.
Borrowing requirements are Richard Butler seasonal and peak borrowing during the year was 108.2m.
Although net debt declined, total debt and total financial assets both increased during the year following a review of, and a change in, the intercompany financing structure and its consequent management.
During the year and at the year end, the Group had just one interest rate swap, which was used to convert a fixed interest rate on a long term debt instrument Jeff Hewitt to floating.
Group policy on investment management is to maximise the return on net funds subject always to the security of the principal and the liquidity of the Group.
The Group has established policies to identify counterparties of suitable credit worthiness and has procedures to ensure that only these parties are used, that exposure limits are set and that these limits are not exceeded.
Note 24 to the Accounts provides a summary of the deposit structure of the Group at the year end.
The Group does not intend to materially change its Treasury policies as a consequence of International Accounting Standard 39 and is now well placed to deal with the accounting requirements of this Standard.
International Financial Reporting Standards For the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group will report under International Financial Reporting Standards along with all EU listed companies.
The Group is currently undertaking an implementation project to ensure that the full impact of the transition is understood.
The International Standards are being reviewed and new Group accounting policies are in the process of being developed.
It is not appropriate to indicate the impact on either Group results or shareholders funds as our detailed analysis is not yet complete.
However, the most significant areas of change for the Group include accounting for defined benefit pension schemes, share options, dividends and goodwill.
