Financial review The year ended 31 March 2004 was one of continued strengthening of the Group.
Against a backdrop of its primary market falling for the fourth consecutive year, the Group is delivering a set of results that demonstrate outperformance in the year and investment for the future.
Group turnover fell by 54.7m, including a decrease of 23.9m from exchange on translation.
At constant currency, turnover in EMI Music Publishing was up by 1.1% while that of EMI Music fell by 2.0%.
By region, turnover increased in Asia Pacific in both absolute terms and at constant currency, largely reflecting the results of our new ventures in EMI Music in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Korea.
Turnover in the largest region, North America, increased at constant currency, but with the weaker US Dollar, the reported turnover declined for the region.
On the other hand, in Continental Europe, the stronger Euro partially masked a significant, but better than market, fall in turnover at constant currency.
Group operating profit EBITA fell by 2.1% from 254.7m restated to 249.3m.
Roger Faxon Before the impact of exchange movements, the decline was 2.1m or 0.8%.
Chief Financial Officer EMI Music Publishing has again posted a record result, with EBITA growing EMI Group by 0.7% at constant currency.
The 2.4m adverse exchange movement on the divisional result is largely due to the movement in the US Dollar.
In spite of market weaknesses, EMI Musics EBITA declined 2.8m or 1.9% down on prior year at constant currency.
These global results were positively impacted by a substantial increase in profitability in the North American recorded music business.
Group EBITA margin increased from 11.7% to 11.8%, further evidence of the Groups determination not to chase unprofitable sales and its ability to control costs.
Gross margins after distribution costs increased to 35.3% from 34.3% with EMI Music making further significant reductions in the marketing spend as a percent of sales.
Group turnover for the second half was down 4.4% from the same period last year, with lower sales in the UK and Europe.
Excluding the effects of currency movements, the decline was only 2.2%.
Group EBITA for the second half was down 3.5% from the same period last year.
However, this was largely driven by exchange, particularly the US Dollar.
On a constant currency basis, second-half profits were down 1.7%.
Recurring Group finance charges rose by 9.8m to 85.9m, notwithstanding a fall in average net borrowings.
The increase is partly the consequence of the refinancing programmes carried out in 2002 and 2003 which resulted in longerterm, better balanced, funding, albeit with higher interest rates, and partly the consequence of the downgrade in credit rating in March 2003.
Adjusted profit before tax fell from 178.8m to 163.3m, in large measure because of these increases in finance charges.
Other items affecting earnings The Group tax rate, before amortisation and exceptional items, fell further, from 25% last year to 19.9%.
The major contributors to this improvement are the increase in profitability of the Groups North American businesses, where there are brought-forward losses available for offset, and lower results in Japan and Continental Europe our highest tax-paying territories.
Amortisation of copyrights and goodwill increased from 42.7m to 50.9m, reflecting the further investment in the Jobete music publishing catalogue and the investment in the new recorded music businesses in South East Asia.
13 The Group has taken a number of operating exceptional charges in the year.
On 31 March 2004, the Group announced a major change programme for the recorded music division.
One element of this was a repositioning project comprising a reduction in staff of approximately 600, mainly in Continental Europe, and the releasing of approximately 290 artists from the roster.
The costs of this element of the change programme amount to 84.5m and are reported as an operating exceptional item in the year.
In addition, we have taken a non-cash charge of 22.6m as a result of impairment reviews on certain of our intangible assets.
At the half year we reported exceptional costs in respect of the product returns resulting from the retail destocking programme in Japan, consequent upon the sharp market deterioration, Nigel Kennedy exacerbated by amended trading terms.
Also at the half year, we announced a business reorganisation programme in EMI Music Publishing, the full-year cost of which is 6.6m.
Finally, we incurred costs of 7.9m in our proposed transaction with Warner Music in the autumn of 2003.
The above transactions aggregate to 138.3m and are reported as operating exceptional items.
Three items are reported as non-operating exceptionals.
The outsourcing of manufacture in the United States and in Europe consisted of two transactions, which were completed on 30 and 31 March 2004 and provide that, after a transition phase, EMI will source its physical product from third parties under market-priced supply arrangements.
The principal benefits to the Group are the conversion Maria Callas of a largely fixed cost into an entirely variable one, lowering risk and generating a working capital benefit.
The one-off cost of the outsourcing project is 45.5m and, as it is a fundamental restructuring, it is reported as a non-operating exceptional item in the year.
Staffing levels will fall by approximately 900 as a result of the outsourcing project.
In addition, we have sold a number of properties around the world during the year as we continue to divest non-core assets.
The gains on sale of these fixed assets amount to 24.0m and are reported as non-operating exceptional as required by FRS 3 Reporting Financial Performance.
Finally under this heading, an Keith Urban Garth Brooks overprovision of 5.0m in respect of the HMV sale in the prior year has been released.
Within finance charges, an amount of 10.2m has been reported as a finance exceptional charge relating to the refinancing programme completed in October 2003.
N E R D 14 The minority interest cost has reversed from a cost of 6.4m last year to a credit of 0.9m this year.
This is the consequence of the loss, after exceptional items, reported by the recorded music business in Japan, in which there is a 45% minority, and the purchase of the minority shareholding in Jobete.
The overall result was a loss of 71.6m against a profit last year of 234.2m.
Last year the income from exceptional transactions, net of tax, was a 150.2m benefit, whereas this year the cost of similarly reported items is a 152.2m charge.
Yellowcard Bob Seger This year we have adopted UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts and UITF 17 Revised Accounting for Share Schemes which requires that the profit and loss account charge is based on the market value of the shares at the date of grant.
The adoption of this new standard required that the overall result we declared last year was restated, resulting in an increase in reported net profit after tax and minority interests for the year ended March 2003 to 234.2m from 229.7m.
Adjusted earnings per share were 15.8p, compared with 15.6p.
On a fully-diluted basis treating outstanding convertible debt and outstanding share options as equity, adjusted earnings per share were 15.5p.
The Board is recommending a final Itzhak Perlman dividend of 6.0p per share to give a total dividend of 8.0p per share, in line with last year.
Cash flow and net borrowings The net cash inflow from operating activities was 309.4m, significantly up on the prior year total of 117.2m.
We had cash outflows of 98.9m for finance charges, 30.6m for taxation, 62.7m of dividends and 66.3m of investment activity, giving an overall cash inflow before exchange differences of 50.9m.
The weakening of the US Dollar, in which currency over half of our borrowings are denominated, against Sterling gave rise to an exchange benefit of 60.6m.
Air Aggregating the two components results in a reduction in year-end net debt of 111.1m, down from 859.8m to 748.7m.
Pensions EMI maintains a number of defined benefit plans around the world, the largest of which is in the UK.
The triennial valuation of that plan as at 31 March 2003 was received during the year and revealed, on the prudent funding basis used by the Trustee, that the market value of the assets was sufficient to cover 91% of the benefits that have accrued.
It became apparent during the year that 31 March 2003 was a date very close to the low point in valuation terms of the equity markets throughout the world.
Taking this into account, the Group has decided to resume annual contributions in respect of future service to the UK fund with effect from 1 April 2004.
Tiziano Ferro Treasury matters Funding During the year the Group restructured its debt significantly.
Five interconnected programme components were implemented.
The Group issued both 425m 8.625% Senior Notes due 2013 and US$243.3m Guaranteed Convertible Bonds due 2010, unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and cancelled.
The Group cancelled its existing short-term revolving credit bank facilities due 2005 and entered into a new 250m revolving credit facility due 2007.
The overall impact of these wide-reaching changes is to lengthen the average debt maturity to 7.1 years from 5.1 years and to balance the borrowing currency between the US Dollar, the Euro and the Pound Sterling more in line with the Groups business.
15 Group turnover Group turnover by origin by business division % % Recorded music UK Asia Pacific 81.2 14.5 20.0 Music publishing North America 18.8 31.7 Rest of Europe 30.7 ROW 3.1 Group operating profit Group operating profit by business division by origin % % Recorded music UK Asia Pacific 59.1 21.5 13.0 Music Rest of Europe publishing 24.9 40.9 North America 39.8 ROW 0.8 16 Policy and risk Treasury activity is carried out under a framework of policies and guidelines approved by the Board.
The Board reviewed the policy framework during the year and approved the few changes proposed.
Control and authority is delegated to the Treasury Management Committee, chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Financial instruments held by the Group comprise derivatives, borrowings, cash and liquid resources and other financial assets and liabilities, whose purpose is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
Treasury policies prohibit their use for speculative purposes.
The Group borrows in various currencies and uses swaps, caps and collars Van Morrison to manage interest rate exposure.
The Group policy for the first part of the year was that a minimum of 25% and a maximum of 75% of the Groups net borrowings should be at fixed capped rates.
This policy was reviewed and amended by the Audit Committee in December 2003 to a minimum of 25% of the Groups term borrowings being at fixed capped rates.
The Group faces currency exposure from exchange rate fluctuation against Sterling.
Balance sheet exposures are hedged to the extent that overseas liabilities, including borrowings, provide a natural hedge.
Group policy is neither to undertake additional balance sheet hedging measures, nor to hedge profit and loss account translation exposure.
Transaction exposures are hedged, where there are material items that have a high probability of occurring, with the use of forward exchange Al Green rate contracts.
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Group expects to publish its first financial statements under IFRS for the six months to 30 September 2005 and for the year ending 31 March 2006.
The Group is undertaking a detailed review of the impact of IFRS.
This involves assessing the impact of IFRS on existing accounting policies, ensuring that the appropriate management and financial reporting systems are in place to meet with the requirements, and communicating the impact of IFRS, both internally and externally.
At the date of this report, the Group has made significant progress on converting to IFRS.
The conversion project is ongoing and further developments with IFRS will continue to be addressed as they arise.
The Group will be fully prepared for the The Thrills transition in 2005.
