18 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Financial review 01 David Wrench Chief Financial Officer Introduction It should be noted that FY04 The 10% increase in like-for-like 01 contained 53 weeks compared Food Equipment operating profit I am delighted with our results to 52 weeks in FY03.
FY05 will is driven by a 12% increase in for FY04 and, in line with one contain 52 weeks.
We estimate Food Service Equipment of our objectives for the year, that the effect of this extra North America.
Food Service we have increased our financial week accounts for approximately Equipment Europe Asia likeflexibility.
Our businesses 2% of our Food Equipment for-like operating profit was continue to be highly cash like-for-like turnover increase down 3.4m compared to generative and as a result of of 5%.
FY03 as the markets have not our improved operating recovered to the same extent performance and lower gearing Turnover as in North America.
we have refinanced the Groups Our turnover of 656m is Profit loss before tax m senior debt.
We were able to Food Retail like-for-like operating 23m below last year.
The 2002 2003 2004 achieve a significant profit increased by 3.6m with 25.3 decrease is predominantly due improvement in terms see the full year impact of last years 15.9 to adverse foreign exchange note 17.
We believe that this actions at Kysor Warren 85.5 impacts principally from the new facility increases our ensuring it remained profitable weaker US dollar.
Like-for-like financial flexibility and further whilst Kysor Panel Systems Food Equipment turnover demonstrates the financial again delivered a good increased 5% reflecting the progress that we have made performance.
Furthermore, effects of an improving North over the last two years.
excess accruals, originally American economy.
We anticipate that this will provided in FY03 were released save us approximately Operating profit in respect of a legal claim that 1.0m per annum in interest was satisfactorily settled.
Operating profit before going forward.
goodwill amortisation and Goodwill amortisation has Our profit after tax improved exceptional items decreased by decreased, principally as a by 34.5m to 44.0m 3.5m to 57.3m.
An increase result of foreign exchange 2003: 9.5m.
The benefits of 0.2m in Food Equipment rate movements, by 1.6m to of improved like-for-like operating profit masks the 12.2m 2003: 13.8m.
operating profit and lower underlying performance of Property interest costs were enhanced a 5.7m 10% increase in by the recognition in Q404 of like-for-like operating profit offset On 6 September 2004, we non-cash deferred tax credits by 5.5m of adverse foreign completed the sale of a further 23.9m principally in respect exchange movements.
phase of our Felsted, UK, of our past US tax losses.
The balance of the decrease is development.
This gave rise This reflects a recovery in our due to, primarily, lower preto turnover of 11.4m 2003: North American businesses exceptional property profit, 15.7m which, along with the and an increase in our US being 2.7m in FY04 compared ongoing costs of managing our taxable profits providing to 5.4m in the prior year.
residual property portfolio and increased confidence that the phasing of costs relating to we will utilise a greater amount development projects and of our tax losses.
surplus leasehold properties, led to a pre-exceptional operating profit of 2.7m 2003: 5.4m.
Annual profit from property Operating profit is stated before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Like-for-like development is expected to operating profit requires prior year operating reduce further over time.
profit to be further adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange.
Like-for-like turnover requires prior year turnover to be adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange.
19 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Financial review Exceptional items During the course of the year Interest Taxation we were able to release One of our subsidiary The Groups net pre-exceptional Our tax charge for the period on disposal warranty accruals of companies, Enodis Corporation interest cost in the period was pre-exceptional profit is 6.4m 2.2m that were no longer and several other parties have 16.1m, down 5.8m on the reflecting a current tax charge required following the expiry of been named in a lawsuit filed in prior year primarily the result on current year profits of the associated warranty the United States Bankruptcy of lower principal balances.
There was no cash Court for the Northern District However, the increased profit before tax, goodwill impact of these releases.
of Indiana, Freeland v. Enodis, proportion of our net debt amortisation and exceptional et al.
On 28 July 2004, the Finally, as mentioned above represented by our 100m items.
Our US operations Bankruptcy Court for the we were able in September to senior subordinated notes, benefit from brought forward 3 Northern District of Indiana refinance the Groups banking bearing interest at 10 8%, will tax losses, therefore the charge issued an opinion dismissing all facilities on far more favourable cause the weighted average in the year relates principally claims against all defendants terms than had previously cost of debt to remain relatively to tax on profits of our other than Enodis Corporation, been possible.
Savings as a result of the European and Canadian and holding that the trustee was refinancing has resulted in a refinancing should yield benefits businesses.
The tax benefit of not entitled to assert the alter non-cash write off of deferred of approximately 1.0m per exceptional items is 1.2m.
ego claims against Enodis financing costs relating to the annum going forward.
Our view of the impact of the Corporation.
However, the replaced facility of 2.7m.
expected recovery in our Profit before tax Court also held that the trustee North American businesses Europe restructuring was entitled to recover $30m The pre-tax profit for the and associated tax planning paid by Consolidated, plus Following a review of our period of 25.3m was 9.4m strategies has led us to pre-judgement interest, for a European operations, we better than the year before, recognise an additional deferred total of approximately $43m.
have identified a few reflecting the improved tax asset of 23.9m principally This decision is in addition to underperforming businesses.
like-for-like Food Equipment relating to the benefit arising the summary judgement issued In order to increase focus operating profit, lower interest from past US tax losses.
by the United States District and improve efficiency, since and exceptional items and We expect to see the benefit Court for the Northern District year end, we have initiated a 0.9m of adverse foreign of US tax losses until 2007: of Indiana previously discussed restructuring programme that exchange rate movements.
however, our US operating in our 2003 Annual Report in will lead to an exceptional cost The graph on page 18 shows losses are subject to specific the amount of approximately of approximately 6m in early the Groups pre-tax profit shareholder continuity $8.6m.
Having considered the FY05, including the redundancy performance for the last requirements being met.
advice from our external legal costs of between 150 and 200 three years.
If in a rolling three year counsel, we believe the adverse people.
Estimated annual period specified ownership portion of the decision of the savings will be approximately requirements are breached Bankruptcy Court and the 2m, the full benefits of which then the amount of losses decision of the District Court to will not be seen until 2006.
We that could be utilised would be be in error, and based on said believe that these actions will substantially reduced.
This may advice further believe it is position our European lead to an impairment of our probable that Enodis appeals operations for improved recognised deferred tax assets.
as a result of the decision to appeal, the Group has reassessed its accruals for legal costs for defending the claims and has provided a further 3.2m 2003: 3.1m.
20 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Financial review Earnings per share Operating cash flow 2004 2003 Operating cash flow m m Adjusted diluted earnings per The Group continues to Operating profit 57.3 60.8 share are 8.6p compared to generate strong cash flow Depreciation 11.5 12.4 8.0p last year.
Basic earnings before exceptional items as Spend against provisions 3.3 2.8 per share are 11.0p 2003: 2.4p analysed in the table opposite.
Working capital 9.8 9.6 due in part to the deferred For the third successive year Net capital expenditure 13.4 9.4 tax credit.
we have reduced working Cash inflow from operating activities Dividend capital.
Movements and after capital expenditure 61.9 70.6 in trade working capital are Net interest excluding debt refinancing costs 16.2 18.9 No dividend is proposed this broadly neutral as increases in Taxation 6.7 7.1 year 2003: none.
inventory have been offset by Free cash inflow 39.0 44.6 As previously reported, at the corresponding increases in moment the Company does not trade creditors and a small have sufficient distributable Reconciliation of net debt m reduction in trade debtors.
reserves to lawfully declare a Furthermore, at the year end, Net debt at 28 September 2003 139.7 dividend.
For us to resume we had increased accruals due Free cash inflow 39.0 dividend payments we will be to the scheduled timing of required to undertake a scheme Acquisitions 0.8 payments in relation to rebates of arrangement, a complex Shares issued 0.4 and costly exercise, which we and other operational items.
Debt refinancing costs 0.5 will begin in early 2005.
It is Again, in line with last year, we Foreign exchange rate movement 10.3 now the Boards intention to closed the year below our Net debt at 2 October 2004 91.3 reinstate dividends in 2006. internal target of 40 cash conversion days.
Capital Net debt m Pensions expenditure was ahead of last 2002 2003 2004 The Group operates a number year as we increased spend on 186.1 of defined benefit and defined ERP systems.
In the long term contribution schemes as we expect capex to broadly 139.7 discussed in note 23 to the equal depreciation.
Applying FRS17 Net debt principles we would have a net 91.3 pension liability of 19.2m Net debt at 2 October 2004 2003: 28.4m compared to a was 91.3m compared to balance sheet liability under 139.7m at the beginning of SSAP24 of 15.8m 2003: the year.
The free cash inflow 16.3m at the period end.
of 39.0m was the most Cash contributions to our significant factor in the debt defined benefit plans are reduction.
Favourable foreign determined following actuarial exchange movements arising advice and were 1.5m in as the US dollar weakened FY04.
We expect to decrease contributed 10.3m.
The our annual funding level slightly movement of 48.4m is in FY05.
analysed in the reconciliation of net debt table and the Groups period end net debt position is shown in the chart opposite.
Diluted earnings per share adjusted for the effects of goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and deferred tax.
Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
21 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Financial review Treasury management Enodis has significant capital Investment International Financial employed in overseas Reporting Standards The Group Treasury function Our current investment focus operations.
As a result, the of Enodis is responsible for includes improving our ERP The Council of the European Groups balance sheet can ensuring the availability and systems throughout the Group, Union announced in June 2002 be affected by movements flexibility of funding new product development and that listed companies in Europe in foreign exchange rates.
arrangements in order to meet equipment upgrading.
We would adopt International The Group has a policy to the ongoing requirements of therefore anticipate that capital Financial Reporting Standards hedge this risk, where the Group.
In addition, it is expenditure will rise over the IFRS for accounting periods appropriate, to limit the impact responsible for managing the next few years.
We have no beginning on or after 1 January of currency movements.
interest rate risks, liquidity risks plans for material acquisitions 2005.
The adoption of IFRS Accordingly we have loans in and foreign exchange risks of or disposals of businesses, will first be reflected in the the same currencies as the the Group.
Appropriate policies although we may consider Groups financial statements capital employed in the Groups that regulate the activity of the appropriate opportunities.
for the quarter ending in main overseas operating units.
Group Treasury function are in December 2005 and the annual Cross currency swaps are also US GAAP place and have been approved report for the financial year used to convert the currency of by the Board.
The Group Enodis is listed on the New York ending in September 2006. the Groups borrowings to such Treasury function, in turn, has Stock Exchange under the ticker Our 2005 comparative results functional currencies.
implemented policies and symbol ENO and accordingly will be restated.
guidelines to regulate and Interest rate risk is required to reconcile its We have assessed the current monitor the activities of management accounts from UK to US GAAP.
IFRS that have been issued subsidiary companies.
The principal differences arise The Group finances its by the International Accounting due to the treatment of Foreign exchange risk operations through a mix of Standards Board.
Additionally goodwill, pension costs and management retained profits and borrowings.
we have taken steps to quantify taxation.
The pre-tax profit Borrowings are made at both the impact of our transition Foreign exchange transaction before the cumulative effect of fixed and floating rates of to, and ongoing reporting exposures are generally a change in accounting principle interest.
The Group may use under, IFRS.
managed directly by operating under US GAAP is 32.7m interest rate swaps and subsidiaries within policies and 2003: 34.1m : the net profit The financial reporting forward rate agreements to guidelines established by Group after tax under US GAAP is standards to be applied in the generate the desired interest Treasury.
Group Treasury also 25.5m 2003: loss of 94.1m.
Groups first IFRS financial profile and to manage the enters into foreign exchange statements may differ from Groups exposure to interest Sarbanes-Oxley hedging transactions on behalf those IFRS currently in effect.
of subsidiaries where this is We are in compliance with the As such, our assessment of beneficial to the Group.
It is the As at 2 October 2004, the relevant sections of the Act those areas of our financial Groups policy not to hedge Group had gross borrowings which are currently in force.
statements that are likely to be profit and loss account foreign of approximately 144m: 101m impacted may change as a Section 404, which requires exchange translation exposures.
of these borrowings were fixed, result of any new accounting increased reporting and audit We estimate that a one cent principally through the senior developments.
Some of the of internal controls, does not movement in the US dollar will subordinated notes, for a period principal policy and disclosure apply to us until our year affect our adjusted operating greater than one year.
Together changes required in transitioning ending September 2005. profit by approximately 0.3m.
with other minor fixed rate from UK GAAP to IFRS are set We are working towards borrowings, these represent out on page 22. compliance, the costs of 70% of the Groups total which are significant.
The interest rate profile is in line with the Groups objectives.
22 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Financial review Goodwill Financial instruments Goodwill amortisation will Under UK GAAP, financial be replaced by an annual instruments are generally impairment test.
measured at cost with gains and losses being deferred until Share options the underlying transaction UK GAAP requires that the occurs.
IFRS will require all charge for share options should derivatives to be recognised on be based upon the intrinsic the balance sheet at fair value.
value at the date of grant.
The recognition is either taken As a result, no expense is to a component of equity, recognised for share options if the IFRS criteria for hedge that are granted at market accounting are met, or to profit value.
IFRS will require any and loss.
share options granted after 7 November 2002 to be fair Presentation and disclosure valued at the date of grant of financial information using an option pricing model.
The transition to an international The fair value is required to accounting framework will give be charged to profit and rise to an increase in certain loss over the vesting period disclosures in our financial of the share options.
statements, along with some presentational changes.
Pensions and post retirement benefit plans Summary For defined benefit pension We continue to be a business and post retirement benefit that has strong cash generation, plans, IFRS is similar to the and in addition are showing requirements under FRS17, progress in most key profit though IFRS permits the metrics.
Particularly pleasing deferral of actuarial gains this year has been our and losses in certain successful refinancing, circumstances, which is which demonstrated the not permitted under FRS17.
confidence of our banking The Group currently applies the group in the ongoing success provisions of SSAP 24 with of our business.
additional disclosures made with respect to FRS17.
For further information, see note 23 to the accounts.
W David Wrench Chief Financial Officer
