OPERA TING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Nevertheless, City PBT at 28 million is the highest fter more than two years of exceptionally tough since 1998 a record year.
Amarkets, there were signs of improved trading conditions particularly in the second half.
The event Financial Publishing profits increased by 0.5 million businesses including training, conferences and which includes a contribution of 2.8 million from HFI.
seminars, the electronic publishing businesses and Business Publishing profits increased 0.9 million after subscriptions to our print publishing businesses all a reduction in Business Traveller losses.
The profits of showed improving trends, some sharply so.
many publishing businesses fell due to a combination of disappointing advertising and the decline in the However, the recovery in advertising remains slow and US dollar.
One notable exception was Institutional somewhat inconsistent.
Among the groups leading Investor which saw a recovery in advertising revenues titles, Institutional Investor was the best performer as well as cost savings implemented at the end of with advertising revenues beginning to recover after 2003.
Both Institutional Investor Newsletters and significant falls in the previous two years.
Most of Institutional Investor Research saw falls in profits, the growth came from new sources rather than its partly due in the latter case to the loss of the traditional Wall Street financial clients.
In general, Reuters Tempest contract.
the groups financial advertisers have been slow to increase their advertising spend.
Markets have The conference businesses increased profits by improved but the global financial institutions have been 5.3 million, of which 1.8 million came from IMN controlling their costs until there is more evidence that and 1.2 million from Vinisud, the biennial wine the recovery is sustained.
Euromoney Conferences was the best performer, increasing profits by nearly The other significant factor in the reported results has 1 million from a combination of new events and been the sharp fall in the US dollar.
The average dollar growth of existing events, particularly in Asia.
rate for the year was $1.81 against $1.61 in 2003, Euromoney Seminars and II Memberships also a 12% depreciation that reduced revenues by had good years.
06 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC The Training businesses continued the growth seen in Magazine Awards in the reporting category.
ISI was 2003 with increases in delegate numbers driving also named Forbes favourite in Forbes.
MIS saw a good recovery in its public training the web.
business, but this was offset by a weakness in conferences and in-house training.
We also continue our focus on organic growth and believe that the timing is suitable for launching new The database businesses increased profits by businesses internally.
The incentive schemes introduced 0.6 million.
The Dealogic products were flat due to to encourage start-ups have led to a number of new tough markets but ISI had one of its best sales periods ventures in different geographic sectors, in different for several years.
This is gradually translating into industry sectors and in different types of media.
profit growth despite the weak US dollar.
The quality and skills of our employees are of great The gross margin fell from 68% to 67% largely due importance to the group.
Despite the continuing to the impact of the US$ on revenues.
Employee cost emphasis this year on cost control, we have continued savings excluding HFI and IMN were 1.8 million to hire selectively and we have further developed our following the headcount reductions in 2003.
We have, in particular, on forward currency contracts were 2.6 million expanded the human relations function by hiring a compared to 1.7 million in 2003.
Strategy Acquisitions The company continues to invest in the editorial quality We believe that in addition to growing our existing of its titles to reinforce the strength of its brands and businesses and starting up new businesses, acquisitions to continue to increase subscription revenues.
The are a fundamental part of the company's growth group achieved some notable editorial successes in the strategy.
In particular we believe that acquisitions are year.
In particular Institutional Investor won the Morton valuable for taking us into new publishing sectors, for Frank Award for Best Business Reporting from the bringing new technologies into the company and for Overseas Press Club of America for the second year increasing the company's overall growth through running, and was also a finalist in the US National identifying rapidly developing niche businesses.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 07 OPERA TING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued In February 2004 the group purchased 80% of the During the year, the group increased its holdings in its equity share capital of Information Management subsidiaries as follows: Network, Inc. the New York-based financial conference organizer, for an initial cash consideration together Effective September 30 2004 the group purchased with associated costs of $32m and estimated deferred the remaining 10% of the equity of Engel Publishing consideration of $26.9m payable in three tranches in Partners for 0.9m.
A put option is held by the former owners of IMN to sell the remaining 20% In April 2004 the group purchased a further 6% of the of the issued share capital in 2008 or thereafter to equity share capital of Internet Securities, Inc. for a Euromoney.
IMN was established 10 years ago to offer cash consideration of 1.8m.
educational conferences of the highest quality for the global investment community.
It now organizes some 70 conferences around the world each year Since year end the company, through ISI, has acquired 66 in 2004.
IMN was privately owned and its senior the assets of the Business Intelligence division of Liquid management team: Dr Frank Fabozzi, well known Africa Ltd which delivers aggregated news and data to author of finance books and a frequent lecturer in subscribers in Africa.
The consideration will be up to the finance sector: and three experienced conference 1 million.
This enables ISI to cover the sub-Sahara organizers: have all remained executives in the Africa market in depth for the first time.
The company continues to pursue acquisition IMN's conferences concentrate on the financial sector opportunities consistent with the strategy of expanding with an especially strong emphasis on the securitisation into new cross-border sectors, extending our existing and indexation sectors, and many of its events are involvement in vertical sectors worldwide that we have large, profitable, must-attend annual conferences.
found attractive and expanding into new product types of technologies.
08 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Risk Management Social Responsibility The company has continued to develop its process for The group continues to participate and develop its risk management.
Management of significant risk is involvement in the community.
The group provides regularly on the agenda of the board and other senior specific paid graduate trainee programmes with the management meetings.
In particular last year, we potential for long-term career opportunities within implemented new systems for managing the details of the organization.
The US businesses offer scholarships and risks in managing the circulation of our print and and paid internships which often lead to permanent electronic titles.
This year we have also provided short-term roles and on the job training for Risk areas addressed during the year have included: people who have been out of the work place for long periods allowing them to refresh their skills as well Health and safety.
as enabling them to learn new ones.
The company is a keen supporter of local and IT security including our website.
international charities and regularly provides Financial risks, particularly foreign exchange, sponsorships and funds to support these.
For example, interest and tax exposures.
every September the US has an annual charity drive Libel.
where the company will match dollar for dollar any Data protection.
monies raised by its employees.
Other initiatives include People risk and employment disputes.
annual blood drives, recycling of old computers and peripherals by giving these to developing countries, and hosting charity gala dinners.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 09 OPERA TING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Systems and Information Technologies The chairman of the Audit Committee also attends the The company is in the process of developing and tax and treasury meetings.
The groups treasury policies updating the business continuity plan for each are directed to giving greater certainty of future costs business unit.
A new e-commerce platform is being and revenues and ensuring that the group has implemented to handle on-line orders and payments.
adequate liquidity for working capital and debt The finance department has rolled out a new capacity for funding acquisitions.
management reporting and consolidation system which should help streamline the company's The treasury department does not act as a profit reporting requirements.
centre, nor does it undertake any speculative trading activity and it operates within policies and procedures approved by the board.
Debt The group has funded its operations using a mixture of Interest rate swaps and caps are used to manage the its strong operating cash flows, retained earnings and groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on its debt.
Net debt levels are 4.6m lower than last year floating rate borrowings.
The maturity profile of these despite the first $32m tranche for the acquisition of derivatives is matched with the expected future debt IMN.
The reduction is due to both operating cash profile of the group.
The groups policy is to fix the generated and the lower US$ rate.
interest rates on approximately 80% of its term debt.
At September 30 2004, the group had 76% of its Tax and Treasury net debt fixed by the use of interest rate hedges.
The group's Tax and Treasury Committee meets twice As long-term rates are usually higher than short-term a year and is responsible for recommending policy to rates this hedging strategy has the effect of increasing the board.
The committee comprises the chairman, the interest charge, but it does provide protection managing director and finance director, and the deputy against increases in market rates.
finance director of Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
10 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC The group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the The groups effective tax rate decreased to 13.9% form of transactions in foreign currencies entered into excluding the effect of goodwill amortization and by group companies and by the translation of the exceptional items compared to 14.6% in 2003.
The results in foreign currencies into sterling for reporting overall rate for the year reflects the recognition of a purposes.
The group does not hedge the translation of deferred tax asset in respect of brought forward US tax the results of foreign subsidiaries, but does endeavour losses as some of our US businesses are now beginning to match foreign currency borrowings to investments in to generate taxable profits.
The availability of brought order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of forward losses means that the group still pays very the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
little tax on its US profits.
Approximately 60% of the groups revenues are in US dollars.
Individual subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, Richard Ensor at a group level a series of forward contracts is put in Managing Director place up to 18 months forward partially to hedge November 23 2004. its dollar revenues into sterling.
Details of the financial instruments used are set out in note 18 to the accounts.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 11
