financial review The financial results for the year ended 31 January 2004 continued In North America, wholesale turnover grew by 14% in Dollar terms the Groups trend of strong growth in profits and cash generation and 5% in Sterling terms.
Due to the discounting in the first half of resulting in a 26% growth in adjusted earnings per share to 28.4 the year the operation reported a net loss of 0.7 million but the pence and closing net funds of 40.5 million.
improvement in trading experienced in the second half provides confidence that there will be a return to profit in the new financial year.
Group trading results Group turnover increased by 11% with strong growth across both Sales volumes to our licensees in the Far East and Australia made retail and wholesale in each of our geographic markets.
In UK Europe through our Hong Kong office increased by 30% due to strong retail the 14% growth in turnover reflects an increase of 19% in growth by our Australia licensee and increases in sales to Japan.
The average traded space and like-for-like sales growth of 3.7% over the operating margin remained broadly similar resulting in a contribution year.
The total growth is diluted by the impact of newer, larger stores of 1.3 million in the year.
generating lower sales densities and as a result, although total contribution increased by 7%, the operating margin reduced to 9.5%.
Margin and overheads Group gross margin improved slightly from 53.4% to 53.8% mainly In North America two stores were closed and two opened resulting in due to the currency benefits.
The main impact from currency on our virtually no change in the traded space in the retail business over the margin arises from the 30% of our product which is sourced from our year.
Turnover increased by 12% in total and 9.1% on a like-for-like Hong Kong office and which is paid for in Hong Kong Dollars.
The US Dollar has weakened by over 9% compared with last Hong Kong Dollar exchange rate is linked to the US Dollar rate and so year and therefore the North America turnover reported in Sterling has weakened by 9% year on year resulting in the Sterling cost of our shows an increase of only 3%.
As a result of the strong sales growth product falling.
Our Hong Kong Dollar requirement for the new the net operating result showed a considerable improvement on last financial year is mostly covered by forward Dollar purchase contracts year coming within 0.7 million of break-even.
at rates representing an improvement over the average rate achieved in the year ended 31 January 2004.
Stores are included in the like-for-like calculation on the first anniversary of their opening.
Stores that have been extended are Overhead costs continue to be tightly controlled showing an 8% excluded until the anniversary of the extension.
No stores were increase to 109.7 million from 101.4 million last year.
All of this refurbished without also being extended during the year.
increase is accounted for by the increases in retail trading space while other mainly volume-related cost increases in the UK have been offset The UK Europe wholesale business grew by 11% over the previous by cost reductions achieved elsewhere.
We continue to maintain our year to achieve over 100 million in the period with increases brand profile through advertising and marketing expenditure which generated across all the major channels.
The net operating margin amounted to 9.8 million during the year 2003: 8.2 million.
This is increased significantly as a result of operating leverage from increased further supported by the marketing expenditure made by our volumes, improved input margins with the weakness of the Dollar and licensees, notably this year in relation to the launch of the new reduced levels of discounting.
7 financial review continued Licensing income increased by 44% from 2.5 million to 3.6 million Earnings and dividends including the first contribution from our worldwide fragrance licence, Net earnings for the year attributable to shareholders after a further significant increase in income from the UK toiletries licence interest, tax and minority interests increased by 28% to 26.2 and a good contribution from the shoe licence.
Earnings per share, adjusted to remove the amortisation of goodwill and losses on disposal of assets, Taken together these elements resulted in an increase in operating increased by 26% to 28.4 pence per share from 22.5 pence per margin before amortisation of goodwill from 12.7% to 14.4% and share last year amended to reflect the share split implemented an operating profit before amortisation of goodwill of 38.6 million during the year.
Unadjusted FRS3 earnings per share increased compared with 30.6 million in the previous year.
Associated businesses The Board has recommended a final dividend of 2.25 pence per During the year two 50:50 joint ventures were created with local share 2003: 1.8 pence giving a total dividend for the year of operators in Japan and Hong Kong and the resulting businesses 3.25 pence per share 2003: 2.4 pence, an increase of 35%.
have been granted licences to operate French Connection retail Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final outlets.
In August a newly created joint venture acquired the nine dividend will be paid on 6 July 2004 to shareholders on the existing stores in Japan operated under licence by the joint venture register on 19 March 2004 ex-dividend date 17 March 2004. partner and therefore six months of their trading is reflected in these accounts.
In Hong Kong the first of the planned stores opened in Fixed assets investment November.
Together, these two businesses reported turnover of Total capital expenditure in the year was 10.6 million almost all of 3.6 million during their first period of operation in the year, half of which was spent on the retail portfolio including the fourteen new which is reported in these financial statements as the Groups share stand-alone stores across the world.
A further 1.3 million was of associated businesses turnover.
The Groups share of the net invested in the two joint ventures in Japan and Hong Kong along operating loss of these two businesses of 0.6 million is shown in with loans of 1.0 million.
The majority of the investment related the profit and loss account.
to the acquisition of the existing stores in Japan.
Interest, tax charge and minority interests Working capital and net funds Reflecting the net funds position achieved at the end of last financial The total value of stock held at the end of the financial year was year net interest income of 0.7 million was generated in the year.
reduced by 8% despite the increase in retail trading space, reflecting reductions in stock holdings in both the UK and North The tax charge for the year was 11.7 million representing 30.2% America.
An increase in debtors of 1.2 million reflected loans of profit before tax and goodwill, a similar level to last year.
extended to our joint ventures in the Far East and excluding this there was virtually no change in the debtors and creditors since The minority interest represents the share of results attributable to the previous year end.
As a result the total working capital at the the 25% ownership held by management in our Canadian business end of the year has fallen by 1.7 million.
and the Toast mail order business.
8 annual report 2004 Net cash inflow from operating activities was 17% higher at 51.1 The most significant exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations million 2003: 43.8 million reflecting the strong trading and the relates to purchases made in foreign currencies, principally the decrease in working capital.
The closing net funds position was Hong Kong Dollar.
The Groups policy is to reduce substantially 40.5 million 2003: 14.2 million.
the risk associated with purchases denominated in foreign currencies by using forward fixed rate currency purchase Share capital contracts, taking into account any foreign currency cash flows.
During the year a five-for-one share split was implemented, increasing The majority of the Hong Kong Dollar requirement for the year to the number of shares in issue to 95,357,595 including 100,000 31 January 2005 has already been covered by such contracts.
shares issued during the year through the share option scheme.
There has been no change since the year end to the major Comparative data in the report and accounts which is calculated treasury risks faced by the Group or the Groups approach to the based on the number of shares in issue, such as earnings per share management of these risks.
and dividends per share, have been restated to reflect the share split.
Treasury risk management The principal treasury risks to the Group arise from exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations.
The Board has approved policies for managing these risks, which are reviewed on a regular basis, including the use of financial instruments, principally forward foreign Roy Naismith exchange contracts.
No transactions of a speculative nature are Group Finance Director undertaken.
8 March 2004 9 10 annual report 2004 accounts 2004 contents Directors Report 12 Directors 13 Corporate Governance Report 14 Directors Remuneration Report 16 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 19 Independent Auditors Report 20 Group Profit and Loss Account 22 Group Balance Sheet 23 Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 24 Note of Group Historical Cost Profits and Losses 24 Group Cash Flow Statement 25 Company Balance Sheet 26 Notes to the Accounts 27 Five Year Record 49 Retail Locations 50 Advisers 51 Financial Calendar 51 Notice of Meeting 52 11
