22 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Financial Review Due to the merger that took place during the reporting period, our accounts are complex with both pro forma and statutory numbers.
However they are brought together in the closing balance sheet.
Basis of accounting Exceptional items Disposals and discontinued operations On 19 July 2004, the security businesses of the former Exceptional charges in the year amounted to 183.6m.
Disposals in the year, none of which were individually Group 4 Falck A S Group 4 combined with They comprised five elements: 1 a loss of 57.9m in significant, gave rise to an exceptional loss of 2.8m.
Securicor plc Securicor to become Group 4 respect of adjustments to the carrying value of assets Group 4s manned security operations in The Securicor plc.
As explained in note 1 to the statement arising from the harmonisation of accounting estimates Netherlands with the exception of aviation security of accounting policies on page 51, the combination and a balance sheet review across the newly combined activities are in the process of disposal and its cash between Group 4 and Group 4 Securicor plc is group, 2 a goodwill impairment charge of 51.2m, services operations in Scotland were disposed of in accounted for as a merger and the combination 3 a provision of 34.5m for the anticipated loss on the March 2005.
These disposals are required by the between Group 4 Securicor plc and Securicor as an disposal of security operations in The Netherlands as European Commission as a condition for their acquisition.
The reported statutory results of the group required by the European Commission, 4 restructuring approval of the combination between Group 4 and for the year ended 31 December 2004 therefore costs of 37.2m following the combination of Group 4 Securicor.
During the disposal process the group only include the full year of trading of Group 4 and the and Securicor, and 5 business disposal costs of 2.8m.
has restricted control over these operations and in trading of Securicor from the date of acquisition.
The The total cash cost of these exceptional items will be consequence their results have not been consolidated 2003 comparative numbers are those for Group 4, 36m, of which 20m has already been incurred.
The contribution to the turnover translated from Danish Kroner into Sterling.
and profit of the group from discontinued operations Acquisitions and goodwill Also presented, on pages 43 and 44, is pro forma as shown in note 1 on pages 54 to 56 includes the The major acquisition in the year, as explained in the financial information, showing the combined turnover, results of these businesses up to 19 July 2004. basis of accounting above, was that of Securicor, the EBITA and operating cash flow for the businesses now cost of which was 771.5m, comprising the issue of The European Commission also required the disposal comprising the group for the full year to 31 December shares to the value of 710.4m and associated costs of Securicors operations in Luxembourg, which was 2004, together with comparative figures for 2003. of 61.1m, and which generated goodwill of 703.1m.
completed in March 2005, and in consequence its This pro forma financial information, which is unaudited, Other acquisitions, none of which were individually results have not been consolidated.
has been compiled to provide guidance for investors significant, cost 40.6m in total and generated goodwill The contribution to turnover and profit from and analysts.
The contribution made by acquisitions to discontinued operations shown in the pro forma the turnover and profit of the group during the year Except where otherwise stated, the analysis in this financial information for the year includes not only is shown in note 1 on pages 54 to 56. financial review is of the statutory results for the year the results from the businesses included within to and the balance sheet at 31 December 2004.
The charge for goodwill amortisation in the financial discontinued operations in the statutory figures statements for the year to 31 December 2004 but also the results from Securicors operations in Operating Results amounted to 49.8m.
Goodwill included in the balance Luxembourg up to 19 July 2004 and the results The overall results are commented upon by the sheet as an intangible asset at 31 December 2004 of other Securicor operations exited prior to the Chairman in his statement and operational trading is amounted to 1,117.9m.
combination with Group 4. discussed in the Operating Review on pages 12 to 21.
23 The directors recommend a final dividend of 1.85p per share.
To former shareholders of Group 4 Falck A S this represents approximately four times the Group 4 Falck A S dividend paid for the year to 31 December 2003.
For former shareholders of Securicor plc the final dividend, taken with the interim dividend of 0.86p per share, makes a total dividend of 2.71p per share for the year ended Trevor Dighton Chief Financial Officer 31 December 2004, an increase of 12.9% over the dividend for the year to 30 September 2003.
Continued growth 24 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Financial Review continued Accounting standards Share-based payments There are no new accounting standards applicable to In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, a the year to 31 December 2004.
FRS 17 Retirement charge to the profit and loss account of the fair value benefits is not fully mandatory until 2005.
The at grant date of items such as share awards and share disclosures required prior to full implementation are options is made over the vesting period to which the made in note 6 on pages 58 to 60 and pension fund items relate.
This will have limited impact on the results valuation is discussed later in this review.
Goodwill of the group, as share awards, which are cash costs, arising on acquisitions is capitalised and amortised over are chargeable to the profit and loss account under its useful economic life which is not expected to current UK GAAP: all Group 4 Falck A S share options exceed 20 years.
Provision is made for any impairment.
were cashed out at the time of the combination with Securicor and most Securicor options became IFRS exercisable at the same time.
As a group operating across the world we welcome Joint ventures and associates moves towards the harmonisation of accounting In accordance with IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures, standards, including the adoption of International joint ventures will be proportionately consolidated Financial Reporting Standards by the European Union.
rather than shown within a single net investment line We are required to report in accordance with these in the balance sheet.
This will impact the balance sheet standards in 2005 and this reporting will include the disclosure of our investment in special purpose entities restatement of 2004 results, subject to certain made in respect of PFI projects in the UK justice specified exceptions.
We will re-present the 2004 market.
In accordance with IAS 28 Investments in results in accordance with IFRS in June.
Both Group 4 Associates, our share of the profit from associates and Securicor have had IFRS conversion projects in will be shown as a single post-tax item rather than place since 2003 and we have identified the following analysed across profit and loss account categories.
as the significant areas of difference between our results as reported under current UK GAAP and as Dividends they will be reported in accordance with IFRS.
In accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, dividends will be neither a charge to the Business combinations profit and loss account nor accrued.
They will be shown In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, as a movement within reserves when they are declared.
goodwill arising from acquisitions will cease to be subject to an annual amortisation charge.
It will instead Financial instruments be held on the balance sheet indefinitely, but subject to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and an annual impairment test of its recoverability based Measurement requires that derivatives be carried on upon the cash flows of the business streams to which the balance sheet and marked to market, save those it relates.
However, it is possible that certain intangible that are designated at inception as fulfilling a specified assets other than goodwill will be identified upon hedging function and can be demonstrated to have acquisition and subject to an annual amortisation been effective in that function.
This could result in charge.
In the business-to-business service industry greater profit and loss account volatility.
It is, however, sector in which we operate the proportion of the anticipated that most of the groups long-term hedging intangibles on acquisitions identified as items other activities will qualify for hedge accounting, under which than goodwill is generally likely to be insignificant.
the derivative contract is accounted for so as to match the treatment of the hedged item.
The group Pensions will be adopting the optional exemption from the In accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, pension requirement to apply IAS 39 retrospectively in the funding balances will be recognised on the balance restatement of the profit and loss account for the year sheet.
For 2005 this is also the case under UK GAAP to 31 December 2004. with the full implementation of FRS 17 Retirement benefits.
The funding deficits currently disclosed in The application of IFRS changes neither the dynamics accordance with the transitional rules of FRS 17 may be of our businesses nor the groups cash flows.
In addition, slightly higher under the asset valuation rules of IAS 19. there will not be a significant impact upon reported operating results.
25 On 24 July 2004 the investors in the former Group 4 Taxation Corporate governance Falcks US$400m private placement lending The taxation charge of 49.3m provided upon profit The groups policies regarding risk management and arrangement were repaid and were also paid a make before exceptional items and goodwill represents a tax corporate governance are set out in the Report of whole payment of $15.2m.
In addition, related swap rate of 32.6%.
Tax relief has been provided against the Directors.
contracts were terminated at a cost of $4m.
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation totalling Pensions 36.5m.
Potential tax assets amounting to 52.2m have At 31 December 2004 net debt of 595.8m The groups major defined benefit pension schemes not been recognised as their utilisation is uncertain.
The group has are those operated in the UK, including the scheme substantial capacity to finance growth, which will be Cashflow acquired with Securicor.
The schemes are closed to all enhanced by future cash generation from the groups Cash generation in the year to 31 December 2004 but a small number of new entrants.
The full triennial focus upon security activities.
was good after a strong prior year.
Net cash flow from actuarial assessment of the Group 4 schemes was operating activities was 157.5m 2003: 140.5m, and carried out as at 31 March 2002 and of the Securicor Interest rates free cash flow after capital expenditure was 64.8m scheme at 5 April 2003.
These have been updated to The groups investments and borrowings, including 2003: 69.5m.
31 December 2004 and the assessment revealed the those negotiated after 31 December 2004, are at schemes funding levels in respect of past service under variable rates of interest linked to LIBOR.
The groups Net cash outflow from acquisitions and disposals the different regulatory measures to be as follows: interest risk policy requires treasury to fix short term amounted to 39.9m 2003: inflow 43.7m.
net debt of between 40% and 80% and medium term SSAP 24 Pension costs Net cash outflow in the year was 73.2m and the net debt of between 20% and 40%.
There were no There was a net surplus of 2m 3m after tax.
increase in net debt, after allowing for finance leases, swaps outstanding at 31 December 2004. borrowings acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries and FRS 17 Retirement benefits translation adjustments, was 213.4m.
Foreign currency This valuation indicated a shortfall of 193m 135m after tax.
The group has many overseas subsidiaries and Financing and treasury activities associates denominated in various different currencies.
Although the value of the assets in the funds increased The groups treasury function is responsible for Treasury policy is to manage significant translation by 64m since the reported 2003 figures this was ensuring the availability of cost-effective finance for risks in respect of net operating assets and income counteracted by a reduction in bond rates, which are the groups operating activities and for managing the denominated in foreign currencies.
The methods used to discount liabilities for FRS 17 purposes.
We groups financial risk arising from volatility in currency adopted are to use borrowings denominated in believe that, over the very long term in which pension and interest rates and counterparty credit.
Treasury is foreign currency supplemented by forward contracts.
liabilities become payable, improved investment returns not a profit centre and is not permitted to speculate No forward contracts were outstanding at should eliminate the deficit in the schemes in respect in financial instruments.
The board sets the treasury 31 December 2004. of past service liabilities.
However, in recognition of departments policies and treasury is subject to the the currently reported deficits, an additional cash controls appropriate to the risks it manages.
Dividends contribution of 15m before tax is being made to the The directors recommend a final dividend of 1.85p per New treasury policies have been adopted and the schemes in the year commencing 1 January 2005. share.
To former shareholders of Group 4 Falck A S this hedging activity described below under interest rates represents approximately four times the Group 4 Falck and foreign currency is being implemented during 2005.
Going concern A S dividend paid for the year to 31 December 2003.
The directors are confident that, after making enquiries At the time of the merger all existing committed For former shareholders of Securicor plc the final and on the basis of current financial projections and facilities were replaced and all material hedging dividend, taken with the interim dividend of 0.86p per available facilities, they have a reasonable expectation positions were closed out.
share, makes a total dividend of 2.71p per share for the that the group has adequate resources to continue in year ended 31 December 2004, an increase of 12.9% operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For Financing over the dividend for the year to 30 September 2003. this reason they continue to adopt the going concern On 1 June 2004 Group 4 Securicor entered into a basis in preparing the financial statements.
In proposing this final dividend, the board considered 1,000m multicurrency revolving credit facility with 14 both the appropriate level of dividend cover and the participating banks.
This facility consists of a five year future strategy and prospective earnings of the group.
committed revolving facility of 800m and a 364-day The company intends to follow a progressive dividend committed revolving facility of 200m with the ability policy, with future dividends increasing broadly in line to convert at the companys option into a term loan with earnings.
Dividend cover in the current year is 5.2 for a further 12 months of 200m.
The group has Trevor Dighton based on normalised earnings per share but this is other available facilities of 265m.
Chief Financial Officer not comparable with future intentions as it excludes both an interim dividend and the results of Securicor prior to 20 July 2004.
