48301 GardRich Inset 9 24 04 3:18 PM Page 11 11 12 OPERATING REVIEW The group continues to be one of the UKs leading providers of METROBUS transport management services, providing over 700 million In addition to an expansion of tendered services provided for passenger journeys each year across Go-Aheads 11 subsidiary TfL, 2004 proved a successful year for Metrobus deregulated companies in the bus, rail, parking and aviation services sectors.
operations, with growth in turnover, employee numbers and fleet size.
The introduction of Gatwick Fastway saw 16 million worth The business focus remains centred on the growth areas of the of public sector investment in infrastructure, passenger south of England where traffic congestion, population growth and information and bus priority measures, with Metrobus investing economic development provide the ideal foundations for new over 2 million in recruitment, training and new vehicles.
Fastway acquisitions and organic business growth.
Within this management and the simultaneous enhancement of other service frequencies strategy the group is committed to partnership work with central has seen patronage growth of over 10% in and around Crawley and local government, TfL, the SRA, industry bodies and noncompared to last year.
Such partnership building is essential to deliver the frequent, reliable and high quality transport services Investment has also been made in operating bases, developing the travelling public expects and if we are to create realistic new engineering facilities at Crawley and Orpington, in addition to integration between private and public transport.
a new depot site at Coulsdon to replace the current inadequate and inappropriately located Godstone depot.
A total of 5.5 million will be invested to develop an operating base capable of BUS OPERATIONS sustaining all of the current Godstone fleet, with room for further As in previous years, the group has continued to invest in new expansion.
The retention of new and existing contract work for vehicles to improve the quality and accessibility of services.
In the Surrey County Council and West Sussex County Council, some past financial year over 260 new vehicles entered service 368 at improved prices, contributed to Metrobus good performance.
vehicles in 2003, representing a capital value of 44 million BRIGHTON & HOVE over 49 million in 2003.
The slightly reduced investment, when A decade of consistent patronage growth in Brighton, 50% since compared to last year, reflects the extraordinary level of vehicle 1994, continued this year with an increase of 3.7%.
This growth purchases required in 2003 for new TfL contracts to support the has been achieved through a well-established and close introduction of the London Congestion Charge.
partnership with the City Council, and further significant fleet Excluding the heritage Routemaster fleet operated on behalf of investment by the company together with enhanced frequencies TfL, the groups bus fleet average age now stands at 5.2 years.
Even with the inclusion of the Routemaster fleet the average The tried and tested strategy of offering effectively marketed fleet age is 6.6 years, significantly lower than the Industryfrequent services with a simple fares structure has continued, Government target of 8 years.
The group expect this latter figure complemented by the local authoritys work on introducing to fall year-on-year with the on-going replacement of further priority measures in the city to assist with the efficient Routemasters with new modern and accessible vehicles within operation of bus services.
Brighton has also introduced an TfLs tender process.
updated corporate livery and the regular production of its LONDON comprehensive timetable and other promotional literature Growth in the London tendered bus market is now moderating continues to be cited as an example of best practice for the following the recent extraordinary expansion in new services rest of the industry.
However as the Mayor is considering an The company continues to face challenges in relation to staff extension to the current congestion charge zone, further retention and recruitment, the result of rising costs in the south expansion is expected.
In preparation, investment has been made east in particular with rising house prices in the local area.
in new premises to facilitate business growth in line with However on-going recruitment strategies have produced net potential network expansion.
gains in staff for the past three years.
The London tendered bus market has become more competitive OXFORD in the past year, but the groups London based companies London 2004 has been a challenging year within the Oxford market as Central, London General and Metrobus have successfully won TfL the long-standing competitive environment in Oxford city contracts worth 51 million a year in 2004, including the intensified with the emergence of Brookesbus, operated on conversion of Route 12 from Routemasters to articulated buses.
behalf of Oxford Brookes University.
In response, investment has This brings the total number of Go-Ahead articulated buses been made in branding and new products to maintain and grow operated on TfL contracts to 83.
Our articulated bus fleet lost patronage and market share, with investment made on the three vehicles due to fires in the engine compartments.
It should successful Abingdon-Oxford service, including new high quality be stressed that at no time was the safety of passengers air-conditioned vehicles, delivering significant patronage growth.
compromised, and the vehicle manufacturer has accepted full Within the Oxford-London express market, the companys financial responsibility for the vehicle losses.
Modifications have service was re-launched as espress with more than 1.2 million been undertaken by the manufacturers, including addition of fire investment in new and refurbished vehicles.
Marketed as a free suppression systems, to prevent recurrence.
first class upgrade, the new service offers high specification With over 80% of London employees directly involved in driving coaches featuring increased legroom, toilets and power points for buses, investment in training and long-term development is key to laptops, and indications are that the market has responded well the operation of a successful business.
This year 4 million has to this new initiative.
The express services to Gatwick and been invested in training and training facilities, delivering a 10% Heathrow airports, branded as the airline, have been successfully reduction in employee turnover.
As part of this on-going training re-developed with investment of over 2.1 million since spring focus all service controllers within Central and General are now 2002, delivering further substantial patronage growth.
Oxford is also developing a new ticketing system, a contactless The London operations continue to deliver high quality service smartcard, which will go live during the coming year.
The performance for TfL, mirroring the achievements of last year.
smartcard can be loaded with a variety of ticketing products Throughout 2004 both London General and Central have been zone cards, multi-journey tickets, carnets etc.
and will allow consistently ranked in the top three in TfLs league tables for segmentation of our markets along with the ability to offer mileage operated.
London General ended the year ranked first bespoke products to targeted customers.
In addition a flat fare for mileage operated before traffic congestion whilst Central was experiment on Route 15 has delivered vast improvement in ranked first for mileage operated after traffic congestion - both punctuality reliability, through reduced boarding times, avoiding companies operated in excess of 99.4% of scheduled mileage, a the need to introduce extra resources to the route to level of performance far ahead of traditional London standards.
48301 GardRich Inset 9 24 04 3:18 PM Page 13 13 14 OPERATING REVIEW Continued Despite these challenges both Southern and Thameslink WILTS & DORSET improved operational performance, achieving Public Performance The Wilts & Dorset group of companies was acquired in August Measures PPM the industry measure of performance of 2003 and under Go-Ahead ownership many opportunities for 80.1% 2003 - 77.2% and 74% 2003 - 73.1% respectively.
business growth have been identified.
Measures implemented include a range of simple, low priced day tickets for the PooleEven with the pressures on network congestion, passenger  conurbation delivering consistent sales growth continues.
Across the entire UK rail network 2003 saw growth of 10% per month, upgraded express services and new passenger kilometres exceed 40 billion, the highest level since transport links with key destinations such as hospitals and 1946.
In the past year Southern and Thameslink passenger shopping centres.
kilometres have grown by 2.8% and 3% respectively, in line with national growth trends.
The contractual dispute with Poole Borough Council over the indefinite postponement of the proposed Park & Ride operation To cater for such growth Southern now has over 300 new has been amicably resolved and the local team at Wilts & Dorset is Electrostar vehicles in service, providing modern air-conditioned forging ahead with Poole Borough and other local authority carriages and improved comfort and cleanliness of train services.
partners to deliver future public transport improvements.
Cuts to Initial issues with the trackside power supply in the region have local authority public transport budgets have been countered by delayed the full introduction of these new vehicles, but this is being the retention of all Wilts & Dorsets existing contracts due for addressed with power supply upgrades being undertaken by expiry in 2004.
Future developments will include an extension of Network Rail and the SRA.
Southern has also procured 42 diesel Salisburys Park & Ride system to two further sites in 2005 6 and vehicles for the Uckfield-London and Hasting-Ashford routes.
plans for major improvements to the core Poole-Bournemouth Twelve of these vehicles are already in service and once delivery is corridor with substantial investment in a new, high quality fleet and complete, Southern will start to operate services between improved frequencies.
It is anticipated that Southern will complete introduction of the new fleets during 2005.
GO NORTH EAST Additionally, a 20 million three year upgrade programme for 184 The year has seen a fundamental restructuring of the Go North vehicles operating on the south London Metro network is East business, with a central control centre created for all Go underway.
Southern has already received the first of these vehicles, North East operations staffed by a dedicated team overseeing enhancing the level of train service on this network.
the operation of the network throughout the region.
By utilising Going hand-in-hand with new trains, Southern is managing a three specialist staff, weaknesses or errors in service delivery are more year programme, to spend 140 million, to upgrade eight train readily identified and prioritised for corrective action.
Delay care and storage depots to maintain and service the fleet.
Sites points and congestion hot-spots across the network are also under development include Littlehampton, Brighton, Selhurst more easily highlighted and fed into both the service planning Croydon, Eastbourne, Bognor Regis, Streatham Hill, West process and the local highway authorities.
Go North East has Worthing and Hove.
It is envisaged that the overall programme of also been at the forefront of a regional partnership of operators construction is due for completion towards the end of 2005.
Also and local authorities to procure the most extensive real time during 2004 the programme to install state of the art driver information system outside of London.
2004 was a landmark in simulators was completed, adding a new dimension to driver the sign-up and initial delivery of the advanced vehicle training undertaken by the company.
With modern technically location real time system.
advanced passenger trains requiring high levels of driving skills, the Staff shortages continue to place pressure on employees and the simulators help drivers achieve the demanding standards set and business, with an increasing number of drivers leaving the allow more in-depth and comprehensive training prior to, and industry to pursue alternative, less demanding careers.
Despite along side, track based training.
an increase in staff turnover over the year to 22% 19% in 2003, the resultant shortage of drivers is largely unchanged, although Given the impending large-scale infrastructure work to be the increasing and understandable desire not to work overtime, undertaken on the Thameslink route, the need for continuity of itself a product of changed government tax credit arrangements, operation during this period was paramount and the SRA has had an adverse effect upon staff availability.
extended the franchise during 2004, now due to expire on 31 March 2006.
From September 2004 through until May 2005 the However staff turnover has now mostly been reduced via the Thameslink north-south cross London route will be severed to introduction of major recruitment initiatives, a significant increase allow the construction of a new Thameslink station box located in the basic rates of pay for new staff and greater support under St Pancras station.
During this period northbound offered during the difficult early months of their career.
Thameslink services from Brighton and Sutton will terminate at Attendance management and proactive occupational health the existing Kings Cross Thameslink station, whilst southbound strategies have also successfully reduced absenteeism levels services from Bedford will terminate at St Pancras.
reducing cost and improving service reliability, whilst accident To enable the maintenance of the split Thameslink fleet, currently levels have also been reduced with a corresponding fall in housed and maintained by Southern at Selhurst, a new facility has insurance costs.
been constructed at Bedford where the north London Thameslink fleet will be maintained.
The new depot will cost RAIL OPERATIONS approximately 13 million and is being funded by the SRA.
Southern will manage the new facility on Thameslinks behalf and Go-Aheads rail interests continue to be concentrated in the busy once the blockade is complete the depot will be an important south east of England.
Both franchises, Southern and Thameslink, are strategic facility in the future development of the franchise.
In operated by Govia, a 65%-35% partnership between Go-Ahead addition a further 104 vehicles will be supplied by Southern and and Keolis.
National Express Group to maintain Thameslink services at Performance on the UKs rail network continues to be current levels during the blockade, as well as to help minimise challenging, with rail services suffering disruption due to track the worst aspect of overcrowding.
The extensive depot A disappointing outcome in the past year was the expiry without reconstruction, undertaken as part of Southerns franchise terms, extension of Go-Aheads Thames Trains franchise on 1 April has impacted on performance, with depot congestion as work 2004.
A new two year franchise has been let that will terminate continues to upgrade facilities whilst at the same time phasing in line with the Great Western franchise, and at that time a new out old rolling stock and taking delivery of the new fleet.
larger combined Greater Western franchise will be tendered.
Thameslink continues to suffer from passenger overcrowding at peak-periods, with the ongoing delays to the Thameslink 2000 The group is proud of the achievements made at Thames, including project preventing the necessary expansion of the service.
the creation of over 100 extra services, 40% increase in passenger 48301 GardRich Inset 9 24 04 3:18 PM Page 15 15 16 OPERATING REVIEW Continued journeys and reversing a 34 million subsidy in 1996 to a nil the network, the first network contract that aviance has subsidy in 2004.
These achievements are a great credit to everyone secured.
The new Dragonair business at Stansted was also in the company and Go-Ahead is proud to have delivered an secured, and the company is currently working with Plane operation that is now in very good shape for the future.
Handling to win further Dragonair business at other locations.
Looking to the future, further expansion opportunities exist in Just after the financial year end, aviance secured a two and a half the rail industry and Go-Ahead is preparing a bid for the year pay deal with the unions, thereby removing the threat of proposed new Integrated Kent franchise.
Currently run as South industrial action.
The deal provides the opportunity for a period Eastern Trains by the SRA, the new franchise will include Kent of stability in industrial relations that will allow further progress long distance services, Metro style commuter services and the with modernising the business and enable aviance to counter the new CTRL domestic services.
Go-Ahead anticipates receiving the continuing market pressures on costs.
specification from the SRA in September 2004, against which CAR PARKING they and three other contenders will submit bids for the Meteor has enjoyed another successful year under Go-Ahead franchise which is to be let during 2005. ownership, continuing to develop business in its key activity areas and increasing turnover and profit by 16%.
Now managing over AVIATION SERVICES 70,000 car parking spaces, Meteors customers include airport authorities, NHS Trusts, retail outlets and train operating companies.
GROUND HANDLING In the airport parking sector there has been significant growth at The UK and world aviation markets started the year still affected by locations such as Southampton due to increased low cost airline the impact of the Iraq war and the SARS epidemic in South East activity.
Associated activity at airports has also performed well, Asia and Canada.
However there were early signs of a recovery with new contracts for staff transportation, travel permit with summer 2003 air transport movements and passenger administration, airside bussing and taxi feeder park management volumes through all BAA airports up on the previous year.
In order to further develop market initial recovery has continued throughout the year and in June 2004 share in this sector, the group acquired Chauffeured Parking passenger volumes were up 7% on 2003, whilst air transport Services Ltd in June 2004.
This established valet parking operator movements had risen 4.2%.
Cargo business has also seen growth of has contracts at Heathrow, Gatwick, Manchester and Birmingham over 7%, with much of the business centred at Heathrow where airports and Meteor expects to realise a number of synergies year-on-year tonnage growth was higher at 8.4%.
aviances volumes with existing operations.
reflected the market activity, servicing approximately 246,000 The retail parking sector of the business has been boosted by aircraft turnarounds across its network of 17 UK airports, up 1% contract wins at Ashford, Maidstone and Durham.
Rail car parking and handling 44.7 million passengers, up 5.2%.
and associated contracts have also been developed, with two Despite this improved stability and return to growth, the aviation new contracts on Southern trains and a new contract with First handling market remains extremely competitive with rates at all to operate the car parks on the former Go-Ahead Thames Trains locations under intense pressure as airlines continued to press franchise.
In the Healthcare sector the PFI hospital locations for reductions in handling costs.
Although some business was lost contributed to Meteors trading, although further development of in both cargo and passenger markets to very low competitive this activity is slow due to the nature of the PFI process.
bids, aviance maintain that rates at such low levels are not Security activities have also undergone further expansion this sustainable.
As a result aviance has not sought to win and retain year, with the investment in new control facilities at Ipswich from business at any price, but rather to offer sensible pricing where many contracts can be administered in the future.
Meteor proposals and, where necessary, to increase prices to sustainable is also providing security services to other sister Go-Ahead levels.
It is still too early to make definite assessments, but there companies, continuing to develop inter-company relationships have been recent signs that a more realistic approach in the where integration and or synergy can be achieved.
The company has continued to place management focus on improving both the operational and financial performance at key stations.
At Gatwick a great deal of activity has taken place to reshape the business, including a review of the customer base and the introduction of new working practices designed to deliver more flexibility and efficiency.
The benefits of this are already evident with excellent levels of customer service, and ontime performance across all flights handled exceeding 96%.
More improvements are needed in the coming months, but this early progress has been very encouraging and has been noted by our main customers.
At Heathrow, aviance continues to enjoy an excellent reputation for service, helping to secure significant new business.
In particular, a new operation for JAL started in the last quarter, in addition to contracts for a new Middle East carrier Etihad, Air Jamaica and Ethiopian.
aviance is now the largest service provider at Heathrow after British Airways and, together with Plane Handling, the company continues to explore other new business opportunities in both passenger and cargo handling.
Other new passenger business wins include Air France at Manchester and a revised business partnership with bmi at Gatwick and Aberdeen.
In the cargo market, supported by Plane Handling, aviance has started to service Britannia TUI group for cargo throughout 48301 GardRich Inset 9 24 04 3:18 PM Page 17 OPERATING REVIEW Continued 17 18 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and that it is focusing on the correct measures to assess The company is committed to maintaining high standards of setting objectives for the operating subsidiaries of the group, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY company performance.
The consultation process has been corporate governance.
The board is accountable to the monitoring performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining The principles underlying corporate responsibility are not new to invaluable in providing confirmation that Go-Ahead is broadly on companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
major acquisition possibilities, formulating policy on key issues Go-Ahead, forming part of the ethos of the company from the the right track with future challenges ahead.
Issues such as Although the company is required to report on compliance with and reporting to shareholders.
Day to day responsibility for earliest days of the original management buy-out.
The group has convenience, reliability, safety and security, pollution and noise the previous version of the Combined Code on Corporate the operation of group companies, implementation of group always recognised the importance of public transport in have all been confirmed as important to our stakeholders.
As a Governance applicable to reporting years starting before 1 strategy and achievement of objectives is delegated to contributing to the health and well being of local communities, result of the consultation, the group is looking again at the November 2003, in accordance with best practice, the company executive management.
whether it is in helping people get to and from work or meeting internal management of these issues and has refocused reporting has already identified and addressed the new procedural and All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders following friends and family.
This is why Go-Ahead was the first in its sector around the priorities that emerged.
disclosure requirements included in the revised Combined Code.
appointment and are subject to re-election at intervals of not to measure and report on environmental impacts, and the first This statement therefore describes how the principles of Go-Aheads environmental and social reporting has already been more than three years.
to extend external reporting to cover social issues.
Go-Aheads corporate governance are applied to the company and the recognised as best practice within our industry sectors, winning defining characteristic is a shared commitment to the The board maintains a group board procedures manual prepared companys compliance with the Code provisions set out in the the Institute of Logistics and Transports Environment Award communities in which it operates.
The devolution of management in response to the original Combined Code.
It includes formal revised Combined Code published in July 2003.
2002 and 2003 and clinching the runner-up spot in the Bus responsibility to local levels and the retention of local brands are procedures for the working of the board and its committees, the Industry Awards Environmental Category 2002 and 2003. the embodiment of the groups commitment to empower timely provision of appropriate information to directors, A detailed web-based report covering our environmental and operating companies to understand and respond to community STATEMENT BY THE DIRECTORS ON COMPLIANCE WITH standards of conduct, and the procedures for directors to take social responsibility performance will be available later in the year need.
This is a key responsibility and forms the basis of a THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE independent professional advice, if necessary at the groups via the groups website at www.
The manual has been updated during the year to reflect The company has been in full compliance with the provisions set executive summary version is available from the company or can the provisions of the revised Combined Code.
This year the group embarked on a major consultation process, out in Section 1 of the Combined Code with the following be downloaded via our website.
In addition, the website contains both within the company and with our external stakeholders.
The The board has adopted a procedure for the evaluation of the exceptions: further information on Go-Ahead and its subsidiary companies, purpose of the consultation was to verify that Go-Ahead has performance of the board, its committees and individual as well as a dedicated investor relations section.
Combined Code Reference correctly identified the priority responsibility issues for the group, directors, using an external consultant to interview each board A.
2.1 Excluding the chairman, non-executive directors do member in confidence and report the analysis of findings to the and C. 3.1 not comprise at least 50% of the board.
The board board as a whole.
Such a review was undertaken during the year.
considers that the chairman is robustly independent.
During the year the board met seven times.
All members of the The two non-executive directors are equally board attended each meeting.
In the opinion of the board, the DIRECTORS appointment of a third non-executive director is not therefore necessary.
Given the size of the board, the RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS audit and remuneration committees consist of the The group chief executive has overseen the development of the non-executive chairman and the two non-executive SIR PATRICK BROWN 64 joined the board in 1999 as a nonKEITH LUDEMAN 54 is chief executive - rail.
He joined Go-Ahead company from its origins to its status as a FTSE 250 company.
directors, and not three non-executive directors as executive director, becoming non-executive chairman in 2002.
He is in 1996, following the sale of London General to the group.
Prior to Shareholders have confidence in the existing executive team and required by code provisions C. 3.1 and B.
The also chairman of Amey plc and a non-executive director of this he held senior management positions in several bus companies, the chief executives leadership role in the ongoing development independence of the chairman and non-executives is Northumbrian Water Group plc.
He spent 10 years in industry and mainly at managing director level, in Greater Manchester, Lancashire and of the Go-Ahead strategy.
The board believes it is therefore subject to ongoing monitoring by the board at least management consultancy before joining the Civil Service.
He has also worked overseas and as a transport consultant.
appropriate to re-elect Martin Ballinger as an executive director permanent secretary of the Department of Transport DoT from He was appointed chief executive of the groups London bus division in annually.
The appointment of Keith Ludeman, on 3 notwithstanding his intention to retire with effect from 31 1991 to 1997.
Involved in privatisation in the DoT during the 1980s, 1997, and then moved over to head the rail division in 1999.
He has September 2004, as an executive director creates a December 2004. he then moved to the Department of the Environment DoE to been a main board advisor since 1998.
A postgraduate transport temporary imbalance which will be restored on the manage the privatisation of the water industry in England and Wales.
planner, he is a fellow of the Institute of Logistics and Transport, and a Chris Collins is regarded by all of the board as robustly retirement of the present group chief executive on In 1990 91 he was second permanent secretary in the DoE before fellow of the Institute of Railway Operators.
He is also chairman of the independent.
His contribution as a non-executive director has 31 December 2004. returning to the DoT.
Association of Train Operating Companies ATOC.
been well-recognised in his five years service to the company.
3.3 In the boards opinion, its size does not justify the The board believes that Chris Collins should be re-elected for a appointment of a formally recognised senior further term.
Furthermore, MARTIN BALLINGER 60 is chief executive.
He has headed up CHRISTOPHER MOYES 55 is deputy chief executive.
He has both of the independent non-executive directors are the Go-Ahead management team since 1982 through deregulation been a board member of Go-Ahead since 1986 and was involved in Keith Ludeman has a successful track record as chief executive of 1986, the management buy-out 1987 and a successful placing on the management buy-out of that business in 1987.
Earlier he held a well known to investors and financial professionals in the groups rail division, and has been an advisor to the board for the London market in 1994.
Qualified as an accountant in 1968, he variety of management posts with the National Bus Company.
Shareholders should feel free to approach some time.
In view of the future retirement of the group chief held various accounting posts before joining the National Bus graduate engineer, he is also a fellow of the Chartered Institute of either of them in the event that their contacts with executive, the board believes that Keith Ludeman should now be Company in 1972.
As previously announced, he will retire on 31 Transport and was a member of its UK Council 1990-1995. the chairman and executives are deemed inadequate.
re-elected as an executive director of the company.
Former president of the Confederation of Passenger Transport A.
4.1 A nomination committee was constituted by the The board has appointed the following committees to deal with CPT, he is chairman of CPT subsidiary Transfed, the former board on 1 April 2004 and the company has specific aspects of the groups affairs: National Training Organisation for the industry and of Go-Skills, its therefore been compliant with this provision since prospective Sector Skills Council.
He is also chairman of council at IAN BUTCHER 53 is group finance director and company the University of Durham.
He is a chartered accountant and joined the management AUDIT COMMITTEE team of Go-Ahead in 1996.
Prior to this he spent 12 years, up to B.
1.6 During the year in question two executive directors senior management level, with KPMG, including overseas, gaining The audit committee is chaired by Sir Patrick Brown.
The had contracts with two years notice.
This will change so extensive experience of corporate finance, insolvency and audit.
This RUPERT PENNANT-REA 56 is a non-executive director and committee comprises all the non-executive directors, and meets that the company will be compliant, as explained in the was followed by 11 years in a broad range of industries at group joined the board in October 2002.
He has been editor of The no less than four times annually.
The committee provides a forum Directors Remuneration Report on pages 20 to 22. finance director level, the majority of which were spent with public Economist and deputy governor of the Bank of England.
He is for reporting by the groups external and internal auditors.
chairman of The Stationery Office, Plantation & General Investments The board confirms that it has established the procedures Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the executive and Electra Kingsway VCT.
necessary to comply with The Turnbull Report:Internal Control: directors.
It also receives and reviews reports from management Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
CHRISTOPHER COLLINS 64 is a non-executive director and relating to the annual and half year profit figures and statements joined the board in September 1999.
He is chairman of Hanson and monitors the controls which are in force to ensure the PLC, having previously been executive vice-chairman 1995-97 and THE BOARD integrity of the financial information reported to the corporate development director 1991 to 1995.
It also advises the board on the appointment of The board currently comprises three non-executive directors executive chairman of Forth Ports PLC and a non-executive director external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and including the chairman, all of whom are considered to be of Old Mutual plc and Alfred McAlpine PLC.
He is a qualified non-audit work.
The provision of certain non-audit services chartered accountant.
independent, and four from 1 January 2005 three executive including accounting and tax services if the fees exceed a level directors, and is responsible to shareholders for the proper set by the audit committee is subject to approval by the management of the group.
It meets at least every two months, chairman, and after a higher threshold is reached, by the developing and monitoring group strategy and safety standards, committee as a whole, in order to ensure auditor objectivity and
