HALMA Financial Review... aresilientgroupin excellent shape... Kevin Thompson, Finance Director Record profit with organic growth despite adverse currency movements I am pleased to report that turnover for the year was 9% higher than last year at 293 million 2002 03: 267 million.
Turnover on continuing operations was increased by 10%.
Profit before tax set a new record at 50.3 million 2002 03: 46.5 million.
Return on sales exceeded 17%, as it has now done every year for more than a decade.
Currencytranslation,  US Dollar, offset slightly by profits earned in stronger Euros, reduced 2003 04 reported sales and profits by around 2%.
Looking ahead, if the US Dollar and Euro  results we might expect a further 3% adverse translation impact on our 2004 05 profits.
The extra 1.7 million of UK National Insurance, pension and general insurance costs which I anticipated in my review last year have arisen and have been funded within this years profits.
These extra costs are ongoing.
However, their effects are mitigated by our success in producing consistently high net and gross margins through continuous improvements in procurement and processes.
Strippingoutthe currency effect and the incremental impact of acquisitions and disposals, I am very %, andprofits show the same trend.
Consistently high returns generate strong cash flow Each year I comment on our key metric, return on capital employed profit before tax .
 operations, combining both return on sales and asset turns.
We have generated 22 million of cash in the year and despite its inclusion in the Groups return on capital employed calculation we still produced a figure of 52% remarkable by any measure.
see Financial Highlights 10 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Financial Review continued HALMA On my regular visits to our businesses I see the benefits we obtain from a deep understanding of the importance of producing high returns from the minimum possible level of assets.
This efficient use of assets benefits our customers and shows through in our return on capital which has exceeded 40% for well over 20 years.
We grew this year and used less operating assets to do it.
The result of these outstanding returns is a strong flow of cash available to us for further investment in our businesses, to pay dividends and to make acquisitions.
We have used the tougher market conditions which we have experienced in the recent years to strengthen our businesses with this type of investment, .
A progressive dividend policy with dividend cover edging up The Board recommends a final dividend of 3.75p per share, giving a full year dividend of 6.19p per share, 7% up on last years record level.
This dividend represents a continuation of Halmas progressive dividend policy and also makes a small contribution toward increasing the dividend cover which is our intention over the medium term.
 this will give a total of 23 million paid to shareholders in relation to the 2003 04 year financed by our strong cash flow, with a total of 88 million distributed as dividends in the past five years.
Prudent approach to treasury, tax and pensions  ,  exchange rates, particularly the US Dollar and Euro.
Currency movements in the year affect our results through the translation into Sterling of profits earned in local currencies as well as affecting the underlying transactions.
We have an element of natural hedging, in particular through the purchase of components in US Dollars.
Our operating companies hedge their trading transactions back into their local reporting currency.
We do hedge the majority of our US Dollar and Euro net assets using currency loans.
The objective of our treasury activities is risk management and control, no speculative transactions are undertaken.
We benefited from higher profits earned in lower tax jurisdictions, including China.
We have continued to adopt the transitional provisions of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits .
Thevalue  be seen from the FRS 17 disclosures, however revised inflation assumptions have .
 7% to 29 million after the related deferred tax.
see Financial Highlights Halma p. l. c. 2004 11 Financial Review continued HALMA As noted last year, we have closed our defined benefit schemes to new members and established a defined contribution scheme.
Contributions into the defined benefit schemes are in line with the actuaries recommendations, following the triennial actuarial valuations last year and are fully reflected in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, with no further increases necessary at this time.
I note that the funding of pension obligations is a long-term issue, even though .
 solid and the currently reported deficit, by any set of rules, is small relative to the Groups market capitalisation.
Compliance and control continue at a high level I remain committed to maintaining strong internal control across the Group.
For many years we have successfully used our senior finance staff to carry out reviews of our operating companies at half year and year end, making rotational visits at other times to assess internal controls.
During the year we have enhanced these procedures and in particular those relating to internal control visits by the introduction of independent reporting lines.
In 2004 05 we intend to confirm that our procedures amount to a formal internal audit function.
,  involvement of high quality finance executives based at each operating company, we continue to have a strong control environment whilst providing value to our entrepreneurial operations.
Active management of our operations  our cash.
Shortly before the end of the year we sold three non-core businesses for 5 million.
They accounted for turnover of 13 million and in aggregate were operating around breakeven.
If these discontinued operations are excluded the Groups return on sales is 18%.
After deducting the costs of sale and pension and property obligations retained within the Group, the net result was an exceptional chargeof9.1million including goodwillof5.8million.
Combining the proceeds from the above transactions with our existing selfgenerated cash, we spent 22 million just after the year end on two high-quality acquisitions, Diba Industries, Inc. and Ocean Optics, Inc.
This active management produces an even stronger base for future growth.
International Accounting Standards on the horizon International Accounting Standards will be in full effect for the first time in our 2005 06accounts,  in the comparative figures.
Other than the additional disclosures which will be required, we anticipate that these new Standards will have most impact in the followingareas:,  and development.
12 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Financial Review continued HALMA Continuously creating value  we have established over many years.
The business has been strengthened by investment in new product innovation, prudent acquisitions, the disposal of .
, to maintain a resilient group in excellent shape to create even more value for our shareholders.
Kevin J Thompson Halma p. l. c. 2004 13
