12 Operating and Financial Review In 2004 we have continued Operating and our successful track record of profit and earnings Financial Review growth, with good progress across all our regions, supported by continued delivery of cost savings.
Robert Dyrbus Finance Director Alison Cooper Director of Finance and Planning GROUP OPERATING PERFORMANCE Reported turnover excluding duty decreased by In 2004, adjusted operating profit before 5 per cent to 3,032 million, impacted by the amortisation and exceptional items grew by disposal of the Caritas and Tobaccomat wholesale 7 per cent to 1,218 million, the result of our focus businesses at the end of last year and adverse on profitable volume development combined with foreign exchange movements.
Adjusting for these further cost efficiencies from our operations and factors turnover was broadly flat year on year with support structures.
Reported operating profit after volume reductions offset by the improving profitability amortisation and exceptional items was broadly flat of our broad product portfolio.
This profit was achieved despite considerable volume pressures during the year, both related to GROUP OPERATING PERFORMANCE duty-driven market declines and to a number of operational changes around the business.
These 2004 2003 included the move to local manufacture in Nigeria, Turnover ex.
duty 3,032m 3,200m trade stock adjustments in Russia and the 1 Adjusted operating profit 1,218m 1,135m discontinuation of some distribution and manufacturing arrangements.
1 Adjusted operating margin 40.2% 35.5% Amortisation 204 m 203 m Exceptional items 129 m 51 m Reported operating profit 885m 881m 1 Before amortisation and exceptional items.. 13 Operating and Financial Review INTEREST The interest charge for the year has reduced to Regional Performance Analysis 204 million 2003: 237 million, mainly as a result of higher levels of floating rate debt and lower euro Our focus on profitability is evident in the excellent margin interest rates.
The all-in cost of debt for 2004 was development of the business with adjusted Group operating margins 5.6 per cent 2003: 6.1 per cent : excluding fees, the now over 40 per cent, driven by improvements across all our regions.
cost of core debt was 5.2 per cent 2003: 5.6 per cent.
Interest cover before amortisation and exceptional items was 6.0 times 2003: 4.8 times.
REGIONAL PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Adjusted Turnover operating 1 ex.
duty profit PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Group adjusted profit before tax increased by 13 per cent to 1,014 million.
Reported profit before UK 793 760 454 406 tax was 688 million 2003: 656 million.
Germany 590 645 237 228 Rest of Western Europe 634 652 329 307 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Reported profit before tax was impacted by Rest of the World 1,015 1,143 198 194 exceptional items: exceptional costs of 129 million Total 3,032 3,200 1,218 1,135 and profit on the sale of fixed assets of 7 million.
The exceptional cost mainly related to the closure of 1 Results before amortisation and exceptional items.
factories in Central Europe and a number of operational restructurings.
In addition, it includes the In the UK, turnover was up by 4 per cent to 793 million, with costs relating to the agreed renegotiation of the operating profit up by 12 per cent to 454 million.
This performance Formula One contract due to legislative constraints, reflects the excellent growth in our market share and a relatively effective during the second half of 2005.
The sale of stable duty-paid market.
Our profit also benefited from a reduced fixed assets includes the disposal of properties in the cost base and manufacturers price increases.
UK, Germany and The Ukraine, with total associated In Germany, it has been a challenging year but, while turnover cash proceeds of 55 million.
decreased to 590 million, our operating profit rose by 4 per cent to 237 million.
Successive duty increases have caused a sharp decline in cigarette market volumes over the past year, compounded by trade ACQUISITIONS stock adjustments.
Despite this, we have improved our profitability with In May, we acquired the business and assets of a a price increase in March, supported by cost efficiencies and growth in Canadian based tube company, the CTC Tube other tobacco products.
Company of Canada, for a non-material sum.
The In the Rest of Western Europe, our turnover fell by 3 per cent mainly results of the business have had a minimal impact on impacted by the cessation of third party distribution arrangements in the Groups performance this year.
Our operating profit increased year on year by 7 per cent, reflecting some strong domestic performances partly offset by The total amortisation charge for the year was reductions in the travel retail business.
Despite a number of duty- 204 million 2003: 203 million.
driven market pressures, our cigarette shares grew in a number of markets and our strength in the profitable other tobacco products segment underpinned our profit delivery.
TAXATION In the Rest of the World, reported results were adversely affected The tax charge for the year was 238 million, by the disposal of two wholesale businesses at the end of last year representing an effective tax rate of 26.9 per cent and exchange movements of 15 million.
Adjusting for these 2003: 27.1 per cent on profit before amortisation.
factors turnover increased by 2 per cent and operating profit by The tax rate on reported profit before tax was 12 per cent.
This reflects our focus on profitable volume 34.6 per cent.
The Group benefited from lower tax development and increasing investments in China and Turkey.
rates applied to certain overseas subsidiaries and we expect this benefit to continue.. 14 Successful Track Record 17% compound earnings and dividends per share growth EARNINGS AND DIVIDENDS CASH FLOW AND BUYBACKS Our operational performance, combined with Our strong record of cash generation continued in effective cash and tax management, has delivered a 2004 with operating cash flow of 1,241 million, 13 per cent increase in adjusted earnings per share ahead of our adjusted operating profit, benefiting to 101.6 pence 2003: 90.0 pence : basic earnings from 79 million improvement in working capital this per share were 61.4 pence 2003: 58.1 pence.
Operating cash flow after net capital have proposed a final dividend for the year of expenditure represented 98 per cent of adjusted 35.0 pence per share, such that the total dividend operating profit, adding to our conversion record for the year is 50.0 pence, an increase of 19 per averaging 86 per cent over the five years to cent.
This increase is ahead of the earnings growth September 2004. as we have rebuilt to our historical annual payout Gross capital expenditure was 103 million 2003: ratio of around 50 per cent of earnings.
82 million, reflecting a maintenance level of capital Our track record shows the consistency of our expenditure plus investment in our Turkish factory.
earnings and dividend growth, with compound We have a range of options for utilising our balance annual growth of 17 per cent since 2000. sheet strength which include another significant acquisition, bolt-on acquisitions and share buybacks.
While we continue to pursue value enhancing acquisitions in addition to investing in organic growth FINANCING AND LIQUIDITY we will, if necessary, initiate share buybacks to During the year we bought the remaining 9.99 per maintain an efficient capital structure to enhance cent minority interests in Reemtsma.
These minority returns to shareholders.
arrangements were such that we consolidated 100 per cent of Reemtsma from May 2002, with the remaining minority share already included in net debt as deferred consideration of 418 million.
As such INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING the effect of the buyout was to replace the STANDARDS IFRS guarantees that were in issue with bank borrowings.
The first year of implementation of IFRS for Imperial Apart from this buyout, there have been no other Tobacco will be the year ending September 2006. significant changes in our financing arrangements.
We set up an internal project in 2003 to prepare for At the year end, net debt was 3.6 billion 2003: the transition, which has made significant progress in 4.1 billion of which 18.9 per cent was denominated the last year, details of which are provided in note 29 in sterling, 80.1 per cent in euros and 1.0 per cent in to the accounts.
Although there is still some other currencies.
Interest rate derivatives have been uncertainty as to the final Standards that will be used to fix 60.2 per cent of gross debt 2003: applicable on transition, we believe we are well 76.7 per cent at the year end.
placed to comply with the Reporting Standards.
Our track record shows the consistency of our earnings and dividend growth with compound annual growth of 17 per cent since 2000.. 15 Operating and Financial Review UNITED KINGDOM WE DELIVERED AN EXCELLENT PERFORMANCE WITH OUR MARKET SHARE GROWING IN BOTH THE CIGARETTE AND ROLL YOUR OWN TOBACCO SECTORS TO 44.6 PER CENT AND 65.6 PER CENT RESPECTIVELY, REINFORCING OUR LEADERSHIP POSITION.
This space appears blank because we have removed the image that appears in the paper version of this publication.
This is because we currently do not feature tobacco product brand imagery on our web site.. 16 UK Overview 2004 Market Dynamics: Mature market with one of the highest tobacco taxes in MARKET PROFITABILITY the EU and growing ultra low price cigarette and other Operating profit in the year was up by 12 per cent to 454 million tobacco products sectors.
2003: 406 million, reflecting our growing market shares, relatively stable duty paid cigarette volumes, the benefits of manufacturers Total Market Size: price increases and cost efficiencies.
53 billion cigarettes 2003: 54 billion cigarettes MARKET DYNAMICS 2,900 tonnes of roll your own tobacco It is encouraging that the market remained relatively stable this year 2003: 2,800 tonnes and we estimate a total market size of 53 billion cigarettes 2003: 54 billion.
As consumers have continued to search for greater Our Position: value, the highly competitive ultra low price cigarette sector has Cigarettes: No 1 with 44.6 per cent market share grown, now accounting for 37 per cent of the total UK cigarette 2003: 44.0 per cent market.
In addition, we estimate the roll your own tobacco market was up to 2,900 tonnes 2003: 2,800 tonnes.
Roll your own tobacco: No 1 with 65.6 per cent market share 2003: 64.4 per cent OUR PERFORMANCE In the first full year of the advertising restrictions in the UK, our Our Financial Performance: market shares benefited from the brand equity inherent in our Turnover excluding duty: 793 million portfolio.
The number one and number two cigarette brands, 2003: 760 million Lambert & Butler and Richmond, performed well with market shares of 16.2 per cent and 13.2 per cent respectively 2003: 16.3 per cent Operating profit: 454 million 2003: 406 million and 11.5 per cent.
In addition, we delivered a robust performance in a declining premium segment with Regal and Embassy.
Our Popular Brands: Lambert & Butler, Richmond, Superkings, Embassy, Regal, Golden Virginia, Drum, Rizla.
We have further extended our market leadership within other tobacco products and rolling papers with a strong performance in roll your Lambert & Butler is the largest fast moving own tobacco from Golden Virginia, and the growth of the premium consumer goods brand in the UK.
It has rolling paper Rizla Silver following a successful launch last October.
been the UKs best selling cigarette for six Our trade marketing capabilities continue to improve brand consecutive years.
availability and point of sale visibility, despite reduced opportunities Richmond, launched in 1999, retains its to communicate with our consumers.
number 2 position in the cigarette sector.
Our exceptional sales force has continued to support our Golden Virginia reached 50.0 per cent market customers, especially in helping them to manage the impacts of share of the roll your own tobacco market in 2004. new regulation.
We were proud to have this recognised when, for the second consecutive year, we were awarded Supplier of the Year by retailers from the convenience sector.
OUTLOOK The UK continues to be the largest profit centre for the Group.
In the context of a stable market and continuing downtrading, our strong brand equity across the product portfolio leaves us well placed for improving levels of profit delivery.. 17 Operating and Financial Review GERMANY WE REMAINED FOCUSED ON THE PROFITABLE DEVELOPMENT OF THE BUSINESS IN THIS MARKET.
This is because we currently do not feature tobacco product brand imagery on our web site.. 18 Germany Overview 2004 Market Dynamics: A year of change in Germany, the largest tobacco MARKET PROFITABILITY market in Western Europe: Successive tax increases over the past few years have resulted in a decline in the total market, including other tobacco products.
In Three duty increases since January 2002 have 2004, we estimate that the market was down by 7 per cent to 150 increased the tax on a pack of cigarettes by on billion cigarette equivalents 2003: 162 billion.
Within this, the total average 71 euro cents.
cigarette market was down to 119 billion cigarettes, with other tobacco products up by 29 per cent to 31 billion cigarette Consumers are downtrading to value cigarettes equivalents 2003: 24 billion cigarette equivalents.
and other tobacco products, including singles.
In the context of these challenging market conditions, operating Total Market Size: profit increased to 237 million 2003: 228 million.
This was due to continued growth in other tobacco products, together with 119 billion cigarettes 2003: 138 billion cigarettes margin improvements stemming from a manufacturers price 31 billion cigarette equivalents of other tobacco increase and cost savings.
We have been quick to respond to the products 2003: 24 billion cigarette equivalents significant developments in Germany, realigning our business to meet market conditions.
16.8 per cent of the cigarette market is private label cigarettes MARKET DYNAMICS Our Position: Duty increases have widened the price differentials with nearby countries encouraging further cross-border trade.
This has also 1 Number 2 in the total tobacco market driven consumer downtrading, both within cigarette and to other 1 tobacco products.
Make your own products, including the Cigarettes : No 2 with 18.9 per cent market profitable singles segment, have experienced strong growth, with share 2003: 19.6 per cent singles more than doubling in volume although in an increasingly Branded other tobacco products: No 1 with competitive environment.
28.0 per cent market share 2003: 31.2 per cent OUR PERFORMANCE Our Financial Performance: Our overall branded share of the total market including other Turnover excluding duty: 590 million tobacco products was 20.8 per cent 2003: 21.4 per cent.
2003: 645 million Reflecting the market dynamics, our overall cigarette share decreased slightly to 18.9 per cent 2003: 19.6 per cent.
Despite a Operating profit: 237 million 2003: 228 million 32 per cent increase in our singles volumes to 5.0 billion 2003: 3.8 billion our overall market share of other tobacco products declined Our Popular Brands: West, Davidoff, JPS, Cabinet, to 28.0 per cent 2003: 31.2 per cent due to increased competition.
Peter Stuyvesant, R1, Drum, Van Nelle.
In April, we implemented a pricing strategy that assisted in creating a Imperial Tobaccos strength in value cigarettes and new price segment in Germany through the national launch of JPS the other tobacco products sector puts the Group Red and subsequently JPS Silver and JPS Blue.
Market shares of the in a strong position given the downtrading trend.
JPS brand family have shown encouraging trends, capturing 2 per cent of the total tobacco market in September.
This supported the We have assisted in creating a new price growth of our cigarette share to 19.6 per cent by the end of the year.
segment in April through the national launch of the JPS brand family.
Market share of the West brand franchise, including both cigarettes and other tobacco products, was broadly held at just under 11 per We are market leader in the singles segment cent.
In the premium segment, we have been encouraged by the which experienced significant growth in 2004, performance of Davidoff, which held its market share at 1.1 per cent.
more than doubling year on year.
West is the second largest cigarette brand in OUTLOOK Germany.
The market remains challenging with further tax increases planned for 1 excludes brands distributed for third parties December 2004 and September 2005.
We are pleased with the successful steps we have taken to improve our profitability and we will build on these, further capitalising on our broad cigarette portfolio together with a further price increase in December.
Our market leadership in the growing other tobacco products category and our ability to remain flexible and adaptable to changing market conditions, should support the profitable development of the German market.. 19 Operating and Financial Review REST OF WESTERN EUROPE WE DELIVERED A STRONG PERFORMANCE THROUGHOUT THE REST OF WESTERN EUROPE REGION, WITH INCREASED CIGARETTE SHARES IN MANY MARKETS.
This is because we currently do not feature tobacco product brand imagery on our web site.. 20 Rest of Western Europe Overview Our Key Markets include: Ireland, France, Italy, Spain, The Netherlands, REGIONAL PROFITABILITY Belgium, Greece, Luxembourg.
Operating profit was up to 329 million 2003: 307 million reflecting this positive cigarette performance and our strength in Region: other tobacco products together with margin improvements.
Mature markets with growth in the other tobacco products and low price cigarette market REGIONAL DYNAMICS segments.
Successive tax increases across the region, particularly in France, have led to an overall decrease in cigarette volumes.
We have We are market leaders in roll your own tobacco in benefited as prices have risen and consumers have migrated to many markets in this region including France, other tobacco products and downtraded within the cigarette Greece, Ireland, Italy, Spain and The Netherlands.
Duty increases have also provided opportunities for manufacturers price increases.
Our Financial Performance: Turnover excluding duty: 634 million OUR PERFORMANCE 2003: 652 million The Imperial Tobacco business in this region is well balanced, with Operating Profit: 329 million relatively modest but growing cigarette market shares and a strong other tobacco products presence.
2003: 307 million In France, roll your own tobacco volumes increased by 15 per Our Popular Brands: Davidoff, West, Route 66, Bastos, cent, with Interval, the market leader, up to 14.9 per cent market JPS, Interval, Van Nelle, Drum, Rizla, Golden Virginia share 2003: 13.5 per cent.
In cigarette, despite overall market We have seen encouraging brand development volume declines, we have broadly held market share at 3.5 per cent 2003: 3.4 per cent, and have extended the JPS brand in this region in 2004. franchise with the introduction of a make your own product.
Since we repositioned West at a favourable price point in The Davidoff up by 6 per cent.
Netherlands in February, market share has doubled.
This, combined with the performance of Davidoff, has brought our Rizla up by 6 per cent.
cigarette share to 3.3 per cent 2003: 2.7 per cent.
Our roll your own tobacco market share has decreased to 54.3 per cent 2003: 57.5 per cent, impacted by the growth in the value end of the roll your own tobacco market.
In Ireland, our cigarette share has been holding up well at 24.8 per cent 2003: 24.9 per cent, excluding brands distributed for third parties.
Growth in Superkings has supported a stable JP Blue brand family, despite a decline in overall market volumes mainly as a result of successive substantial duty increases.
In Southern Europe, our cigarette market share in Spain was up to 4.5 per cent 2003: 4.2 per cent and Davidoff has performed well in both Italy and Greece.
We have also grown roll your own tobacco volumes by 17 per cent in these markets, specifically with Golden Virginia.
Our strong infrastructure has ensured brand availability for consumers travelling within the European Union.
We have delivered a positive performance in our Southern Europe travel retail business, including Malta and Cyprus since their accession to the European Union.
Given recent tax increases in France, we have seen consumers move away from purchasing tobacco products on cross-channel ferries and Eurotunnel.
OUTLOOK We remain confident of our continued organic growth potential in the Rest of Western Europe.
Our balanced brand portfolio provides opportunities both in cigarette and other tobacco products, supported by our ongoing investment in trade marketing.. 21 Operating and Financial Review REST OF THE WORLD THIS GEOGRAPHICALLY DIVERSE REGION ACCOUNTS FOR OVER HALF OF TOTAL GROUP VOLUMES.
This is because we currently do not feature tobacco product brand imagery on our web site.. 22 Rest of the World Overview Our Key Markets include: Taiwan, Australia, Ivory Coast, Poland, REGIONAL PROFITABILITY The Ukraine, Russia, Duty Free.
Improving profitability remained a focus, supporting growth in regional operating profit to 198 million 2003: 194 million.
This Our Development Markets include: was due to margin improvements and good performances in markets within Asia, Australasia, Africa, the Middle East and our China, Turkey, Middle East region.
The results in this region were also impacted by volume pressures in parts of Central and Eastern Europe and Our Financial Performance: adverse foreign exchange movements.
Turnover excluding duty: 1,015 million 2003: 1,143 million REGIONAL DYNAMICS This was impacted by: The broad spread of markets across this region offers good potential for both organic growth and improved profitability, the disposal of the Caritas and Tobaccomat particularly in markets where we have strong positions such as wholesale businesses Taiwan, The Ukraine, Australia, Poland, Russia and in Duty Free.
Our investments are focused on sustainable growth opportunities foreign exchange losses such as China and Turkey, enhancing our potential.
Davidoff has Operating Profit: 198 million grown significantly in the past year up by 22 per cent within this 2003: 194 million region, demonstrating its broad international appeal.
Our Popular Brands: Davidoff, West, Route 66, OUR PERFORMANCE Excellence, Boss, Maxim, Horizon In Asia, cigarette market share in Taiwan remains at over 11 per The region offers considerable opportunities for cent with excellent progress from Boss, complemented by our organic growth, while its diversity helps manage core Davidoff market share.
In China, we have undertaken a number of initiatives with the Yuxi Hongta Group including further performance risk.
co-operation to develop the West brand in the key cities of Davidoff grew by 22 per cent in this region.
In Vietnam, Bastos market share was up to 8.9 per cent 2003: 8.6 per cent in a growing market, and the redevelopment of the factory in Laos will improve our quality and provides opportunities to increase volumes in this market.
Our cigarette share was held in Australia at just under 18 per cent, mainly due to Superkings, Peter Stuyvesant and Horizon.
Market In our Duty Free business, Asian markets have rebounded share in roll your own tobacco was up at 64.1 per cent 2003: 62.4 strongly following the impact of SARS last year.
We saw better per cent, driven by Champion.
than expected volumes in accession states ahead of European Union enlargement and encouraging growth in duty free in Turkey Positive growth trends in Africa and the Middle East have and the Middle East led by Davidoff.
continued with some further recovery in the Ivory Coast in 2004.
Davidoff has led volume developments in the Middle East and The acquisition of the business and assets of the CTC Tube further brand investment is opening up additional markets.
Company of Canada added to our position as world leader in the rolling papers and tubes market.
In Central and Eastern Europe, we have been managing European Union accession and focusing on profitable sales volume, whilst restructuring the business to match current market conditions.
OUTLOOK By its nature, this region is more volatile than others in which we In Poland, our cigarette share was 17.3 per cent 2003: 19.3 per operate but the balance of our business leaves us well positioned.
cent, adversely impacted by our decision not to absorb recent tax We continue to focus on profitable volume growth, supported by increases.
Against a background of tax-driven market size selective investments.
This region offers attractive growth reductions, we remain focused on profitability in Poland and in opportunities both in terms of volume and profit.
other Central European markets including Slovenia, Slovakia and Hungary.
A robust volume and share performance in the higher margin business of the Czech Republic has been encouraging as has our growth in the make your own sector in Hungary.
In Russia, the performance of our cigarette brands in the premium categories increased overall market share to 5.2 per cent 2003: 4.9 per cent, but overall volumes were down due to trade stock adjustments and the performance of certain brands in the low price category.
We were pleased with volume growth from Boss White, Davidoff and R1 in The Ukraine, despite a reduction in some of our lower margin brands.. 23 Operating and Financial Review COST & CAPITAL MANAGEMENT MANUFACTURING SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT In 2004, we have continued to deliver considerable improvements During the year we have improved supply chain processes, with across our manufacturing base.
With a flexible approach, we have reductions in the levels of both finished product and leaf stock.
effectively managed the impact of volume reductions in certain In the area of finished products we have focused attention on the markets and have also made progress in addressing the current optimisation of our distribution network, allowing us to reduce levels of over-capacity within the enlarged European Union.
Productivity was up by 6 per cent in 2004, a strong performance given the volume reductions, and reached 11 per cent in the OUTLOOK second half including the effect of the factory closures.
Progress As ever, we strive for continual improvements across all our was made with unit cost reductions across all our major product manufacturing operations by maintaining our focus on costs, groups, most notably in other tobacco products which showed a improving productivity, and reducing over-capacity within the reduction of 7 per cent on 2003.
A major initiative of the year was the rationalisation of our manufacturing base within Europe, with the closure of our cigarette operations in Slovakia, Slovenia and Hungary and our filter production centre in Hungary.
This was undertaken without any adverse impact on our operations.
Surplus machinery from these Manufacturing Overview sites is being transferred and will deliver further improvements in efficiency and quality around the Group.
33 Manufacturing Sites: Progress was also made in standardising our products, processes and systems.
Stockkeeping units reduced by 14 per cent and a 21 cigarette factories Group-wide systematic approach for evaluating the introduction of 7 other tobacco products factories new brands and line extensions has been implemented.
Blends were reduced by 14 per cent, complemented by continuing 5 papers and tubes factories reductions in the number of ingredients used.
The lead factory structure introduced in Europe during the year Productivity improved by 6 per cent by the has not only reduced duplication of activities but also extended end of the year.
best practice manufacturing skills and experiences around the Group.
In support of our global standards in quality and health and Stockkeeping units reduced by 14 per cent safety, ISO accreditation was achieved across 9 additional factories in 2004. in the year.
We continued to invest in a number of manufacturing locations including those in the UK, Germany and Laos.
The construction of our Turkish factory is progressing well with work due to be completed in January.. 24 In 2004 we have continued to deliver considerable improvements across our manufacturing base.
These spaces appear blank because we have removed the images that appear in the paper version of this publication.
This is because we currently do not feature tobacco product brand imagery on our web site.
We are focused on low cost, high quality production, striving for continual improvements across all our manufacturing operations.. 25 Operating and Financial Review OPERATING ENVIRONMENT DURING THE YEAR WE HAVE SOUGHT CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE WITH REGULATORY BODIES AND GOVERNMENTS AT BOTH NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL LEVELS TO FIND PRACTICAL, WORKABLE SOLUTIONS TO THE REGULATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES The debate on whether to ban smoking in public places has Smoking Bans intensified in many countries.
We do not believe that scientific studies show tobacco smoke to be a cause of disease in nonWhat is our view?
In our opinion, the population studies which have led to We do not think bans are necessary and claims of any health risk are subject to methodological flaws, and at continue to support practical, workable most indicate a very small risk.
As a result we believe that bans are solutions that accommodate both smokers disproportionate.
We believe this is the We believe that the needs of both smokers and non-smokers can be most effective way forward.
accommodated through common sense and courtesy, and by We do not believe that scientific studies introducing practical solutions such as well-ventilated smoking and nonshow tobacco smoke to be a cause of smoking areas in offices, restaurants and other public places.
believe that voluntary measures remain the most effective way forward.
For example, this approach in the UK has led to some 90 per cent of workplaces and two thirds of pubs introducing smoking policies.
In Ireland, a ban on smoking in the workplace took effect on 29 Although there are many regulatory requirements that we must March 2004.
As reported in our September trading statement, meet by law, we have been proactive in voluntarily adopting while volumes in Ireland have declined it is too early to assess the standards.
For example we publish information on the ingredients impact of the smoking ban, due to the high excise increases in used in our cigarettes on our website and we have implemented December 2003.
A full years experience of the ban will be required an International Standard for the Marketing of Tobacco Products, in order to give an accurate assessment.
highlighting our existing high standards for self-regulation of advertising and marketing practises.
FRAMEWORK CONVENTION FOR TOBACCO CONTROL Introduced in May 2003, the World Health Organisations WHO EUROPEAN UNION TOBACCO PRODUCT DIRECTIVE EUTPD Framework Convention on Tobacco Control is the first global With the enlargement of the European Union in May, the European tobacco treaty that requires parties to regulate a number of areas Union Directive on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco including tobacco advertising, labelling, product testing and products EUTPD has been transposed into national regulations for submission of ingredient information as well as product traceability the extended European Union, with the exception of Estonia where and liability.
The treaty also addresses tobacco taxation and calls for we await final legislation.
Our previous experience of managing these strengthened legislation to clamp down on tobacco smuggling.
requirements has ensured a smooth implementation.
The process of ratification of the Convention continues, and in The EUTPD requirement to submit ingredient information to September, the WHO issued a statement saying it was optimistic national governments is now implemented in all Member States.
that the required 40 ratifications would be achieved by the end of The Dutch Government rejected the format in which the 2004. ingredients of our Dutch tobacco products were submitted, requiring the submission of complete product formulae.
While we We agree with the need for strong measures to tackle illegal trade are willing to provide details of ingredients, we are not prepared to and to prevent youth smoking, but we believe many areas covered submit our trade secrets if adequate provisions are not in place to by the Convention are more appropriately left to national authorities.. 26 safeguard disclosure to counterfeiters or competitors.
As a result, TAXATION the tobacco industry began legal proceedings in September 2003.
A number of significant tax increases took place during the year An initial oral hearing is due in early 2005.
The Belgian Government across Western Europe, most notably in Germany and France and requires a similar level of disclosure and is awaiting the outcome of in EU accession countries.
We remain concerned that continued these proceedings in The Netherlands.
tax increases will fuel levels of both illegal cross-border trade and counterfeiting.
As a result of the Directive, larger health warnings on the front and We are totally opposed to smuggling and are committed to back of packs are now in place across the European Union.
working with governments and excise authorities to tackle Furthermore, product descriptors such as light or mild have been smuggling and counterfeiting activities.
A number of new European Union Member States have been granted transition periods for some of the EUTPD provisions.
In the UK, following the signing of our successful Memorandum of The European Union Council Recommendation which encourages Understanding with HM Customs and Excise last year, seizures of action on advertising, public smoking and youth smoking genuine Imperial Tobacco cigarettes have continued to fall, down by prevention was adopted in late 2002 to supplement the EUTPD.
75 per cent in the year to June 2004.
This successful approach has Whilst not legally binding, it does set out the approach expected been replicated elsewhere as four further co-operation agreements from Member States, a number of which have started implementing were signed with other European customs authorities.
We are some of the measures.
During the year, the Portuguese and French committed to developing further similar agreements elsewhere.
governments have banned packs containing less than 19 and 20 cigarettes respectively.
The German Parliament approved a ban on TOBACCO RELATED LITIGATION packs with fewer than 17 cigarettes.
In Scotland, we are awaiting judgment in the case of McTear v. Imperial Tobacco Limited.
The trial started on 7 October 2003 and PICTORIAL HEALTH WARNINGS ended on 20 February 2004.
Eleven other cases, in which individual Following the 2003 European Union Decision regarding the use of claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking-related health pictorial health warnings, the European Commission published a effects, are inactive.
provisional picture library in October 2004.
The use of pictorial In Germany, an individual claim against Imperial Tobacco was health warnings is a Recommendation only and will not be rejected on 14 November 2003 as being without merit.
The mandatory for European Union Member States.
claimants subsequent appeal was dismissed on 14 July 2004.
In June, the Australian Government decided to introduce pictorial In the Republic of Ireland, the number of claims against Imperial health warnings occupying 30 per cent of the front and 90 per Tobacco has fallen from 307 in 1997, to 29: 278 cases have been cent of the back of cigarette packs from 2006.
The same dismissed, discontinued or are not proceeding.
No case has gone regulations will require the removal of tar, nicotine and CO yield beyond service of a statement of claim and notice of particulars, statements from packs, to be replaced by relevant information on and defences have not been served in any case.
the toxic hazards of tobacco smoke.
In The Netherlands, Imperial Tobacco and other tobacco We do not believe that pictorial health warnings are necessary, but companies received claim letters on behalf of 44 individuals, will comply with all legislation that requires our products to display although 15 of those individuals have now withdrawn.
We are not aware of any evidence to suggest that pictorial has been taken from a majority of the claimants at preliminary health warnings per se have had an impact on consumers hearings but no actual proceedings have been commenced smoking habits in countries where these have already been against Imperial Tobacco or any other tobacco company.
introduced, such as Canada and Brazil.
In Poland, an individual claimant has served proceedings on Imperial Tobacco.
There have been several preliminary hearings ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS with further hearings anticipated during 2005.
In March 2004 the Irish Government passed the Public Health Tobacco Act, which bans product display and in-store advertising In Australia, an individual claimant has served proceedings on while also conferring major search and seize powers on the seven tobacco companies including Imperial Tobacco.
A statement Office of Tobacco Control.
The Act is currently being challenged of claim has been served.
by the industry in the courts and we expect the case to be heard in early 2005.
To date, no judgment has been entered against Imperial Tobacco and no action has been settled in favour of a claimant in any In the UK, a joint action was undertaken by a group of tobacco tobacco-related litigation involving Imperial Tobacco or any of its companies including Imperial Tobacco against the planned subsidiaries.
Imperial Tobacco has been advised by its lawyers that introduction of regulations that restrict advertising at point of sale.
it has meritorious defences to the legal proceedings in which The judgment was delivered on 5 November 2004 and the individuals are seeking damages for alleged smoking-related health regulations were upheld.
Subject to any appeal, the regulations are effects and to threatened actions of a similar nature.
We will due to come into force on 21 December 2004. continue to contest all speculative litigation against the Group.. 27
