Operating and Financial Review The integration of the two groups is now largely complete and the enlarged Group has started to benefit from the revenue and cost benefits which the merger brings Above: Peter Rigby, T&F Informa traded strongly during the year ended The Groups performance for the year was impacted by Chief Executive 31 December 2004, with turnover up 14% to 504.2m the adverse effects of exchange rate movements and, in 1 from 441.7m and adjusted operating profit up 37% particular, the relative weakness of the US dollar.
Adjusted pre-tax profit the Group received approximately 50% of its revenues increased 31% to 91.3m from 69.9m.
Adjusted and incurred approximately 35% of its costs in US 3 diluted earnings per share increased 34%, to 24.50p dollars and hence exchange rate movements had an from 18.28p.
adverse effect on translated turnover and profit.
Had exchange rates remained constant at their 2003 levels, These are the first full-year results of the enlarged Group, reported consolidated turnover would have been 20.8m which was formed from the merger of Informa Group plc higher and operating profit 10.6m higher.
In constant and Taylor & Francis Group plc on 10 May 2004.
The currency terms therefore, reported turnover would have results have been prepared under merger accounting grown by 19% and adjusted operating profit by 50%.
principles, under which the financial statements are presented as if the two groups had been merged from The Group is highly cash generative, converting 110% of 1 January 2003. its 2004 adjusted operating profit into cash 2003: 112%.
Strong cash flow, particularly in the second half of the The 2004 results have been achieved during a period of year, enabled net debt to be reduced at the year end considerable change, including the integration of three to 302m from 356m at 30 June 2004. major acquisitions, a number of office relocations and the merger of two highly successful groups.
Adjusted figures, which exclude exceptional items and goodwill amortisation are presented as additional performance measures: 2004 2003 000 000 1 Adjusted operating profit 108,343 79,309 2 Adjusted pre-tax profit 91,324 69,937 3 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 24.50p 18.28p 4 Adjusted operating cash flow 119,587 88,803 5 Adjusted operating cash flow conversion 110% 112% 1 Excludes exceptional operating costs of 10.0m 2003: 11.8m and goodwill amortisation and impairment of 49.7m 2003: 21.3m.
2 Excludes exceptional operating and non-operating items of 44.2m 2003: 15.7m and goodwill amortisation of 34.7m 2003: 21.3m.
3 Excludes exceptional items after tax of 38.3m 2003: 13.1m and goodwill amortisation of 34.7m 2003: 21.3m.
4 Adjusted operating cash flow is measured after adjusting for exceptional items on a cash flow basis.
5 Adjusted operating cash flow conversion expresses adjusted operating cash flow as a percentage of adjusted operating profit.
4 T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 MERGER HIGHLIGHTS INTRODUCTION From the moment of the merger in May 2004, teams were brought together from across the combined organisation, each tasked with driving an aspect of integration work.
Whether exploring new business opportunities or finding efficiencies that our new scale has made possible, these teams have been systematic in achieving their goals.
In the process, people from across the organisation have got to know each other, to understand each others businesses and to find the intersections and new offerings that can be created in the expanded world of the merged Company.
The Groups three operating divisions Academic & Adjusted operating profit was 108.3m in the period, Scientific, Professional and Commercial all performed up 37%, or 29.0m, over 2003 79.3m.
Excluding the well, combining organic growth with good contributions 10.6m adverse effect of exchange rate movements, from recent acquisitions, including CRC Press, PJB this operating profit growth was 50%.
Dekker contributed Publications, MMS and Dekker.
The Group saw 7.6m to this result in its first period of ownership.
improved trading conditions in most of its operating sectors, with particularly good growth in the Scientific, Trading was stronger across all three operating divisions Technical & Medical STM, Telecoms and Financial compared to 2003, with acquisitions, organic growth, Information market segments.
good subscription renewal rates and higher average delegate numbers combining to increase revenue and The integration of the two groups is now largely complete profitability.
This growth in revenue, together with good and the enlarged Group has started to benefit from the cost control and the successful integration of acquisitions, revenue and cost benefits which the merger brings.
The was reflected in increased adjusted operating margins 9m of revenue synergies announced in September 2004 of 21.5% in 2004 compared with 18.0% in 2003.
At will be realised in 2005 alongside the 9m of cost savings.
constant exchange rates the organic growth in adjusted operating profit was 23.5%.
In recognition of the encouraging performance in 2004 and the Groups future prospects, the Board has Total operating profit after exceptional items and goodwill decided to recommend an increased final dividend amortisation increased by 5% to 48.6m from 46.2m.
of 5.33p per ordinary share, making a total dividend for the year of 8.13p.
The combined Group will be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS in Financial Performance producing its results for 2005 and beyond.
The adoption As noted above, the results covered by this review have of IFRS will necessitate material changes to both the bases been produced under merger accounting principles, and format of financial reports sent to shareholders.
which combine the results of the Taylor & Francis Group To help shareholders better understand the impact of with those of the Informa Group as if the two groups adopting IFRS, prior to the Annual General Meeting in had been merged since 1 January 2003.
May 2005 the Board intends to issue a separate report showing the 2004 results prepared under IFRS.
During 2004 turnover grew by 14% 62.5m to 504.2m 2003: 441.7m, despite adverse exchange rate movements which reduced reported revenue by 20.8m 5% compared to 2003.
Dekker, acquired on 2 January 2004, contributed 24.4m in turnover.
At constant exchange rates and after adjusting for acquisitions made since 1 January 2003, the organic turnover growth was 5%.
T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 5 Operating and Financial Review continued MERGER HIGHLIGHTS NEW PUBLISHING The markets addressed by Informa from the maritime industry to telecoms and life sciences have proved to be rich ground for extension of the Taylor & Francis publishing output.
Senior publishers from T&F have worked with their counterparts from Informa, exploring the developments affecting these markets and the relationships which the Group has in place.
Titles currently in development cover a wide range of topics including: An Encyclopaedia of Systems Biology.
New titles in drug discovery and drug technology.
Telecoms titles on wireless security and broadband implementation.
Handbooks for port managers and technologists in the maritime industry.
Exceptional Operating Items Net Interest Over the last 12 months the Group has completed Net interest payable for 2004 increased by 7.6m to significant integration of acquisitions resulting in exceptional 17.0m as a result of increased bank debt used to fund operating costs of 10.0m 2003: 11.8m.
Of this total, recent acquisitions.
Over 2003 and 2004 we have spent 4.5m represented integration costs relating to the 311m on acquisitions, funded mainly by bank debt.
acquisitions of Cass July 2003, SZP October 2003, MMS September 2003, PJB December 2003 and Net interest cover based on adjusted operating profit Dekker January 2004.
4.2m was incurred in respect was a comfortable 6.4 times in 2004 2003: 8.5 times.
of the relocation of the UK academic books businesses from London to Oxford, the setting up and transferring Profit Before Taxation of the US books warehousing and distribution operations Adjusted profit before taxation increased by 31% to to Kentucky and the move of PJB from its former Richmond 91.3m 2003: 69.9m.
Profit before taxation and after offices to existing Group premises in central London.
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was 12.4m Above: 43% of revenues 1.3m was provided in relation to the merger integration.
are from subscriptionbased publications and Goodwill Amortisation and Impairment Taxation information services.
As a result of acquisitions made over the last two years, Tax has been provided at an underlying rate of 26.6% goodwill amortisation increased by 13.4m in 2004 to 2003: 28.0%.
The effective tax rate is influenced by 34.7m from 21.3m.
goodwill amortisation, which in the main does not attract tax relief, and the partial deductibility of certain exceptional Following the merger we have also undertaken a review items and merger costs.
The Group also benefited from of goodwill and as a result have reduced the carrying the release of prior-year tax provisions no longer required.
value related to certain pre-2001 acquisitions by 15m.
Earnings Per Share Merger Costs Adjusted diluted earnings per share increased 34% to As previously reported in September 2004, merger costs 24.50p per ordinary share compared to 18.28p in 2003. were 15.7m 2003: nil, consisting of professional and Basic earnings per share were 0.04p 2003: 5.89p.
other fees incurred in connection with the merger between Taylor & Francis Group plc and Informa Group plc on Dividend 10 May 2004.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 5.33p per ordinary share, making a total dividend for the year On the merger the previous bank loan facilities of both of 8.13p.
The final dividend will be payable on 31 May groups were terminated and replaced by new enlarged 2005 to shareholders registered as at the close of Group facilities and unamortised loan arrangement fees business on 29 April 2005. of 2.4m were written off to the profit and loss account.
Balance Sheet Intangible assets increased by 21.1m to 504.2m.
Of this increase, 88.2m was in respect of the provisional goodwill arising on the acquisition of Dekker, offset by ongoing amortisation, impairment and the effect of exchange rate movements.
6 T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Left: The strong performance in Maritime, Trade & Transport has been boosted by trade demand from China.
Right: The Group provides high quality information in a variety of specialist fields.
74 new journals launched, including 38 new academic society publishing contracts within the Academic & Scientific division Net debt increased by 42.8m, to 302.0m compared Academic & Scientific Division with 259.2m at 31 December 2003, reflecting 86.2m 2004 2003 m m spent on acquisitions in 2004, offset by positive cash generation.
Cash conversion was strong with adjusted Turnover operating cash inflow as a percentage of adjusted STM 152.0 109.5 operating profit at 110% 2003: 112%.
Humanities & Social Sciences 92.3 87.8 On the merger the Group entered into a new five-year, 244.3 197.3 440m multi-currency syndicated bank loan facility.
Adjusted operating profit STM 43.0 27.0 Accruals and deferred income increased by 18.9m 11% Humanities & Social Sciences 21.3 18.8 compared with 2003.
Within this increase, deferred income was up 12% compared with 31 December 2003.
64.3 45.8 Above: The Maritime, Trade Adjusted operating margin % 26.3 23.2 & Transport business traded Divisional Performance strongly in 2004 with 2004 was a transforming year for the Group.
The successful subscription revenues merger of two complementary groups and the integration Highlights improved.
of recent acquisitions have created a business which has Turnover up 24%, adjusted operating profit up 40%.
entered 2005 with confidence and in good financial health.
Organic growth at constant exchange rates 5% and 17%, respectively.
74 new journals launched, including 38 new academic society publishing contracts.
Good performance from PJB, acquired December 2003, and Dekker, acquired January 2004.
T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 7 Operating and Financial Review continued MERGER HIGHLIGHTS NEW DISTANCE LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES The customer groups addressed by the merged Group from the The combined marketing reach of the merged academic sector to professional groups in high-tech industries share the Group, the wealth of published material which need for high-quality education and professional development.
Much of can form a resource bank for courses, and this need can be met through distance learning, and the Group already the author access which we enjoy mean has in place a substantial range of distance learning products from selfthat powerful new course offerings can be study courses on project management and employment law to Masters constructed.
To our traditional publishing skills degree programmes delivered in partnerships with leading universities.
we are adding new capabilities in e-learning and we expect the resulting output to be a Expansion plans have been put in place and many new partnership strong element of our future growth.
Short e-learning courses on topics as diverse as healthcare safety and hazard control and the balanced scorecard in information technology draw on the knowledge and published materials of Taylor & Francis, and re-present the material in e-learning form.
The Academic & Scientific division had a strong year.
Turnover increased by 24% to 244.3m and adjusted operating profit by 40% to 64.3m The Academic & Scientific division had a strong year.
We have rationalised our academic publishing brands Turnover increased by 24% to 244.3m and adjusted and will now use the Taylor & Francis imprint for STM operating profit by 40% to 64.3m.
The division benefited publishing and the Routledge imprint for Humanities from STM acquisitions including PJB acquired December & Social Sciences publishing.
2003 and Dekker acquired January 2004 but was adversely affected by exchange rate movements, which Since the merger the Academic & Scientific division has reduced reported turnover by 10.8m and adjusted accelerated its efforts to acquire more academic society operating profit by 7.6m.
At constant exchange rates and other third-party publishing business.
2004 was a organic turnover growth was 5% and adjusted organic most successful year in this respect, with 38 new thirdoperating profit growth was 17%.
The division also Above: The academic books launched or acquired 36 journal titles and discontinued list comprises over 35,000 The STM business saw robust turnover and profit growth 26.
As a result of this activity, in 2005 the division will titles, published under the both organically and from acquisitions, offset slightly by be publishing 1,075 journal titles.
Taylor & Francis and some weakness in US Life Sciences advertising and Routledge imprints.
events and exchange rate movements.
Turnover grew There has been much discussion around open access 39% to 152.0m from 109.5m.
At 2003 exchange and academic journal publishing models.
Recently the rates excluding acquisitions turnover was up by 4% and Department of Trade and Industry DTI on behalf of the adjusted operating profit up by 16%.
UK government has issued its response to the House of Commons Select Committees report on scientific We also saw good underlying turnover growth from our publishing.
The DTI appears to us to have taken a Humanities & Social Science lists which did not benefit pragmatic line, broadly accepting the maintenance of from any major acquisitions, although this growth was the current publishing system.
The Group will continue masked by adverse exchange rate movements.
Overall to monitor the situation carefully and position itself to turnover increased by 5% and adjusted operating profit respond appropriately to any changes in the academic by 14%, helped by efficiencies from integrating prior markets information requirements.
At 2003 exchange rates turnover was up 5% and adjusted operating profit up 17%.
8 T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Right: The Life Sciences conference business has been broadened over the past year.
Below: The merger has allowed the events team to explore opportunities through new ranges of conferences and events.
PJB had a good year despite having been adversely Professional Division affected by 0.7m at the adjusted operating profit line 2004 2003 m m by the relative weakness of the US dollar.
PJBs core products, Scrip, Pharmaprojects, Clinica and Agrow, Turnover which between them represent some 90% of its Financial Information 60.2 49.1 operating profit, all performed strongly in 2004, with solid Insurance, Law & Tax 33.1 39.6 subscription volumes and high renewal rates.
Almost 55% of PJBs revenues are generated by electronic 93.3 88.7 products and this proportion is growing quickly as Adjusted operating profit customers migrate from traditional hard-copy products.
Financial Information 16.3 10.3 Insurance, Law & Tax 5.5 4.5 In the Life Sciences events area, the flagship annual Drug Discovery Technology event was held in Boston in August.
21.8 14.8 Above: The Academic & While it was again successful, there was some decline in Adjusted operating margin % 23.3 16.7 Scientific division acquired attendance in 2004 compared with 2003, reflecting a 36 new academic society general reduction in investment in drug discovery.
However publishing contracts in 2004 the establishment of spin-off events in Singapore, India Highlights and will be publishing 1,075 and Europe is encouraging and provides a partial offset.
Turnover up 5%, adjusted operating profit up 47%.
While the drug discovery sector has become more Organic growth at constant exchange rates 5% and challenging, the area of bio-processing has grown and 43%, respectively.
our Bio-Process International magazine has moved more Good performance from combination of MCM MMS, quickly into profit than we had expected.
Taking advantage with MMS subscriber retention rate over 65%.
of this market strength, we have launched a Bio-Process Both Financial Information and Legal conference International trade show and conference, which in 2004 businesses performed strongly.
became the largest event worldwide in the bioAdvertising recovery in key insurance publications.
This event format has also been rolled out into Europe and Asia.
The Professional division, which consists of our USbased Financial Information business and our UK-led Following the acquisition of PJB, we have diversified our Professional Information business, covering Insurance, Life Sciences conference business through the launch of Law & Tax, performed well in 2004. a pharmaceutical development series, both in the US and Europe.
This series concentrates on clinical development Turnover and adjusted operating profit in the Financial technologies, regulatory issues and business strategies Information business were up 23% and 59% respectively and complements the published products of PJB, compared with 2003.
The 2004 results include the particularly Scrip and Pharmaprojects.
acquisitions made in 2003 of MMS and two smaller businesses Barry Leeds and Net Decide.
The reported results of the US-based business were adversely affected by exchange rate movements.
At constant exchange rates the Financial Information business produced organic growth in turnover of 24% and adjusted operating profit growth of 55%.
The adjusted operating margin of the Financial Information business increased to 27.1%, from 20.9%, aided by good overhead control.
T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 9 Operating and Financial Review continued MERGER HIGHLIGHTS NEW EVENTS The depth of T&Fs subject expertise and academic connections have New events planned fall into three categories, allowed the events groups within Informa to explore the opportunities with each category representing a new for a new range of conferences and events.
Dedicated teams are in place approach in its format, topic or target audience.
in the UK and the US to work with T&F editors, authors and academic contacts to develop new event opportunities.
University partnerships Blended academic commercial events Live courses and seminars we are working on a range of events these events will attract both academic a suite of live seminars will be launched, jointly hosted with universities.
Examples initially in the US.
Planned topics include: the topics which are in development include: with university partners worldwide are: Forensics Distributed sensor networks Information security Risk assessment in nanotoxicology Obesity and education Tissue engineering Renewable energy Coral reef restoration Bollywood The growth of our Financial Information business was led Commercial Division by the acquisition of MMS and its successful integration 2004 2003 m m with MCM, to create a market-leading service for the international corporate bond, sovereign fixed income Turnover and foreign exchange markets, under the new brand Telecoms & Media 37.7 35.0 Informa Global Markets IGM.
In combining the two Maritime, Trade & Transport 39.4 37.7 businesses and creating a single consolidated offering Commodities 17.2 13.0 we successfully retained more than 65% of the MMS International Conferences 72.3 70.0 subscribers, exceeding our pre-acquisition expectations.
166.6 155.7 As part of this integration exercise we established a Adjusted operating profit single sales team across both businesses as well as a Telecoms & Media 8.9 7.9 single content authoring and contribution system.
This Maritime, Trade & Transport 4.0 1.6 Above: The Insurance, system, known as Market Work Station, allows content Commodities 2.2 1.4 Law & Tax business to be seamlessly published across the multiple channels International Conferences 7.2 7.8 saw good performances we utilise, including Reuters and Bloomberg, our own throughout its portfolio.
website and where we co-brand with other clients.
22.3 18.7 Adjusted operating margin % 13.4 12.0 iMoneyNet, the leading provider of information for the US money fund market sector, also had a good year in 2004, despite some weaknesses in the sector.
As the Highlights sector improves our new analytical products for money Turnover up 7% and adjusted operating profit up 19%.
fund families, including browser-based applications, look Organic growth at constant exchange rates 6% and to have exciting possibilities.
Continuing recovery in mobile telecoms sector During 2004 the Insurance, Law & Tax business saw enabling new event launches.
good performances throughout its portfolio.
The largely Strong trading in Maritime with adjusted operating subscription-based legal publishing business remained profit up by 154%.
Above: The iMoneynet resilient and we saw particularly strong underlying Commodities boosted by 2003 acquisition of Sparks.
iMoneynet had a improvement in the events-based business, which covers good performance in 2004. both legal and financial topics.
This improvement, coupled Within the Commercial division, the Telecoms business with the elimination of events which had proved unprofitable saw strongly improving underlying trends, with confidence or marginal in 2003, helped drive a 20% increase in adjusted returning to the mobile sector as a result of the expansion operating profit, despite a reduction in revenue of 16%.
The 2004 3GSM World The adjusted operating margin rose to 16.5% from 11.5%.
Congress in Cannes produced profit ahead of the previous year, although increased royalty payments Within the Insurance, Law & Tax business, the financial under a revised agreement with our event partners services area experienced a marked rebound reflecting largely offset the underlying gain.
The increase in market the return to positive trading conditions in the underlying activity continued into the 2005 3GSM event, which markets after two years of cutbacks and consolidation.
The recovery fed through into improved advertising The growth of this flagship event has meant that the income led by a 10% improvement in the flagship title conference has outgrown the Cannes venue and in Insurance Day.
2006 we are relocating it to Barcelona.
10 T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 The first T&F-branded event, on stress in the workplace, was held in During the negotiations, representatives from SSR and IBC Euroforum also discussed SSRs early 2005, with plans for a range of other events, including on sustainable development, nanotechnology and eating disorders lined up for the rest need for a journal in the field of management and leadership.
Colleagues from T&Fs Stockholm of the year.
office joined the discussion, and plans were laid The merged organisation allows for new holistic approaches to academic for the launch of a new journal in 2005 which will and professional societies.
In 2004 the merged Group won 38 new society carry the potential for both subscription and journal publishing contracts, a record year for the academic business.
Having established contacts through a journal publication, we are now in a position to offer event management capabilities, and vice versa.
Sweden provided an early example of the type of multi-product approach which is now possible.
IBC Euroforum Sweden signed a four-year agreement with the Swedish Association of Graduates in Social Science, Personnel and Public Administration, Economics and Social Work SSR, an organisation of approximately 45,000 members.
IBC Euroforum will be in charge of organising all of the Associations major meetings and education programmes.
We are well placed to benefit from improvement in the mobile telecoms market.
There are positive signs that 2005 may prove to be The Maritime, Trade & Transport business, which another strong year for the mobile telecoms sector.
encompasses the leading daily newspaper Lloyds List, As the leading international provider of information to this maritime and logistics information and conferences in market sector we began to see the results of increased the transport and energy sectors, traded strongly in the confidence in 2004 and this has continued into 2005. year, exceeding the 2003 full-year adjusted operating As the sector improves we are aiming to double our profit by 154%.
event output and especially concentrate in areas where 3G services are being launched or expanding quickly.
Prosperity in shipping is being boosted by strong trade Our new partnership with the leading industry trade demand from China which has helped push up freight association GSMA saw us establish a new 3G event rates and, with oil prices also strong, this has helped to Above: Most of Maritime, for the Asian market which was held in Singapore increase demand for advertising space and boosted Trade & Transports leading last September.
Alongside other 3G events for 2005 delegate attendances at our maritime and energy events.
publications are also covering India, Africa, the Americas, Russia, China Maritime & Transports leading publications Lloyds List delivered electronically.
and the Middle East, we are well placed to benefit and its associated maritime magazines most of which from improvement in the mobile telecoms market.
are also delivered electronically performed well and saw subscription revenues and renewal rates improve and advertising yields rise.
Data and consultancy services are also growing in importance.
We are also developing and expanding our corporate training and distance learning programmes in the Maritime & Transport sector.
As Asia becomes increasingly important as a world maritime trade centre we are expanding our regional publishing programme there and emphasising Asia-focused exhibitions and awards events, especially in the logistics area, which has proved a major success in Hong Kong.
We also ran an inaugural Greek shipping awards event in Athens in 2004 which sold out, with more than 700 delegates attending.
This event will be repeated in 2005 and a similar new event run for the Turkish market.
Left: Building on success in 2004, the 2005 3GSM World Congress attracted 43,000 pre-registered attendants.
T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 11 Operating and Financial Review continued MERGER HIGHLIGHTS CROSS-MARKETING AND CROSS-SELLING In areas where our businesses intersect in the pharmaceutical industry, The result is a growing network of new sales health sciences, chemistry, engineering and in telecoms, for example opportunities and a healthy increase in the reach our marketing teams have come together to identify opportunities to of many of our products.
promote each others products at little or no extra cost.
Publications are displayed at conferences and seminars: web services carry banners for related products from elsewhere in the Group: advertisements are placed in sister publications: delegate lists are mined for cross-selling potential where permission has been granted and free samples are offered to delegates and subscribers.
Right: Conferences and seminars provide opportunities for cross-selling the merged Groups products.
In 2004 the International Conferences business ran more than 2,000 events across a broad variety of subject areas.
Commodities, the smallest of our sectors within the Business Integration Commercial division, had a good 2004 boosted by the 2004 saw significant premises rationalisation.
In the UK, 2003 acquisition of Sparks, a Memphis-based information the academic book publishing business was relocated business, now renamed Informa Economics.
Commodities from London and consolidated with our existing journal turnover was up 32%, or 4.2m.
Adjusted operating profit publishing operations in Didcot, Oxfordshire.
The move was up 54% 0.8m, again due mainly to the Sparks brings STM and Humanities & Social Science HSS acquisition.
The Commodities business delivered a record publishing operations into one site, leading to significant number of events in 2004, with the average number of management and operational efficiency.
PJB was moved delegates attending reaching 67. from its previous five offices in Richmond into one of the Groups existing offices in central London.
A single Group Above: In 2004, the Our International Conferences business comprises domestic head office was also established in central London International Conferences language conferences and courses in Germany, The immediately following the merger.
business ran over 2,000 Netherlands, Asia, Australia, Brazil, France, Sweden conferences, performing and Denmark.
In addition, through a partnership with In the US, the acquired Dekker business was integrated better than in 2003.
Expomedia Group plc, we have established joint-venture into existing offices in Philadelphia and Boca Raton and conference arrangements in Russia, Hungary, Poland and two New York offices were consolidated into one.
The Asian events operation has recently opened a combined two sites in Boca Raton into one office and satellite office in Shanghai.
The International Conferences began consolidating three separate US book warehouse business typically has a strong second-half performance, and distribution operations into a single facility in Kentucky, and full-year turnover ended up 3%, with an underlying which we expect will yield considerable efficiencies in increase in overall profits offset, as expected, by costs book order fulfilment.
of 1.6m 2003: 0.3m in relation to the new products and territories including China, India, Russia, Poland In the area of operating systems, we are well advanced and Hungary.
in our integration strategy, having completed the installation of a single Group-wide accounting system In 2004 the International Conferences business ran more and we will shortly move to a single sales order fulfilment than 2,000 events across a broad variety of subject platform for the UK-based business, centred on our areas.
Our existing International Conference operations existing SAP system.
performed better in 2004 than in 2003, demonstrating a better climate for our conference product.
12 T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Right: The International Conferences business has established joint-venture arrangements in Russia, Hungary, Poland and India.
We have also combined our two marketing databases, In addition, we can now approach academic and giving our divisions greater access to customers and the professional societies with whom we already have ability to target them more precisely.
In addition we established contacts to launch new journal publications consolidated our UK mailing house operations into our or to offer event management capabilities where we had facility in Weybridge, Surrey, thus saving on the use of not previously offered those services.
An example is in third-party providers.
Sweden, where the newly combined T&F and Informa office has signed a four-year agreement with the Merger Highlights Swedish Association of Graduates in Social Science, The merger integration process has gone smoothly and Personnel and Public Administration, Economics and to plan.
We are on track to deliver the previously reported Social Work an organisation of some 45,000 members Above: Markets in which cost savings of 9m per year and revenue synergies of to organise all of the associations major meetings and both T&F and Informa were 9m in 2005. education programmes and also for us to publish a new previously active, such as journal in the field of management and leadership.
Life Sciences, have provided The revenue synergies are in four principal areas: opportunities for increased Distance Learning levels of product development.
Publishing All of our market sectors share the need for high quality The market sectors previously addressed by Informa, education and professional development.
Much of this from Maritime to Telecoms to Life Sciences, have proved can be met through distance learning, either in the form to be fertile ground for extending the former Taylor & of e-learning or written courses.
Prior to the merger we Francis T&F publishing portfolio.
Many initiatives have generated some 7m of turnover from this source and resulted in the creation of new titles in areas such as drug the enlarged Groups content pool facilitates expansion discovery, drug technology, wireless security, IT technical into topics such as self-study courses on project texts, broadband implementation and port management.
management and employment law and MBA programmes In 2005 these new publications are scheduled to deliver delivered in partnership with leading universities.
combined marketing reach of the merged Group, coupled with its wealth of published material and author access, Events allows us to construct brand new and powerful course Above: Asia is a promising The leveraging of T&Fs subject expertise and academic offerings.
We have established a dedicated e-learning market for growth of the connections has allowed the events teams to explore team whose job it is to grow this part of the business, International Conferences opportunities through a new range of conferences and which we believe will be a significant element of future business.
We have established dedicated teams in both turnover in the medium term.
the UK and the US to exploit these connections.
The 80 new events planned for 2005 are expected to generate Areas where distance learning initiatives are proving 2.5m of additional revenues.
Initial events will cover particularly promising include: system biology, topics such as stress in the workplace, sustainable nanotechnology, nanotoxicology, electrical engineering, development, nanotechnology and eating disorders.
IT security, forensic science, remote sensing, occupational health and industrial hygiene.
T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 13 Operating and Financial Review continued MERGER HIGHLIGHTS OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES Whilst cost reduction was not the main objective of the merger, there have also been immediate and clear opportunities to combine operations in certain areas, and to take the best available system or working practice for implementation across the enlarged Group.
IT clear benefits and significant cost sets the right standards for the Premises 2.1m has been saved by savings were soon identified in the area international scale of our publishing ensuring full utilisation of office space of information systems and technology.
2.5m of savings, combined across the combined Group.
SAP, already implemented in Informa, with greatly enhanced performance, are was selected as the sales order making the integration of our IT systems processing system for the merged a highly worthwhile venture.
CODA financials are being rolled out across the Group, whilst Klopoteks book production and marketing system Cross-Marketing and Cross-Selling Strategy We have also been working to identify business intersects T&F Informa is a global information provider across a broad between publishing and events.
Where these exist, such portfolio of academic, professional and commercial market as in pharmaceuticals, health sciences, chemistry, sectors.
We aim, wherever possible, to be the leading engineering, maritime security, counter terrorism and provider in the niche sectors we select and to provide telecoms, marketing teams have come together to crosshigh value information in the many media formats our promote each of their products at little or no extra cost.
Publications are displayed at conferences and seminars, web services carry banners for related products, The subscription model is a cornerstone of our business, advertisements are placed in sister publications, internet however we seek to maintain a well-balanced product Above: Lloyds List saw links have been established, complementary products are portfolio combining a number of revenue streams with improved renewal rates mailed jointly and free samples are offered to delegates differing dynamics, including copy sales, events and the and rising advertising and subscribers.
The result is a growing network of new more cyclical revenue streams of advertising and yields in 2004. sales opportunities and a healthy increase in the reach sponsorship.
We also look to develop new revenue of many of our products.
We expect to generate 4.5m streams through a combination of product development of additional revenue from these efforts in 2005. and geographical expansion.
The revenue plans outlined above will develop and grow as Following the merger we will continue to look for ways to we begin to drive the opportunities which the merger has develop new products around our leading brands.
Informa itself resulted from a merger in 1998 and will continue to exploit the interplay between publications some six years later we are still finding new opportunities.
and events that gives our business a distinctive strength.
We expect the same to happen as T&F Informa grows.
Strong publishing brands provide our events with added market leverage, yielding greater access to important Cost Savings speakers and market segments.
At the time of the merger we had identified potential annual cost savings of 4.6m resulting from the merger.
As a result T&F Informa has strong positions within the US market, of more detailed analysis and the completion of integration which accounts for some 50% of revenue.
These activities steps we have identified a total of 9m of recurring annual are currently focused on relatively few of our market sectors savings.
This 9m of identified savings is expected to come and we intend to develop our US presence through a from the areas of IT 2.5m, premises 2.1m, print and combination of organic growth and well-planned distribution 1.5m, finance and related areas 1.3m and acquisitions.
14 T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Finance and related economies of Print and distribution use of our Corporate savings Consolidating scale and the rationalisation to one set substantial purchasing scale in print our head offices with associated of audit and advisory facilities, have and distribution purchasing has put rationalisation combined with margin saved the Company 1.3m.
us on track to save 1.5m in 2005. improvements on our enlarged Group banking facilities to produce 1.6m savings.
The momentum seen in 2004 has been maintained into the current year and the revenue and cost synergies from the merger are coming through as expected.
We have conference businesses in Eastern Europe, China Current Trading and Prospects and India and in South America through our Brazilian Although it is still relatively early in the year, 2005 has started operation markets which have higher mediumto longwell.
We are beginning to crystallise the opportunities term growth prospects.
It is our intention to build provided by the merger and T&F Informa is well placed associated publishing activities in these regions and we to grow organically and through selective acquisitions at are already establishing a publishing presence in Beijing a time where there is evidence that many of our markets and in New Delhi.
The momentum seen in 2004 has been maintained into the current year and the revenue and cost The Group is well placed in electronic product delivery, synergies from the merger are coming through as expected.
with some 25% of our publishing revenues and 17% of With the Group performing in line with our expectations, our total revenues coming from standalone electronic the Board is confident of meeting our demanding targets Above: Our  activities in 2004.
Generally these revenues, and delivering another good financial performance in 2005. based electronic publications which are subscription based, enjoy renewal rates have enjoyed high renewal slightly higher than for hard-copy products.
Looking We are delighted with the way the two groups have come rates and look to be forward it is clear that our customers will increasingly together and thank our staff for their professionalism and progressing well.
demand information to be delivered electronically in enthusiasm in embracing the many new opportunities succinct and fully searchable forms.
the enlarged Group now enjoys.
P Rigby Chief Executive 9 March 2005 Lloyds is the registered trade mark of the Society incorporated by the Lloyds Act 1871 by the name of Lloyds.
T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 15
