Chief Executives Statement continued Squibb will expire this year and we anticipate the contribution by 37% in 2003.
Car sales in Europe were flat but demand for from this product will fall.
However, we expect to see an diesel cars continues to grow and now represents 46% of all increased contribution from other products, including semicars sold.
Johnson Matthey has leading technology in diesel synthetic opiates where we will benefit from the new emission control and we increased our share of this growing morphine and codeine extraction facility at West Deptford.
In North America our domestic customers share of Our Edinburgh based business, Macfarlan Smith, has achieved the NAFTA market declined and inventories were trimmed excellent growth over the last three years and we are by lowering production, reducing demand for autocatalysts.
continuing to invest in new capacity there to meet anticipated Sales of heavy duty diesel products were ahead of prior future growth.
We have completed a new facility to produce year in all three regions with particularly strong sales in Japan a range of specialist products mainly highly potent analgesics in the first half of the year supported by an incentive which we expect to make a useful contribution this year.
programme from the Tokyo Metropolitan Government.
Sales At Pharm-Eco we have commissioned the new small scale of HDD catalysts to original equipment manufacturers manufacturing suites at Devens in Massachusetts, USA which continued to grow in the USA and we increased our are being used to manufacture products for clinical trials.
investment in joint development programmes with the major manufacturers worldwide, gaining several programmes that Financial Highlights Sales for the financial will enter commercial production from 2005 06. year ending 31st March 2004 rose by 4% to 4.5 billion.
Process Catalysts and Technologies, which sells catalysts to Excluding the value of precious metals sales increased by 6% the chemicals, pharmaceutical, oil and gas and other markets, to 1.2 billion.
was well ahead benefiting from the contribution from the Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill former Synetix businesses.
The integration of those businesses amortisation rose by 9% to 206.0 million despite adverse into Johnson Matthey has progressed very well and results are exchange translation.
Profit before tax, exceptional items and in line with our expectations at the time of the acquisition.
Sales goodwill amortisation increased by 3% to 195.7 million.
and profits from process catalysts were well up on prior year, Earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill despite weakness in some parts of the market.
Platinum group amortisation rose by 4% to 64.0 pence and we are metal refining was adversely affected by the weak palladium and recommending that the dividend for the year is increased by rhodium prices and profits were down.
Research Chemicals, the same percentage to a total of 26.4 pence.
our catalogue business, continued to achieve good growth.
Our Fuel Cells business made encouraging progress.
Operations Catalysts Divisions sales rose by 5% to Revenues showed significant growth on prior year, reducing 1,143 million despite the fall in the average palladium price the net expense for the year to 11.5 million down 12%.
Sales excluding the value of precious Much of the growth this year has come from sales to the metals rose by 10% to 720 million.
The divisions operating automotive sector as more prototype fuel cell powered profit increased by 15% to 109.2 million benefiting from a vehicles have been developed for durability testing.
full years contribution from the former Synetix businesses.
Precious Metals Divisions sales grew by 3% to Environmental Catalysts and Technologies ECT, which 2,956 million with a recovery in the second half of the year encompasses Johnson Mattheys worldwide autocatalyst, heavy reflecting strong demand and higher prices for platinum.
duty diesel and stationary source emission control businesses, Operating profit for the year fell by 8% to 44.2 million, achieved strong profit growth in Asia and good growth in as a result of subdued trading conditions for palladium and Europe, but profits declined in the US.
Our autocatalyst rhodium for most of the year, and the impact of the renewed business in Asia benefited from strong growth in the Chinese contracts with Anglo Platinum in the final quarter.
market where sales of light duty vehicles cars and vans rose Johnson Matthey 6 In the next few years we should start to see significant benets from Johnson Mattheys investment in new product areas.
Demand for platinum remained strong and the average The divisions US business at West Deptford, NJ achieved price of the metal for Johnson Mattheys financial year strong growth in the year, benefiting from an expanded range 2003 04 was $744 per ounce, an increase of 27% over of platinum based anticancer compounds.
Purchases for use in autocatalysts increased robustly has recently been launched and another is in phase three in response to further growth in diesel car sales in Europe.
The new opiate extraction facility was completed In addition, North American car companies stepped up their in the year and is now operational.
Macfarlan Smith also purchases of platinum having largely depleted inventories of achieved excellent growth in profits benefiting from increasing the metal the year before.
However, platinum demand from sales of high margin specialist opiates.
Additional capacity is the Chinese jewellery market dropped after almost a decade being installed to meet future growth.
Pharm-Eco experienced of rapid growth, as the rise in the platinum price reduced the industry-wide drop in demand for contract research in profit margins throughout the industry.
the first quarter of the year but was able to respond by In contrast with platinum, the average price of palladium gaining new business and its performance in the second half was $200 per ounce, 34% below the average in 2002 03, of the year was much stronger.
and trading conditions remained subdued for most of the Outlook In 2004 05 we expect to see further growth year.
Physical demand for palladium began to recover from in Catalysts and Pharmaceutical Materials.
However, exchange the fall in the previous year, with purchases by the auto and translation may be adverse if the US dollar remains at its electronics industries increasing significantly.
between supply and demand, however, widened considerably In the next few years we should start to see significant as Russian sales of palladium recovered and South African benefits from Johnson Mattheys investment in new product production was expanded.
areas, including heavy duty diesel catalysts which represents a The divisions platinum fabrication businesses achieved major opportunity once legislation comes into force in 2007 further growth with good demand for both medical and 2008.
In Pharmaceutical Materials we have a strong components and industrial products.
Operating profit for worldwide position in the manufacture of controlled drugs the gold refining businesses was down on last year with and complex molecules, such as prostaglandins, where the the stronger gold price having little immediate impact on generic market should see significant growth.
progress is also being made in other long term growth Colours & Coatings Divisions sales were very similar markets, such as gas to liquids catalysts and fuel cells, where to last year at 254 million.
Operating profit rose by 6% revenues are expected to grow in the years ahead.
to 26.7 million with an improvement in margins.
Overall, supported by a strong balance sheet, the group The glass coatings business achieved good growth in sales is very well positioned to deliver good long term growth.
and profits benefiting from new product introductions and market share gains.
The Structural Ceramics sector, which sells largely to the tile industry, experienced weaker demand for most of the year and profits were down, but demand picked up in the final quarter and the outlook is now much stronger.
Profits for Speciality Coatings were well up on prior year, benefiting from the rationalisation programme undertaken Chris Clark in 2002 03.
Chief Executive Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions sales rose by 9% to 140 million despite the impact of the weaker US dollar.
The divisions operating profit increased by 15% to 42.3 million.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7 Financial Review Johnson Mattheys balance sheet remains strong with shareholders funds rising by 74.9 million to 862.2 million and gearing of 45%.
John Sheldrick Group Finance Director Review of Results Total sales for the financial Sales and Margins Johnson Mattheys turnover year ending 31st March 2004 rose by 4% to 4.5 billion.
is heavily impacted by the high value of precious metals sold Sales excluding the value of precious metals rose by 6% by the group particularly in the Precious Metals Division PMD.
The total value of sales each year varies according to the mix Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill of metals sold and level of trading activity.
The value of the amortisation increased by 9% to 206.0 million, despite the precious metals included in sales is generally separately effects of adverse exchange translation.
The group has adopted invoiced and payment made within a few days.
Consequently, FRS 17, the new accounting standard for pensions, and last years although return on sales operating profit total external results have been restated accordingly.
Divisional results are sales for the precious metals businesses is low, return on discussed in the Chief Executives Statement on pages 4 to 7, investment is high.
and in the individual divisional reports on pages 16 to 23.
To provide a more useful measure of return on sales, the Interest also rose, partly reflecting higher average adjacent table shows sales by division excluding the value of borrowings following the acquisition of Synetix, but also as a precious metals.
Total sales excluding precious metals were consequence of the change to FRS 17 and the reduction in 1,224 million which was 6% up on last year and return on pension fund surplus at 31st March 2003.
Profit before tax, these sales averaged 16.8% which was 0.5% up on 2002 03 exceptional items and goodwill amortisation rose by 3% to restated for FRS 17.
The groups target for each of its 195.7 million.
divisions is to achieve a return on sales excluding precious Earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill metals in excess of 10%.
All four divisions were ahead of that amortisation increased by 4% to 64.0 pence.
Exceptional items gave rise to a net credit of 2.1 million Catalysts achieved 10% growth in sales excluding precious before tax, compared with a 2.7 million charge last year.
metals benefiting from a full years ownership of former Synetix Goodwill amortisation increased by 6.1 million to businesses.
A significant proportion of the divisions operations 19.8 million reflecting the full years ownership of Synetix are located in the USA, and both sales and profits were which was acquired in November 2002.
After exceptional adversely affected by exchange translation as a result of the items and goodwill amortisation, profit before tax rose by 3% decline in value of the US dollar.
Margins improved, benefiting to 178.0 million.
Earnings per share on the same basis from sales of new, technologically advanced products.
PMDs sales excluding precious metals were down 9% The board is recommending to shareholders a final reflecting subdued trading conditions for palladium and dividend of 18.2 pence, making a total dividend for the year of rhodium for most of the year and the impact of the renewed 26.4 pence, an increase of 4%.
The proposed dividend would contracts with Anglo Platinum in the final quarter.
be covered 2.4 times by earnings before exceptional items Colours & Coatings sales were very similar to last year and goodwill amortisation.
but margins improved as a result of good growth in our glass coatings business, which has higher margins than other parts of the division.
Pharmaceutical Materials achieved 8% growth in sales excluding precious metals, despite adverse exchange translation, with good growth in sales of platinum anticancer compounds and opiates.
Margins improved at our Edinburgh based business, Macfarlan Smith, as a result of increased sales of high margin specialist opiates.
Johnson Matthey 8 Exchange Rates $ Euro 2 1.7 1.6 1.8 1.5 1.6 1.4 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.2 March 2002 March 2003 March 2004 $ Euro Goodwill amortisation increased by 6.1 million to Return on Sales excluding sales excluding 19.8 million, reflecting the full years ownership of the former precious metals precious metals Synetix businesses, which were acquired in November 2002.
2004 2003 2004 2003 restated million million % % Interest The groups net interest charge rose by 3.1 million to 16.3 million as a result of the increase in Catalysts 720 652 15.2 14.6 Precious Metals 121 132 36.7 36.4 average net borrowings following the acquisition of Synetix.
Colours & Coatings 252 253 10.6 10.0 The average interest rate was lower than last year benefiting Pharmaceutical Materials 131 122 32.2 30.1 from lower US dollar interest rates and reduced rates on gold leases.
1,224 1,159 16.8 16.3 The group has adopted FRS 17, the new accounting standard for pensions.
Under FRS 17 the net return on retirement benefits assets and liabilities fell by 7.9 million Return on Investment We set a target of 20% to 6.0 million.
The drop reflected the fall in the value of the for the pre-tax return on assets ROA for all our businesses.
pension fund surplus in 2002 03 as measured on 31st March For the group as a whole ROA was 16.2% see pages 70 and 2003, when the world equity markets were particularly 71 compared with 16.8% in 2002 03.
The decline in the overall depressed.
Equity markets recovered somewhat in 2003 04 return reflects the impact of the acquisition of Synetix which and the groups UK pension fund surplus has increased.
is expected to take a few years to meet the groups target.
The net return on retirement benefits assets and liabilities On a post tax basis the return on invested capital was is likely to be roughly 3 million higher in 2004 05.
11.4% which was above the estimated weighted average cost of capital WACC for the group of 8%.
The margin above the Exchange Rates Over a third of the groups profits cost of capital for the year was 3.4%, which was below last were made in North America, mainly in the USA.
The average years restated figure of 3.8% but still satisfactory.
rate for the US dollar weakened significantly, from $1.55 in 2002 03 to $1.69 in 2003 04, which reduced reported Exceptional Items and Goodwill group profit before tax by 6.7 million.
Amortisation Exceptional items included in The group has significant operations in several euro-zone operating profit gave rise to a net credit of 2.1 million.
countries and in South Africa whose currencies have The group benefited by 14.8 million from the strengthened against sterling.
The group benefited by settlement of litigation with Research Corporation and 2.4 million from the translation of profits made in euros, Research Corporation Technologies, Inc. relating to royalties of which 1.7 million related to Colours & Coatings, but the earned under a licence agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb euros strength also had a negative impact on demand for Company in respect of carboplatin.
The overall impact of the appreciation This exceptional credit was partly offset by a charge of the South African rand was negative.
The products the of 12.7 million for the rationalisation of Catalysts Division.
group manufactures in South Africa are generally for export The rationalisation costs relate to the reorganisation of PCTs with pricing mainly related to euros and US dollars, whereas pgm refining business and the phasing out of ECTs older costs are in rands, and margins were adversely affected by autocatalyst process technology now that precision coating currency movements.
technology has been fully installed across the group.
This rationalisation is expected to improve the divisions profits by 8 million in 2005 06.
