Chief Executive Officers Review continued including details of equipment shortages revealed in a tape road.
Similarly, we foster close relations with schools and, of Sergeant Roberts last phone conversation home and in Leeds and Portsmouth, we have fully equipped on-site which ultimately contributed to his death.
Following the classrooms which are used by school children to create resultant extensive national news coverage, the story was their own newspapers.
Our titles also recognise local voted UK Scoop of the Year in the 2004 Regional Press achievement in a variety of fields, including sport, business Awards and Anne was also named UK Feature Writer of and community involvement, often initiating or supporting the Year.
Of many other national stories in which our celebratory events such as the Pride in Peterborough newspapers had a leading involvement, two that stand out Community Awards.
were the part played by the Morecambe Visitor in the Morecambe Bay cockling disaster and the leading role However, newspapers are not only about weighty and played by the Northampton Chronicle & Echo concerning serious matters: lighter, entertaining stories also have their the future of the British Grand Prix at Silverstone, which place.
The Diss Express efforts for the re-housing of a feral included a series of exclusives.
chicken population, made homeless by a supermarket development, under the campaign slogan Home to Rooster, Throughout Johnston Press, editors play an active part in was picked up by the News of the World with a sub-title their communities, often being involved on local committees Give a Cock a Home.
And, who knows, the Ghanaian and interest groups.
We regard this as an essential part of downhill skier, training for the 2006 Winter Olympics at the their role, typified, for example, by the editor of the Milton Keynes SnoZone and dubbed The Snow Leopard Cumbernauld News, who chaired a series of public by the Citizen, may yet become the next Eddie the Eagle.
meetings to discuss a possible upgrade to the A80 trunk Serving communities for many years, anniversary issues Johnston Press plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Organisation and People We have taken a number of steps to ensure that we meet Our Head Office management team remained unchanged our objectives of being a caring and responsible employer, throughout the year.
Since the year-end, Henry Faure including the introduction of defined people values which Walker has been appointed to head the newly established emphasise open, straightforward communication, integrity, JP Ventures Division and has been succeeded as Group continued success and the importance of recognising Business Development Manager by Simon Kennedy, a everyones contribution.
As outlined earlier, we have also business graduate with experience in the Telecoms sector.
made considerable improvements in our approach to Health I am particularly pleased with the announcement of Danny & Safety and in developing a culture which recognises the Cammiades appointment to the Board as Chief Operating absolute priority of such matters.
We have made real Officer, well deserved recognition of his considerable progress in improving communications and consultation contribution to the success of the Group.
This has involved the introduction of an employees version of the annual report and accounts, At the divisional level, there has been only one new team briefings, company results briefings and employee appointment with Nick Mills taking over the managing forums.
Progress has been made in our approach to diversity directors role at the East Midlands division, replacing Mike including the introduction of a Johnston Press bursary to Hutchby, who moved to fill the equivalent position at the assist people from deprived or ethnic backgrounds to South Yorkshire North Midlands division.
At company level, undertake training in journalism.
A total of four bursaries there have been a number of important appointments were awarded in 2004. including several at managing director level from outside the Group, bringing valuable fresh talent into the business.
Recognising the importance of all our staff and the huge The Commercial Trainee Leadership Programme has now contribution they make to the continued success of our been in place for more than 12 months and already this business, it is particularly pleasing that the Share Incentive has resulted in several junior management appointments.
Plan introduced in 2003 will, for the second successive year, The scheme will be complemented by a Graduate Trainee result in all qualifying employees, representing the substantial Leadership Programme to be launched in the current year.
majority of those we employ, receiving free shares in Johnston Press.
Our broad ranging suite of training programmes has been enhanced and extended to include a comprehensive training To address ongoing funding shortfalls and to facilitate programme for newspaper sales staff as well as editorial the merging of the Johnston Press and RIM defined benefit and advertising management diplomas.
Similarly, our Senior pension schemes, we injected a further 5.8 million prior to Management Development Programme continues to play the year-end.
As part of this exercise, all employees who an important role in growing senior managers for the future choose to be in the Companys pension arrangements will and a number of successful participants have been have four times salary life cover.
Paternity leave of two weeks appointed to new positions during 2004. pay at 90% of basic salary has been extended throughout the Group and we have introduced childcare vouchers.
These measures, along with others not mentioned, illustrate the importance we place on remaining a competitive and We have taken a number of steps caring employer.
to ensure that we meet our objectives of being a caring and responsible employer Tim BOWDLER Chief Executive Officer 16 March 2005 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200425 Johnston Press plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Financial Review Financially 2004 was an excellent year Stuart Paterson Chief Financial Officer Overview 2004 2004 2004 2003 Financially 2004 was an excellent 53 weeks 53rd week 52 weeks year for Johnston Press.
The Group m m m m delivered significant improvements in cash flow, operating margins, Advertising revenues 394.4 2.7 391.7 371.2 earnings per share and return on Newspaper sales 69.6 1.1 68.5 67.6 capital employed.
This, combined Contract printing 19.3 0.2 19.1 20.2 with good growth on the top line and Other revenues 35.5 0.1 35.4 32.8 a substantial reduction in our net debt, leaves the Group well placed moving Total revenues 518.8 4.1 514.7 491.8 into 2005.
Costs 340.8 1.1 339.7 328.8 Financial Review Operating profit 178.0 3.0 175.0 163.0 In comparing performance between 2004 and 2003, it should be noted that Operating margin 34.3% 34.0% 33.1% 2004 has been a 53 week financial year and, where relevant, in order to help the reader make like-for-like The revenues and costs incurred in the 53rd week are only those that are comparisons, we have included truly incremental for that period and ignore all other monthly costs such as performance figures for 52 weeks.
depreciation, salaries and lease payments.
A H Turnover by Region B A Scotland 7% G B Northeast 7% C North 23% C D Northwest 11% E N Midlands S Yorkshire 15% F East Midlands 9% F G South Midlands 15% H South 13% D E pre-exceptionals Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200427 Financial Review continued Revenues annual rate card increases and a continued growth in the Although total advertising revenues for the Group grew level of colour advertising which commands a premium, by 6.2%, 0.7% of this growth was due to the 53rd week, made possible by our ongoing investment in colour which contributed advertising revenues of 2.7m.
Deducting this results in the like-for-like growth of 5.5%.
The strongest two categories were employment and The figures quoted in the rest of this section all relate property, but there was also good growth in other classified to a like-for-like period of 52 weeks.
Display advertising, after a disappointing year in 2003, returned to growth with a strong Advertising revenues for the Group by category were performance from those businesses that place their advertising as follows: through national agencies such as the supermarkets and the Central Office of Information.
Motors had a more difficult year 2004 2003 Increase with the continued consolidation in the sector and a reduction m m % in the volume of cars being sold privately.
Employment 117.2 106.5 10.1 The Chief Executive Officers Review on pages 15 to 25 Property 56.0 51.1 9.6 provides a summary of advertising performance by division.
Motors 47.4 47.9 1.2 Other classified 60.6 58.1 4.4 The table below shows a breakdown of the advertising revenues for the two half years.
The rate of growth in Total classified 281.2 263.6 6.7 advertising revenues was slower in the second half of the year principally because of the stronger comparatives in Display 110.5 107.6 2.7 2003 when advertising revenues picked up post the Iraqi conflict.
Total advertising revenue 391.7 371.2 5.5 Circulation revenues rose by 0.9m 1.3% reflecting limited cover price increases more than offsetting the This growth was predominantly volume driven, with reduced circulation of our daily titles.
advertising volumes up by 5.1% and yields up by only 0.4%.
Yield growth was restricted by some of our organic Contract print revenues were down 5.8% on 2003.
There revenue growth initiatives which have repurposed classified were two main factors behind this, one being a reduction in content into other publications in the local regional market the capacity available for third party work due to increased at lower yields but with relatively little incremental cost.
Group volumes and the second being a reduction in the Adjusting for these initiatives, the underlying yield increase level of work going through the old heatset press in was 1.3%.
This lower than normal increase reflects the high Portsmouth, which we propose to close during the course growth in property, our lowest yielding category, offsetting of 2005.
