Terry Twigger Group strategy 05 Chief Executive Today, boosted by transformation, we are stronger and fitter than ever.
In the short-term we should benefit from the strong upturn in our civil aerospace and energy markets which began in the last half of 2010.
In the longer-term, we are well-positioned to succeed in highly competitive global markets, with organic growth prospects of between 6 and 7%.
Meggitt aims to deliver superior with particle discrimination, low Equipped for the upturn returns to shareholders through smart maintenance, self-diagnostic digital The tremendous efforts of our engineering for extreme environments fluid gauging, energy-saving electroemployees over the last eighteen - high performance, highly reliable thermal ice protection and tyre months of transformation have products that meet the demands of pressure monitoring.
positioned us to meet the rise in demand critical applications in aerospace, which began in the last half of 2010. defence and energy.
Our highly Another significant acquisition successful business model delivers We responded swiftly to the downturn, Meggitt aims to achieve an even mix fundamental strength and stability cutting costs and positioning ourselves of organic growth, building on existing throughout the economic cycle.
Our results demonstrate the capabilities and markets and growth robustness of our business model.
In January 2011, we Strategy transformation programme is integrating proposed the acquisition of Pacific a set of strong, individual businesses into We win positions on new platforms, Scientific Aerospace PSA.
Marketing and preferably as sole-source suppliers in to normal completion requirements, engineering are coordinated across markets where our products must PSA will enable us to offer a complete divisions and we are sharing services in operate without fail in harsh environments fire protection system to aerospace IT, human resources and finance, and certification requirements are customers.
Its capability in electrical assisted by the implementation of a demanding.
This delivers aftermarket power generation and management group-wide ERP system.
All processes revenue streams for up to 40 years.
complements Meggitts motor control are being standardised, defining a technology, significantly strengthening Our portfolio balances revenues from Meggitt way of doing things - efficient, our ability to offer aircraft more electric original equipment manufacturers with lean and integrated.
PSAs factories in Mexico and the aftermarket, civil with military processes will be handed over to the Vietnam enhance Meggitts existing lowbusiness and growing interests in the divisions to become embedded in the cost manufacturing footprint.
thinking and practice of every function at every division.
We fund innovation aligned with our Actively growing our business customers technology roadmaps and Our cost-reduction programme, which Today, boosted by transformation, we acquire companies to extend capabilities comprised three main elements - are stronger, leaner and fitter than ever.
and fast-track product and market transformation, global procurement In the short-term, we are poised to meet development.
and the K&F integration - comfortably the upturn evidenced in the last half of exceeded targets and enabled us to We develop facilities in key locations 2010.
In the long-term, we are wellcontinue investing in our business: we worldwide, supporting our customers positioned to succeed in fiercely boosted our international sales network locally and addressing opportunities in competitive global markets with organic with our new Shanghai office: our emerging markets.
growth prospects of between 6 and 7%.
low-cost facilities in Singapore, China We strive for excellence across all and Mexico increased in capacity and functions, at all levels.
We maintain a capability: we maintained R&D at 7% high performance culture, based on of revenue: and, we continued to invest meeting customer needs, financial rigour, in proprietary technologies including ethical practice and customised training.
turbine tip clearance measurement to help reduce fuel burn, highly reliable, state-of-the-art smoke detection MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
