AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 06 Strategy implementation tyre pressure monitoring system.
Innovation for the CSeries family of 110 to 130-seat jetliners.
Both Focus developments grew the scope of our work within Air Transport Association Chapter 32 to include nose wheel Components and value-added sub-systems steering and aircraft landing gear control.
High technology content Aftermarket value Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems signed a memorandum of Growth by organic investment and acquisition understanding with Irkut Corporation to develop the entire digital brake-by-wire braking system for all variants of its new commercial aircraft programme, the MS21, Our approach representing an exceptional opportunity to expand the We invest in safe, reliable and highly-engineered groups presence in the Russian market and add to our components and sub-systems for aerospace, defence and portfolio of commercial programmes.
We compete in all of them with strong Meggitt Polymers & Composites continues to work with a intellectual property, securing aftermarket revenuemajor North American aircraft manufacturer on next generating positions in particular on aircraft and military generation electro-thermal ice protection systems based vehicles.
We grow organically, expanding our markets and on energy-saving proportional control.
developing products internally: and we grow by acquisition, securing new technology, fast-tracking product development Boeing approved the production of Meggitt Polymers & and strengthening market positions.
Composites new lightweight seal material in our Chinese facility approvals are in process with Airbus and Rolls-Royce Achievements and we won a contract from Eurocopter to supply lightweight, high performance door seals for the Airbus A350.
Meggitts technology investments continue apace.
Meggitt Safety Systems has developed state-of-the-art Meggitt Sensing Systems continues to pioneer turbine tip smoke detection with a particle discrimination capability clearance technology in response to the identification by that will significantly improve the safety and reliability of every aircraft engine manufacturer of rotor blade aircraft cargo smoke detection systems.
measurement and monitoring as critical to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and fuel consumption.
Meggitt Safety Systems was selected by EADS Military Air Systems to supply fire and overheat detectors for the Meggitt Sensing Systems continues to advance next ATLANTE long-endurance unmanned aerial vehicle UAV generation aircraft digital fluid gauging.
Accurate, reliable for intelligence, surveillance, target acquisition and and easy to calibrate, Meggitts smart fuel probes come reconnaissance missions.
UAVs are a critical element of with built-in test and self-diagnostic features that reduce maritime and terrestrial surveillance worldwide and this trouble-shooting time and maintenance costs and boost development represents a very promising marketing dispatchability dramatically.
opportunity for the groups virtually indestructible detectors.
Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems continues to leverage its The proposed acquisition of Pacific Scientific Aerospace, expertise in total braking system integration and was which is subject to normal completion requirements, will selected by a major business jet manufacturer for brake, enable Meggitt Safety Systems to provide aircraft fire landing gear, nose wheel steering and hydraulic control and detection and suppression in a single package.
The division joined forces with Meggitt Sensing in electrical power generation, storage, conversion, Systems to move our health management expertise beyond distribution and interconnect and management systems aero-engine programmes to landing systems with a new Delivering organic growth Dr Peter Kupferschmied Vice President, Engineering Meggitt Sensing Systems Our new tyre pressure monitoring system not only enhances safety, it unleashes significant potential to cut the cost of ownership by optimising tyre condition, keeping it at the right pressure to minimise wear and tear and avoid unscheduled maintenance.
For Meggitt, it is a transformation triumph in which we combined the experience and market positions of two Meggitt divisions into a brand-new product offering, expanding our level of integration and scope of work within aircraft landing gear in line with our fully integrated vehicle health management vision.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 07 will strengthen the Meggitt groups offer to future aircraft Heatric, the manufacturer of compact, high-duty printed and military ground vehicles moving from hydraulic and circuit heat exchangers, is working with a number of pneumatic technology towards more electric power.
developers in supercritical CO liquid high-pressure 2 systems within the power generation and heat recovery M eggitt Avionics third generation solid-state secondary sectors.
Our first sale of a demonstrator for this application display, designed to meet the requirements of any modern operated successfully in 2010. aircraft avionics architecture, was fully certified on both sides of the Atlantic and enabled several key programmes 2.
Achieve operational excellence to move forward.
iSFD has already been selected by seven customers, a mix of military and commercial programmes Focus which included the Boeing Apache, HondaJet, LearJet 85 and the Korean medium-weight utility helicopter, KAI Surion.
Optimising our manufacturing footprint Improving our cost, quality and delivery performance M eggitt Training Systems installed the training industrys Strengthening central functions first wireless, indoor 360-degree turning target retrieval Sharing services and best practice system in a US shooting range.
It continued to work with the Singapore Police Coast Guard on enhancements to its Our approach world-class simulator training centre.
We continue to integrate our businesses, accelerated through M eggitt Training Systems Canada conducted the worlds our transformation initiative, resulting in five capability-based first large-scale swarmex demonstration, the simulation divisions.
Strong central functions help them work together, of a real-world threat of swarming fast in-shore attack standardising processes and sharing expertise, services and craft FIACs.
The Canadian Navy has now asked Meggitt to best practice.
Lean manufacturing, continuous improvement support a major multi-national live-fire naval exercise initiatives, strategic sourcing and low-cost manufacturing using the system in 2011. facilities optimise further Meggitts ability to meet our M eggitt Defence Systems won multiple development customers cost, quality and delivery targets.
programmes with the potential for lengthy production including electronic cooling solutions for the P-8 Poseidon, Achievements ammunition-handling systems for the UK Scout Our transformation programme delivered savings of programme, Doppler radar scoring system for the QF-16 54million in 2010, ahead of target.
aerial target and state-of-the-art airborne countermeasure programmes.
We completed the K&F integration with synergy savings beating the original target of 16 million by 6 million.
M eggitt Sensing Systems monitoring equipment for critical machinery is now on three of the worlds largest hydro, Our global procurement team followed a solid analytical nuclear and gas powered turbines.
approach to our supply chain, delivering significant savings around 15 million in 2010, sharpening processes and M eggitt Control Systems MCS has expanded its strategic strengthening our local teams.
focus in the industrial gas turbine market to include heavy-duty frame engines for the power generation market.
An ERP system SAP has gone live at seven sites based on MCS is developing a range of larger control valves for a Meggitt global template.
This new product range will provide the same precision control for fuel and bleed air as we have demonstrated on smaller aero-derivative turbines.
Low-cost options for customers on critical programmes Andrew Smith Director, Engineering Projects Meggitt Polymers & Composites With selective product transfer into our polymers factory in China, customers are getting increased capacity, lower cost and more options for critical programmes.
The difference between success and failure is not just about the fact we can capitalise our factory for a fraction of the price we can in Europe.
It is also about recognising our people are craftsmen, not assemblers.
They are not putting bolts on bumpers making a rubber seal is like sculpting a maquette.
We engage in rigorous training programmes, minimising turnover, building experience and creating a workforce with initiative.
And we have changed our employees sense of who we are.
They see the investment and know we respect them.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 08 Strategy implementation To support the groups new operating structure launched in 2.
Achieve operational excellence continued 2010, we made senior appointments in key functional areas Achievements continued operations, procurement, engineering and sales and marketing.
We are rolling out the engineering project management 3.
Satisfy our customers processes needed to standardise and improve the way we engineer our products and address the fundamentals of Focus Meggitts smart engineering.
Strengthen our partnerships with customers We have streamlined all engineering outsourcing activity Become easier to do business with and created an off-shore development centre in India Improve our delivery comprising nearly 100 engineers.
We plan to double this resource by 2012.
Our approach After building up our employee skill base and gaining key We aim to give customers what they need, conducting our customer approvals, we significantly increased the output relationships with them strategically for the long-term.
of our polymers lines in our Chinese factory.
This has led to We combine the design and development capabilities and further product transfers and the opportunity to bid on product portfolios of complementary Meggitt business units, additional low-cost programmes.
aligning them strongly with customer technology roadmaps, Our new facility in Quertaro, Mexico has started making procurement for customers easier and adding value production, machining commercial wheel and structural with more integrated sub-systems and larger packages.
brake components with increasing effectiveness.
Additional processes that extend the value stream for this product line Achievements are coming on line in 2011.
Our other plant in Mexico During transformation, we restructured our capabilities Fresnillo is also taking on a larger scope of work.
into five divisions focused on customer and market demand, Our Singapore maintenance facility expanded its support simplified access to key contacts within divisions and for Meggitt products across Asia Pacific, exceeding sales expanded our key customer relationship management team targets in 2010.
After successfully embedding the heat at group level.
exchanger facility in 2009, 2010 saw the distribution of fire detection equipment and agreement to implement a We are ensuring Meggitt thinking meets customer thinking.
maintenance, repair and overhaul cell for hydraulic valves We have renewed our focus on customers by strengthening for the power generation sector.
our approach to managing key relationships.
The appointment of a group level director of engineering and Shared human resource services are running in the UK and technology continues to ensure our R & D investment aligns the Americas with new tools to improve service levels.
with customer technology road maps.
Shared information technology services, which were We achieved critical mass in core technology areas, launched in Southern California, expanded into the UK and attracting invitations to partnership discussions and are now being rolled out worldwide.
Finance is working to tenders for substantial programmes which former business establish shared service centres in the UK and the US units could not have entertained under the old structure.
which will follow the implementation of SAP.
In tune with our customers Vin Lefante Key Customer Relationship Manager for United Technologies Corporation My customer faces the same challenges as Meggitt managing risk while investing in the right opportunities amidst ever-increasing pressures to reduce cost.
UTCs game-changing products will have a huge impact on its target markets, driving revenue growth for Meggitt well into the future.
As a key customer relationship manager, I play a vital role in ensuring our two companies work hand in glove aligning business practices, technology roadmaps and economic assumptions so we are both equipped to address emerging opportunities.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 09 We a re improving our ability to deliver programmes on Achievements time and to budget with a standardised cross-functional Our integrated divisions are structured for performance.
Centralised divisional teams are responsible for business M eggitt continues to internationalise its sales activity.
results and control the resources needed to deliver them.
A year after opening in India, we opened our Shanghai Removing a layer of management during the groups office in 2010 to boost the promotion of discrete sensors transformation phase continues to bear dividends in terms and sensing systems across Meggitts key test and of decision-making and overhead reduction.
measurement automotive and flight test, energy and We launched a new leadership development programme OEM aerospace markets.
We plan to establish a presence aimed at 300-plus managers designed to grow their skills in Brazil in 2011. as leaders of change in an increasingly complex and fast O ur numerous customer awards in 2010 included moving industry.
In partnership with Oxford University, we Lockheed Martin recognising our sensing facilities in continued our senior leadership programme aimed at San Juan Capistrano, California and Londonderry, New engaging 24 high-potential staff in long-term strategic Hampshire for 100% quality performance, Meggitt thinking about the group.
This is the second iteration of Aircraft Braking Systems winning its fourth consecutive 2008s highly successful pilot which helped shape the Supplier of the Year award from Gulfstream and our current transformation programme.
automatic ammunition-handling and military electronics We exceeded our transformation cost-reduction target, facility in Irvine receiving awards from Northrop Grumman achieving 54 million in 2010, and raised our run-rate Platinum, Boeing Gold and Raytheon Purple for target to 57 million by the end of 2011. excellent quality and on-time delivery.
We continued to invest heavily across the group in our best practice compliance programme and in 2011 will add a new 4.
Maintain a culture of strong performance global trade management system.
Focus Our Ethics and Business Conduct programme provides Delivering against targets regular training to employees, promotes management Leadership development policies and procedures to address specific risk areas and Financial rigour sponsors an independently operated Ethics Line.
This is High standards of compliance overseen by the Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee of the Board which meets regularly under the chairmanship of Meggitt Chairman, Sir Colin Terry.
During 2010 we adopted Our approach a comprehensive anti-corruption policy.
Published with our We define strong performance as delivery against targets, ethics and business conduct policy and code of conduct, a conditioned by rigorous financial discipline and sound ethical comprehensive ethics guide was delivered to all employees practice at every level of our organisation.
We develop our in a choice of six languages.
Printed materials were leaders through professional development reviews and reinforced with on-line and live training.
provide reward and incentive schemes for top performance.
Leading change Diana Fox Director, Human Resources I was privileged to take part in the groups change leadership training pilot last year, which will be rolled out for hundreds of Meggitt leaders in 2011.
We are being equipped to respond to an environment in which reporting relationships have been radically altered by structure realignment, extending geographical boundaries and divisional integrations that have seen market opportunities rise and operating costs reduce.
We are moving towards a less hierarchical structure, providing greater flexibility and more responsiveness: and moving away from the silo-based thinking of individual business units to the more inclusive, collaborative and cooperative approach needed to advance in fiercely competitive global markets.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
