Meggitt divisions Group overview 03 Meggitt PLC, headquartered in the United Kingdom, is an Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems international group employing about 7,400 people worldwide.
is the number one producer of wheels, We specialise in high performance components and subbrakes and brake control systems for systems for aerospace, defence and energy markets primarily regional and business jets and fixed and but apply our core sensing and controls technologies to land rotary wing military aircraft, with products and marine-based gas turbines and the medical, mainstream on an active fleet of over 30,000 aircraft.
Its industrial, test engineering and transportation sectors.
capabilities include control and monitoring sub-systems.
Our consistent record of strong financial performance comes from businesses balanced across markets.
We READ MORE p10 offset variation in demand, balancing exposure to civil with military and energy markets: and sales to original equipment manufacturers with sales of aftermarket products and Meggitt Control Systems services.
We have product on virtually every western aircraft is a leading supplier of aerospace valves, and have a growing presence in combat vehicles.
We transfer heat exchangers, environmental control aero-engine technology to land-based gas and steam power systems, high performance electroplants.
Our revenues are spread across North America, mechanical fans, motors, compressors, Europe and Asia and our manufacturing capability is global, controllers and specialist pumps, industrial including low-cost facilities in China and Mexico.
fuel and bleed air control valves and ground fuelling products.
READ MORE p12 Global footprint Meggitt Polymers & Composites excels in the design and development Percentage of employees by region of aircraft seals, flexible fuel tanks and coatings, complex composite structures, smart ice protection systems and subassemblies and interior panels Number and accessories.
of employees READ MORE p14 7,370 Meggitt Sensing Systems excels in high performance sensing and monitoring systems for applications North America 4,081 55% UK 1,963 27% in aerospace, energy, industrial and Mainland Europe 1,063 14% laboratory test.
Rest of World 263 4% READ MORE p16 Meggitt Equipment Group Percentage of group revenue by destination was created to enable a set of strong, yet  businesses market their offerings to specialist customers and yet benefit from the wider Meggitt groups investment in shared Total revenue services and common processes.
Its capabilities include training systems 1,162.0M live and virtual fire and combat support ammunition-handling, military electronics cooling and countermeasure launch and recovery systems, avionics, automotive and industrial control electronics, unique North America 631.2M 54% heat transfer equipment for hydrocarbon UK 117.9M 10% Mainland Europe 261.2M 23% processing and aircraft fire protection Rest of world 151.7M 13% systems.
READ MORE p18 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
