AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 40 Directors report The directors hereby submit their annual report and the audited Share capital and control financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Group The authorised share capital of the Company at 31 December 2010 and financial statements have been prepared in accordance with details of shares issued during the financial year is shown in note 35 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the on page 90.
On 31 December 2010 there were 698,034,635 ordinary EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee shares in issue.
A further 69,849,333 ordinary shares were issued IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006, applicable to between 31 December 2010 and 25 February 2011, of which 69,800,000 companies reporting under IFRSs.
The Company financial statements shares were issued as a result of the Equity Placing in connection with have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted the Proposed Acquisition and 49,333 shares were issued as a result of Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Companies Act 2006. the exercise of share options.
The ordinary shares are listed on the Section 417 Companies Act 2006 requires that certain information be London Stock Exchange.
included in the Directors Report.
The information contained in the The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares Business Review pages 4 to 37 which fulfils this requirement is are set out in the Articles of Association the Articles.
A copy of the therefore incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
Articles is available for inspection at the registered office.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and Principal activities accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to Meggitt PLC is a public limited company listed on the London Stock appoint proxies to exercise full voting rights and to participate in any Exchange, incorporated in England and Wales with the registered distribution of income or capital.
Its registered office is at Atlantic House, Aviation Park There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on holding ordinary West, Bournemouth International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by Meggitt PLC is the parent company of a Group whose principal persons other than holders of the shares and no known agreements on activities during the year were the design and manufacture of high restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired technology products and systems for the aerospace, defence and other through Company share plans rank pari passu on an equal footing specialist markets, including energy, medical, industrial, test and with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Company has disclosed significant direct or indirect holdings, which are published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Dividends Companys website.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.35p net Rules about the appointment and replacement of Company directors per ordinary 5p share 2009: 5.75p, to be paid on 6 May 2011 to those are contained in the Articles.
Changes to the Articles must be members on the register at close of business on 11 March 2011. submitted to the shareholders for approval by way of special An interim dividend of 2.85p 2009: 2.70p was paid on 1 October 2010. resolution.
The powers of directors are set out in the Articles and are If the final dividend as recommended is approved the total ordinary governed by applicable legislation.
At each Annual General Meeting dividend for the year will amount to 9.20p net per share 2009: 8.45p.
AGM of the Company, the shareholders are requested to renew the directors powers to allot securities in the Company up to the value Dividends are paid to shareholders net of a non-refundable tax credit specified in the notice of meeting and to renew the directors powers to of 10%.
Shareholders liable to higher rate income tax will have allot securities without the application of pre-emption rights up to the additional tax to pay.
value specified in the notice of meeting in accordance with Article 4 of Shareholders will be offered a scrip dividend alternative under the the Articles.
The Company can seek authority from the shareholders at share dividend plan in respect of the proposed final dividend.
the AGM to purchase its own shares.
During 2010, the Company made the Meggitt PLC share dividend plan The Group has the following significant financing agreements which available for the dividends paid in May 2010 the final dividend for 2009 include change of control provisions which, should there be a change and in October 2010 the interim dividend for 2010.
The cash dividend of ownership of the Company, could result in renegotiation, withdrawal necessary to give an entitlement to one new ordinary share was fixed or early repayment of these financing agreements.
These are a at 290.72p and 268.88p respectively.
USD 1,420 million revolving credit agreement dated March 2007, a USD 500 million revolving credit agreement dated July 2008, a Acquisitions and disposals USD 250 million note purchase agreement dated June 2003 and a USD 600 million note purchase agreement dated June 2010.
There are There were no acquisitions or disposals during the year.
a number of other long-term commercial agreements that may alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a Post balance sheet event takeover bid.
None is considered to be significant in terms of potential On 18 January 2011, the Company announced the proposed acquisition impact on the Groups business as a whole.
of Pacific Scientific Aerospace PSA from Danaher Corporation for a The service contracts for the executive directors state that if there total cash consideration of $685.0 million the Proposed Acquisition.
is a change of control in the Company, executive directors may PSA is a leading supplier of components to the global civil aerospace terminate their employment within six months and would be entitled to and military markets.
Organised in six businesses, PSA offers fire compensation from the Company for loss of office.
The compensation suppression, sensing, electric power, electric actuation and security would be annual remuneration plus the value of benefits for the products, with a balanced presence between civil aerospace 57% of unexpired notice period less 5%.
revenues and military 43% of revenues markets.
The Proposed Acquisition, which is dependent upon the satisfaction of customary The Company does not have any agreements with the non-executive conditions and regulatory clearances, will be funded in part by an directors or any other employees that would provide compensation for equity placing of 69.8 million new ordinary shares representing less loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that than 10% of issued share capital as at the date of the placing the provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and or Equity Placing with the balance funded from the Groups existing debt awards granted to employees under such plans to vest on a takeover.
The equity placing was successfully completed on 21 January 2011 and raised 246.2 million.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 41 Conflicts of interest Corporate responsibility The Company has a procedure for the disclosure, review, authorisation The Board takes regular account of social, environmental and ethical and management of directors conflicts of interest and potential matters.
Our Corporate Responsibility Report gives a full update on conflicts of interest, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies activities and achievements during 2010 and can be found on pages 30 Act 2006.
The procedure which was summarised in the explanatory to 33.
The following matters fall under the broad definition of corporate notes to the Notice of AGM in 2008, is included in the Articles and has responsibility: been adhered to by the Board since its introduction in 2008.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict the directors must People have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The The Company regards employee communication as a vital business authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of authorisation are function.
Communication is carried out at facilities by operations reviewed by the Board as appropriate and, as a minimum, on an annual directors and other line managers using a variety of forums from daily basis.
standing meetings on shop floors to monthly all employee Town Hall functions, team briefings and works councils.
We ensure that all Substantial shareholdings employee relations regulations are respected.
Corporate At 25 February 2011 the Company had been notified under the communications take a variety of forms, including presentations from Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Chief Executive via audio-visual, global web-enabled conferences, FSA of the following substantial interests in the issued ordinary publications such as the Meggitt Review and a variety of electronically shares of the Company requiring disclosure: distributed newsletters.
In 2010 we created an interactive history of the Group spanning 150 years, with an engaging audio-visual and a range of Percentage of associated promotional items which were made available to all total voting employees.
This celebration will be reinforced throughout 2011. rights attaching to the issued The directors encourage employees to become shareholders to ordinary share improve active participation in and commitment to the Groups Direct voting Indirect voting capital of the rights rights Company success.
This policy has been pursued for all UK employees through the Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Scheme.
As at the year Prudential plc 65,492,495 8.53 end, approximately 89% of UK employees held shares under our Share Baillie Gifford & Co 34,138,890 4.45 Incentive Plan and 45% of UK employees were contributing monthly to Deutsche Bank AG 31,889,843 1,056,471 4.29 one or more Sharesave accounts.
Legal & General Group plc 25,966,967 3.38 Standard Life Investments Ltd 22,153,694 3,769,560 3.38 Details of share schemes available to directors and senior executives across the Group can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages One voting right per ordinary share.
Share Incentive Plan Health and safety at work The Trustee of the Share Incentive Plan has been allocated 0.7 million The Company continues to carry out its responsibilities for securing from 2010 profits to acquire ordinary shares in Meggitt PLC for eligible the health, safety and welfare at work of employees and for protecting employees 2009: 0.6 million.
others against risks to health and safety relating to the activities at work of those employees.
Every reasonable effort is made to provide Directors and their interests safe working conditions.
Protective equipment is provided and safety The directors who served during the year were: Sir Colin Terry, training takes place regularly.
There is a Group Health and Safety Mr T Twigger, Sir Alan Cox, Mr P E Green, Mr P J Hill resigned 31 Policy which is overseen by the Vice-President of Health, Safety and March 2010, Mr P Heiden appointed 3 June 2010, Mr D A Robins, Mr D Environment.
Further details of our approach to health and safety can M Williams and Mr S G Young.
be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 30 to 33.
Sir Alan Cox resigned from the Board of Directors on 24 February 2011.
Equal opportunities The recruitment process for a replacement has begun, and the Board intends to appoint a new non-executive director as soon as possible.
The Group has a policy supporting the principle of equal opportunities in employment and opposing all forms of unlawful or unfair In accordance with Article 72 of the Articles, Mr P E Green and Mr S G discrimination.
Young retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr D A Robins is retiring in accordance with Disabled employees Article 72 of the Articles and also in compliance with A.
7.2 of the Combined Code 2008 having served as a director for more than nine It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to applications from years and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Mr P Heiden disabled people, to continue wherever possible to employ staff who retires at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with Article 68 and being become disabled and to provide opportunities for the training, career eligible, offers himself for election.
development and promotion of disabled employees.
Details of directors contracts and their interests in the ordinary Ethics and business conduct shares of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 52.
None of the directors has, or has had, at any time The Group has an Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and a Code of during the financial year a beneficial interest in any material contract Conduct which are overseen by the Vice-President of Ethics and relating to the business of the Group other than service contracts.
All employees have received a copy of the Code, supplemented by follow-up training, which is refreshed regularly.
The directors have the benefit of qualifying third-party indemnity Ethics and business conduct is reviewed regularly by a Board provisions for the purposes of Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 committee.
Further details of our approach to ethics and business pursuant to the Articles.
conduct can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 30 to 33.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 42 Directors report continued proposed at the 2011 AGM.
 LLP have been Corporate responsibility continued the auditors of the Group since 2 October 2003.
The lead audit partner is Mr J Maitland whose appointment in this role commenced with effect Community relations and charitable donations from the audit for the financial year ended 31 December 2008.
Charitable donations made by the Group during the year amounted Disclosure of information to auditors to 0.1 million 2009: 0.1 million.
The Company made charitable donations of 8,000 2009: 19,000.
Throughout the Group At the date of this report, as far as the directors are aware, there is non-financial assistance was provided to a wide range of local no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are organisations.
Each director has taken all the necessary steps in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Payment policy that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Companys policy is to seek to comply with the terms of payment Statement of directors responsibilities agreed with a supplier.
Where terms are not negotiated, the Company endeavours to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
The Companys The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the creditor days at 31 December 2010 were 49 2009: 24.
Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Political contributions Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements In accordance with the Groups policy, no contributions were made to for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to EU political parties or EU political organisations 2009: Nil and no EU prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs political expenditure exceeding 2,000 was incurred in the year by the adopted by the EU, and the Company financial statements in Company or any of its subsidiaries 2009: none above 2,000. accordance with UK GAAP.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they No contributions to non-EU organisations with political objectives were give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the made during the year 2009: Nil.
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Research and development select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and development programmes which enhance the Groups products and prudent: the way they are made.
Including amounts funded by customers, state whether IFRSs adopted by the EU and applicable UK expenditure on research and development amounted to 84.2 million Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 2009: 85.2 million.
Excluding amounts funded by customers, it departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company was 67.5 million 2009: 66.0 million, of which 33.5 million 2009: financial statements respectively.
35.1 million was capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy see note 2 of the Groups financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Financial risk management disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Policies on financial risk management are set out in note 3 of the financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the Groups financial statements.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation.
They 2011 Annual General Meeting are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Details of the AGM to be held on 20 April 2011 and explanations of the the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention proposed resolutions appear in the separate Notice of AGM which is and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
provided to shareholders in their elected format at least 20 working The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the days before the date of the AGM, and can be viewed on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the e-communications page of our website www.
In addition preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from to routine business, shareholders consent will be sought to: legislation in other jurisdictions.
i approve the Remuneration Report: Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the ii renew the authority of the directors to issue shares under Article 4 Board of Directors on pages 38 and 39 confirm that, to the best of their of the Articles: knowledge: iii approve payments to organisations of no more than 60,000 in total, the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in which might inadvertently be interpreted as donations to EU accordance with IFRSs adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of political organisations under the Political Parties, Elections and the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and Referendums Act 2000 as amended by the Electoral Administration the Directors Report and Business Review on pages 4 to 37 includes Act 2006.
It is not the policy of the Company to make donations to a fair review of the development and performance of the business political parties and the directors have no intention of changing that and the position of the Group, together with a description of the policy: principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
iv increase the maximum aggregate amount of directors fees: By order of the Board v approve the convening of general meetings on 14 clear days notice in accordance with the Articles: and vi amend the Meggitt 2005 Equity Participation Plan.
M L Young Auditors Company Secretary  LLP has expressed its willingness to 28 February 2011 continue as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
