Directors report The Directors of Melrose PLC present their report and the Business reviews audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended During the year, in many of the Groups business units, focus 31 December 2010. has been placed on the development of new product lines: this has helped to ensure that businesses remain at the forefront Strategy and principal activities of technological advances within defined market sectors and Melrose PLC has a strategy to acquire industrial businesses, continue to meet specific customer demand.
enhance their performance and realise their value in the The Group continues to invest in the building of new factory medium term.
Further details of each part of the strategy are facilities, particularly in the Far East, with Hawker Siddeley shown below: Switchgear, Dynacast, and Marelli opening, or in the process Acquisition Strategy of opening, new plants in China, Indonesia and Malaysia, Melrose aims to acquire industrial businesses that, in the respectively.
Elsewhere, investment in the Groups factories opinion of the Directors, have the potential to improve, both continues: at Bridon a programme to upgrade the wire mill in financially and operationally, and create value for shareholders.
Doncaster is due for completion next year, with further In order for this acquisition strategy to be successful, businesses investment also planned at their German, North American and are targeted that have strong headline fundamentals, such as Chinese facilities in order to increase manufacturing capability.
high quality products, or a leading market share, to generate An emphasis has also been placed on developing leaner sustainable cash flows and achieve profit growth.
manufacturing processes where possible and exploring The executive Directors have extensive experience of outsourcing opportunities to other areas of the world, identifying and evaluating acquisition opportunities, in both predominantly the Far East.
Truth made the decision to quoted and unquoted companies, within the UK and overseas.
outsource more of its lower margin products to China during 2009 and the benefits of this began to materialise in 2010: Performance Improvement Strategy over time Truth plan to further develop this strategy.
The Company is not a passive investor in the businesses that it acquires.
The Directors and senior management team have Within Brush, focus was placed on the Aftermarket business and a hands-on relationship with each acquired company, by this resulted in a 25% increase in Aftermarket sales when working closely with their divisional senior management teams compared to 2009.
This performance was assisted by the in developing the long term strategic plans of the business, as purchase of Generator & Motor Services of Pennsylvania, LLC well as having regular input on restructuring decisions, capital GMS, a US company based in Pittsburgh, in February 2010. expenditure and working capital management.
The Company The development of growth opportunities in emerging markets is fully committed to investing within the businesses it acquires continued to be a key focus within the Group during the year, in order to fully exploit their operational and strategic especially in China, Indonesia, Malaysia and other parts of Asia.
A natural part of this process involves the disposal Some business units are also exploring the opportunities for of non-core businesses.
growth within South America to capitalise on the rapidly growing Generally, Melrose will retain acquired companies for a period sales opportunities that may be available within these markets.
of between three to five years.
The cost base of all business units was kept under constant Disposal Strategy review during 2010.
Businesses have continued to build on the Once the performance improvement strategy has been various cost reduction initiatives introduced in 2009, with several completed, at the appropriate time each business will be restructuring projects taking place.
The Group also continues to disposed of in order to return any value creation to shareholders.
regularly review its pension and benefit liabilities and reduce The Directors are experienced in being able to recognise the volatility where possible.
A decision has recently been taken to appropriate time in the business cycle for disposal, in order close the largest defined benefit scheme of the Group the FKI to provide funding for future acquisitions and return funds UK Pension Plan to future accrual on 28 February 2011: this to investors.
decision is expected to result in the funding deficit of this scheme being removed earlier than may have otherwise been expected.
The Company has already delivered significant value to shareholders.
For example, the acquisition of the McKechnie The Directors remain focused on identifying the next business Group in May 2005 and its subsequent restructure resulted in opportunity in order to create further value for shareholders.
the sale of two McKechnie divisions in 2007 two years after The Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, together with they were acquired, which allowed the Company to repay the Chief Executives review on pages 6 and 7, Business reviews 173 million of debt and return 220 million to shareholders.
on pages 8 to 18 and Finance Directors review on pages 19 The largest acquisition by the Group to date has been that of to 25 describe the principal activities, operations, financial FKI plc, in July 2008, for a total consideration of 970.4 million: performance, financial position and likely future prospects this increased the size of the Melrose Group by approximately of the Group.
The results of the Group are set out in detail six times.
There has been significant ongoing restructuring in the financial statements on pages 47 to 51 and in the within FKI since acquisition, including the disposal of several accompanying notes.
In June 2009, the Company sold The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out its North America operations of the Logistex division for in this report a fair review of the development and performance US $40 million.
The European operations of Logistex of the Group during the year, the position of the Group at the were also sold for 30 million, in August 2009. end of the year and a description of the principal risks and Post year end, the Company has disposed of three non-core uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that fulfils these businesses, being Madico, Logistex UK and Brush Traction, for requirements can be found within the Chief Executives review, 20.7 million.
Business reviews, Finance Directors review and in this Directors report.
The Finance Directors review also discusses the key performance indicators that management use.
28 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the profits The Company has taken out an insurance policy in respect or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 3 to of those liabilities for which the Directors may not be the Melrose PLC UK Company accounts.
Neither the indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is proved to have acted Financial results dishonestly or fraudulently.
The Groups profit for the financial year attributable to members was 141.1 million 2009: 79.5 million.
In addition, there Directors responsibilities The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the were minority interest gains of 0.2 million 2009: losses of 0.2 million.
consolidated financial statements is set out on page 44.
Shareholder dividend Share capital The Directors are pleased to recommend the payment of a Details of the structure of the Companys share capital and final dividend of 7.0p on 16 May 2011 to Ordinary shareholders rights attached to the Companys shares are set out on this on the register at the close of business on 15 April 2011. and the following page in compliance with the requirements This dividend recommendation of the Directors will be put of section 992 of the Companies Act 2006. to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting No changes were made to the share capital of the Company AGM of the Company, to be held on 12 May 2011. during the year.
The number of Ordinary Shares and 2009 It is the intention of the Board to maintain a progressive Incentive Shares in issue at the beginning and end of the year dividend policy where appropriate going forward.
is shown below: 2009 Directors appointment and powers Ordinary Incentive Shares Shares The Directors of the Company as at the date of this report, 1 January 2010 and together with their biographical details, are given on pages 26 31 December 2010 497,586,779 50,000 and 27.
There were no changes to the Board during the year.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the The Ordinary Shares and 2009 Incentive Shares represent Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the 95.2% and 4.8% respectively of the total nominal value of all terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any shares in issue.
appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board.
The Articles also require Ordinary Shares Directors to retire and resubmit themselves for election at the The Ordinary Shares have a nominal value of 0.2p and are first AGM following their appointment.
Furthermore, at each traded on the London Stock Exchange.
AGM one third of the Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and must therefore submit themselves for re-election.
Incentive Shares The 2009 Incentive Shares of 1.00 each have been awarded The Directors are responsible for managing the business of to Directors and senior managers within the Company, together the Company and may exercise all the power of the Company, with Ogier Employee Benefit Trustee Limited as Trustee of subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any directions the Melrose PLC Employee Benefit Trust and replaced the given by special resolution and to the Companys Articles.
share incentive scheme introduced in 2007.
The rights attaching Powers relating to the issuing of shares and powers to purchase to the 2009 Incentive Shares are identical to those originally the Companys own shares are also included in the current attached to the 2007 Incentive Scheme, with the exception that Articles and such authorities are submitted for approval by the Company may pay a dividend on the 2009 Incentive Shares the shareholders at the AGM each year.
as an alternative to converting them into Ordinary Shares and Pursuant to sections 693 and 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the award holders may not request early conversion in 2010 and a special resolution passed at the AGM in 2010, the and or 2011.
Company is authorised to purchase its own shares, limited to Participants are entitled to either a cash dividend, or a number an aggregate maximum number of 49,758,677 Ordinary Shares.
of Ordinary Shares in the Company based on an increase The Company has not purchased any Ordinary Shares pursuant in shareholder value between the period of July 2007 and to this authority.
The resolutions being proposed at this years May 2012.
AGM include a resolution to renew this authority.
The 2009 Incentive Shares do not confer a right to be paid Directors interests and remuneration an interim or final dividend or to vote at a general meeting.
Information on Directors beneficial interests, including those On winding up, the holders are entitled to participate in the of connected persons within the meaning of section 252 of the Companys assets equal to an amount to which they would Companies Act 2006, in the shares of the Company is shown have been entitled if their 2009 Incentive Shares had crystallised in the Remuneration report on pages 40 to 43. as at the date of winding up.
Further details of the 2009 Incentive Shares can be found in the Remuneration report No Director had a material interest at any time during the year in on pages 40 and 41. any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Further rights and obligations attaching to shares The following summary is based on the Companys current Directors indemnities Articles, as adopted at the AGM on 13 May 2010.
The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
This indemnity is provided under the Articles and satisfies the indemnity provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report 2010 Melrose PLC 29 Directors report continued Voting Transfer of shares Only Ordinary Shares have voting rights attached.
In a general Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the current his shares in any form which the Board may approve, and the Articles and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting transfer shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
attached to any other class of shares in the Company of which Subject to the Articles and the requirements of any relevant there are currently none : investment exchange, the Board may, in its absolute discretion, refuse to register a transfer of a share which is not a fully paid on a show of hands, every member present shall have one share or on which the Company has a lien.
The Board may also vote: and decline to register a transfer unless the transfer is: i in respect on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy of only one class of shares: ii in favour of not more than four shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
joint transferees or renouncees: iii duly stamped if required : and iv delivered for registration to the registered office, or such The Companys Articles were amended at last years AGM to other place as the Board may decide, accompanied by the take account of Shareholders Rights Regulations in relation to certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other proxy voting.
As such, the Articles now provide that each proxy evidence as the Board may reasonably require to prove the appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands title of the transferor.
unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member, in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if Substantial shareholdings the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote As at 9 March 2011 the Company has been advised of the for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against following substantial interests in the Ordinary Share capital the resolution.
of the Company: No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or Direct Indirect class meeting in respect of any shares held by him, if any call or Shareholder Holding Holding % other sum then payable by him remains unpaid.
Currently, all BlackRock Investment issued shares are fully paid.
Management 53,943,970 10.84 Standard Life Investments 25,677,592 18,609,404 8.90 The Melrose PLC Employee Benefit Trustee holds 25,279 Ameriprise Financial 38,609,973 7.76 Ordinary Shares at a nominal value of 0.2p per share, resulting from the crystallisation of the original incentive scheme in Lloyds Banking Group plc 2,719,814 26,277,830 5.83 August 2007.
The FKI Employee Benefit Trust holds a further Artemis Investment Management 24,866,258 4.99 158,114 Ordinary Shares at a nominal value of 0.2p per share, Legal & General Group Plc 19,835,016 3.99 arising from the Melrose acquisition of FKI plc.
The Remuneration Ignis Investment Services Limited 19,793,953 3.98 Committee may direct how the voting rights of those shares Newton Investment are exercised.
Management Limited 15,078,604 3.03 Deadlines for voting rights Corporate Governance Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in The Corporate Governance report is included as a separate respect of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be report on pages 36 to 39. held on 12 May 2011 are set out in the Notice of AGM, on pages 97 to 99.
Risks and uncertainties The Group operates a variety of risk management processes Dividends and distributions designed to take into account the identification, management Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the and mitigation of business risk, where both short term and long Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be term considerations are monitored.
paid to the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount Due to the fact that Melrose operates within such a wide range recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim of specialised engineering markets, across a range of customers, dividends and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the suppliers, labour markets and economic conditions, the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, Directors believe that many of the business risks are diversified.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid The fact that a large proportion of the Groups business units pro rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
operate within different parts of the world reduces the impact The Board may deduct from a dividend or other amounts of local economic conditions that may be experienced.
payable to a person in respect of their shares amounts due from The Directors have identified a variety of financial risks that may him to the Company on account of a call or otherwise in relation affect the Group from time to time: these include liquidity risk, to such shares.
finance cost risk, exchange rate risk and commodity costs.
Liquidation The financial risk management objectives and policies in relation Under the current Articles, if the Company is in liquidation, the to the use of financial instruments are described in the Finance liquidator may, on obtaining any sanction required by law: Directors review on pages 19 to 25. divide amongst the members in kind the whole or any part of Other risks that have been identified within the Group relate to the assets of the Company: or the financial viability of key customers, product and employers liability claims, management of health and safety, environmental vest the whole or any part of the assets in trust for the benefit matters and intellectual property risks.
Further information in of members as the liquidator shall determine.
relation to these risks is provided within some of the remaining sections of the Directors report.
Additionally, any key commercial and economic risks are covered in each of the Business reviews on pages 8 to 18.
30 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Various procedures are in place within the Group to provide Payments to suppliers internal control and risk management and these are explained Melrose has decided not to utilise standard protocols in respect in more detail within the Corporate Governance report on of payments to suppliers, given the international nature of the pages 36 to 39.
It is the responsibility of each business unit to agree the exact terms and conditions of transactions with Key customers their suppliers and these arrangements are adhered to, The Company seeks to limit the risk of business failure within its provided that suppliers meet their contractual commitments.
key customer base through an ongoing review process, which The Company, as a holding company, did not have any material has particular regard for the financial strength of such key amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 December 2010. business customers.
However, the Company considers that the loss of any one key customer would not have a material effect Intellectual property Each business unit is responsible for the protection and on the Groups results, even though it is acknowledged that such a loss could be material to an individual business unit.
enforcement of its intellectual property IP rights through the use of external agents and it is therefore managed on a Significant agreements and change of control decentralised basis.
However, the Directors recognise the With the exception of the Groups banking facilities, the 2009 importance of IP within the Group and seek to protect and Incentive Share Scheme and the divisional long term incentive enforce such rights where necessary.
Internal IP audits are schemes, there are no other agreements that take effect, alter conducted by the Group on a periodic basis within each of or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following the business units.
a takeover bid, that are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole Employment policies on 9 March 2011.
Due to the diverse nature of the Group, business units are required to manage their employment matters on a Upon the acquisition of FKI plc, the Group arranged a decentralised basis and therefore responsibility for the adoption syndicated 750 million facility, comprising a term loan and of employment policies and practices sits at a local business revolving credit facility maturing in April 2013.
In the event of a unit level.
This position ensures that policies and procedures change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, the meet both site and local regulatory requirements, taking into Company and lenders under this facility are obliged to enter into account the size and nature of the businesses.
negotiations to determine whether and, if so, how to continue with the facility.
There is no obligation for the lenders to continue Each business unit is responsible for setting and measuring its to make the facility available for more than 30 days beyond any own key performance indicators KPIs and as such these vary change of control.
Failure to reach agreement with parties on throughout the Group.
However, such measurements will revised terms could require an acquirer to put in place generally include absenteeism, punctuality, headcount and replacement facilities.
Any concerns or adverse trends are responded to in a timely manner.
In the event of a takeover of the Company, the 2009 Incentive Shares convert into Ordinary Shares or an entitlement to a The Group recognises its responsibilities for the fair treatment dividend paid in cash, the conversion being based upon the of all its employees in accordance with legislation applicable to offer price of the Companys Ordinary Shares as calculated on the territories within which it operates.
Having regard to their the date of the change of control of the Company.
If part or the skills and abilities, the Group gives full and fair consideration to entire offer price is not in cash, the Remuneration Committee applications for employment received from disabled persons.
will determine the value of the non-cash element, having been Further, and so far as particular disabilities permit, the Group advised by an investment bank of repute that such valuation is will give employees disabled during their period of employment fair and reasonable.
continued employment in the same job or, if this is not practicable, a suitable alternative job.
Equal opportunities for Product and employers liability claims appropriate training, career development and promotion are The Group seeks to assess its ongoing risks in relation to available to all employees regardless of any physical disability, potential future liabilities arising from insurance claims via gender, religion, race, nationality, sexual orientation or age.
the use of external actuarial projections to measure material exposures.
An analysis of historic claims experience is used to Employee involvement, consultation and development analyse risks in relation to less significant exposures.
Actuarial The Directors attach great importance to good labour relations, projections and claims history experience are regularly analysed employee involvement and employee development.
The nature by management and key issues, trends and statistics are also of the Groups activities places the responsibility for employment discussed at Board level.
practices with local management, in a manner appropriate to each business.
Risks within the Group relate to potential future liabilities arising fromproduct, disease including asbestos, employers liability and A culture of clear communication and employee consultation workers compensation claims.
Provisions in relation to such risks is inherent in the Groups businesses.
Employee briefing are recognised in the Groups Balance Sheet, where appropriate.
sessions are held on a regular basis to communicate strategy, Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements provides further key changes, financial results, achievements and other information with regard to contingent product liabilities.
Regular appraisals, employee surveys, notice boards, intranet sites, team meetings, A number of businesses have ISO 9001 and ISO 16949 suggestion boxes and newsletters are also used to certifications for their quality management systems, which also communicate with employees.
helps to ensure their products and processes are of a recognised quality, reducing the risk of product claims.
Some business units are also certified to international health and safety standards via ISO 18001, which helps to further ensure that risks in relation to employers liability claims are kept to a minimum.
Annual Report 2010 Melrose PLC 31 Directors report continued Employee engagement at Brush Turbogenerators Pensions Loughborough site was a key priority in 2010 and they joined Companies within the Group operate various pension schemes the Innovate Workplaces scheme initiated by Unite the largest around the world.
The following defined benefit schemes are union in the UK.
Brush and other participating companies are material to the Group: committed to creating site committees and to actively As at 31 December 2010 addressing employee issues to assist in developing Number Assets Liabilities of organisational performance and communication.
Following the Name of Plan Status m m members development of a focus group and a subsequent employee FKI UK Closed to new members 549.2 627.8 10,753 survey it was decided to introduce a quarterly employee Pension in October 2001.
2009: 2009: 2009: magazine, Falcon News, in March 2010, designed to encourage Plan Closed to the accrual 508.7 618.8 10,953 networking between different parts of the business and to keep of future benefits on all employees updated on a variety of company issues.
Extensive training is available to all staff and is actively FKI US Closed to new members 193.3 213.1 8,123 encouraged to ensure a high standard of skill is maintained Pension in April 2003.
Cross-training programmes are also in place Plan future accrual in 2009.
The importance of training extends beyond on-the-job training and also focuses on enhancing personal McKechnie Closed to new members 143.8 141.9 3,311 development.
Apprenticeship programmes are in place at the UK Pension in 2003.
Closed for future 2009: 2009: 2009: majority of sites, which help to assist with succession planning Plan accrual in 2005.
128.1 140.2 3,362 in locations where there is an ageing workforce.
Employees are encouraged to think in an innovative manner across the Group.
The FKI UK Pension Plan FKI UK Plan is a UK defined benefit pension plan with FKI Limited as its principal employer.
Within the business unit of Harris, the New Product The primary liability for funding rests with the participating Development Group was formed last year, an in-house initiative employers, which currently pay 18.5 million annually into the designed to encourage employees to deliver new products to FKI UK Plan.
This is expected to remove the funding deficit by market, thus enhancing teamwork and transfer of knowledge 31 December 2022, when the contribution levels were last within the workforce.
It resulted in four new products being formally assessed as at 31 December 2008.
The FKI UK Plan launched in 2010, which were substantially more efficient in closed to future accrual on 28 February 2011 and this is terms of energy use than prior production models and thus expected to lead to the funding deficit being removed earlier also provided environmental benefits.
than would otherwise have been the case.
A training academy has recently been introduced at the The FKI US Pension Plan is a defined benefit pension plan Brush Turbogenerators site in Loughborough, to ensure that covering several of FKIs US business units.
The primary liability classroom style facilities are made available to enhance the for funding the FKI US Pension Plan rests with the participating skills of existing employees and to ensure that future apprentices employers.
The Company and Trustees have reviewed the can benefit from a structured learning environment.
These new funding requirements of the FKI US Pension Plan, based on its training facilities are also being used to carry out employee 1 January 2009 actuarial valuation and no pension contributions training courses in relation to the growing Aftermarket customer are required, as it is expected that the deficit will be eliminated service team, in order to further improve customer focus.
over time via excess asset returns.
Unlike the UK pension plans, Elsewhere within Brush Turbogenerators, the plant in the Czech deferred member liabilities do not increase by inflation each year.
Republic has plans to implement a variety of training initiatives during the year, to include opportunities for selected managers The McKechnie UK Pension Plan McKechnie UK Plan is a UK to study Open University courses, as well as training in relation defined benefit pension plan with McKechnie Limited as its to work related knowledge, leadership and project management.
The primary liability for funding rests with the participating employers.
The Company and Trustees reviewed Various other business units have training and employee the funding of the McKechnie UK Plan as part of the actuarial development initiatives planned for 2011.
At Bridon, a new valuation as at 31 December 2008 and it was agreed that the Bridon Leader management development programme is participating employers would contribute 4.6 million annually underway, designed to enhance leadership skills within the into the McKechnie UK Plan.
The Company has guaranteed the business.
Other employee initiatives taking place within some funding of the McKechnie UK Plan on an ongoing basis.
of the business units include executive team development programmes, the roll out of local level employee communication Health and safety surveys, cultural and behavioural change programmes and The Directors regard health and safety and the efficient a variety of succession planning initiatives.
management of such risks as a key priority within the Group.
They regularly review health and safety performance statistics A significant number of employees are members of unions within each of the business units.
The Group has a policy to and some businesses operate works councils, both of which ensure that the Directors are made aware of any serious health are used for consultation and dissemination of information and safety incidents, wherever they occur in the world, as soon as appropriate.
as possible, to ensure that suitable investigations and corrective The Directors have monthly meetings with divisional senior action can be taken without delay.
Health and safety is also management and visit the sites on an ad-hoc basis to covered at every quarterly Board meeting of the Group.
communicate with the wider Group.
Financial results for the Each business unit is responsible for setting its own health and half year and full year are discussed with the Groups senior safety policies and procedures in accordance with local health management team and Group developments are and safety legislation.
Most businesses strive to achieve best communicated to the businesses as appropriate.
Employee practice, in terms of what is suitable and practical for the size involvement in and commitment to the Groups profitability is and nature of their operations.
Several of the Groups business encouraged through appropriate bonus schemes.
32 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information units already hold ISO 18001 certification, the internationally The environment recognised assessment standard for occupational health and The Directors fully understand the importance of the Groups safety management systems.
Both Brush Turbogenerators environmental responsibilities and are committed to ensuring Loughborough site and Harris US achieved this status during that its operations have a minimum adverse effect on the year following rigorous health and safety audits.
Many of the Groups business units are Turbogenerators, this process also led to a variety of health and developing environmental policies and procedures in line with safety training courses being organised at director and team best practice guidelines, via ongoing improvements to local unit manager level, together with the introduction of additional processes to reduce the impact of their activities.
A number of refresher courses for activities such as manual handling and the business units have achieved, or are currently in the process fork lift truck usage.
At Bridon, they have a medium term of achieving, the high standards required to obtain ISO 14001 strategy to achieve ISO 18001 international health and safety Environmental Management Systems certification.
In addition, standards for all their sites.
the UK subsidiaries comply with the UK Packaging Waste Regulations and REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation At Truths factory in Minnesota, USA, investment was made to and Restriction of Chemicals, as appropriate.
replace the salt paint stripping system towards the end of 2009.
The new system became operational during the early part of Although there are no standardised environmental KPIs 2010 and resulted in considerable improvements to on-site currently used within the Group, each of the business units fully health and safety.
The original equipment required regular understand the importance of monitoring the impact of their cleaning to remove sludge from the tank.
The new system operations on the environment.
A range of KPIs are used as has minimal cleaning requirements and therefore substantially environmental measures, including energy consumption, carbon reduces the health and safety risks associated with this type dioxide CO emissions, water consumption, water contamination, 2 of work.
waste disposal, solid and liquid waste generation, recycling and volatile organic compound emissions.
Environmental Divisional managers within each business unit have performance is measured via the use of KPIs in order that each responsibilities to ensure that health and safety remains a key of the business units can plan for year-on-year improvements.
focus and to ensure that active procedures and monitoring systems are in place to provide substance to written policies.
A variety of business units have made substantial capital Detailed health and safety plans are set by most businesses each investments during the year with regard to environmental year to determine annual targets and improvement initiatives.
initiatives to reduce energy consumption, water usage and waste.
At Bridons Doncaster site, steps have been taken to All business units have an established Health and Safety substantially reduce the use of hydrochloric acid as a pickling Committee H&S Committee structure in place: such agent by the end of 2012.
This in turn will reduce the amount committees meet on a regular basis and are made up of of waste created by the cleaning process, as well as preserving representatives from both management and shop floor level local water supplies.
In conjunction with this strategy, Bridon are personnel.
Each of the H&S Committees have wide ranging also investing in a new triple rinse system to conserve water responsibilities which vary from business unit to business unit used to rinse product and recover acid.
Other environmental and include the review of reported incidents and the monitoring initiatives at Bridon include the utilisation of variable speed of incident trends.
These H&S Committees are also responsible drives on pumps within the effluent plant, which had previously for ensuring that corrective measures are implemented when operated on a constant full power setting, thus substantially accidents occur and that all incidents, whether or not they are reducing the amount of electricity required to operate such deemed reportable under local legislation, are given due attention.
machinery: this initiative will be further developed during 2011, via the introduction of variable speed drives on pumps used One of the key responsibilities for these H&S Committees is to carry out regular tours of the premises in which they work, in within Bridons bore hole extraction process.
order to ensure compliance with local policies and procedures.
At Truth, investment was made last year in a project to rebuild These tours also identify potential hazards for which counter waste water treatment facilities to more efficiently control the measures can be identified to prevent accidents from treatment of waste water and reduce consumption levels.
Each H&S Committee recommendation is followed Truth also recruited an environmental engineer to further up at the next committee meeting to ensure that issues are build on the best in class environmental reputation it has resolved.
Additionally, operations are audited by the H&S established over the past few years.
Committees at least annually and reports of performance and recommended improvements are prepared and circulated to the Within the Brush Turbogenerators factory at Loughborough, divisional senior management teams.
Divisional managers are efforts have been made during the last couple of years to provided with detailed health and safety reports on a frequent reduce the amount of volatile organic compounds solvent basis to ensure that such matters are given high visibility and emissions being expelled from the various paint processes.
that improvements are authorised and implemented quickly.
The most significant benefits of this initiative have been achieved through the increased use of water based paints and lower Although there are no standardised health and safety KPIs solvent content products.
currently used across the Group, the business units have established KPI measures suitable for use within their Each of the business units have made their employees aware individual businesses.
As a minimum requirement, these KPI of the role they play in ensuring the environmental impact of the measurements include monitoring the number of incidents company is kept to a minimum and in safeguarding the future and lost time injuries.
Going forward, the Company is working of the environment.
For example, the Brush Turbogenerators with each of its business units to develop Group wide health plant in the Czech Republic joined the Green Company and safety KPIs, in order to gain consistency in terms of project a couple of years ago.
This is an initiative designed to measurement and analysis.
Once KPI measurements have develop the principles of the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic been agreed each business unit will be given annual reduction Equipment Directive to set collection, recycling and recovery targets to achieve.
targets for all types of electrical equipment.
Activities under this scheme were extended last year to include the recycling of Annual Report 2010 Melrose PLC 33 Directors report continued fluorescent light tubes and to encourage employees to correctly development that occurred in 2010, the associated costs were dispose of old electrical appliances and batteries.
expensed during the year rather than being capitalised, in line with the Groups accounting policies on page 54.
The Group Besides the various high profile environmental investments will continue to invest in research and development that has commissioned during the year, a variety of small scale local a suitable return.
At Bridons factory in Doncaster, the introduction of movement detectors to control the use of Corporate social responsibility lighting in unused areas of the factory has resulted in electricity The Group recognises that its operations potentially impact a savings each month: this initiative is due to be rolled out in wide variety of stakeholders in terms of social, environmental other areas of the factory shortly.
An analysis at the Brush and ethical matters, including employees, customers, suppliers Turbogenerators site in Holland is underway to identify locations and local communities.
of high gas and energy consumption within the plant in order to Many of the Groups business units have social and set reduction targets.
ethical policies, with responsibility for communication and Looking forward into 2011, various environmental improvement implementation resting with relevant senior managers.
initiatives are planned, some of which build on the initiatives Such policies apply and extend to local law and standards introduced in 2010.
At Bridons factory in Doncaster, a feasibility and as a minimum include equal opportunities and antistudy was carried out in partnership with the Carbon Trust last discrimination policies.
year to consider what opportunities may exist in relation to the Applications for employment by disabled persons are always reduction of electricity usage via the process of heat recovery.
fully considered by the Group, taking into account job specific This involves channelling energy created via the various furnaces requirements and applicant aptitude.
It is the policy of the Group and galvanising systems into steam, which in turn can be used that in recruitment, training, career development and promotion for processing heat, thus reducing the need for gas to power the treatment of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be the factorys boiler systems: the research process will continue identical to that of other employees.
The Group regards employee training and advancement as an In April 2010, the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy essential element of industrial relations.
Disputes and days lost Efficiency Scheme CRC, a new mandatory climate change through strike action are negligible.
and energy saving scheme, was introduced in the UK.
CRC is part of the UKs strategy for improving energy efficiency and The majority of the businesses provided community support reducing CO emissions, as set out in the Climate Change Act 2 during the year with efforts ranging from charitable donations to 2008, and requires UK companies to purchase carbon voluntary assistance and fund raising.
Support is given to local allowances based on their energy usage.
The Group believes schools by offering traineeships and work experience to students.
that the introduction of the CRC scheme will further complement The Company will continue to invest in its businesses during its each of the UK business units in striving to reduce their carbon footprint and assist in the measurement and ongoing reduction ownership, enhancing their reputation within the markets and of energy usage.
The Company has been proactive in preparing communities in which they operate.
for both the schemes implementation and ongoing compliance.
Charitable and political donations As part of this process external consultants have been appointed The Group paid 21,550 2009: 8,757 to UK charities during to act as the Groups CRC advisors.
the year, principally to local charities serving the communities A Group registration in the CRC was successfully obtained in in which the Group operates.
There were no political donations 2010, for those businesses identified as qualifying and requiring made during the year 2009: nil.
Several business units were exempt from registration because they already had Climate Change Agreements in place.
Auditor Under the Companies Audit, Investigation and Community Environmental liabilities Enterprise Act 2004, auditors have the right to access all The Directors seek to ensure that all environmental risks information necessary for the performance of their duties as are closely managed by external environmental specialists auditor and the duties of Directors in this regard are clarified.
in conjunction with internal management.
The environmental So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit laws of certain jurisdictions impose obligations to remediate contaminated sites in relation to sites both currently and information of which the auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps which they ought to have taken as previously owned by the Group.
Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit The Company Secretary is made aware of all major environmental information and to establish that the Companys auditor is liabilities that may occur within any of the business units: the aware of that information.
Board are also regularly updated on such matters.
All costs incurred by the Group with regard to environmental liabilities are This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies monitored, with provisions being made as appropriate.
Research and development Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in Continuous investment is made within the Group in relation to office as auditor.
Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed at the research and development of new designs, products and the AGM of the Company to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor processes.
This helps to ensure that each business unit of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine remains at the forefront of technological advances and is able their remuneration.
to meet the ever-changing demands of its customers.
Details of some of the new products currently being introduced to Going concern the market are included within the Chief Executives review The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely on pages 6 to 18.
Due to the nature of the research and to affect its future development, performance and position are 34 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information set out in the Business reviews on pages 8 to 18.
The financial the Directors consider appropriate to deal with fractions position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and and overseas requirements, and otherwise up to a maximum borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Directors nominal value of 49,758, representing approximately review on pages 19 to 25.
In addition, notes 19 and 24 to the 5 per cent of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital consolidated financial statements include the Groups policies as at 9 March 2011, which is in accordance with the relevant and processes for managing its capital, exposures to liquidity guidelines for the Company.
risk and financial risk management objectives, as well as If approved, the Section 551 authority and the Section 570 details of its financial instruments and hedging.
Credit risk authority will expire at the conclusion of next years AGM or, if exposure is discussed in notes 16 and 24 to the consolidated earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2012.
have no present intention of exercising the Section 551 authority The Group prepares regular business forecasts and monitors or the Section 570 authority.
projected facility headroom and compliance with its banking Resolution 10 will seek to renew the authority conferred on the covenants, which are reviewed by the Board.
Forecasts are then Company to purchase its own shares pursuant to sections 693 adjusted for sensitivities which address the principal risks to and 701 of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority is limited to which the Group is exposed, such as fluctuations in exchange an aggregate maximum number of 49,758,677 Ordinary Shares, rates between Sterling and both the US Dollar and the Euro and representing approximately 10 per cent of the Companys best estimates of the possible impact of the macroeconomic issued Ordinary Share capital as at 9 March 2011.
This power environment on the Groups underlying trading results.
will expire at the conclusion of next years AGM or, if earlier, at Consideration is then given to the potential actions available the close of business on 30 June 2012.
The maximum price to management to mitigate the impact of one or more of which may be paid for an Ordinary Share will be an amount the sensitivities.
which is not more than 5 per cent above the average of the Taking all this into consideration, the Group should be able middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from to operate within the level of its current facility and remain the London Stock Exchange plcs Daily Official List for the five covenant compliant for the foreseeable future, being a period business days immediately preceding the day on which the of at least twelve months from the date of approval of these Ordinary Share is purchased.
The Directors have no present financial statements.
intention of exercising all or any of the powers conferred by this resolution and will only exercise their authority if it is in the After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable interests of shareholders generally.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Resolution 11 will seek shareholder approval to allow the future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern Company to continue to call general meetings other than basis in preparing the Annual Report and financial statements.
AGMs on 14 clear days notice.
Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Companies Shareholders Rights Annual General Meeting AGM Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations have The AGM of the Company will be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, increased the notice period required for general meetings of the Monkwell Square, Wood Street, London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.00am Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter on 12 May 2011. notice period subject to a minimum period of 14 clear days.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Resolutions dealing with the following special business will be proposed at the AGM: The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Resolution 8 will seek shareholder approval to renew the Note that the changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean that, in Directors authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear for or convert any securities into shares pursuant to section 551 days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic of the Companies Act 2006 the Section 551 authority.
voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
The authority contained in paragraph A of the resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal amount of 331,724, Recommendations representing approximately one third of the Companys issued The Board believes that each of the resolutions to be Ordinary Share capital as at 9 March 2011. proposed at the AGM is in the best interests of the Company In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors unanimously recommend that members vote in favour of all paragraph B of this resolution would give the Directors authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any of the resolutions proposed, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
securities into shares in connection with a rights issue up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 663,449, representing Disclosures in the Directors report approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued Ordinary Share The Corporate Governance report, Business reviews and capital as at 9 March 2011, as reduced by the nominal amount Finance Directors review form part of the Directors report.
of any shares issued under paragraph A of this resolution.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: The Company does not hold any treasury shares.
Resolution 9 will seek to renew the authority conferred on the Board to allot equity securities of the Company or sell any shares which the Company may elect to hold in treasury for cash pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the Section 570 authority without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Garry Barnes Secretary The authority is limited to allotments or sales in connection 9 March 2011 with pre-emptive offers, subject to any arrangements that Annual Report 2010 Melrose PLC 35
