BUSINESS REVIEW FOREIGN EXCHANGE The Group now operates in 32 countries around the world and carries out transactions that are recorded in twenty-two local currencies.
The Group reports its Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement results in Pounds Sterling, using the average exchange rate for each month to translate the local currency amounts into Sterling.
The Balance Sheet is translated using the exchange rates at the Balance Sheet date.
As a service company, most of the Groups transactions are within the territory in which the local business operates and consequently there are few cross-border transactions between Group companies.
However, royalties are charged for the use of the Groups trademarks and management fees are charged for Group and regional functions that provide services to other Group subsidiary companies.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in accordance with IFRS on the settlement of these transactions where the cash received, when converted into Sterling, differs from the amounts previously recorded in the Income Statement.
These exchange gains and losses are included within operating pro t. The table below shows the relative movements of the Groups main trading currencies against Pounds Sterling during 2010, when compared to those prevalent during 2009.
Negative percentages indicate that Sterling has weakened against the foreign currency during the period.
With the exception of the Euro, Sterling has weakened against these main trading currencies.
Movement in the average exchange Movement in the year end exchange rate used for Income Statement rate used for Balance Sheet translation translation between 2009 and 2010 between 2009 and 2010 Currency Euro 4% 4% Swiss Franc -5% -13% Brazilian Real -13% -8% US Dollar -1% -3% Australian Dollar -15% -15% Hong Kong Dollar -1% -3% Singapore Dollar -7% -12% Japanese Yen -7% -16% TREASURY MANAGEMENT AND CURRENCY RISK It is the Directors intention to continue to finance the activities and development of the Group from retained earnings and to operate the Groups business while maintaining a strong balance sheet position.
In a generally benign economic environment, this equates to maintaining the Groups net cash debt position within a relatively narrow band, with cash generated in excess of these requirements being used to buy back the Groups shares.
In a period of economic uncertainty, a more cautious funding position is adopted, with the Group being managed in a net cash position.
Cash surpluses are invested in short-term deposits, with any working capital requirements being provided from Group cash resources, Group facilities, or by local overdraft facilities.
The Group has a multi-currency notional cash pool between the Euro zone subsidiaries and the UK-based Group Treasury subsidiary.
The structure facilitates interest and balance compensation of cash and bank overdrafts.
It is the intention to extend the scope of the participation to other Group companies.
The main functional currencies of the Group are Sterling, Euro and Australian Dollar.
The Group does not have material transactional currency exposures, nor is there a material exposure to foreign denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency translation differences in accounting for its overseas operations.
Our policy is not to hedge this exposure.
In certain cases, where the Group gives or receives short-term loans to and from other Group companies with different reporting currencies, it may use foreign exchange swap derivative financial instruments to manage the currency and interest rate exposure that arises on these loans.
It is the Groups policy not to seek to designate these derivatives as hedges.
