DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Principal activity Group, together with the Financial Statements and Auditors The Group is one of the worlds leading specialist recruitment Report for the year ended 31 December 2010. consultancies.
The Groups trading results are set out in the financial statements on pages 58 to 88. Business Review The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a business review in their report.
The information that ful ls the requirements of the business review can be found on pages 12 to 31 which are incorporated in this report by reference.
34 Michael Page International DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT The bene cial interests of Directors in of ce at 31 December CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2010 in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2010 and The Company and the Group are committed to high standards at 4 March 2011 are set out in the Remuneration Report on of corporate governance, details of which are provided in pages 48 to 55. the Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 to 47 and All of the Executive Directors are deemed to have an interest in Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 55. the ordinary shares held in the Employee Bene t Trust.
The Company has maintained throughout the year directors SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS and of cers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
The directors also have the bene t of the indemnity There are certain agreements to which the Company is party provision contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity the Company following a takeover bid.
provisions as fide ned by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, Details of the signi cant agreements of this kind are as follows: were in force throughout the year and are currently in force.
a 50m revolving credit facility that terminates on a change of control, with outstanding amounts becoming payable RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS with interest: and The pro t for the year after taxation amounted to 67.5m 2009: provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may 12.4m.
cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
A final dividend for 2009 of 5.12 pence per ordinary share was paid on 7 June 2010.
An interim dividend for 2010 of 2.88 pence per ordinary share was paid on 8 October 2010.
The Directors DIRECTORS AND INTERESTS recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 6.12 pence per ordinary share on 6 June The following were Directors during the year and held of ce 2011 to shareholders on the register on 6 May 2011 which, throughout the year other than as shown below.
if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will result in a Sir Adrian Montague CBE Chairman total dividend for the year of 9.0 pence per ordinary share Steve Ingham Chief Executive 2009: 8.0 pence.
Charles-Henri Dumon Ruby McGregor-Smith Dr Tim Miller CREDITOR DAYS Stephen Puckett The Company acts as a holding Company for the Group.
Creditor Hubert Reid days for the Company were nil 2009: nil as the Company does Reg Sindall appointed 14 December 2010 not undertake any transactions with suppliers.
The Groups Non-Executive Directors creditor days at the year end were 39 2009: 29 days.
Senior Independent Director On 14 December 2010, Reg Sindall was appointed to the Board SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Reg is Executive Vice President, Corporate Resources, at Burberry Group PLC, the As at 4 March 2011, the Company had been noti ed in accordance international fashion and retail group.
Reg has held this position with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the for three years.
Prior to this he was an Executive of GUS Plc, following voting rights by shareholders of the Company as shown a FTSE 30 company which owned Burberry for fty years.
part of the team which led the IPO of Burberry in 2002.
Before that, his career encompassed Human Resources and Customer Number of % of issued Service positions at Bass, Grand Metropolitan and Whitbread.
His Holder ordinary shares share capital experience at Burberry, a high-performing, people business with Capital International Limited 31,307,869 9.73% a broad international reach, has much in common with Michael Sleep, Zakaria & Co 17,021,321 5.29% Page, and he will be a most valuable addition to the Board.
Fidelity 15,886,847 4.94% In accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Lloyds Banking Group 15,351,191 4.77% Code, all the Directors will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for Standard Life Investments 13,357,067 4.15% re-election.
As Reg Sindall was appointed during the year, he will Legal & General 12,367,334 3.85% offer himself for election.
Biographical details for all the current Directors are shown on pages 32 and 33.
Michael Page International 35 SHARE CAPITAL CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are We are members of the below organisations with the pure shown in Note 18 to the financial statements.
intention to work with and advise our clients and candidates on diversity.
Our senior staff are actively involved with these At the Annual General Meeting held on 21 May 2010, the bodies through work-streams and joint initiatives, ensuring we Company renewed its authority to make market purchases of are constantly learning from their experience and indeed using its own ordinary shares up to an increased maximum of 10% of our own resources to share best practice and ideas.
Race for Opportunity an organisation committed to improving During the year, the Company purchased 3.7m shares which employment opportunities for ethnic minorities across the UK.
A further 15m shares were also purchased by the Opportunity Now a membership organisation for employers employee bene t trust and held to fund share scheme awards.
who are committed to creating an inclusive workplace for The total nominal value of all shares repurchased was 0.2m and women.
represented 5.8% of the issued share capital.
The shares were purchased for a consideration of 76.8m including expenses.
Employers Forum for Disability the worlds leading employers 1.9m shares were also issued to satisfy share options exercised organisation focused on disability as it affects business.
Employers Forum on Age an independent network of leading employers, who recognise the need to attract and retain valuable employees, whatever their age.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CR 2010 saw Michael Page International continue to engage, OUR PEOPLE encourage and equip our people to make a positive impact on the customers and communities we work with.
Its all part Employee engagement of our commitment to causes and practices that we rmly believe in, spanning diversity, training, charity, community and With our business poised for international growth, our vision environment.
Our approach to CR touches all those we engage of Maximising Potential exists for employees to articulate with: shareholders, clients, investors, employees and members opportunity, development and the ambition of each individual.
Good CR is rewarding, as it doesnt At the heart of our company is the camaraderie of team work, just make us feel good about ourselves, it makes good business so much so that it is also one of our company values.
a very sociable company with regular team activities in and out of the of ce including quarterly events and high pro le exclusive trips for our High Flyers, the latter a reward for those who have DIVERSITY performed exceptionally well.
Building on the positive steps we took in 2009, our diversity Hiring the best strategy describes our approach to monitoring our own staff and candidate population, creating a diverse and inclusive Sourcing and retaining the highest calibre employees from a wide workforce ourselves, and assisting clients in ful lling their own range of backgrounds is key to our success.
diversity agenda by introducing candidates from the widest The service we provide to all our customers is only as good as the possible talent pool.
people who represent our brand.
Our strategy, to grow organically We know it: our diversity proposition forms part of our longby promoting from within, presents enormous opportunities to term global plans for growth.
It is an integral part of our desire to employees who range from graduates to people changing careers consistently offer quality services to our stakeholders.
often from the disciplines we recruit for.
Its also extremely important to us to recognise that when we recruit, we are hiring our managers, We embrace it: our activities involve every single person working directors and indeed managing directors of the future.
within the Michael Page world.
It is part of our everyday life, in every of ce, every country and in everything we do.
Learning and Development - our future We encourage it: we not only practice what we preach, but One of the strengths of our organically grown company is that continually encourage our staff to offer ideas on how we could our approach to the development of employees has mirrored our operate more responsibly or implement our current policies more expansion and thus become something we pride ourselves on.
We have a dedicated Learning & Development team networked Our Diversity Steering Committee meets quarterly to review and across our international operations: comprising specialists with discuss new developments to engender an increasingly diverse a total of over 100 years combined experience, many of whom workforce both for us and our clients.
These meetings are chaired started initially in operational roles.
The team work alongside by our dedicated Head of Talent and attended by regional managing directors and managing directors who also act as trainers in all directors and our Director of Legal and Human Resources.
36 Michael Page International DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT OUR CORE VALUES Our five values are key to our success.
They are the roots of Michael Page and the foundation of our methods, approach to business and motivating our staff.
More than mere words, we believe our values are the essence of our brand and instrumental to the way we work and operate, day in, day out.
Be passionate Without passion, how could we be so successful?
Its a key value that we see Take pride every day in our of ces: from senior This means taking pride in everything managers to new recruits.
Its the ingredient we do, who we are and what we stand that ensures the very best service for our for.
We want every person who works clients and candidates.
Ultimately, its for us to be proud, not just of their raw passion that has made us the strong, personal achievements, but of those dynamic company we are today.
Make it fun Never give up Work as a team Of course were serious A value few possess, but is essential Teamwork is essential in any about business, but we in business, particularly ours.
It means company and ours in no recognise that having fun never allowing yourself to be knocked exception.
We embrace it is an important factor within back by disappointment, refusing to wholeheartedly and every any of ce environment.
give up and showing real resilience.
employee is committed to We encourage it and have When the going gets tough, the working as part of a team.
learnt that the happier tough get going, is an apt phrase for Teamwork makes us stronger, our people are, the more Michael Page.
more ef cient and the successful well be.
success that follows is so much more rewarding.
DIVERSITY AT MICHAEL PAGE Our approach to diversity varies from country to country.
In the UK, we have a dedicated UK Diversity Board.
Consisting of senior directors, the board regularly reviews, initiates and drives our policies forward.
The group takes its responsibilities very seriously and is totally committed to the cause.
Determined to establish Michael Page as the leading authority on diversity within the recruitment industry, they also work closely with our clients advising on how to implement their own diversity policies.
Know it Embrace it Encourage it Our diversity proposition forms Our activities involve every We not only practice what part of our long-term global single person working within the we preach, but continually plans for growth.
It is an integral Michael Page world.
It is part of encourage our staff to offer ideas part of our desire to consistently our everyday life, in every of ce, on how we could operate more offer quality services to our every country and in everything responsibly or implement our stakeholders.
employers forum on disability Michael Page International 37 On behalf of the children of Hong Kong and the world, thank you for the invaluable support Michael Page International has been giving to the St. Baldricks Day Events and its bene ciary, the Childrens Cancer Foundation in Hong Kong.
The handsome donations raised in 2010 are presently funding three Childhood Cancer Research Projects being conducted in Hong Kong.
With your continued participation in the St. Baldricks Day Events, we will conquer kids cancer.
CHAIRMAN, ST. BALDRICKS FOUNDATION Operation Smile - China Medical Mission is grateful for the generous contributions and support that the caring employees at Michael Page International have shown over the years.
This commitment allows us to continue expanding our medical activities throughout China, bringing new smiles to children and families in need, and changing their lives forever.
MANAGING DIRECTOR, OPERATION SMILE CHINA MEDIAL MISSION The Work & Learn scheme, unlike most student jobs, lets me get really involved in an interesting business and its exible enough to t around my study.
It gives me the chance to independently fund myself through university.
Thanks to this scheme, Ive got more than just a degree on my CV: Ive got practical experience and commercial awareness.
Not only is this useful in the short-term, its also a great base on which to build my skills for the future.
VICTORIA WOOLLEY, MICHAEL PAGE WORK & LEARN UK Pink Ribbon Day raises funds and awareness for breast cancer.
Our vital support services and research programs could not be run without the generous support from organisations such as Michael Page.
CORPORATE RELATIONSHIPS MANAGER, CANCER COUNCIL NSW, AUSTRALIA 38 38 Michael Page International DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT Our L&D activities include: by Michael Page International plc or its employees that falls short of these business principles.
The aim of this policy is to ensure Induction training: diversity, customer service, behaviour, that as far as possible, our employees are able to tell us about culture, legal & policy for example any wrongdoing at work which they believe has occurred, or is Business technology skills: preliminary and advanced likely to occur.
Maximising Sales: core skills in three day module sessions Bribery and Anti-Corruption Workshops: Self management, advanced interviewing, presentation skills for example Bribery and corruption is, unfortunately, a feature of corporate Virtual of ce: Advanced skills training and public life in many countries across the world.
Governments, businesses and non-governmental organisations such as Management development for both fee earning and Transparency International are working together to tackle the support staff: Operational management, financial business issue, but despite our collective efforts, eradicating all forms of management, succession planning, coaching and bribery and corruption will take time.
Michael Page International development, motivation, plc therefore has a clear policy and we support our employees One to one coaching and mentoring to make decisions in line with our stated position.
Leadership programme for directors incorporating external Our corporate conduct is based on our commitment to acting 360 degree feedback professionally, fairly and with integrity.
Michael Page International Global director academy: Sharing global knowledge plc has adequate anti-corruption procedures in place and Talent management workshops for global managing maintains a zero-tolerance approach against corruption.
director population Facilitation payments are also not permitted within the Groups operations.
A fact we often use is that over 95% of our directors started as trainees within the company and have been promoted internally.
This is testament to our commitment to individual development CHARITY AND COMMUNITY and organic growth.
The Group made charitable donations of 181k during the year Retaining the most talented people 2009: 190k.
With a solid strategy of organic growth, and using this expertise Giving something back as a platform for growing into new markets, we have a strong commitment to internal promotion and employee empowerment We continue to offer all our employees the opportunity to be which has continually helped us retain our very best people.
At involved in activities with a charity, community or environmental the highest level, we want people who are immersed thoroughly cause.
In some of our regions we call this a More Giving Day.
in our company culture and understand the intricacies of our With the permission from their director, employees are free to business.
Retaining our best people is fundamental to our longtake a working day out of the of ce in order to give something term success and continuity.
Since we launched the scheme, we have committed more than 600 days to a worthy cause.
We have helped at hospices, Keeping in touch decorated schools, cleaned conservation areas, helped the elderly with their gardening, provided man power at large charity Regular state of the nation broadcasts to our staff from functions and even used our people skills to run workshops on our CEO behalf of others.
Its another opportunity for us to show our values More our internal intranet site offers discounts on a wide but also to help the community.
range of brands Monthly newsletters and global updates Helping young people prepare for employment Quarterly team building events For the last five years, we have been proactively involved with High Flyers events premium international trips for high several projects with youth employment schemes.
We partnered performing consultants and managers with The Brokerage, a charity which works with businesses in the City of London and Docklands to provide work placement Whistleblowing opportunities for under-graduates from inner city schools.
We The Company is committed to maintaining the highest ethical have provided internships for a number of these students during standards and the personal and professional integrity of its their summer holidays over the years, which have been a great employees, suppliers, contractors and consultants.
In conjunction with Business In The Community, we have participated in The Princes Seeing is Believing project, Michael Page International plc at all times conducts its business which is a high pro le programme lead by The Prince Of Wales.
with the highest standards of integrity and honesty.
It expects all A recent event involved a number of business leaders visiting a employees to maintain the same standards in everything they do.
local college to interact with students with personal dif culties.
Employees are therefore encouraged to report any wrongdoing Michael Page International 39 Another project saw us advise on life and employability skills for In November a number of our men across Australia and New the homeless.
Zealand sported moustaches in support of Movember, an initiative of the Cancer Council designed to raise funds and We not only work with external associations that help young awareness for mens health.
We also launched our very own Work and Learn scheme in 2010.
Unique not only for our industry, but also for many other 38 Michael Page employees from Spain completed a gruelling FTSE listed businesses, Work and Learn offers university students cycling challenge across Madrid in a bid to raise plenty of money paid work within a Michael Page of ce local to wherever they for Children in Need.
In four hour blocks adapted around their timetable, Spotlight on the UK working for Michael Page will empower them with real commercial exposure and experience in a professional services business.
As well as running a Give As You Earn scheme, matching any charitable donation made by an employee, our UK operations Charity partnerships around the world also has an of cial charity partner.
In 2009, we set out to raise 120,000 for Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity.
We are proud of our commitment to different charities around the world.
Examples include: Employees undertook several activities, either on their own, as a team or even department wide.
Quiz nights, tuck shops, dressIn Hong Kong and Southern China, Michael Page volunteers down days ensured a solid foundation of fundraising, however shaved their heads in aid of St. Baldricks, the worlds largest large company organised events such as running the Yorkshire volunteer-driven fundraising initiative for childhood cancer Three Peaks Challenge for 100 plus staff helped the balance for research.
This is now an annual event in our corporate giving Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity.
end of our two year partnership, we have raised in excess of Employees from Madrid sponsored a runner in Madrids marathon 220,000. who was promoting the Fundacin Caico.
The money collected was given to the Childrens Hospital of Madrid, which battles Seeing our efforts come to life diseases with therapies and music.
Through our efforts for Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Consultants from Asia completed the Great Wall Marathon in Charity, we have fully funded a new adolescent recreation and Beijing in support of Operation Smile, a charity that contributes dining room in the Neurosciences Ward and an isolation bedroom to surgery for children with facial deformities in China.
in the Cardiac Critical Care Unit, with both due for completion in 2012.
Six employees from Central Europe and Benelux took part in the Brussels 20km race Run 4 Joyce raising 2,800 in sponsorship money.
The money will go toward helping Joyce who was born ENVIRONMENT in Congo with a serious heart and lung disease.
With the help Taking responsibility for our environment of Chain of Hope, the money will help fund Joyces treatment in Brussels.
Michael Page is a typical of ce-based business.
As such, our main environmental impacts come from the running of our 109 people from Michael Page in the UK took part in the Yorkshire businesses around the world, generating carbon emissions Three Peaks challenge, taking on three peaks in under 12 hours.
though the consumption of gas and electricity, transport activities Some ran, some walked and some struggled, but 46,000 was and commuting, as well as of ce-based waste such as paper raised for Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity.
In addition, UK employees were fortunate enough to go along As a company, we are acutely aware of our responsibility and work to Silverstone to fundraise for Great Ormond Street Hospital hard to minimise our impact on the environment.
In a number Childrens Charity, the of cial charity of the F1 event.
Michael of areas, we strive to make a difference and act responsibly in Page raised 7,500 through bucket collections.
terms of recycling, conservation and usage.
Our Hong Kong and Southern China teams were again involved in Along with a number of policies on how to use our resources the annual sedan chair race, the main fundraising event for Hong responsibly around the of ces, we also have our own in-house Kongs Matilda International Hospital.
Teams must carry a sedan MoreGreen scheme, which offers staff the opportunity to chair around the peak following one of two different routes.
purchase green products at reduced prices.
In Japan, Michael Page consultants, friends and family annually Reducing our carbon footprint attend the Run for the Cure for Breast Cancer around the Tokyo Imperial Palace.
We are also proud sponsors of the event.
Michael Page International does not cause signi cant pollution, The team also participated in the Financial Industry Tokyo annual however we fully recognise our responsibilities.
The Board is charity fundraising run in 2010, with the main benefactors being committed to improving the way in which our activities affect Tokyo homeless charities.
the environment by: 40 Michael Page International DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT Minimising the extent of the environmental impacts of Corporate Governance Statement Directors : operations within the Companys sphere of in uence: Remuneration Report annual bonus plan : Striving to minimise any emissions of ef uents in our Remuneration Report Directors interests and share properties that may cause environmental damage: ownership requirements : Conserving energy through minimising consumption and Notes to the Accounts Note 18: Called-up share capital : maximising ef ciency: and Promoting ef cient purchasing, which will both minimise Shareholder Information and Advisers Articles of waste and allow materials to be recycled where Association.
appropriate: Each of the above sections is incorporated by reference into, Employing sound waste management practices: and forms part of, this Directors Report.
Putting in place procedures and supporting information that enables compliance with the law, regulation and code of Information to Auditors practice relating to environmental issues: and Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report Monitoring environmental performance and making con rms that: improvements where possible.
1. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and HEALTH & SAFETY 2. the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have We recognise that Health and Safety is an integral part of our taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any workforce.
The day-to-day services we provide do not pose relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys great risk to either our employees or our clients.
However, we auditor is aware of that information.
endeavour to maintain a safe and active environment.
Each of ce This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance is responsible for its own re risk assessment and emergency with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. procedures and has an allocated Facilities and Health and Safety Representative.
AUDITORS The above is only a summary of the many CR activities in which we Deloitte LLP are willing to continue in of ce and accordingly are involved and the impact the Group has on its environment.
resolutions to re-appoint them as auditor and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the Further details of our CR activities and impacts are shown in forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
our main CR report, a copy of which can be downloaded from our website at: http: investors.
co. uk corporate governance ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting Supplier payment policy to be held on 20 May 2011, together with explanatory notes, It is the policy of the Group to agree appropriate terms and appear in the Notice of Meeting set out on pages 98 to 104 and is conditions for transactions with suppliers by means ranging from available on our website at http: investors.
standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts and There are no resolutions that have been classed as special that payment should be made in accordance with those terms business.
and conditions, provided that the supplier has also complied with them.
By order of the Board SHARE CAPITAL, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SHARES AND OTHER Kelvin Stagg ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Company Secretary To the extent not discussed in this Directors Report, information 4 March 2011 relating to the Companys share capital structure, restrictions on the holding or transfer of its shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to such securities required by Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 is set out in the following sections of the Annual Report: Michael Page International 41
