BUSINESS REVIEW tighten, these teams then reduce in size largely through natural GROUP STRATEGY attrition.
Consequently, our cost base will be reduced in a The Groups strategy is to expand and diversify the business by slowdown, but having invested years in training and developing industry sectors, by professional disciplines, by geography and our highly capable management resources, our objective is to by level of focus, be it Page Personnel, Michael Page or Michael retain this expertise within the Group.
By following this course Page Executive Search, with the objective of being the leading of action, we typically gain market share during downturns specialist recruitment consultancy in each of our chosen markets.
and position our businesses for leading rates of growth when As recruitment activity is dependent upon economic cycles, economic conditions improve.
by being more diverse, the dependency on individual businesses Pursuing this approach does mean that in an economic or markets is reduced, making the overall Group more resilient.
downturn our pro tability declines as, in addition to the lower This strategy is pursued entirely through the organic growth of productivity levels that come with a slowdown, we also carry existing and new teams, of ces, disciplines and countries with spare capacity.
However, when market conditions improve, a consistent team and meritocratic culture.
the Groups pro tability recovers quickly as spare capacity is Our organic growth is achieved by drawing upon the skills and utilised.
Adopting this strategy in times of economic slowdown experiences of proven Michael Page management, ensuring we also drives our nancing strategy and balance sheet position.
In have the best and most experienced, home-grown talent in each slowdowns, the business continues to produce strong cash ows, key role.
When we invest in a new business, we do so only with a as working capital requirements reduce.
With uncertainty around long-term objective and in the knowledge that at some point there the length and depth of economic slowdowns, a strong balance will be periods when economic activity slows.
Whilst it is dif cult sheet is essential to support the businesses through tougher to predict accurately when these slowdowns will occur and how periods and, when conditions improve and the businesses start severe they will be, it has been our practice in the past and our growing, to fund increased working capital requirements.
intention in the future to maintain our presence in our chosen markets, while keeping close control over our cost base.
Our team-based structure and pro t share business model is scalable.
The small team size also means that we can increase our headcount rapidly to achieve growth.
When market conditions 29 Countries 114 Of ces 2,389 Fee Earners 19 Countries 64 Of ces 884 Fee Earners To increase the diversi cation of Michael Page International by organically growing existing and new teams, of ces, disciplines and countries with a consistent team and meritocratic culture and consistent client and candidate delivery.
