KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIS Financial and nonfinancial key performance indicators KPIs used by the Board to monitor progress are listed in the table below.
The source of data and calculation methods year-on-year are on a consistent basis.
KPI 2010 2009 fide nition, method of calculation and analysis Gross margin 53.1% 49.1% Gross pro t as a percentage of revenue.
Gross margin increased from last year largely as a result of the higher gross margin permanent placements growing at a faster rate than temporary placements.
Source: Consolidated income statement in the financial statements.
Conversion 16.2% 5.7% Operating pro t as a percentage of gross pro t showing the Groups effectiveness at controlling the costs and expenses associated with its normal business operations and the level of investment for the future.
Conversion increased compared to last year, re ecting the improvement in economic conditions on demand for the Groups services, higher productivity and lower levels of spare capacity in the business.
Productivity 155.3k 124.0k Represents how productive fee earners are in the business and is calculated by gross pro t per fee dividing the gross pro t for the year by the average number of fee earners and earner directors.
The higher the number, the higher their productivity.
Productivity is a function of the rate of investment in new fee earners, the impact of pricing and the general conditions of the recruitment market.
The increase in productivity this year is as a result of the general improvement in market conditions, but would be higher without the investment in an additional 949 headcount.
Fee earner: support 73:27 71:29 Represents the balance between operational and non-operational staff.
The ratio of staff ratio fee earners to support staff at the end of 2010 has increased from the level at the end of 2009.
This ratio improves when the Group grows and headcount increases, but tends to decline when Group headcount reduces as the infrastructure staff to support a higher number of teams, of ces and countries cannot be exed as quickly as fee generating staff.
Debtor days 47 45 Represents the length of time taken for the Group to receive payments from its debtors.
Calculated by comparing how many days billings it takes to cover the debtor balance.
The increase compared to last year relates to the shift towards permanent recruitment activity from temporary in a recovery.
Permanent recruitment activity tends to have higher debtor days.
The movements in KPIs are consistent with the business performance as discussed in the Business Review.
GOING CONCERN The Board has undertaken a recent and thorough review of the Groups budget, forecasts and associated risks and sensitivities and has concluded, given the level of cash in the business, the level of borrowing facilities available, the geographical and discipline diversi cation, limited concentration risk, as well as the ability to manage the cost base, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of these accounts.
As a result, the going concern basis continues to be appropriate in preparing the financial statements.
28 Michael Page International BUSINESS REVIEW
