Management and governance KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs The Company uses several key performance indicators internally to monitor the performance of the business against the achievement of objectives.
A summary of some of the more important KPIs that are used with a brief description on how they are calculated and the results for the year are as follows: Description Metrics Performance Revenue growth 2010 Revenue comprises total revenues including the contribution of acquisitions and is compared 57.5% with the prior year.
2009 20.4% Adjusted EBITDA 2010 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of intangible xed assets, exceptional margin 40.1% items and share based compensation charge.
The adjusted EBITDA margin represents adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue for the year.
2009 43.2% Cash conversion 2010 This ratio is calculated using the cash ows generated from operating activities after exceptional 82.1% costs divided by EBITDA the result indicates that the Group is generating cash from its ongoing business which can be used to reinvest in the development of the business including nancing 2009 acquisitions, fund liabilities and pay dividends to shareholders.
103.7% Adjusted EPS 2010 Adjusted EPS is calculated by taking pro t after tax, prior to exceptional items, amortisation of 57.26c purchased intangibles and share based compensation charge, and tax attributable to these charges divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
2009 This measure indicates the ability of the Company to continue to adopt a progressive 41.51c dividend policy.
Renewal rates on 2010 Customer retention is an important measure as it supports the maintenance revenue streams going maintenance contracts 87.0% forward.
Renewal rates are calculated as the number of maintenance contracts which were renewed in the period divided by the number of contracts which were potentially renewable in the period.
2009 89.5% Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 44 Management and governance STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT, THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records the directors remuneration report and the financial statements that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the the European Union, and the parent company financial statements Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair the Companys website, www.
Legislation in the view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of pro t or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements, the directors are required to: Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the annual report con rm that, to the best of their knowledge: make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in and prudent: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Group: and and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the the directors report includes a fair review of the development Group and parent company financial statements respectively: and and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless that it faces.
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
By order of the board Jane Smithard Company Secretary 11 August 2010 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45
