2010 overview WHAT WE DO WE SAVE GLOBAL ORGANISATIONS MONEY AND IMPROVE THEIR PRODUCTIVITY Four considerations: Cost Quality Risk Agility Four options to refresh The CIO agenda: enterprise applications: 1 1 Reductions in operating costs Replace with package solutions 2 New products delivered faster Rewrite Understanding 3 IT aligned with business goals Do nothing the market Reuse & modernize The bene ts of modernization: Reuse and modernize with Micro Focus to reduce costs quickly AND gain operational bene ts more immediately than alternative package or rewrite options Saving Saving Time Other options Micro Focus modernization Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 02 Cost Transformational improvement Transformational improvement more than 400 migrations to date Micro Focus migrates business critical 3 1 year -69% applications from proprietary platforms Top five global retailer Leading national to lower cost, exible operating systems, Reduced operational time to postal service such as cloud computing, where they expansion into new markets 69% reduction in cost vs can be modernized more easily to meet from three years to one adding capacity to existing business and user requirements.
year by migrating its stock operating system replenishment application Modernization & Migration solutions onto exible and lower cost delivered thanks to 34 years of Micro operating system Focus experience in software development 100% and deployment.
Software application Leading healthcare expertise that replicates mainframe distributor infrastructure and functionality, provided -59% 100% more capacity for through software licences, consulting Leading financial technology R&D, and four services and ongoing maintenance.
services corporation times faster processing of 59% cost reduction in one customer orders thanks Modernization is not a choice it is year by migrating 20 acquired to effective application essential.
company applications onto modernization lower cost operating system 2 3 Offering two Saving global approaches to organisations money modernization and boosting productivity Continuous improvement Continuous improvement global case studies Improve the effectiveness of enterprise applications and business users.
The full 33% 98% breadth of the software development Global insurance corporation International telecoms life cycle, from application analysis and Improved productivity by 33% equipment provider portfolio management to development, in claims processing as a result Achieved a 98% reduction deployment, testing and quality of an enhanced user interface in application testing time, management.
improving overall software quality measures and Off mainframe ef ciency and shortened time to market effectiveness, in the form of development for a key product line 400% and deployment licences and ongoing Leading financial maintenance.
services multinational Released resources from Continuously improving enterprise maintenance work through 35% applications embracing hybrid cloud effective application analysis Global bank solutions to bridge from today to and portfolio management tools Improved mainframe developer tomorrow.
to increase allocation of time productivity by 35%, each to innovation projects by 400% developer more productive by 30 days per year Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 03 2010 overview WHAT WE DO continued 2010: OPERATING IN THREE INTERLINKED GROWTH MARKETS We operate in a growing, global market worth over $6.4bn COBOL Application Development Management & Quality $204m FY2010 revenue $137m Total market: $700m FY2010 revenue run rate: $164m Total market: $4bn Modernization & Migration $92m FY2010 revenue Total market: $1.7bn COBOL Development Modernization & Migration Application Management & Quality Micro Focus revenues Micro Focus revenues Micro Focus revenues 06 10 06 10 06 10 Micro Focus opportunity Micro Focus opportunity Micro Focus opportunity Leading global provider of Grown from minimal revenues in 2006.
New market for Micro Focus thanks off mainframe COBOL Development.
Global trend to reuse & modernize Technology at the heart of customers versus rip & replace.
Viable market for strong challenger brand.
Logical extension to existing High maintenance renewal rates.
Larger transaction sizes, driven by cost Recurring revenue streams, reduction and productivity imperatives.
Differentiated proposition thanks to resilient business model.
More complex application architectures driving increasing needs for Application Management & Quality expertise including hybrid cloud solutions.
Managements estimates Run rate is 2xH2 revenues Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 04 RESPONDING TO BUSINESS NEEDS THROUGHOUT THE CUSTOMER ORGANISATION CFO CIO Deliver signi cant cost reduction and rapid return on investment, understand changing business needs and provide application management choices, improve time-to-market and increase business value.
Technical leaders Provide solutions that increase productivity, enable product innovation and reduce delivery cycles, enabling clear paths to modern architectures, such as cloud computing.
Technical teams Produce modern and stimulating development, testing and deployment tools that promote fast delivery of quality products.
Employees Improve ef ciency as a result of integrated, effective deployments of business critical applications across the customer organisation.
48 $14,000 30m 48 of ces in Average sales price in More than 30 million 24 countries FY2006 was $5,000, in end users FY2010 it was $14,000 34 18,000 2m 34 years software expertise More than 18,000 current In excess of two million and leadership customers, including 91 out licenced users of the Fortune 100 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 05
