Management and governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS 01.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 24 01.
Paul Pester, 46 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive director Kevin is a director of Farnham Castle and until recently was nonPaul has recently been appointed Managing Director of Consumer executive Chairman of Morse plc and a non-executive director of Banking and Payments at Lloyds Banking Group plc with responsibility Nationwide Building Society.
He was previously the Chief Operating for the core retail banking products and marketing for the Lloyds TSB, Of cer of Cable & Wireless plc, President of Motorola Europe, HBOS and other group brands.
Until recently Paul was Managing Middle East and Africa and, before that, was Chief Executive of Director at Santander UK plc responsible for Bradford & Bingley, and IBM UK Limited.
He has a degree in politics and economics from its integration into Santander, and for Premium Banking.
he was Chief Executive Of cer of Moneyfacts Group plc, Managing Director of Consumer Banking at Lloyds TSB Group plc, Chairman 02.
Nigel Clifford, 50 of the British Bankers Association Retail Committee, a director at Executive director and VISA International, Chairman of the Travellers Cheque Association Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Executive Of cer at Virgin Money Group.
Paul holds a From June 2005, Nigel served as Chief Executive Of cer of Symbian first class honours degree in physics from Manchester University Limited, which became wholly owned by Nokia in 2008.
Prior to and a doctorate in mathematical physics from Oxford University.
Symbian, from 2000 he was Chief Executive Of cer of Tertio Telecoms Limited, a software product and services company.
Tom Skelton, 49 five years as Chief Executive Of cer of the Glasgow Royal In rmary Non-executive director University NHS Trust with responsibility for 5,000 staff across five Tom is Chief Executive Of cer of Foundation Radiology Group and teaching hospitals.
Nigel started his career at BT, and also worked for a founding member of Con uence Medical Systems, a healthcare international telecommunications company Cable & Wireless where and technology consulting partnership.
Previously, he served as Chief he was Senior Vice President, Service Delivery.
He is a non-executive Executive Of cer for Misys Healthcare Systems from January 2002 director of Anite plc.
In addition to an MA in Geography from until March 2007 and as a director of Misys plc.
Prior to that, Cambridge University, Nigel holds an MBA from Strathclyde University.
he was Chief Executive Of cer of Medic Computer Systems, a USbased software company focused on the healthcare information 03.
He earned his BSBA from Robert Morris University, Non-executive director Pittsburgh, PA. David is a non-executive director of Ludorum plc, Cineworld Group plc, Carillion plc and Enterprise Inns plc.
He is also Chairman of Karen Slatford, 53 the board of Trustees of Make-a-Wish Foundation UK Limited.
Non-executive director Until recently, David was also Chairman of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd. Karen is Chairman of Neverfail Group Limited, the continuous His most recent executive role was as Chief Financial Of cer of the availability rm, Chairman of The Foundry, a leading special effects global hotel group Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts.
Prior to that he software company and a non-executive director at Volex Group plc, was Chief Financial Of cer of Thomson Travel Group and Preussag the global supplier of components and cables.
Prior to her current Airlines, and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
David is a board responsibilities, she has held various roles at board level since fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and 2001 at a range of technology companies, including Portwise AB, has a degree in economics from Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh.
Via Networks, Inc, Compel Group plc, HAL Knowledge Systems and Stepstone ASA.
Karen began her career at ICL before spending 20 years at Hewlett Packard, where in 2000 she became Vice President and General Manager Worldwide Sales & Marketing for the Business Customer Organisation, responsible for sales of all Hewlett Packards products, services and software to business customers globally.
Karen holds a BA Honours degree in European Studies from Bath University and a Diploma in Marketing.
Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25
