Management and governance DIRECTORS REPORT The directors of Micro Focus International plc the Company present Donations their report and the audited financial statements of the Company for The Companys policy is to make no donations or contributions to the year ended 30 April 2010. political parties 2009: nil.
During the year reported on, the Group made charitable donations of $74,000 to a number of local and Principal activities national charities and other local organisations 2009: $27,000.
The principal activity of the Group during the year was the provision This included $39,000 to the British Red Cross Haiti Appeal, $9,900 of enterprise application management solutions.
to Action for Children and $4,000 to Swings and Smiles, Newbury.
The Company has a gift programme that matches employee The Company is limited by shares and is domiciled and incorporated donations.
It also has a policy in place to encourage employees in the United Kingdom.
The registered of ce of the Company is: to volunteer a certain number of hours to assist local organisations.
The Lawn, 2230 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN.
Post balance sheet events Business review Details concerning the appointment and resignation of certain The Group is required to produce a business review complying with directors of the Company are described below.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The information that ful ls these requirements can be found in this directors report and Directors and their interests in the following sections: The directors of the Company who served during the year reported on are as follows: The Chief Executive Of cers statement on pages 8 to 17, the financial review on pages 22 and 23 which include details of the Groups Executive activity and the future development of the Group, the principal risks Stephen Kelly resigned 8 September 2009 and uncertainties set out on pages 20 and 21, the statement on Nick Bray resigned 23 June 2010 corporate and social responsibility set out on pages 18 and 19 and the Non-executive key performance indicators KPIs on page 44 which are incorporated Kevin Loosemore Chairman in this directors report by reference.
David Maloney Paul Pester Corporate governance Tom Skelton The Group is required to produce a corporate governance statement pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Nigel Clifford was appointed as Chief Executive Of cer effective information that ful ls this requirement can be found in this directors 1 May 2010 and Karen Slatford was appointed as a non-executive report and in the corporate governance section on pages 30 to 35 director effective 5 July 2010. which are incorporated in this directors report by reference.
Details of the interests of the directors and their families in the Dividends ordinary shares of the Company, as disclosed in the register of The board continues to adopt a progressive dividend policy re ecting directors interests, are given in the remuneration report on the long-term earnings and cash ow potential of Micro Focus with pages 41 to 43. a level of dividend cover for the financial year ended 30 April 2010 of approximately 2.5 times on a pre-exceptional earnings basis.
In line None of the directors had a material interest in any contract with the above policy, the directors recommend payment of a final of signi cance to which the parent company or a subsidiary was dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 April 2010 of a party during the financial year, as disclosed in note 30, related 16.2 cents per share, which, taken together with the interim dividend party transactions.
of 5.6 cents per share paid in January 2010, gives a total dividend in respect of 2010 of 21.8 cents per share.
Subject to shareholder The Company maintains insurance cover for all directors and of cers approval, the final dividend will be paid on 28 September 2010 of Group companies against liabilities which may be incurred by them to shareholders on the register on 3 September 2010.
Dividends while acting as directors and of cers of Group companies.
will be paid in sterling based on an exchange rate of 1 $1.48, equivalent to approximately 10.95 pence per share, being the rate During the financial year reported on and as at the date of this report applicable on 23 June 2010, the date of recommendation of the indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to dividend by the board.
indemnify the directors to the extent permitted by law and by the Articles of Association of the Company against liabilities they may Research and development incur in the execution of their duties as directors of the Company.
The Group expensed $56.8 million relating to research and Copies of these indemnities are available for review at the registered development during the year to 30 April 2010 2009: $34.1 million.
In addition, the Group capitalised $15.5 million of qualifying expenditure 2009: $7.7 million.
This expenditure was incurred in improving the quality, functionality and extending the range of the Groups innovative software solutions.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 26 Employment policy Share option schemes Equal opportunities The directors remain committed to the principle that selected The Group operates an equal opportunities policy.
Full consideration employees should be able to participate in the Groups progress is given to all job applicants, irrespective of gender, age, marital status, through share based compensation schemes.
Details of the disability, sexuality, race, colour, religion, ethnic or national origin Groups share based compensation schemes are given in note 25. or any other conditions not relevant to the performance of the job, who can demonstrate that they have the necessary skills and abilities.
Payment of creditors Micro Focus International plc, which holds the investments in the Disabled employees Groups companies, does not trade itself and does not have suppliers.
With regard to existing employees and those who may become The directors believe, however, it would be helpful to give the disabled, the Groups policy is to examine ways and means to provide disclosures on a consolidated basis.
continuing employment under its existing terms and conditions and to provide training and career development, including promotion, The Group seeks the best possible terms from suppliers appropriate wherever appropriate.
All employees accept the commitment within to its business and in placing orders gives consideration to quality, this policy that the Group will not allow discrimination or harassment delivery, price and terms of payment.
The Group does not follow by employees or others acting on the Groups behalf, in respect a speci c payment code but has a policy to pay its suppliers in of sex, age, marital status, race, nationality, disability or religious or accordance with the speci c terms agreed with each supplier.
average number of days purchases outstanding at 30 April 2010 for the Group was 37 days 2009: 28 days, based on the Groups Employee involvement trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during The Group believes it is important that employees are aware of the the year by the Groups trade creditors.
Groups business strategy and the objectives which are in place to assist them to focus on working towards these goals.
Communications Financial instruments at the time of key announcements, including presentations by The exposure of the Group to financial risks, including the use directors to all employees, together with brie ngs throughout the of financial instruments and policies for hedging and the exposure year, are part of the communication and consultation programme.
to price, credit, cash ow and liquidity risk, can be found in note 20 In addition, regular meetings are held with staff and managers, both to the financial statements.
to raise issues and to assist with the two-way ow of information.
The Company has also introduced an online all-employee survey which Substantial shareholding enables employees to express views and raise issues anonymously.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, at 11 August 2010, the Company had Further education and training been advised of the following noti able interests in its voting rights: Continuing education, training and development are important Ordinary shares Percentage of to ensure the future success of the Group.
The Group supports Name of holder of 10 pence each issued capital individuals who wish to obtain appropriate further education quali cations and reimburses tuition fees up to a speci ed level.
BlackRock, Inc 34,564,575 16.84% Training needs of all employees are also analysed during the annual Standard Life Investments Limited 21,144,419 10.31% appraisal process, at which time a training plan is agreed as part of Majedie Asset Management Limited 20,073,537 9.91% each individuals ongoing development.
GAM International Management Limited 11,717,270 5.84% Ameriprise Financial, Inc 10,288,657 5.02% At appropriate times throughout the course of a year, the directors Ignis Investment Services Limited 10,270,001 5.01% are briefed on recent changes to legislation, regulations and codes JP Morgan Chase & Co 9,963,590 4.96% of practice which are relevant to their duties and the operations of Legal and General Group Plc 7,835,219 3.88% the Groups business.
Where appropriate the directors are provided Fidelity International Limited 6,605,572 3.30% with copies of the underlying documentation or written summaries of the principal changes.
Future developments Further information regarding the Groups future developments can The board has undertaken a formal and rigorous process for the be found in the Chief Executive Of cers statement on pages 8 to 17 evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and and the financial review on pages 22 and 23. individual directors.
Following an independent review of the board and committee performance in 2009, this years evaluation was Additional information for shareholders conducted in the form of online surveys and included an evaluation Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into of the training and development of directors.
The results of these English law, the following description provides the required surveys have been reviewed by the board and each committee information for shareholders where not already provided elsewhere and the resulting recommendations are being implemented.
This summary is based on the Companys Articles of Association the Articles which came into effect on 1 October 2008.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27 Management and governance DIRECTORS REPORT continued Share capital accompanied by the relevant share certi cate s and such other The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into evidence as the board may reasonably require to show the right of the ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
transfer or to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that Rights and obligations attaching to shares person so to do.
In the case of a transfer of shares in certi cated form Voting in a general meeting of the Company: by a recognised clearing house or a nominee of a recognised clearing house or of a recognised investment exchange the lodgement of share On a show of hands, every member present in person and every certi cates will only be necessary if and to the extent that certi cates proxy duly appointed by a member shall have one vote: and have been issued in respect of the shares in question.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Subject have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
to the Articles and the CREST Rules as fide ned in the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations, as amended, and apart from any class of No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class wholly dematerialised security, the board may permit any class of meeting in respect of shares held by him or her if any call or other sum shares in the Company to be held in uncerti cated form and, subject then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
to the Articles, title to uncerti cated shares to be transferred by means Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
Deadlines for voting rights Repurchase of shares Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM held of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on on 24 September 2009 to buy back up to 20,250,682 ordinary 23 September 2010 are set out in the Notice of Meeting which shares, which remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next accompanies this report.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 10 pence and the maximum price payable is Dividends and distributions the higher of 5% above the average of the mid-market price of the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company ordinary shares of the Company as derived from the London Stock may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to members, Exchange Daily Of cial List for the five business days immediately but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the board.
before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 The board may pay interim dividends, and also any xed rate dividend, of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case whenever the pro ts of the Company, in the opinion of the board, exclusive of expenses.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
Amendment to the Articles Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the Liquidation provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Under the Articles, if the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority of an ordinary resolution of the Company: Appointment and replacement of directors Directors shall be no less than three and no more than 11 in number.
Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution assets of the Company: or or by the board.
A director appointed by the board holds of ce only until the next AGM and is then eligible for election by the shareholders Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts and thereafter at least every three years.
In accordance with the for the bene t of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code, the shall think t. board proposes that, at the AGM to be held on 23 September 2010, shareholders approve a resolution to amend the Companys Articles Transfer of shares of Association so that all director appointments will be subsequently Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or subject to re-election by the shareholders on an annual basis.
her certi ed shares in writing by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the board may approve.
The board The board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reasons, decline hold employment or executive of ce for such period subject to the to register any instrument of transfer of a certi ed share which is not a Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine and fully paid share provided that, where any such shares are admitted to may revoke or terminate any such employment.
the Of cial List maintained by the UK Listing Authority, such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
has been given remove and the board by unanimous decision may The board may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating remove any director before the expiration of his term of of ce and the to shares in certi cated form unless it is in respect of only one class of Company may elect or the board may appoint another person in place share and is lodged duly stamped if required at the Transfer Of ce of a director so removed from of ce.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 28 The of ce of director shall be vacated if: i he or she in writing resigns Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors or offers to resign and the directors accept such offer: ii an order is So far as they are aware, the directors at the date of this report made by any court claiming that he or she is or may be suffering from con rm that there is no relevant audit information that is, information a mental disorder: iii he or she is absent without permission of the needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their board from meetings for six months and the board resolves that his or report of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that the her of ce is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit from being a director: or vi he or she is removed from of ce pursuant information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware to the Articles.
Powers of the directors  LLP have indicated their willingness to The business of the Company will be managed by the board who continue in of ce and a resolution that they be reappointed will may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions be proposed at the AGM.
of the Companys Memorandum of Association, the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
Going concern The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company Shares held in the Employee Bene t Trust and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational Where the trustee of the Micro Focus Employee Bene t Trust the existence for the foreseeable future, and therefore it is appropriate Trust holds shares in the Company and the bene cial interest in to maintain the going concern basis in preparing the financial those shares has not been transferred to a bene ciary of the Trust, statements.
the trustee may not vote in relation to those shares at any meeting of shareholders of the Company.
By order of the board Signi cant agreements The following signi cant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: Jane Smithard On 6 May 2009, the Company entered into a $175 million credit Company Secretary facility provided through a syndicated loan consortium comprising 11 August 2010 Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc to assist with the funding of acquisitions and for general corporate purposes.
On 12 June 2009, the Company entered into a supplemental agreement for an additional $40 million to assist with the acquisition of Borland Software Corporation at an increased offer price.
On a change of control, all such credit facilities become immediately due and payable.
The business review does not contain any information about persons with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company as, in the view of the directors, there are no such arrangements.
Branches The Group continues to operate overseas branches in Denmark, Finland, Hong Kong, Mexico, Portugal and Sweden.
Following the acquisition of Borland Software Corporation on 27 July 2009, the Group also now operates overseas branches in the Peoples Republic of China, Spain and Russia.
Annual General Meeting AGM The notice convening the AGM of the Company together with the explanatory notes on the resolutions proposed at the AGM accompanies this report.
The meeting will be held at The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN on 23 September 2010 at 3pm UK time.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29
