DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report for the financial year ended Further details on employee involvement are included in the 31 December 2010.
This Directors Report is deemed to be the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 46 to 48. management report required to be published in accordance with DTR4.1.
share Capital The issued share capital of the Company, together with details Activities of the Group of the movements in the Companys share capital during The principal activity of the Group is ownership and the year, are shown in note 29 to the consolidated financial management of hotels around the world.
Details of shares issued pursuant to the Groups share based Business review incentive schemes are shown in the notes to the accounts on The Business Review incorporates sections covering financial, pages 126 to 128. operating, risk factors and Non-GAAP information for the year ended 31 December 2010 and is set out on pages 26 to Rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary 45.
Those sections, which form part of this Directors Report, shares are set out in the Companies Articles of Association, provide information about the Groups strategy, its businesses, a copy of which can be obtained from Companies House or their financial performance during the year, the principal risks by writing to the Company Secretary.
Amendments to the and uncertainties facing the Group and its likely development.
Companys Articles of Association can be made by Special resolution of the shareholders.
results and Dividends The profit on ordinary activities before taxation was 128.6m At the Companys annual general meeting in May 2010 the 2009: 81.9m.
An interim dividend of 2.08p per share was Directors were authorised to allot shares up to a nominal paid on 8 October 2010.
The Directors are recommending amount of 30,974,058 and to allot such shares up to this a final dividend of 7.92p per share 2009: 6.25p, which will, nominal amount in connection with a rights issue and if approved at the annual general meeting, be paid on 20 otherwise to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up May 2011 to shareholders on the register on 25 March 2011. to a nominal amount of 4,646,108.
In addition, the Company Total dividends relating to the year are expected to amount was authorised to make market purchases of up to 10% of to 24.8m.
The Company will be offering a scrip dividend the Companys issued share capital.
All of these authorities alternative in respect of the final dividend.
remained in effect as at 31 December 2010.
The voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares employees are not restricted and there are no restrictions on the transfer During the year the average number of people employed by of the Companys shares.
None of the Companys shares carry the Group was 11,232 2009: 11,131. special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Neither the Company nor its Directors are aware of any agreements Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc operates in various between shareholders that could result in restrictions on the countries and values highly the rich ethnic and cultural transfer of shares or on voting rights.
diversity of its people by nurturing a working environment that recognises, develops and values people with different views, styles and approaches.
substantial shareholdings As at 15 February 2011, the Company had received details of The Companys policy is to provide equality of opportunity the following material shareholdings in its issued share capital.
for all employees without discrimination and continues No changes to the material shareholdings listed below have to encourage the employment, training and advancement been reported to the Company between 31 December 2010 of disabled persons in accordance with their abilities and and the date of this report.
aptitudes, provided that they can be employed in a safe working environment.
Suitable employment would, if possible, be found for any employee who becomes disabled during the course of employment.
52 53 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT % of Number of issued share shares Capital City Developments Limited 169,062,345 53.96 Prudential plc 22,206,858 7.09 Aberdeen Asset Management plc 15,451,769 4.93 Schroders plc 15,490,857 4.94 the interests of Prudential plc include the notifiable interest of the following companies: M&G Group Limited 22,206,858 7.09% M&G Limited 22,206,858 7.09% M&G Investment 22,171,731 7.08% Management Limited The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 21,564,772 6.88% the interests of Schroders plc include the notifiable interest of the following company: Schroder Investment Management Limited 15,151,069 4.84% Directors ethics and Business Conduct Biographical details of Directors are shown on pages 49 to The Group has in place policies which outline the standards of 51.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions behaviour required of all employees when acting on the Groups concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors.
behalf which include acting professionally, with honesty, integrity, objectivity and in compliance with all applicable Details of the share interests of Directors are shown on page 65. legal and regulatory requirements.
The Board of Directors No changes to these interests occurred between the year end has implemented an anti-bribery policy which prohibits the and the date of this report.
offering, the giving, the solicitation or the acceptance of any bribe, whether cash or other inducement.
Whistle-blowing procedures are in place to enable employees to raise concerns indemnities about any activity they consider to be unlawful, is a breach of The Company has provided each of its Directors and Alternate authority, falls below accepted standards or practice, amounts Directors with a qualifying third-party indemnity, as defined to improper conduct or could damage the Groups reputation.
in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, the It is the Companys and the Groups policy to agree the terms Company has provided qualifying pension scheme indemnities of payment with suppliers at the commencement of the trading to the directors of Millennium & Copthorne Pension Trustee or contractual relationship and to operate within such terms Limited which acts as trustee to the Groups UK pension plan.
subject to satisfactory completion of the suppliers obligations.
These indemnities remain in force as at the date of this report.
It does not follow any particular guidelines established by During the year, the Company has maintained cover for its third parties.
The effect of the Groups payment policy is that Directors and Officers and those of its subsidiary companies its trade creditors at the financial year-end represent 25 days under a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy, as 2009: 21 days.
At the year end, the Company had nil trade permitted by Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006. creditors 2009: nil.
52 53 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Corporate social responsibility on pages 31 to 39.
In addition, note 22 to the consolidated Details of the Groups wider approach to managing its financial statements sets out the Groups policies and processes Corporate Social Responsibility CSR can be found on for measuring and managing risk from its use of financial pages 46 to 48 which include details of charitable donations instruments in relation to credit risk: liquidity risk and market made during the year.
The CSR report is deemed to be part risk both currency and interest rate-related.
Further details of the Directors Report.
The Board takes regular account of of the Groups cash balances and borrowings are included in the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters to notes 20 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
the business of the Company and identifies value arising from those matters as well as opportunities to enhance value that In assessing whether the Group is a going concern, the Directors may arise from them.
Significant short and long term risks have follow a review process which is consistent with the principles been identified and assessed and the Board believes it has set out in the guidance published by the Financial Reporting received adequate information to ensure that the Company has Council: Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for effective systems in place for managing the Groups key risks.
The Groups significant Risk Factors are included on pages 40 to 44.
Cash flow forecasts for the Group have been prepared for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of approval of To ensure the delivery of the Boards policies in respect of these consolidated financial statements.
These forecasts reflect health, safety, and the environment, Richard Hartman, in his an assessment of current market conditions.
The forecasts capacity as Group Chief Executive Officer, has been identified completed on this basis show that the Group will be able to as the Board member responsible for these areas.
operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, management has considered various mitigating actions that Financial risk Management could be taken in the event that market conditions are worse An indication of the Groups financial risk management than their current assessment.
Such measures include further objectives in respect of the use of financial instruments and its reduction in costs and in capital expenditure.
exposures to credit risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk is set out in the Business Review Risk Factors on pages 40 On the basis of the exercise as described above and the to 44, and in note 22 to the financial statements.
available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have Going Concern adequate resources to continue in operational existence for Information on the principal risks and uncertainties that the the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a Group faces throughout its global operations are included in going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Business Review Risk Factors on pages 40 to 44.
The financial Group and the Company.
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and debt facilities are described in the Business Review Financial 54 55 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
