CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY BOARD OF DIRECTORS Kwek Leng Beng, 70# Chairman and Chairman of the nominations Committee Kwek Leng Beng has been the Chairman of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc since its incorporation.
He is the Executive Chairman of the Hong Leong Group of Companies in Singapore, and City Developments Limited.
He is also Chairman and Managing Director of Hong Leong Finance Limited and City e-Solutions Limited and the Chairman of Hong Leong Asia Ltd. Mr Kweks achievements have also captured the attention of the academic institutions.
He was conferred: Honorary Doctorate of Business Administration in Hospitality from Johnson & Wales University Rhode Island, US, where students have an opportunity to pursue career education in business, hospitality, culinary arts or technology: Honorary Doctorate from Oxford Brookes University UK whose citation traced how Mr Kwek, who joined the family business in the early 1960s, had gone on to establish an international reputation for his leadership of the Hong Leong Group, as well as being an active supporter of higher education in Singapore.
Mr Kwek also serves as a Member of the INSEAD East Asia Council.
France-based INSEAD is one of the worlds leading and largest graduate business schools which bring together people, cultures and ideas from around the world.
Mr Kwek has distinguished himself in property investment and development, hotel ownership and management, financial services and industrial enterprises.
Today, he sits on the flagship of a multi-billion empire worth over US$20 billion in diversified premium assets worldwide, with an annual turnover of US$4.55 billion and stocks traded on six of the worlds stock markets.
He currently heads a worldwide staff strength of over 40,000 across a range of businesses in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Europe and North America.
Mr Kwek also played a pivotal role in Las Vegas Sands Corporations successful bid for Singapores high profile Integrated Resorts project at Marina Bay.
48 49 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1. richard Hartman, 65 Group Chief executive officer Richard Hartman joined the Board of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc on 7 May 2008.
He has over 40 years experience in the hotel and restaurant industry.
From 1999 he held senior positions at InterContinental Hotels Group formerly known as Six Continents Hotels Group and Bass Hotels & Resorts where he was a main Board Director from 2003 until 2007, most recently as Managing Director of InterContinental Hotels Group, Europe, Middle East and Africa with responsibility for over 600 hotels.
Previously he was Managing Director of InterContinental Hotels Group, Asia Pacific between 1998 and 2003, where he increased the company portfolio, and led the US$346m acquisition of the IC Hong Kong former 1 Regent of Hong Kong making it the second largest hotel chain in Asia Pacific.
Prior to joining InterContinental Hotels Group in 1999 he was President of ITT Sheraton North America between 1993 and 1998, where he led a turnaround in performance, repositioning the Sheraton North America as a premier brand of choice, and President of ITT Sheraton Asia Pacific between 1985 and 1992.
During his tenure as President of Sheratons Asia Pacific Division, he successfully executed an aggressive development strategy, growing the Division, substantially increasing earnings and firmly establishing Sheraton as one of the three leading hotel chains in Asia and the market leader in Australia, New Zealand and South Pacific.
Wong Hong ren, 59 executive Director Wong Hong Ren joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc as a non-executive Director at the flotation of the Group.
He is the Executive Vice President Group Investment of Hong Leong Management Services Pte Limited in Singapore.
Mr Wong was appointed as an Executive Director of the Company in April 2001.
Kwek Leng Joo, 57 non-executive Director Kwek Leng Joo joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc at the flotation of the Group.
He is 3 the Managing Director of City Developments Limited with extensive experience in property development and investment.
Within the Hong Leong Group, he holds directorships in most of the listed companies, including Hong Leong Finance Limited.
He also serves as an Executive Director for City e-Solutions Limited.
Mr Kwek contributes actively to the business community through several public and civic appointments.
Kwek Leng peck, 54# non-executive Director Kwek Leng Peck joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc at the flotation of the Group.
He 4 holds directorships on most of the listed companies within the Hong Leong Group, including City Developments Limited, Hong Leong Finance Limited and China Yuchai International Limited.
He also serves as an Executive Director CEO for Hong Leong Asia Limited and is the non-executive Chairman of Tasek Corporation Berhad.
His excellency shaukat Aziz, 61 independent non-executive Director Shaukat Aziz was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
His Excellency was the first Prime Minister of Pakistan to complete a full term in office and served from 2004 2007, following five years as Finance Minister from 1999.
5 Pre-politics, an internship at Citibank marked the beginning of a 30-year career in global finance, encompassing roles in Pakistan, Greece, United States, United Kingdom, Malaysia, the Philippines, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and Singapore.
He headed Citigroups global Private Banking Division and has held a number of senior positions such as Corporate Planning Officer for Citicorp, Head of Corporate and Investment Banking for Asia, Chief Country Officer in Malaysia and in Jordan.
He has also served as a board member of various Citibank subsidiaries, including Citicorp Islamic Bank and the Saudi American Bank.
He is a member of several boards and advisory boards for profit and non-profit organizations and a frequent speaker on economic, political and diplomatic matters.
50 51 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS 6.
Christopher Keljik oBe, 62 # senior independent non-executive Director Christopher Keljik was appointed to the Board in May 2006.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is also a non-executive Director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc, Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust plc.
He was an Executive Director of Standard Chartered plc with responsibilities for Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, the UK and the Americas.
During his 29 year career at Standard Chartered he held a number of senior positions working in London, Singapore, New York and Hong Kong in corporate finance, treasury, risk and general management.
Connal rankin, 69 # independent non-executive Director and Chairman of the remuneration Committee Connal Rankin was appointed to the Board in December 2007.
He had an extensive career at HSBC Group HSBC spanning 45 years until his retirement in December 2005.
He held a number of senior positions including Group General Manager of HSBC in Hong Kong and Chief Executive of HSBC Singapore for 5 years until 2000.
Between 2000 and 2005, Connal held the senior position of Group General Manager of Human Resources based in London and in April 2010 retired as a Director from the Board of Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. 8.
Alexander Waugh, 47# 7 independent non-executive Director Alexander Waugh was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
He is a world renowned author, literary critic and composer.
He has commercial experience in event management, the media industry and is the founder of a successful publishing business.
9. nicholas George, 57 independent non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Nicholas George was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is a Director of LGT Capital Partners UK Limited.
Notably in 2003, Nicholas was a founding partner of KGR Capital, a leading Asian Fund of Funds Specialist that was sold to LGT in 2008.
He currently holds the position of Chairman at euNetworks Limited and also 8 sits on the Board of GK Goh Holdings Limited, both companies are listed on the Singapore Stock Exchange.
In addition, he is a Director of Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust plc which is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
He has over 30 years of experience in investment banking and was a Managing Director of JP Morgan Securities previously Jardine Fleming in Asia from 1993 to 2002 and a Managing Director of HSBC Securities in Asia from 2002 to 2003.
9 Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee # Member of the Nominations Committee 50 51 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
