Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report any other person to whom this document and regulations for example under the The Boards responsibilities in is shown or into whose hands it may come Market Abuse Directive.
At the year end, respect of the Company include: and any such responsibility or liability is 429 shares were held in Treasury and expressly disclaimed.
the Companys employee share trusts held Determining the overall business and 3,416,120 shares.
commercial strategy Identifying the long-term objectives Principal activities Reviewing the annual operating budget Mitchells & Butlers is the leading operator Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2010 and financial plans of Pub Restaurants and managed pubs AGM to permit the Directors to undertake Determining the basis of allocation of capital and, as at 25 September 2010, had an market purchases of up to 40,765,984 Considering all matters relating to a major change of policy estate of 1,909 sites including 86 leased of the Companys shares.
This authority and franchised sites in the UK, and 43 Pub will expire at the earlier of the 2011 AGM For our latest financial information go to: Restaurants in Germany.
com investors the Company announced the outcome of purchased by the Company during the year.
a strategic review, stating that it intended to rapidly reshape Mitchells & Butlers into Shareholders passed a resolution at the The Directors present their report and the a food-led business centred around core 2010 AGM to permit the Directors to audited financial statements for the year concepts which have signi cant growth allot shares up to a nominal value of ended 25 September 2010.
This Directors potential and that it also planned to withdraw 11,606,969 and to allot further shares and report should be read in conjunction with from the more price sensitive drinks-led other relevant securities only in connection the Chairmans statement, the Overview businesses.
To this end in August 2010, with a rights issue up to a further nominal and the Operating and financial review the Company announced the disposal of value of 11,606,969.
This authority will the OFR on pages 5 to 25, including the Hollywood Bowl and the majority of its lodge expire at the earlier of the 2011 AGM or Chief Executives review and the Financial business.
The Company also disposed of a 27 March 2011.
Since the AGM, until the review, the Corporate governance further 333 non-core pubs on 14 November end of the year, shares with a nominal value statement and the Audit Committee report 2010, following the approval of the disposal of 96,968 were allotted: no securities which are incorporated in this Directors by shareholders at a General Meeting held were issued in connection with a rights report by reference.
Further detail regarding issue during the year.
the disposals is provided on page 2 and in Details of the Groups policy on addressing notes 16 and 33 to the financial statements.
The Company is not aware of any risks are given in the OFR and details about agreements between shareholders financial instruments are shown in note 19 Share capital that restrict the transfer of shares or to the financial statements.
Together these The Companys authorised and issued voting rights attached to the shares.
sections include information about the ordinary share capital as at 25 September Groups business, its financial performance 2010 comprised a single class of ordinary Interests of the Directors and their during the year, the main trends and factors shares of which 408,953,036 shares were immediate families in the issued share capital likely to affect the future development and in issue and listed on the London Stock of the Company as at the year end are set performance of the Groups business, its Exchange.
As at 26 September 2009, the out in the Remuneration report on page 53. position at the year end and the principal Company had 407,404,004 ordinary shares risks and uncertainties associated with 13 of 8 24p in issue.
Details of movements Final dividend the Groups business.
By their nature, in the issued share capital can be found No final dividend will be paid in respect the statements concerning the risks and in note 22 to the financial statements of the year ended 25 September 2010 uncertainties facing the Group in this Annual on page 92.
Each share carries the right 2009 nil.
No interim dividend was paid report involve uncertainty since future events to one vote at general meetings of the during the year 2009 nil.
and circumstances can cause results and Company.
All issued shares are fully paid developments to differ materially from those up and carry no additional obligations or Interests in voting rights anticipated.
The forward-looking statements special rights.
There are no restrictions As at the date of this report, the Company re ect knowledge and information available on transfers of shares in the Company had been noti ed, under Disclosure and at the date of preparation of this Annual other than those which may from time Transparency Rule 5, of the signi cant report and the Company undertakes no to time be applicable under existing laws holdings of voting rights 3% or more obligation to update these forward-looking in its shares shown below: statements.
Associated key performance Signi cant holdings of voting rights indicators for the Groups business are set Shareholder Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding out on page 19.
Piedmont Inc. 93,047,373 22.75% Direct interest Elpida Group Ltd 73,750,441 18.03% Direct interest This report has been prepared for, and only Standard Life Investments 19,710,009 4.82% Direct and indirect interest Axa S. A.
19,221,774 4.70% Direct and indirect interest for, the members of the Company as a body, Legal & General 16,042,776 3.92% Direct interest and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents or advisers Using the total voting rights gure announced to the London Stock Exchange on 29 October 2010 of 409,020,946 do not accept or assume responsibility to Mitchells & Butlers plc 27 Annual report and accounts 2010 Directors report continued Directors Directors indemnity Change of control provisions Details of the Directors as at 22 November As permitted by the Articles of Association, The following signi cant agreements 2010 and their biographies are shown on the Directors have the bene t of an contain provisions entitling the pages 24 and 25.
Changes to the Board of indemnity which is a qualifying third party counterparties to exercise termination Directors during the year and subsequent indemnity provision as fide ned by Section or other rights in the event of a change to the year end are set out in full in the 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The of control of the Company: Corporate governance statement on page indemnity was in force throughout the last 31.
There were no payments made during financial year, and is currently in force.
The an unsecured term and revolving the year as compensation for loss of of ce.
Company also purchased and maintained facilities agreement as described more throughout the financial year Directors fully on page 85: and Directors are appointed in accordance with and Of cers liability insurance in respect three interest rate swap agreements with the Articles of Association which stipulate of itself and its Directors.
No indemnity a total initial notional amount of 150m that any Director appointed during the year is provided for the Companys auditors.
as described more fully on page 88. must stand for reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
Directors Con icts of interest Under the terms of each of these who wish to continue in their role must The Companys Articles of Association agreements a change of control occurs submit themselves for re-election at an permit the Board to consider and, if it sees if any person, or Group of persons acting AGM at least every three years.
In addition t, to authorise situations where a Director in concert, gains control of the Company.
such further Directors if any must retire has an interest that con icts, or may by rotation to bring the number retiring by possibly con ict, with the interests of the There are no provisions in the Directors rotation up to one-third of the number of Company Situational Con icts.
The service agreements providing for Directors in of ce at the date of the notice of Board has a formal system in place for compensation for loss of of ce or meeting.
Any Director appointed during the Directors to declare Situational Con icts employment occurring because of year will not be counted in determining the to be considered for authorisation by those a takeover.
The service contract of one one-third who should stand for re-election by Directors who have no interest in the matter senior employee who is not a Director rotation.
Over and above the requirements being considered.
In deciding whether of the Company contains a provision of the Companys Articles of Association to authorise a Situational Con ict, the setting out speci c entitlements in lieu in this regard, the Company in the interests non-con icted Directors are required to of damages calculated by reference to his of good corporate governance and in act in the way they consider would be 12 month notice period if his employment anticipation of provision B.
7.1 of the UK most likely to promote the success of the is terminated by the Company within Corporate Governance Code which will Company for the bene t of all shareholders, 12 months following a change of control.
apply for financial periods commencing on and they may impose limits or conditions These entitlements comprise a payment or after 29 June 2010, each of the Directors when giving authorisation, or subsequently, equal to one years gross salary and one wishing to continue will retire voluntarily if they think this is appropriate.
The Board years bonus based on the average bonus and submit themselves for re-election by believes that the systems it has in place paid to him in the three years prior to shareholders.
In addition, given the unusual for reporting and considering Situational termination, and a credit of 12 months circumstances surrounding the election of Con icts continue to operate effectively.
It is no longer Company the new Board Directors at the 2010 AGM, policy to offer such terms in relation to these four new Directors have con rmed Related party transactions service contracts or employee contracts.
that they will stand down at the close Internal controls are in place to ensure of the 2011 AGM in the event that they that any related party transactions involving The trustee of the Mitchells & Butlers do not command support from a majority Directors or their connected persons are Share Incentive Plan will invite participants of shareholders excluding Piedmont Inc. carried out on an arms length basis and are on whose behalf it holds shares to direct it properly recorded.
how to vote in respect of those shares, and Under a Deed of Appointment between if there is an offer for the shares or other Piedmont Inc. and the Company, Piedmont Essential contracts or arrangements transaction which would lead to a change Inc. has the right to appoint two shareholder The Company is required to disclose any of control of the Company, participants directors to the Board whilst it owns 22% contractual or other arrangements which may direct it to accept the offer or agree to or more of the issued share capital of the it considers are essential to its business.
The trustee of the Mitchells Company, and the right to appoint one The Company has a number of contractual & Butlers Employee Bene t Trust may, shareholder director to the Board whilst agreements with suppliers in support of its having consulted with the Company, vote it owns more than 16% of the Company business activities.
However, whilst the loss or abstain from voting any shares it holds but less than 22%.
In the event that of some of these arrangements may cause or accept or reject an offer relating to shares Piedmont Inc. owns less than 16% of the temporary disruption, none are considered Company any such shareholder directors to be essential to the business of Mitchells would be required to resign immediately.
28 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information in any way it sees t, and it may take all or During the year, the Company has remained Political donations any of the following matters into account: within its headroom limits for the issue of The Company made no political donations the long-term interests of bene ciaries, new shares for share plans as set out in the during the year and intends to maintain the nonfinancial interests of bene ciaries, rules of the above plans.
The Company uses its policy of not making such payments.
the interests of bene ciaries in their an employee bene t trust to acquire shares It will, however, as a precautionary measure capacity as employees or former employees, in the market when appropriate to satisfy to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, the interests of future bene ciaries share awards in order to manage headroom seek shareholder authority at its 2011 and considerations of a local, moral, under the plan rules.
To this end 2,032,000 AGM to make limited donations or incur ethical, environmental or social nature.
shares in the Company were purchased by limited political expenditure, although the employee bene t trust during FY 2010. it has no intention of using the authority.
The rules of certain of the Companys share plans include provisions which apply in At 25 September 2010, the position under Going concern the event of a takeover or reconstruction, the 5% in 10 years limit for discretionary The financial statements which as set out in the table below.
plans was that shares equivalent to 2.94% appear on pages 55 to 110 have been of the ordinary share capital had been prepared on a going concern basis as, Employees allocated and under the 10% in 10 years after making appropriate enquiries, the The Group employed an average of limit for all share plans the overall position Directors have a reasonable expectation 44,600 people in 2010 2009 42,023. was that shares equivalent to 3.73% of the that the Group has adequate resources Details of the Groups employment ordinary share capital had been allocated.
to continue in operational existence for policies are shown on pages 12 to 15 in the foreseeable future.
the Corporate social responsibility section Policy on payment of suppliers of the OFR and a more detailed account Mitchells & Butlers plc is a holding company Funding and liquidity risk can be found in our separately published and has no trade creditors.
In order to ensure that the Groups Corporate Social Responsibility Review long-term funding strategy is aligned 2010 at www.
com csrreview The policy of its principal operating with its strategic objectives, the Treasury subsidiaries is to agree particular terms with Committee regularly assesses the maturity Employee engagement major suppliers and to abide by those terms, pro le of the Groups debt, alongside the Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage subject to satisfactory performance by the prevailing financial projections and three greater employee involvement in the Groups supplier.
Amounts owed to other suppliers year plan.
This enables it to ensure that performance through share ownership.
It are settled in the month following that funding levels are appropriate to support operates two HMRC approved all-employee in which the subsidiaries receive a valid the Groups plans.
plans, which are the Sharesave Plan and invoice.
The average number of days the the Share Incentive Plan.
The Company also Group takes to pay an invoice is 40 days The current funding arrangements of the operates three other plans on a selective 2009 38 days.
Group consist primarily of the securitised basis, which are the Performance Restricted notes issued by Mitchells & Butlers Finance Share Plan, the Short-Term Deferred Charitable donations and plc and associated liquidity facility and Incentive Plan and the Long-Term Incentive charitable activity the medium-term funding facility drawn Plan which was approved by shareholders The Company continues to support by Mitchells & Butlers Retail No.
2 Ltd. at a general meeting of the Company held community initiatives and charitable causes, Further information regarding these on 29 July 2010.
Further details on the full details of which are given on page 14 in arrangements is included in note 18.
The selective plans are included within the the Corporate social responsibility section terms of both the securitisation and the Remuneration report on pages 40 to 53. of the OFR.
medium-term facility contain a number of financial covenants.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored by Group treasury.
The Group prepares a rolling daily cash forecast covering a six week period and Provisions which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction an annual cash forecast by period.
These Share plan Provision in the event of a takeover forecasts are reviewed on a daily basis Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards vest pro rata to performance and time elapsed, alternatively and used to manage the investment and participants may be allowed or required by the Company to borrowing requirements of the Group.
exchange their awards A combination of cash pooling and zero Performance Restricted Share Plan Awards vest pro rata to performance and time elapsed and lapse six months later balancing agreements are in place to Short-Term Deferred Incentive Plan Bonus shares may be released or exchanged for shares in the ensure the optimum liquidity position is new controlling company maintained.
Committed facilities outside Executive Share Option Plan Options may be exercised within six months of a change of control of the securitisation are sized to ensure Sharesave Plan Options may be exercised within six months of a change of control Share Incentive Plan Free shares may be released or exchanged for shares in the that the Group can meet its medium-term new controlling company anticipated cash ow requirements.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 29 Annual report and accounts 2010 Directors report continued Additional information for shareholders Directors responsibility statement A copy of the financial statements of the Following the implementation of the The Directors are responsible for preparing Company is posted on the Companys EU Takeovers Directive into UK law, the the Annual report, the Remuneration report website www.
The Directors Company is required to provide certain and the financial statements Group and are responsible for the maintenance and information for shareholders.
The Company in accordance with applicable integrity of the corporate and financial information required is included elsewhere UK laws and regulations.
UK company law information included on the website.
In addition the requires the Directors to prepare financial Information published on the Companys Company is required to inform shareholders statements for each financial year.
Under website is accessible in many countries that the Companys Articles of Association that law, the Directors have prepared the with different legal requirements.
may be amended by special resolution Group financial statements in accordance Legislation in the UK governing the at a general meeting of shareholders.
with International Financial Reporting preparation and dissemination of financial Standards IFRSs as adopted by the statements may differ from legislation in Annual General Meeting European Union EU and applicable UK other jurisdictions.
The notice convening the Annual General law.
Further, they have elected to prepare Meeting to be held at 11am on Thursday the Company financial statements in Each of the Directors, the names and 27 January 2011 is contained in a circular accordance with UK accounting standards functions of whom are set out on pages sent to shareholders with this report.
This UK GAAP and applicable UK law.
24 and 25, con rms that to the best of his meeting will be held at the International knowledge they have complied with the Convention Centre in Birmingham.
At the In preparing the financial statements, above requirements in preparing the meeting, resolutions will be proposed the Directors are required to: financial statements in accordance with to authorise the Directors to issue shares applicable accounting standards and that without applying statutory pre-emption select suitable accounting policies and the financial statements give a true and fair rights and to authorise the Company to apply them consistently: view of the assets, liabilities and financial make market purchases of its own shares.
make judgements and estimates that position and pro t of the Group and the Following the implementation of the final are reasonable and prudent: Company and of the Groups income provisions of the Companies Act 2006 for the Group financial statements, state statement for that period.
In addition each and the Companies Shareholders Rights whether they have been prepared in of the Directors con rms that the Regulations 2009, resolutions are also accordance with IFRSs as adopted by management report represented by the proposed to authorise the calling of the EU, subject to any material Directors report includes a fair review of general meetings other than annual departures disclosed and explained the development and performance of the general meetings on 14 clear days notice in the financial statements: and business and the position of the Group, and to make certain amendments to the for the Company financial statements, together with a description of the principal Companys Articles of Association to bring state whether applicable UK accounting risks and uncertainties that it faces.
them in line with the Companies Act 2006. standards have been followed, subject Full details of all resolutions are provided to any material departures disclosed and Disclosure of information to auditors in the shareholder circular.
If you would explained in the financial statements.
Having made the requisite enquiries, like to register any questions you may so far as the Directors are aware, there is have in advance of the AGM you can do The Directors are responsible for keeping no relevant audit information as fide ned so at www.
com adequate accounting records that disclose by Section 418 2 of the Companies Act with reasonable accuracy at any time 2006 of which the Companys auditors Auditors the financial position of the Company and are unaware and each Director has taken Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their the Group and enable them to ensure that all steps that ought to have been taken willingness to continue in of ce as auditors the Annual report and financial statements to make themselves aware of any relevant of the Company and their reappointment comply with the Companies Act 2006 audit information and to establish that will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
and, with regard to the Group financial the Companys auditors are aware of that statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
By order of the Board They are also responsible for the system of internal control for safeguarding the assets By order of the Board Ian Powell of the Company and the Group and hence Company Secretary for taking reasonable steps to prevent Ian Powell Mitchells & Butlers plc and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Company Secretary Company registration number 4551498 22 November 2010 22 November 2010 30 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010
