Directors report Overview Business review The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report, the audited Financial instruments consolidated financial statements of the Group and the audited Information on financial instruments is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 May 2010. financial statements.
This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the Dividends members of the Company as a body and no other persons.
By their The Board continues to believe that shareholder interests are being nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing served by re-investing cash flow into the development and future the Group in this Annual Report are affected by future events and growth of each of the Groups businesses.
The Directors do not circumstances which can cause results and developments to differ therefore propose to recommend payment of a final dividend for materially from those anticipated and which are beyond the control the year 2009: nil.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge Directors and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Details of the current Directors of the Company are given on the Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these previous page.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
During the year, Sir Dominic Cadbury, Chairman, retired as a Director on 30 September 2009 on which date James Crosby was appointed Principal activities as Chairman.
Al-Noor Ramji, non-executive Director, resigned The Groups principal activities are the development, management as a Director on 31 March 2010 upon his appointment as EVP and and licensing of a variety of software products and solutions to Head of Banking.
customers in the financial services and healthcare industries.
Misys also partners with world class companies to sell and distribute In accordance with the Companys current Articles of Association, Misys products and solutions.
Mike Lawrie and Jeff Ubben are retiring by rotation and, upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, will offer themselves Disposals during the period are disclosed in the notes to the financial for re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Biographical details of all Directors, including those being proposed Business review for re-election, are given on the previous page.
The Companies Act 2006 requires us to present a fair review of the business performance and development of the Group.
A review Details of executive Directors service agreements, non-executive of the activities of the Group, its financial performance and its Directors letters of appointment, emoluments and share interests likely future business developments, including a description of can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
the principal risks and uncertainties, is provided in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the business review and the Significant contracts financial review of this Annual Report, all of which are incorporated With the exception of the service contracts and indemnities referred into this report by reference.
to below, during the year under review and up to the date of this report no Director other than Jeff Ubben as mentioned below Events after the balance sheet date has had any interest in any material contract with the Company.
On 9 June 2010, Misys announced its intention to dispose of its majority stake in Allscripts and return substantially all of the proceeds ValueAct Capital Master Fund L. P. ValueAct Capital has a holding to Misys shareholders.
For further information, refer to note 39. of approximately 25.7% in the Company on an aggregated basis.
Jeff Ubben, who is a non-executive Director of the Company, is Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment Officer and a principal investor in ValueAct Capital and accordingly has an interest in all contracts between the Company and undertakings which are part of the ValueAct Group.
52 Misys plc | Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Financial statements Indemnities and insurance Political donations The Company has granted indemnities to its Directors in their In line with its policy, the Group made no political donations capacity as Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The in the year under review 2009: nil and has no plans to do so.
Company has also granted indemnities to some of the Directors Creditor payment policy of its subsidiaries.
Such indemnities remain in force and are It is the Companys policy to agree terms and conditions for its qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of business transactions with its suppliers.
The Company seeks to s. 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
For some years, the Company abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers whenever it is has purchased insurance to cover its Directors and Officers against satisfied that the supplier has abided by its contractual obligations.
their costs in defending themselves in civil legal proceedings taken The trade creditors of the Group at 31 May 2010 represent 31 days against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting 2009: 28 days and of the Company represent nil days 2009: nil from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
Neither the days as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers insurance nor the indemnity provide cover where the Director has during the year.
The Company has delegated its trade to other acted fraudulently or deceitfully.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Share capital The rules regarding the appointment, retirement and removal of The share capital of the Company comprises ordinary shares Directors are contained in the Companys Articles.
The Companys of 1p each, which are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Articles may be amended by a special resolution of shareholders passed at a general meeting of the Company.
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by ordinary during the year, are shown in the notes to the financial statements.
resolution of the shareholders or by resolution of the Board.
At each At close of business on 26 July 2010, the Company had 594,584,179 AGM, any Director who has been appointed by the Board since ordinary shares in issue, of which 46,413,777 were held in treasury.
the previous AGM, or for whom it is the third AGM following the AGM at which s he was last elected or re-elected, shall retire and The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company offer him herself for election or re-election.
to have an authorised share capital and the new articles of association proposed for adoption at the 2010 AGM reflect this.
Powers of Directors Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at The Board is responsible for the management of the business any time allot save in respect of employee share schemes and, as of the Group and may exercise all the powers of the Company in previous years, authority to allot will be sought at the 2010 AGM.
subject to the provisions of relevant law, the Companys Articles and any special resolution of the Company.
Purchase of own shares The Company may make market purchases of any of its own shares.
Further information on the duties of Directors and information An authority which was granted by shareholders at the 2009 AGM with respect to internal control and risk management procedures and which expires at the conclusion of the 2010 AGM to purchase is set out in the corporate governance report, which is incorporated a further 54,710,100 of its own shares representing approximately into this report by reference.
10% of its issued share capital as at 10 August 2009 remained in Research and development force at 31 May 2010.
In the markets in which the Group operates, effective research Pursuant to this authority, in the financial year ended 31 May 2010 and development is vital to maintaining competitive advantage the Company has not purchased any ordinary shares of 1p each.
and securing future income streams.
The extent of the Groups During the year, 1,049,481 shares were transferred out of treasury commitment to research and development is detailed throughout to meet the Companys obligations under its employee share plans the business review.
and no shares were cancelled out of treasury.
People Authority to allot shares The Group depends on the skills and commitment of its Also included in the special business of the 2010 AGM are proposals employees in order to achieve its goals.
Information on employee to renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash and to engagement, equal opportunities including policies relating disapply statutory pre-emption rights, up to prescribed limits.
to disabled persons and training can be found in the People Further details are given in the Notice of AGM.
section of the business review.
Social and environmental responsibility The Group is committed to operating in an ethical and environmentally sustainable way.
Details of the Groups commitment to this approach and community involvement and charitable donations can be found in the section on social and environmental responsibility.
Annual Report 2010 | Misys plc 53 Directors report Overview Business review Substantial shareholdings As at 26 July 2010, the voting interests shown below in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, had been notified to the Company.
of ordinary Nature of Holder share capital shares holding ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. 25.74% 140,764,642 Direct VA Partners I, LLC, ValueAct Capital Management, L. P. ValueAct Capital Management, LLC, ValueAct Holdings, L. P. 1 ValueAct Holdings, L. P. and ValueAct Holdings GP, LLC 25.74% 140,764,642 Indirect Schroders plc on behalf of Schroder Investment Management Ltd, Schroder Investment Management North America Ltd and Schroder & Co Ltd 5.33% 26,708,863 Indirect FMR LLC and its Group 5.14% 25,890,800 Indirect Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. 5.06% 27,677,470 See below Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. 4.81% 26,298,748 Indirect Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. 0.14% 745,317 Direct Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. 0.12% 633,405 CFDs Highside Capital Management L. P. 4.59% 25,269,730 Indirect Legal & General Group Plc and its subsidiaries 3.99% 21,868,430 Direct Lloyds TSB Group plc 3.02% 16,492,181 Indirect 1 This notification has been reported on an aggregated basis and includes the 25.74 % holding of ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. shown above.
Share Capital and rights attaching to shares A separate circular accompanying this Annual Report contains the The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Notice of AGM and explains the business to be considered at the shares, in addition to those conferred by law, are set out in the Articles.
A copy of the Notice is also published on the Companys website.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings In line with other companies, we are asking shareholders to approve of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
the adoption of new articles of association primarily to reflect the Further details regarding voting at the AGM and procedures for implementation of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations the appointment of a proxy can be found in the notes to the Notice 2009 and the remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
We of AGM and on the AGM proxy form itself.
have also taken the opportunity to update language and style in line with best practice.
An explanation of the main changes between the There are no shares carrying special control rights with regard existing Articles and the new articles of association is set out in the to control of the Company.
Shares to be acquired through the Notice of AGM.
Companys employee share plans rank equally with the ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
There are no known Going concern arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person After making due enquiries, embracing the normal forecasting other than the holder of the ordinary shares.
process, the Directors consider that the Group and the Company have adequate resources and committed borrowing facilities Details of certain restrictions on transfer or voting rights attaching to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
to the Companys ordinary shares are also included in the Articles.
Consequently, they have continued to adopt the going concern The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders basis in preparing the financial statements.
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or voting rights.
Auditors Each of the Companys Directors in office as at the date of this Significant agreements and change of control report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate information, that is, information needed by the Companys auditors upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, in connection with preparing their report, of which the Companys such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property auditors are unaware, and that s he has taken all steps which s he lease arrangements and employee share plans.
With the exception ought to have taken as a Director in order to make her himself aware of the bank loan agreements noted above, there is no individual of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors contractual arrangement that is considered to be essential to the are aware of that information.
continuing operation of the Group.
 LLP PwC have expressed their In addition, there exist agreements between the Company and its willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to Chief Executive and certain senior employees which provide for reappoint them and authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration compensation for loss of office or employment due to a takeover.
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Further information is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
By Order of the Board Annual General Meeting The 2010 AGM will take place at 12 noon on Wednesday 29 September Tom Kilroy 2010 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED.
EVP General Counsel & Company Secretary 26 July 2010 54 Misys plc | Annual Report 2010
