Board of Directors Overview Business review 4 234 123 Mike Lawrie Sir James Crosby John King Chief Executive 57 Chairman 54 Non-executive Director 71 Mike joined the Board in November 2006.
Sir James Crosby joined the Board as a Appointed a non-executive Director in Mike was previously a general partner with non-executive Director in January 2009 and November 2005.
John is Chairman of the ValueAct Capital.
Prior to that, he was held that role until September 2009 when Remuneration Committee.
He has over Chief Executive Officer of Siebel Systems he was appointed Chairman.
He was Chief 30 years experience of the US healthcare Inc. the international software and solutions Executive of HBOS plc from 2001 to 2006, industry, most recently as President and company, from 2004 to 2005.
Mike spent and was the senior independent Director of Chief Executive of Legacy Health Systems 27 years with IBM where he rose to become ITV plc from 2003 to 2009.
Prior to Legacy, John was Senior Vice President and Group Executive independent Director of Compass Group plc, President and Chief Executive Officer of with responsibility for sales and distribution and a Trustee of Cancer Research UK.
Evangelical Health Systems now Advocate of all IBM products and services worldwide.
He is a member of the Previously at IBM he had been the General American Hospital Association and a Fellow Manager for all operations in Europe, the in the American College of Healthcare Middle East and Africa.
John serves on the boards on the US Advisory Board of NTT DoCoMo of the Center for Healthcare Governance, and as a Director of SSA Global, Inc, Symbol Pacific University and AHA Services, Inc. Technology, Inc. and Good Technology, Inc. Mike is the lead independent non-executive Director of Juniper Networks, Inc. and is also a Trustee of Drexel University, Philadelphia.
50 Misys plc | Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Financial statements 123 4 123 John Ormerod Jeff Ubben Philip Rowley Senior independent Director 61 Non-executive Director 49 Non-executive Director 57 Appointed a non-executive Director in Appointed a non-executive Director in Appointed a non-executive Director in October 2005 and senior independent January 2007.
Jeff Ubben is a co-founder, November 2008.
Philip Rowley was Director in November 2005.
John Ormerod Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Chairman and Chief Executive of AOL is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He Investment Officer of ValueAct Capital, Europe until February 2007.
He is a qualified is a chartered accountant and has over a San Francisco based investment partnership.
chartered accountant and was Group 30 years experience in professional practice.
Prior to that, he was a Managing Partner at Finance Director of Kingfisher plc from 1998 He is a non-executive Director of Gemalto NV, BLUM Capital Partners, a private investment to 2001.
His previous roles included Computacenter plc, ITV plc, and Chairman partnership, and previously spent eight years Executive Vice President and Chief Financial of Tribal Group plc.
John is also a Trustee at Fidelity Management and Research, Officer of EMI Music Worldwide and Chief of the Design Museum.
where he managed the Fidelity Value Fund.
Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer Jeff is a Director of Sara Lee Corp. and of Golden Books Family Entertainment, the Gartner Group, Inc. and previously served largest childrens book publisher in the US.
on the boards of Per-Se Technologies, Inc.
He was also the co-founder of Tribeca and of Catalina Marketing Corp.
He is a Technologies, a New York-based technology former Chairman and Director of Martha company, a former non-executive Director Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc. and has of Tradus plc previously QXL Ricardo plc served on a number of other public and until its fide-listing in March 2008 and a private companies.
former Chairman of Skinkers Limited.
He is a non-executive Director of HMV Group plc, ARM Holdings Plc, and Promethean World Plc and is Chairman of Livestation Limited.
Notes 1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Nomination Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee 4 Member of the Executive Committee Membership of Committees and ages are as at 26 July 2010.
