Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information It is a key principle of the Group to align the interests of the Directors and other employees Key performance with those of its shareholders.
Executive remuneration therefore includes measures linked to the KPIs below.
Full details of the various schemes in operation are shown indicators from page 40 in the Report on Directors remuneration.
During FY 2010, with the support of shareholders, a new long-term incentive plan was introduced which linked awards to the increase in the market capitalisation of the Company over a three-year performance period, subject to an additional performance condition related to EPS growth.
In FY 2010 Mitchells & Butlers implemented and monitored its performance against its strategy principally through three KPIs.
The performance in the year was as shown below.
KPI KPI fide nitions Progress in FY 2010 1.
Same outlet The sales this year compared to the sales Mitchells & Butlers operational and like-for-like sales growth in the previous year of all managed pubs marketing plans have delivered robust that were trading throughout the two years like-for-like sales growth of 2.0% in being compared, expressed as a percentage.
FY 2010 compared with the prior year 1.6% in FY 2009.
EPS growth Adjusted earnings per share for the Sales growth combined with good year compared to last year, as reported operational control increased operating in the financial statements, expressed as pro ts by 7.3% and EPS by 25.8% down a percentage.
Incremental return Incremental return is the growth in The performance in this area has been on expansionary capital annual pub operating pro t expressed strong and remains well above our cost as a percentage of the associated capital of capital.
Pre-tax returns of 28% are investment for sites having received being achieved on the expansionary expansionary investment over the last two capital projects carried out over the last financial years.
Pubs are included once they two years 13% on the same basis at have been trading for three months.
For FY 2009. pubs which have not been trading for a full 12 months, incremental return is estimated based on an annualisation of actual postinvestment trading.
Expansionary capital is capital invested to increase the trading area of a pub or to materially change the customer offer.
Expansionary capital represents investment over and above the maintenance investment cycle for a pub.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 19 Annual report and accounts 2010
