39 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 David Jenkins Board of Directors Senior Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Roger Matthews Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees Non-Executive Chairman David was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March Chairman of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee 2006.
David was previously a senior Partner with Deloitte LLP in London having spent over 20 years in Assurance and Advisory Roger was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of MITIE Services.
David is Chairman of Development Securities PLC Group PLC in December 2006 and was later appointed as 01 and a Non-Executive Director of Renewable Energy Systems Non-Executive Chairman in July 2008.
Roger previously held the Holdings Limited.
He is a Governor of Downe House School.
roles of Group Finance Director of J Sainsbury plc and Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director of Compass Graeme Potts Group PLC.
Roger is Non-Executive Chairman of LSL Property Non-Executive Director Services PLC and a Non-Executive Director of Zetar PLC.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Ian Stewart Graeme was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 2006.
Graeme previously held appointments with Inchcape PLC, 06 RAC Motoring Services and Reg Vardy plc.
He is a NonIan was appointed as Chief Executive of MITIE Group PLC in 2001 Executive Director of BEN, the Motor & Allied Trades Benevolent and was appointed as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman on Fund and is Non-Executive Chairman of Bikers Legal Defence 30 March 2007.
Ian was a founding member of MITIE.
Graeme is Managing Director of Eden GM Limited, Non-Executive Director of Generation UK Limited, suppliers of a motor retail group.
scaffolding, access and safety systems.
Terry Morgan CBE Ruby McGregor-Smith Non-Executive Director Chief Executive 14 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Ruby was appointed as Group Finance Director of MITIE Group Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees PLC in December 2002, later appointed as Chief Operating Terry was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2009.
Officer in September 2005 and subsequently as Chief Executive He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and is a in March 2007.
Prior to joining MITIE, Ruby held a range of senior member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is roles within the support services sector, primarily at Serco Group currently Chairman of Crossrail and holds positions at Altar plc.
In addition, she is a Non-Executive Director of Michael Page Innovations Ltd, M J Gleeson Group PLC and Invest in Thames International plc and Chair of Race for Opportunity, a part of Gateway London Limited.
Terry was previously Chief Executive the Business in the Community BitC organisation with a focus 60 of Tube Lines Limited and has also held appointments with on diversity in the workplace.
BAE systems, Rover Group PLC and Lucas Girling Limited.
Suzanne Baxter Larry Hirst CBE Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Suzanne was appointed as Group Finance Director of MITIE Member of the Audit Committee Group PLC in April 2006.
Larry joined MITIE as a Non-Executive Director 1 February Prior to joining MITIE, she specialised in mergers and acquisitions 2010.
He is currently Chairman of IBM Europe, Middle East related transaction support and also held a number of and Africa and has held a number of senior positions during commercial and operational roles with Serco Group plc.
his career with IBM over the past 32 years.
He was previously Suzanne holds a seat on the Opportunity Now Advisory Board, General Manager, IBM Northern Region and Chief Executive a part of the BitC organisation with a focus on gender diversity IBM UK & Ireland.
Larry is also Non-Executive Chairman of UK in the workplace, and is also a member of the Finance and Risk Trade and Industry Technology Board, Chairman of e-skills Committee of BitC.
Sector Skills Council, a Commissioner of the UK Commission for Employment and Skills and a UK Business Ambassador.
Roger Goodman Group Corporate Development Director Roger joined MITIE Group PLC in 1993 and was appointed as an Executive Director in August 2001.
Roger is a Non-Executive Director of The Business Services Association and Asset Skills Council, which advocates the growth of the support services industry profile and the development of skills in the sector.
In addition, he is Chairman of Networkers International plc.
Bill Robson Director responsible for Property Management Bill joined MITIE Group PLC in January 1992 following the acquisition of Trident Maintenance Services Limited and was appointed as an Executive Director in August 2001.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview 40 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report: corporate governance statement Compliance with the Code The Board recognises that the manner in which the Group is governed is critical to the long-term success of the business and is committed to the principles of corporate governance, for which the Board is accountable to shareholders, as detailed in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 the Code.
This report, together with the Directors Remuneration report, provides details of key aspects of MITIEs corporate governance environment and explains the manner in which the Board has applied the principles and provisions of good governance as set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Throughout the reporting period, significant consideration has been given to the balance of the Board and its Committees and the Board is conscious of any non-compliance with the Code.
As at the date of this report, the membership and composition of MITIEs Board and its Committees is such that it meets substantially the requirements of the Code, with the only exception being that the Board composition reflects a ratio of 4:5 of independent Directors to non-independent Directors compared to a 1:1 requirement under the Code.
The Board is satisfied with the balance and composition of the Board following its extensive review during the year.
The Board confirms that the Group has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year other than as noted above, with the exception that: the Board did not consist of at least an equal number of independent Non-Executive and Executive Directors Code A.
3 between 1 April 2009 and 1 July 2009 and between 30 September 2009 and 1 February 2010.
Further details relating to this noncompliance are provided below: the Audit Committee did not consist of at least three independent Non-Executive Directors Code C. 3.1 between 1 April 2009 and 1 July 2009 and between 30 September 2009 and 1 February 2010.
Further details relating to this non-compliance are provided on page 42: the Nomination Committee did not consist of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors Code A.
Further details relating to this non-compliance are provided at on page 41.
Board structure and operations Board membership The membership of the Board as at 31 March 2010 and biographical details of the Directors including details of committee chairmanships and other positions held are given on page 39.
During the year two Non-Executive Directors were appointed Terry Morgan CBE and Larry Hirst CBE and one retired from the Board Ishbel Macpherson.
Terry Morgan succeeded Ishbel as chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and also became a member of the Nomination Committee and both Terry and Larry became members of the Audit Committee.
These Board changes occurred in accordance with the Boards pre-existing orderly succession planning.
Details of those Directors seeking re-appointment at the 2010 AGM are provided in the Notice of AGM which is also available at www.
Board operations Matters that are exclusively dealt with by the Board include: setting Group objectives and strategies: approving business plans and budgets and monitoring performance against these: approving material tenders, acquisitions, disposals and business start-ups, including any material transactions outside of the normal course of business: approving the Groups Half-yearly and Annual Report and Accounts: appointing and removing the Chairman, Directors and Company Secretary: and monitoring the Groups corporate governance arrangements.
Approvals are managed in accordance with the Groups delegated authorities and matters are also set out in a schedule of matters reserved for the Board which are available at www.
Board responsibility There is a clear division between the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive as formally set out in the terms of reference for each of these roles.
These terms of reference have been reviewed as part of the review of the job specification of the Chairman.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the Board.
This includes ensuring that the Non-Executive Directors contribute effectively and that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the Board addresses major challenges faced by MITIE and for the effective performance of the Board and its committees.
The Chairman is available to consult with shareholders throughout the year and will be available at the AGM.
The Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of the operation and management of the Group and its business within the authorities delegated by the Board.
The Executive Directors are collectively responsible for proposing strategy and for making and implementing operational decisions.
Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising their independent skill and judgement and contributing to the formulation of strategy, policy and decision making.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at MITIEs registered office, the head office and at the AGM.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders should they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or for which such contact is inappropriate in the circumstances.
41 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Board balance and independence During the year, Non-Executive Director independence was considered by the Board.
The Board determined that all NonExecutive Directors as at 31 March 2010, with the exception of the Deputy Chairman Ian Stewart, were independent in mind and judgement, and free from any material relationship that could interfere with their ability to discharge their duties effectively.
Specific consideration was given to David Jenkins prior role with Deloitte LLP MITIEs external auditors.
The Board determined that David is independent given that he had not been involved in the provision of services to MITIE and the passage of time since his departure from Deloitte LLP in May 2004.
01 As part of the ongoing review of Board performance the Nomination Committee and the Board specifically reviewed the roles of Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and the composition and chairmanship of each of its committees.
The Board and the Nomination Committee recognised that, partly as a result of the changes in Board composition, there was an imbalance in the number of non-independent Directors and independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the skills, knowledge and experience required to fill this additional position and provided a detailed specification to the external search consultancy engaged to conduct the search process.
This detailed search process was concluded on 1 February 2010 when the Board was pleased to announce the appointment of Larry Hirst as an independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board was broadly satisfied that its composition was appropriate having regard in particular to the integrity, skills, knowledge and 06 experience of its Directors and the size and nature of the business, and having regard to its desire that the Board does not become too large and unwieldy.
The Board as at 31 March was comprised of four independent Non-Executive Directors, a Non-Executive Director deemed non-independent as a result of his prior role as CEO of the Group, the Non-Executive Chairman and four Executive Directors.
This will not result in absolute compliance with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code and whilst the Board remains broadly satisfied with the composition and balance, however, the Board continues to be mindful of the need to maintain a balanced board and continues to keep the matter under careful review.
Board committees The Board has four formally constituted committees: the Audit Committee: the Executive Committee: the Nomination Committee: 14 and the Remuneration Committee for which the duties and responsibilities are set out in the terms of reference available at www.
Further details in relation to the composition, role and functioning of each committee are set out below.
In addition, the Group operates an Executive Board.
It is not a formally constituted committee of the Board, operating solely under the delegated powers of the Chief Executive, but is charged with supporting the Chief Executive in the operational management of the Group.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee members are Ruby McGregor-Smith: Suzanne Baxter: Roger Goodman and Bill Robson.
It functions 60 primarily as an approval and signing committee and meets on an ad hoc basis, as and when required, with powers specifically delegated to it by the Board and formally six times per annum with the more widely constituted Executive Board.
Nomination Committee As at 17 May 2010, the members of the Committee are: Roger Matthews Committee Chairman : David Jenkins and Terry Morgan.
Ruby McGregor-Smith has stepped down from the Committee but continues to attend meetings at the invitation of the chairman.
During the reporting period, the Committee met the provisions of the Code if the Chairman is not included and deemed non-independent.
During the year two meetings of the Committee took place.
A key function of the Committee is to evaluate the balance and composition of the Board and ensure that new Directors bring the requisite skills, knowledge and experience required for the role being considered.
During the year the Committee oversaw the Board succession planning as well as the recruitment of new directors.
Appointments recommended to the Board by the Committee are done in accordance with the Committees appointment and recruitment process.
Remuneration Committee As at 17 May 2010, the members of the Committee are: Terry Morgan Committee member and Chairman from 10 July 2009 : David Jenkins: Roger Matthews: and Graeme Potts.
During the year the Remuneration Committees members were Ishbel Macpherson prior to her retirement on 30 September 2009 : David Jenkins: Graeme Potts and Terry Morgan all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors: Roger Matthews, who was independent prior to his appointment as Chairman is no longer deemed independent under the Code.
The Committee held eight meetings throughout the reporting period: comprises independent Non-Executive Directors and meets the requirements of the Code.
The key duty of the Remuneration Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the individual remuneration packages of Executive Directors.
As a part of this process the Committee oversaw the administration of the Group LTIP, ESOS and SAYE schemes as further detailed in the Remuneration Report and the benchmarking and review of Executive Director remuneration.
During the year the Committee has been advised by the external remuneration consultant Kepler Associates in relation to Executive Director remuneration through formal benchmarking with market and industry comparators.
Kepler Associates do not have any connection with the Group other than their formal appointment as advisers by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board is responsible for reviewing and setting the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are not involved in discussions concerning their own remuneration.
Further details on Executive, Non-Executive Director remuneration and the Companys share schemes are given in the Remuneration report.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview 42 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report: corporate governance statement The Audit Committee Role of the Committee The Audit Committee is generally responsible for: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial statements and for any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements therein: monitoring and reviewing the independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process and the effectiveness and implementation of the Group policy on the provision of non-audit services the Non-Audit Services Policy : monitoring and reviewing the integrity and effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls environment, internal audit function and business risk management structures: and making recommendations to the Board on shareholder resolutions for the appointment of, and remuneration for, external auditors.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available at [www.
com investors corporate governance] and include the requirements of Rule 7.21 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR and the Code that the Company has a formally constituted audit committee comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The chairman of the Committee will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Committee composition The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors and is currently chaired by David Jenkins.
During the year the Audit Committee comprised: David Jenkins: Terry Morgan with effect from his appointment on 1 July 2009 : and Larry Hirst with effect from his appointment on 1 February 2010 and Ishbel Macpherson who ceased to be a member of the Committee upon her retirement from the Board on 30 September 2009.
All members of the Committee are considered as being appropriately experienced to fulfil their duties, whilst David Jenkins continues to be deemed by the Board as at the date of this report, to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience through his qualifications and held appointments.
The Committee ordinarily consists of at least three members and requires two members to be present to be quorate.
Due to the board changes throughout the year, the Committee comprised only two members between 31 March 2009 and 1 July 2009 and 30 September 2009 and 1 February 2010 but with effect from 1 February 2010 the Committees composition meets the requirements of the Code.
Meetings of the Committee During the year the Audit Committee held three meetings see summary below.
The Audit Committee invited the external auditors, Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Head of Business Risk to attend relevant parts of the meetings of the Committee.
The matters under consideration at these meetings included: generally monitoring the Groups financial reporting process and the statutory audit of the annual and consolidated Group accounts: the Half-yearly Financial Report and Annual Report and Accounts: critical accounting policies and judgements: the review of the external auditors audit plan, nature and scope of work and overall summary of key issues and judgements: the re-appointment of the external auditors: the approval of fees for the external auditors: the effectiveness of the external auditors including the appropriateness and skills of the audit team: compliance with the Non-Audit Services Policy by the external auditors and maintenance of auditor independence: the approval of the Group risk assurance framework and the internal audit plan for the year ending 31 March 2010: the review of key internal audit reports and findings: and generally monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control, audit and risk management systems and functions.
The Committee also met separately with the external auditors and the Head of Business Risk without the presence of the Executive Directors.
Internal audit function The remit of the Audit Committee also includes monitoring the internal audit function and the arrangements by which employees may raise concerns regarding any matters of financial reporting or other perceived improprieties across the Group.
The Groups internal audit function reports directly to the Group Counsel and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee continues to review the size of the internal audit function to ensure that it maintains a strong recognition of the increasing size and complexity of the Group and the increasing emphasis placed upon remediation, rectification and re-audit of issues identified through the internal audit programme.
During the year whistle-blowing activity has been communicated to the Committee along with the 43 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 results of investigations carried out.
These investigations have not identified any risks that result in a material, unmitigated exposure to the Group.
External auditors Prior to 1994, MITIE was audited by BDO Binder Hamlyn who merged their practice with Touche Ross & Co.
Since 1994, MITIE Group PLC has been audited by the firm now known as Deloitte LLP previously Touche Ross & Co, Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Each year the Audit Committee reviews auditor performance in respect of audit services, audit-related services and non-audit services.
The Audit Committee is committed to ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and 01 confirms that the requirements of the Non-Audit Services Policy have been met throughout the year.
When considering the appointment of the external auditor, there are no contractual obligations that restrict the Audit Committees capacity to recommend a particular firm for appointment.
The Committee has determined that, providing the work of the external auditors remains entirely satisfactory, formal consideration of a tender process will take place at the Audit Committees discretion.
The lead audit engagement partner is rotated every five years, with the next rotation due in respect of the year ending 31 March 2014.
The Audit Committee has approved a Non-Audit Services Policy that ensures that the Audit Committee has visibility over the levels of non-audit work performed by the Auditors and requires the consent of the chairman of the Audit Committee for any non-audit 06 spend with the auditors that, on an annual basis cumulatively exceeds 50% of the annual audit fee and or where any item, regardless of amount, is considered significant.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that this policy provides sufficient control over the levels of non-audit spend with the Auditors whilst providing sufficient flexibility for the Group Finance Director to approve expenditure on advice below those levels.
This policy generally restricts the external auditors from performing work which will result in them auditing their own work, making management decisions for the Group, creating a conflict of interest, finding themselves in the role of advocate for MITIE or creating any potential threat to their independence.
Additionally, the external auditors will only be considered for the provision of non-audit services if they are best suited to perform the work in question.
Deloitte LLP also maintains its own internal controls designed to safeguard its independence.
A summary of the fees paid to the external auditors is given in Note 5 to the financial statements.
14 Board meetings Directors are supplied with an agenda and supporting papers for all Board meetings on a timely basis.
This ensures that each Director is appropriately briefed and able to discharge their duties properly.
Papers submitted regularly for the Boards review include reports on: health and safety: current trading and performance: corporate development activities and matters relating to corporate governance.
The Board will also receive, from time to time, detailed presentations from non-Board members on operational matters.
The Board, its committees and its Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, where appropriate, external independent legal advice funded by MITIE.
In addition to scheduled Board and committee 60 meetings during the year, the Chairman met the Non-Executive Directors on several occasions without the Executive Directors being present.
All Directors are expected, where possible, to attend all Board meetings and the AGM.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, there were six scheduled Board meetings.
Additional unscheduled Board meetings were held to deal with the review and approval of acquisitions and issues relating to shares and other administrative matters.
Dedicated budget review meetings have also been held.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and committee meetings Audit, Remuneration and Nomination of which they are members is shown in the following table: Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings held in year: 6 3 8 2 R J Matthews 6 7 2 I R Stewart 6 R McGregor-Smith 6 2 S C Baxter 6 N R Goodman 6 W Robson 6 D S Jenkins 6 3 8 2 1 I J S Macpherson 3 1 4 G J Potts 6 8 2 T K Morgan CBE 4 2 4 3 L Hirst CBE 1 1 1 Ishbel Macpherson retired from the Board 30 September 2009.
2 Terry Morgan was appointed 1 July 2009.
3 Larry Hirst was appointed 1 February 2010.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview 44 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report: corporate governance statement Director appointment, induction and training Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company and the provisions of the Companies Acts.
All Directors are subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years in accordance with the Articles of Association and the Code.
The Board has a general policy that: all new Directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment: that each new Director receives a tailored induction suitable to their role: and that all new Directors receive a tailored information pack which includes a copy of MITIEs Memorandum and Articles of Association, latest Annual Report and Accounts, committee terms of reference and copies of recent Board minutes and supporting papers.
The Notice of AGM contains details of those Directors who are retiring by rotation and are proposed for re-election.
As part of the formal Board evaluation, the Board has considered the performance of each Director seeking re-election and is satisfied that they continue to be effective and demonstrate clear commitment to their role.
Board performance The Board is committed to effective and rigorous review of its performance and that of the committees and individual Directors and accordingly a formal evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its committees and of each Director is performed annually.
Director performance evaluation for the current year has been carried out using a combination of formal appraisal questionnaires completed by all Board members and through informal meetings and discussions.
The results of these reviews are reported to the Board and used to improve the Boards performance.
Results of the prior year appraisal process identified an overall level of satisfaction with the performance of the Board and that of its committees and Directors.
Notwithstanding this, several further improvements in Board operation have been implemented during the reporting year, including the restructuring of reporting format and content, the greater use of Board briefings by senior management or executive Board members, and have continued to rotate meetings around various Group operational locations.
Directors interests and rights Details of the beneficial and non-beneficial interests including share options of each Director and connected persons in the Ordinary share capital of the Company are provided in the Remuneration Report.
None of the Executive or Non-Executive Directors has a service contract with a notice period greater than 12 months.
All Directors have access to management and the operating businesses of MITIE at their request and have secure remote access to Board and other relevant papers held on a dedicated online facility.
Directors indemnities The Company maintains Directors and officers liability insurance providing appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors and or officers.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company extend the protection provided to Directors in respect of any litigation against Directors relating to their position as a Director of the Company and specifically provide that the Company may indemnify Directors against any liability incurred in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company and that the Company may fund defence costs.
Individual Directors would still be liable to pay damages awarded to the Company in any action against them by the Company and to repay their defence costs to the extent funded by the Company if their defence was unsuccessful.
Director conflicts The Board has a formal policy on the declaration and management of director conflicts in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
Any potential situation or transactional conflict must be reported as soon as possible to the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Where a potential conflict is authorised under the statutory powers and powers granted under the Articles of Association to the Board, such conflict is kept under ongoing review.
External appointments and commitments Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments outside the Group provided permission is sought from the Chairman and the Chief Executive and that the additional appointments do not interfere with the Directors ability to discharge their duties effectively.
The commitments outside the Group of the Executive Directors are detailed in the remuneration report on page 54.
Executive Directors are entitled to retain any fees earned from these external appointments.
45 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Statement on Internal Controls Introduction The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed to support the Groups pursuit of achieving its objectives and strategies and also the identification and management of risks that may impact upon MITIE and upon the environment in which the Group operates.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve these objectives and strategies and it will only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement and loss.
Internal control framework 01 The Board and senior management are responsible for maintaining and developing a culture of integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility throughout the Group.
Essential to this is the recruitment and retention of highly-skilled individuals who promote the highest standards of integrity, competence, governance and ethical behaviour.
Group policies and procedures support the business by providing an operational internal control framework for the Group, each division and operating business to work within.
This framework is designed to balance the need for Group-wide consistency and control with the autonomy that local management require to develop and manage each operating business successfully.
In order to delegate responsibilities clearly and effectively to the Groups operating businesses and to ensure compliance with the matters reserved for the Board, a formal delegated authorities matrix is issued to all operating subsidiaries that includes both financial and non-financial authorities and 06 matters relating to strategy, contract approval, recruitment, capital expenditure, banking transactions and specific Group policies.
Each operating subsidiary is headed by a managing or regional director who has authority to manage their business within this framework of delegated authorities and Group policies and procedures outlined above.
To support the business further, the Group has a team of specialist resources with individuals responsible for specific functions including legal, health and safety, IT, insurance, human resources, tax, pensions, purchasing, finance and business risk.
Regular dialogue between these functions and the operating businesses provides additional support and forms a key part of the system of internal control.
Monitoring the system of internal control 14 The Board is responsible for monitoring the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Monitoring is carried out throughout the year via the receipt and review of various reports, presentations and discussions with management, as set out above.
Specifically, the Audit Committee supports the Board by monitoring and guiding the activities of the internal audit function, including approving the internal audit programme, reviewing regular internal audit reports from the business risk function and via meetings with the Head of Business Risk.
The internal audit programme is designed to provide a level of assurance over key risks as identified in the Group risk register and is developed by the Head of Business Risk who reports to the General Counsel and independently to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from the external auditors who contribute a further independent perspective on certain aspects of the internal financial control systems arising from their work.
60 As necessary, the Audit Committee will have dialogue with the Executive Directors on their control responsibilities and in particular, those relating to specific matters reported by internal or external audit.
Risk management The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board also confirms that this process has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and that this process is monitored by the Board in accordance with the revised guidance on internal control issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing risks requires the Group and its principal businesses to consider strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks and the effectiveness of the mitigating controls based on a preand post-controls risk evaluation.
The principal risks identified from this process are recorded on risk registers which are maintained by the Groups Business Risk function.
This register is reviewed periodically at least twice per year by the Board.
The risk register forms the basis of the internal audit programme for each year with risk areas reviewed on an annual to triennial basis dependent upon materiality and inherent risk assessment.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control In line with Turnbull Guidance, the Board performs a formal annual assessment of the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control and updates this assessment prior to the signing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board also holds discussions with senior management and reviews the results of a formal internal controls review and system effectiveness confirmation from each operating subsidiary.
The Head of Business Risk attends each Audit Committee meeting to provide regular updates on the effectiveness of the groups internal controls.
The Board confirms that management has taken steps during the year to improve further the system of internal control, embed effective controls further into the operations of the Group and to address improvements as they come to managements attention.
These steps are monitored at executive level to ensure they are implemented appropriately and that ultimately they are effective.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview 46 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Statement on Internal Controls Consolidated accounts preparation and financial reporting The consolidated accounts of the Group are prepared by the Group Finance function that is responsible for the review and compilation of reports and financial results from each of the operating divisions and subsidiaries within the Group, in accordance with the group internal control and reporting procedures.
Each operating division support their report and results submission with a statement of compliance with the Groups principal internal controls which is subject to review and sample audit by the internal audit function.
In addition, the representations made by the Board in support of the consolidated financial statements including those in relation to the operating divisions are supported by detailed papers and cascaded reporting requirements throughout the Group, all of which are reviewed by internal audit and presented to the Audit Committee and the Board for final approval.
Internal control systems: information and communication The Group maintains a number of systems and processes that report relevant information to Group executive management and the Board as necessary.
This includes financial and non-financial information regarding business performance, compliance with policy and procedure, relevant regulations and business critical matters.
At an operational level each division and business holds regular executive board meetings.
To maintain and develop relationships between separate divisions and to address specific matters, regional meetings are also held and are attended by regional representatives of each division.
Senior Group management also regularly attend these meetings.
Going concern The Directors acknowledge the Financial Reporting Council guidance on going concern issued in October 2009.
The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review as referred to on page 38.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 30 to 33.
In addition, Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current committed banking facility of 230.0m which expires in January 2012.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Auditors Disclosure of information to the auditors Each of the Directors in office as of the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information required by the auditors in the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he she has each taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of such information.
This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Re-appointment of auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and the resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
47 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report: other information Financial results and dividends The profit before taxation for the financial year is 79.7m 2009: 75.9m.
The Directors have declared recommended dividends as follows: paid on 4 February 2010 an interim dividend of 3.7p per Ordinary share 13.1m recommended a final dividend of 4.1p per Ordinary share 14.5m total Ordinary dividend of 7.8p per share 2009: 6.9p 27.6m 01 The final dividend, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, will be paid on 13 August 2010 to Ordinary shareholders on the register on 25 June 2010.
The Company operates a Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP.
Further details on the operation of the DRIP can be obtained from the Company registrar.
Capital structure and powers of shareholders Details of changes to the Companys share capital are given in Note 28 to the financial statements.
The Company has a single class of shares 2.5p Ordinary shares with no right to any fixed income and with each share carrying the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Under the Companys Articles of Association holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to 06 participate in any dividends pro rata to their holding.
The Board may propose and pay interim dividends and recommend a final dividend for approval by the shareholders at the AGM.
A final dividend may be declared by the shareholders in a general meeting by ordinary resolution, but such dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Certain shares that are issued as consideration upon acquisition by the Company of the shares of minority shareholders in MITIE Model companies have restrictions placed upon them that both prevent the transfer of such shares and or attach specific clawback provisions for periods of up to two years following allotment.
Otherwise, there are no specific restrictions on the size of any shareholding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company available at www.
com investors corporate-governance and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of 14 any agreements between Company shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Details of employee share schemes are set out below and in Note 32 to the Accounts.
The 2009 AGM authorised: the Directors to allot under s80 Companies Act 1985 up to 122,805,320 shares representing 38% of the issued share capital as at the date of the Notice of AGM during the reporting period, the Directors utilised this authority and the preceding authority to allot 30,153,652 shares: 60 the dis-application under Sections 94-95 Companies Act 1985 of pre-emption rights over allotted shares up to a total of 16,150,903 shares representing 5% of the issued share capital as at the date of the Notice of AGM : and the Company to make market purchases of its own shares up to a total of 32,301,805 shares representing 10% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2009.
Further details of these authorisations are available in the notes to the 2009 Notice of AGM available at www.
Shareholders are referred to the 2010 Notice of AGM which accompanies this report and or is available at www.
com investors which contains similar such provisions.
These provisions have been updated to take account of the implementation of the relevant sections of the Companies Act 2006 which came into effect on 1 October 2009.
In August 2009, the Company announced the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Dalkia Technical Facilities Management which was part funded through the placement of 19 million 2.5p ordinary shares in the Company which constitutes less than 10% of MITIEs current issued share capital.
The proceeds of the placing were used to partly refinance the debt drawn down to satisfy the transaction consideration.
During the year to 31 March 2010 there have been no purchases by the Company of MITIE shares.
The exact amount and timing of future purchases will be determined by the Company and will be dependent on market conditions and other factors.
It is the Companys present intention to cancel any shares it buys back, rather than hold them in treasury, but this policy will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
Further details on the proposed renewal of powers for share buyback and the allotment of shares in the Company are provided in the Notice of AGM.
Under the terms of certain shareholder agreements relating to MITIE Model companies and the articles of association of those companies, certain minority shareholders in such companies may provide an option for the purchase by the Company of their minority shares.
The mechanism for calculating the price to be paid in respect of such transfer is transparent, on an arms-length basis, and in accordance with the pricing structure generally applicable for other transfers under the MITIE Model.
Details of these structures are generally available to the extent incorporated into the articles of association for individual MITIE Model companies from Companies House at www.
There are a number of other agreements with provisions that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as bank facility agreements, property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business or the Group as a whole.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs solely because of a take-over bid.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview 48 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report: other information With regards to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of the Directors are described in the Matters Reserved to the Board available at www.
com investors corporate-governance and as set out above.
Substantial interests in share capital As at 17 May 2010 the Company has been notified of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number of Percentage Ordinary shares of share of 2.5p each capital Majedie Asset Management Limited 16,327,802 5.05% Invesco Limited 16,135,005 4.99% Mirabaud Investment Management Limited 15,673,517 4.95% Legal & General Group PLC 12,666,918 3.92% Fidelity International Limited 10,065,118 3.22% Shareholder communications The Board is committed to an ongoing dialogue with institutional and private investors.
The principal method of communication between the Board and shareholders remains news announcements, the Interim Management Statements, the Half-yearly Financial Report, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Corporate Responsibility Report and MITIEs website, www.
A full programme of formal and informal events, institutional investor meetings and presentations are also held following the Half-yearly Financial Report and Preliminary Results announcements which are led by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available for additional meetings with shareholders upon request.
The Company believes that such meetings should be at the instigation of shareholders and should not be at the active solicitation of the Company.
During the reporting period, no such requests were received by the Company, although all the Non-Executive Directors were present at the 2009 AGM and made themselves available for direct discussions with shareholders.
Latest Group information, financial reports, corporate governance and CR matters, Half-yearly Financial Report and Preliminary Results presentations, major shareholder information and all announcements are made available to shareholders via the MITIE website www.
com which has a specific area dedicated to investor relations.
Significant importance is attached to investor feedback on the Groups performance, and as such the Executive Board receives an investor relations report at each meeting detailing corporate news, share price activity, investor relations activity and major shareholder movements.
The Board is updated by the Executive Directors on these matters and receives detailed analyst and investor feedback following the Half-yearly Financial Report and Preliminary Results presentations.
The AGM also allows shareholders to address and discuss any issues surrounding the Group directly with the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Electronic communications The Directors remain committed to improving and extending the methods in which the Company communicates with its shareholders and wish to move towards an increase in electronic communication.
At the 2007 AGM, shareholders approved certain amendments which aligned the Companys Articles of Association with the new provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to electronic shareholder communications.
The Board has been disappointed with the level of uptake by shareholders to date and would wish to encourage all shareholders to register to receive communications from the Company electronically thus realising the environmental and cost benefits of reduced printing and carriage of hard copy reports and other communications.
Details on how to register are provided on the inside back cover of this report.
AGM The 2010 AGM will be held at the offices of MITIE Group PLC, Ground Floor East, Cottons Centre, Cottons Lane, 47 49 Tooley Street, London, SE1 2QG at 2.30pm on 14 July 2010.
The Notice of AGM will be available at www.
Employee involvement and employee equity-based incentivisation The Board remains committed to fostering and developing a culture of employee involvement in the business through communication with employees and equity involvement whereby employees are enabled to build a stake in the Company through the Companys various equity-based incentive schemes.
Communication with MITIEs employees continues to have a high priority.
The Group communicates with employees through the use of: Group-wide mailings and updates: employee-focused initiatives: the use of Group-wide and business-specific intranet sites: and provision of access to broadcasts of periodic financial presentations.
Through the use of their own communication processes each of the Groups businesses is encouraged to ensure that employees are kept informed on Group and individual business developments.
The Group continues to operate its group-wide MITIE Stars programme to recognise and reward exceptional performance by its people and in 2008 launched MITIEs Got Talent as a Group-wide talent contest to encourage employee engagement and recognition.
The Group CR Report contains further details of these initiatives.
Employees remain actively involved in the Groups activities via an employee forum.
This year the forum held one meeting.
The Board will continue to seek increasing involvement and activity of the employee representatives.
Social networking sites are an increasingly important part of engagement and communication with employees.
49 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The Board believes that the Groups culture of employee equity involvement is a significant driver in the Groups growth performance and that this assists in attracting and retaining skilled and committed employees.
During the year the Group has continued to operate: the MITIE Long Term Incentive Plan to incentivise and reward senior members of the MITIE management team: the Executive Share Option Scheme for certain other employees below Board level and the Savings Related Share Option Scheme which is open to all eligible employees of the Group.
The Board will continue to review and, where appropriate, recommend amendments to equity-incentive schemes, in order to maximise the effectiveness and incentive value of such schemes.
The Group has historically grown by giving entrepreneurial managers the opportunity to create wealth by taking the risk of starting 01 a new business, taking equity stakes at fair value in those new businesses in conjunction with MITIE and then, dependent on a pre-agreed pricing structure, offering to sell that stake to MITIE predominantly in exchange for MITIE shares, at the option of MITIE.
This incentivisation scheme typically provides for such managers to elect to offer their stake in their business to MITIE between the fifth and tenth years from the date of establishment of the business.
Recipients of shares under this incentivisation scheme are generally restricted from selling the MITIE shares received as consideration for a minimum of two years.
The Board believes that this is a unique business model that has driven MITIEs past performance and continues to ensure a close alignment of interest between MITIE shareholders and the management and employees of the Group.
It is the Boards current intention to continue to utilise such structures.
06 Employee involvement, disability and opportunities The Board remains committed to developing further a culture that encourages the inclusion and diversity of all of the Groups employees through respecting and appreciating their differences and to promoting the continuous development of employees through skills enhancement and training programmes.
The Groups employment policies are designed to attract, retain, train and motivate the very best people, recognising that this can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other aspect of diversity.
Applications from disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons including those who become disabled whilst employees of the Group 14 should, as far as reasonably possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise bank loans, finance leases, overdrafts and performance guarantees.
In addition, various other financial instruments such as trade creditors and trade debtors arise from its trade.
The use of interest rate swaps and currency derivatives are used to manage interest and currency risk when necessary or material.
The principal objective of these instruments is to raise funds for general corporate purposes and to manage financial risk.
Further details of these instruments are given in Note 23 to the financial statements.
60 Payment of creditors The Groups policy is to comply with the terms of payment agreed with suppliers, preferably on the Groups standard purchasing terms as notified to suppliers, or otherwise to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
At 31 March 2010, the Group had 31 days purchases outstanding 2009: 34 days.
Fixed assets The Board does not believe that there is any material difference between the book value and the current open market value of the Groups interests in land and buildings.
Events after the balance sheet date There have not been any significant events since the balance sheet date.
Future developments The operating review sets out the Boards view on likely future developments of the Group.
Research and development Given the nature of the Groups activities it does not carry out any material research and development work.
Donations Donations to charity and community projects made during the year amounted to 110,500 2009: 184,018.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations, and during the reporting period no political contributions were made 2009: nil.
The total value of community investment is disclosed in more detail on pages 27 and 28 [and in our CR Report 2010 was 392,483 2009: 603,659 ].
Branch offices The Group operate registered branch offices in the Republic of Ireland and the Isle of Man.
Further details of the Groups principal subsidiaries are given in Note 35 to the financial statements.
By order of the Board Marie-Claire Haines Company Secretary 17 May 2010 Accounts Governance Business review Overview 50 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report: statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and have chosen to prepare Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with IFRS where applicable.
The Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and, provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific IFRS requirements is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and, state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for: keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company: safeguarding the assets: taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities: and the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the relevant requirements of the Companies Acts, Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Financial statements published by the Company on this website are prepared in accordance with UK legislation which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
To the best of each Directors knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards and contained within this Annual Report and Accounts, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with the description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
By order of the Board Ruby McGregor-Smith Suzanne Baxter Chief Executive Group Finance Director 17 May 2010 17 May 2010
