36 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Factors that could affect our business The assessment of risk is part of our culture MITIEs risk is classified into four areas: strategic: operational: 1 financial: and compliance.
The assessment of risk is part of our 2 7 culture and every business segment has a comprehensive risk register that feeds through to the Group risk register which is 6 3 reviewed by our Board.
5 4 We give careful consideration to all the risks in our business and Our strategy how we can best mitigate those risks, but we are also focused on Risk the key risks, and, correspondingly, opportunities, that help meet our business objectives.
Opposite is a summary of the risks that we currently see as critical to our business.
On page 45 of the Directors and governance report there is more detail of our risk identification and management processes.
MITIE provides a wide range of hard and soft services on the nuclear waste management and decommissioning site operated by Sellafield Ltd.
The Sellafield Contractors Safety Award is awarded each year and MITIE won the top award for demonstrating exceptional management of its health and safety performance on-site over a 12-month period after it scored the highest in an audit evaluating total compliance, areas of innovation and outstanding performance.
The inspection looks at other issues including leadership, competence, environmental awareness, employee involvement and development, as well as safety, health and welfare conditions.
The award recognises MITIEs consistent standards which are best practice in health and safety risk management.
37 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic risks Category Examples of risk Mitigation Adaptability of bid teams to market changes.
Pricing of Relationship management programmes in place with Business development tenders.
Agreement of contractual terms and conditions.
Investment in and a regular review Changes to scale and scope of contract works.
Tender and contractual review process with clearly defined approval process.
Attraction and retention Focus on innovation.
Business case for investment in Competitive positioning of talented people.
Ongoing recruitment of new talent.
Maintenance of competitive funding structure.
Strong relationships with equity and debt funders.
01 Attractive reward and retention models for key teams.
Knowledge of local regulations and practices.
Building overseas knowledge through existing work in Trading overseas Exchange rate risk.
Management control over some overseas jurisdictions.
Management of foreign currency exposure.
Financial risks Category Examples of risk Mitigation Client credit risk.
Limits in place to manage exposure to individual Market conditions Economic climate Price competition.
Change in government customers and sub-contractors.
Ongoing dialogue with financial community.
Availability and cost of funding.
Credit risk of 230m facility spread across four banks and ongoing Counterparties insurers and funding providers.
Defined benefit pension relationships with funders.
Client and supply chain exposure.
Daily review of bank balances and quarterly 38 review of covenants.
Controls over acceptance of counterparty risk.
Operational risks Category Examples of risk Mitigation Availability and confidentiality of systems and data.
Malicious software IT Systems Payment of employees.
Provision of technology based protection.
Multiple network routes to data management information solutions to clients.
60 Systems implementation and development programmes.
Project team, governance and roll-out plan in Finance system Processing of high volume transactions.
Payment of place for new developments.
Involvement of employees and suppliers.
In-house resources maintaining business as usual environment.
IT Steering Committee comprising senior executives and relevant professionals.
Attraction and retention of talented people.
Employee reward People Management training.
Management and personal development plans.
Apprenticeship programmes and MITIE talent programmes.
Governance and audit structures to ensure legislative compliance.
Performance of sub-contractors and suppliers Vetting and induction procedures.
Document Sub-contractors and suppliers affecting client relationships.
Divisional T&Cs health and safety and insurance.
Over reliance on key in place.
Flexible workforce and network access.
Working with electricity, gas or Ongoing training for all staff supported by 96 QHSE Health, safety and environment asbestos.
Provision of appropriate equipment and Slips and trips.
Specific procedures in place for high risk areas.
Compliance risks Category Examples of risk Mitigation Insurance covenants.
Group and divisional management systems.
Insurance and material litigation Increasing operational scale.
Annual review of insurance cover.
All incidents reported within 48 hours.
Risk reduction programmes run in conjunction with insurers.
Jurisdictional legislature and changes to it.
Departmental responsibility for relevant regulatory Regulatory Industry licensing.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview
