qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 7 Mondi products Mondis core business is the manufacture of packaging paper, converted packaging products and uncoated fine paper UFP.
Containerboard UFP Corrugated A wide-ranging portfolio of boxes Mondi is a leading European, corrugated case materials Russian and South African virgin and recycled Mondi is a leading supplier producer of UFP, used for containerboard is produced for of all forms of corrugated a wide range of office and corrugated box applications.
packaging, including Pulp professional printing To meet the corrugated conventional boxes and trays, Both hardwood and softwood applications for inkjet and industrys increasing demand point-of-sale displays, Shelfpulp is produced largely for laser printing.
Well-known for excellent lightweight liners Ready Packaging SRP and internal use.
A total of brands include Color Copy, and flutings, Mondi has heavy-duty packaging.
Radio 3.7 million tonnes was MAESTRO and IQ, as well invested in the construction of Frequency Identification produced in 2010, with as the Russian Snegurochka one of the worlds fastest RFID enabled corrugated 0.5 million tonnes sold and South African containerboard machines cases are an integral part of externally.
Coatings & Kraft paper Industrial bags Newsprint consumer packaging Kraft papers within the Mondi is the worlds largest Mondi is a small producer These are high-quality products, Advantage range are widely producer of industrial bags of newsprint and telephone such as extrusion coating used, from industrial and offers a wide variety, directory paper, manufactured products, release liners applications including including ultra-strong and in South Africa and the UK.
building and chemicals air-permeable bags with The Groups expertise in to consumer packaging sophisticated closure extrusion coating, laminating, including food, pet food, techniques.
These products siliconising and printing enables medical and pharmaceuticals.
are used to package, among Mondi to offer customised A wide range of grades is other things, cement, products for the food, pet food, offered, each catering to the chemicals, seeds, animal building, medical and hygiene specific requirements of feed, flour and milk powder, industries among others.
as well as automotive parts Sanocoat, an anti-microbial and organic and bio-waste.
packaging solution for increased shelf-life, is a recent innovation.
