qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 47 DLC executive committee and company secretaries The DLC executive committee is made up of chief executive officer David Hathorn chairman, chief financial officer Andrew King, chief executive officer of the Europe & International Division Peter Oswald, and other senior members of management.
From left: Peter Machacek, Ladimir Pellizzaro, Ron Traill, Philip Laubscher, Carol Hunt which he was retained by the Group as an adviser prior to Peter Machacek, 58 rejoining Mondi as Group technical director in January 2009.
Chief executive officer: Uncoated fine paper & containerboard Ron Traill, 56 Peter Machacek graduated in business administration from Chief executive officer: South Africa Division the University of Vienna in 1976 and began his career with Ron Traill graduated in mechanical engineering and Kienzle Datasysteme and Tetra Pak in Austria.
In 1981 he management from Dundee College in Scotland in 1980. moved to the Frantschach Group as sales and marketing He began his career as an industrial engineer with manager of the groups converting business.
In 1988 he DRG Packaging Group, working in its Scottish paper mill.
became sales director of Patria Papier & Zellstoff, the sales He went on to hold a succession of posts within the company, company for the Frantschach paper mill, and was shortly leading ultimately to his appointment as general manager.
afterwards appointed to the management board of the mill.
Following DRGs acquisition by Sappi in 1990, he worked for 10 years in a number of general management roles.
In 2000 he became executive vice president of Mondi Packaging Paper, responsible for the Dyns, Frantschach, St et and Swiecie Ron has also held senior operational positions with Fletcher paper mills, and subsequently became chief executive officer of Challenge and with Tullis Russell, the UKs largest Mondis packaging paper division, responsible for the Groups independent paper mill.
five newly acquired recycled containerboard mills in Austria, Germany, Italy, Switzerland and the UK.
Peter assumed his He joined Mondi in 2003 as managing director of the St eti pulp and paper mill in the Czech Republic, also assuming current role and joined the management board of the Europe & responsibility for the Mondi packaging paper business in International Division following the reorganisation of the Groups Ruzomber ok, Slovakia.
Ron took up the position of chief operations at the beginning of 2008. executive officer of Mondis South Africa Division in January 2008.
Peter is vice-president of the Austrian Federation of Paper Makers.
Philip Laubscher, 55 Ladimir Pellizzaro, 68 Company secretary Mondi Limited Group technical director Philip Laubscher, who holds BProc and LLB degrees and is Ladimir Pellizzaro graduated in mechanical engineering from an attorney of the High Court of South Africa, was in-house the Federal University of Paran in Brazil, going on to counsel with national power utility Eskom for 15 years specialise in pulp and paper technology.
He acquired before joining Mondi in 1999 as head of legal services.
extensive experience in the pulp and paper industry with a He was appointed company secretary of Mondi Limited in number of Brazilian companies, including Klabin, Aracruz and January 2001.
Suzano, in roles ranging from engineering to operations management and project management.
Carol Hunt, 49 Company secretary Mondi plc Ladimir joined Mondi in 1990, shortly thereafter becoming Carol Hunt, a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & general manager of the then kraft division of Mondi South Administrators, spent 15 years with The BOC Group plc, Africa.
In 1994 he was appointed technical director of Mondi holding various roles in the company secretariat, the last six South Africa and was a key player in the team that drove the years as deputy company secretary.
She joined Mondi in expansion of Mondi into Europe.
In 2000, he moved to November 2006 and was formally appointed company London taking up the role of technical director of Mondi secretary of Mondi plc in May 2007. International with worldwide responsibility for projects, operational optimisation and technical evaluation of major Philip and Carol work together on the co-ordination of acquisitions.
He took a break from Mondi in 2005, following Mondis DLC structure.
