qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 44 Board of directors Top row from left : Colin Matthews, Andrew King, John Nicholas, Peter Oswald Bottom row from left : Imogen Mkhize, David Williams, David Hathorn, Cyril Ramaphosa, Anne Quinn Constitutional Assembly which negotiated South Africas first Cyril Ramaphosa, 58 democratic dispensation.
He holds honourary doctorates Joint chairman from a number of institutions, including the University of Cyril Ramaphosa was appointed joint chairman in May 2007 Pennsylvania and the University of Massachusetts.
and he is also a member of the DLC nominations committee.
David Williams, 65 A law graduate from the University of South Africa Unisa, he joined the Council of Unions of South Africa as a legal Joint chairman adviser in 1981.
He went on to join the National Union of David Williams was appointed to the Mondi Boards as senior Mineworkers, South Africas largest trade union, serving independent director in May 2007 and as joint chairman in as general secretary until 1991.
He is also chairman of the DLC nominations committee and is a member of the DLC remuneration Cyril is currently executive chairman of Shanduka Group committee.
Proprietary Limited, which owns Shanduka Newsprint Proprietary Limited and Shanduka Packaging Proprietary A chartered accountant, David retired as finance director of Limited, and non-executive chairman of telecommunications Bunzl plc in January 2006, having served on the board for group MTN Group Limited.
He is also a non-executive director 14 years.
He is a non-executive director of Dubai-based of insurance group SASRIA Limited, brewing group SABMiller plc, DP World Limited, Tullow Oil plc and Meggitt plc, chairing mining group Lonmin plc, steelmaker MacSteel Global and the audit committees of all three.
He was senior financial services groups Alexander Forbes Equity Holdings independent director of Taylor Wimpey plc until March 2010.
Proprietary Limited and Standard Bank Group Limited.
David is also a former non-executive director of the Cyril is past chairman of the Black Economic Empowerment Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company, Dewhirst Commission in South Africa.
He was chairman of the Group plc and Medeva plc.
44 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R2 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 45 Packaging Europe in 2002, leading its subsequent integration Executive directors with Frantschach into the new Mondi packaging division.
David Hathorn, 48 Chief executive officer At the beginning of 2008 Peter joined the Mondi Boards as David Hathorn graduated in commerce from the University of chief executive officer of the Groups Europe & International Natal and qualified as a chartered accountant in 1987 at Division, comprising all the former Mondi Packaging and Deloitte & Touche.
He joined Anglo American plc in 1989 as a Mondi Business Paper operations outside South Africa.
divisional finance manager, moved to Mondi in 1991 and went on to serve as finance director and then general manager of Peter serves as a non-executive director of Telekom Austria AG Mondi Europe until 2000, when he was appointed chief and as president of respACT-austrian business council for executive officer of the Mondi Group.
He chairs the DLC sustainable development.
executive committee and is a member of the DLC sustainable development committee.
Independent non-executive directors Anne Quinn CBE, 59 At Anglo American plc, David was a member of the executive committee from 2003 and an executive director from 2005 Senior independent director and served on the boards of a number of companies, Anne Quinn was appointed to the Mondi Boards in May 2007 including fide Beers, Anglo Platinum and Anglo Coal.
He and as senior independent director in August 2009.
She chairs oversaw the demerger of Mondi and its dual listing in the DLC remuneration committee and is a member of the DLC Johannesburg and London in 2007. audit, nominations and sustainable development committees.
Andrew King, 41 Anne graduated with a bachelor of commerce from Auckland Chief financial officer University and has a masters degree in management science Andrew King graduated in commerce from the University of from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT.
She Cape Town and qualified as a chartered accountant in 1994 spent her early career with NZ Forest Products Limited and the at Deloitte & Touche.
He joined Minorco, the international arm US management consulting company Resource Planning of Anglo American, as a financial analyst in 1995 and Associates.
She then joined Standard Oil of Ohio, which was subsequently assumed responsibility for the groups subsequently acquired by BP plc.
Anne went on to work for BP investment management activities.
He transferred to in the US, Belgium, Colombia and the UK and held a number Minorcos corporate finance department in 1998, working on of executive positions, including group vice president.
She was a number of group M&A activities before being appointed a awarded a CBE for services to the natural gas industry.
vice president of Anglo American Corporate Finance in 1999.
Anne has also been a managing director of Riverstone Andrew was appointed Mondis vice president of business Holdings Europe, a private equity investment firm development in 2002 and corporate development director specialising in the renewable and conventional energy in 2004.
He served as chief financial officer of Mondi from and power industries.
June 2005 to May 2006, before being appointed as Group strategy and business development director.
He was heavily A non-executive director of Smiths Group plc, she was a involved in the listing process and establishment of the Groups non-executive director of The BOC Group plc from 2004 to dual listed corporate structures.
She currently serves on the MIT Presidents Advisory financial officer in October 2008.
Committee to the Sloan School.
Peter Oswald, 48 Colin Matthews, 54 Chief executive officer: Colin Matthews was appointed to the Mondi Boards in Europe & International Division May 2007.
He is chairman of the DLC sustainable development Peter Oswald graduated in law and business administration committee and is a member of the DLC audit, nominations from the University of Vienna, beginning his career with and remuneration committees.
Deutsche Bank and automotive company KTM.
He joined the Frantschach Group in 1992 as the head of internal audit, later He graduated in engineering from Cambridge University and becoming corporate controller.
After a period in the motor industry in the UK and Japan and a spell in management consultancy After serving as chief executive of the bag and flexibles with Bain & Company, he joined the US General Electric business from 1995 to 2001, overseeing its recovery and expansion, Peter was appointed chief executive of Mondi Company.
In 1997 he joined British Airways plc as managing Mondi Group 45 Directors report Mondi AR Director R2 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 46 Board of directors continued director BA Engineering and later became director of technical Imogen was a director of engineering group Murray & Roberts operations, responsible for engineering, flight crew, IT and Holdings Limited until October 2010 and a member of the procurement.
Harvard Business School Global Alumni Board until May 2010.
Colin was group managing director of Transco from 2001 to In 2001 Imogen was recognised by the World Economic 2002 and then chief executive officer of Hays plc from 2002 Forum as a Global Leader for Tomorrow.
to 2004, where he led the transformation into a pure specialist recruitment and HR services business.
From 2005 to October John Nicholas, 54 2007, he was group chief executive of Severn Trent plc, John Nicholas was appointed to the Mondi Boards in where he oversaw the restructuring of the business into a October 2009.
He chairs the DLC audit committee and is a focused water services company.
Colin joined BAA, the British member of the DLC nominations committee.
airport operator, as chief executive on 1 April 2008.
A fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, Imogen Mkhize, 47 he holds a masters degree in business administration from Kingston University.
Imogen Mkhize was appointed to the Mondi Boards in May 2007.
She is a member of the DLC nominations and Much of Johns early career was spent in technology-focused remuneration committees.
international manufacturing and service companies involved in analytical instruments, fire protection and food processing.
He After graduating in information systems from Rhodes became group finance director of Kidde plc on its demerger University in 1984, she completed an MBA at Harvard from Williams Holdings and was group finance director at Tate Business School in 1995.
She spent her early career with & Lyle plc from 2006 to 2008.
Anglo American, Andersen Consulting and the financial services group Nedcor, before becoming managing director of He is currently a member of the UK Financial Reporting telecommunications group Lucent Technologies South Africa.
Review Panel, which seeks to ensure that the provision of Between 2003 and July 2006, she held the position of chief financial information by public and large private companies executive officer of the 18th World Petroleum Congress, an complies with relevant reporting requirements.
international oil and gas event.
John is a non-executive director of Ceres Power Holdings plc, Imogen is currently chairman of Richards Bay Coal Terminal, Hunting PLC and Rotork p. l. c. chairing the audit committees one of the largest coal export terminals in the world.
also a director of energy group Sasol Limited and Mobile Telephone Networks Proprietary Limited.
She is a member of the South African Financial Markets Advisory Board and Rhodes University Board of Governors and chairman of Rhodes Business School.
