Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General Directors Report The Directors present their report and the Group and Company Major shareholders Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC As at the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary the financial year ended 31 December 2010. shares in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Principal activities Number The Company is a public limited company incorporated in of ordinary Percentage of England, registered number 6160943, with its registered office shares voting ordinary share at Moneysupermarket House, St Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester, Shareholder rights notified capital notified CH5 3UZ.
Simon Nixon 267,257,021 52.76 Coatue Management LLC 42,946,562 8.43 The principal activity of the Group is the introduction of FIL Limited 25,452,692 5.01 business to financial, insurance, travel, home services and BlackRock Inc 25,408,888 4.99 other product providers through its websites.
The principal Capital Research & activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
Management Company 24,480,000 4.93 State Street Nominees Limited 20,581,165 4.14 A fuller description of business activities is contained within the Financial and Business Review on pages 14 to 21.
Share capital and control The issued share capital of the Company comprises a single Business review class of shares referred to as ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
As The Chairmans Statement on pages 8 and 9, the Chief at 31 December 2010, the issued share capital of the Company Executives Report on pages 10 to 13, the Financial and was 101,857 comprising 509,288,007 ordinary shares of 0.02p Business Review on pages 14 to 21 and the Principal Risks and each.
Full details of the share capital of the Company and Uncertainties on pages 22 and 23 provide a detailed review of changes to the share capital during the year are set out in note the Groups activities, likely future developments and principal 16 to the Group Financial Statements on pages 61 and 62.
All the risks and uncertainties.
All the information detailed in those information detailed in note 16 on pages 61 and 62 is pages is incorporated by reference into this report and is incorporated by reference into this report and is deemed to deemed to form part of this report.
As at the date of this report, there have been no important At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on events affecting the business of the Group which have occurred 31 March 2010, shareholders authorised the Directors to allot since 31 December 2010. up to 338,010,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the Corporate governance forthcoming Annual General Meeting to allot up to 339,180,000 The Corporate Governance Report, the Audit Committee ordinary shares.
Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 42 are incorporated On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every by reference into this report and are deemed to form part holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and of this report.
entitled to vote, shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to Results and dividends vote, shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
There The Groups and Companys audited Financial Statements are no issued shares in the Company with special rights with for the financial year ended 31 December 2010 are set out on regard to control of the Company.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines An interim dividend of 1.3p 2009: interim dividend of 1.3p for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies and special dividend of 4.93p per ordinary share was paid to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the Annual to shareholders on 17 September 2010.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.53p 2009: 7.11p announced at the Annual General Meeting and published comprising a dividend of 2.2p and special dividend of 4.91p per on the Companys website after the meeting.
If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this will be paid on 13 May 2011 There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in to shareholders on the register at the close of business on the Company other than: 8 April 2011.
Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by The final dividend, together with the interim dividend paid on laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
17 September 2010, gives a total dividend for the year of 3.83p Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 2009: 13.34p per ordinary share.
Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Group require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary shares of the Company.
com Group PLC 27 Annual Report 2010 Directors Report continued Under the rules of the Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the Share Incentive Plan Plan, eligible employees were provided forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the Company with the opportunity to receive free shares on the listing of to purchase, in the market, up to 50,928,800 of its own the Company Listing with a value as at the date of Listing of ordinary shares either to be cancelled or retained as treasury 3,000, and all employees are entitled to purchase ordinary shares.
The Directors will only use this power after careful shares in the Company using money deducted from their pre-tax consideration, taking into account the financial resources of salary.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Capita the Company, the Companys share price and future funding IRG Trustees Limited Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised opportunities.
The Directors will only purchase such shares by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees, no the interests of shareholders generally.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded or forfeit shares held under the Plan as surplus Research and development assets.
As at the date of this report, the Trustees held 0.15% Innovation is important to the future success of the Group and of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
to the delivery of long term value to shareholders.
The Groups research and development expenditure is predominantly The Company is not aware of any agreements between associated with computer and internet software systems.
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer Successfully developed software is used to develop new of securities and or voting rights.
products and to improve and extend the functionality and scope of the Groups internet operations.
The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship Going concern between them Relationship Agreement.
The Company and After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship Agreement that reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number including a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational himself one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Financial beneficial interest in at least 15% of the ordinary shares of the Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 30% of the ordinary shares of Directors the Company and three Non-Executive Directors for as long as The following persons were Directors of the Company during he holds the beneficial interest in at least 50% of the ordinary the financial year ended 31 December 2010: Gerald Corbett, shares of the Company.
The Relationship Agreement will Simon Nixon, Peter Plumb, Paul Doughty, David Osborne, terminate if Simon Nixon holds less than 15% of the ordinary Graham Donoghue, Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley and Bruce shares of the Company.
As at the date of this report, Simon Carnegie-Brown appointed 15 April 2010.
Their biographical Nixon had not appointed any Non-Executive Directors pursuant details are set out on pages 24 and 25. to his rights in the Relationship Agreement.
Subject to law and the Companys Articles of Association, the Save in respect of Peter Plumbs service agreement details of Directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company and which are set out on page 40 and provisions of the Companys may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
share schemes which may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover, there The Companys Articles of Association give the Directors power are no agreements between the Company and its Directors to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference or employees providing for compensation for loss of office of the Nomination Committee, any appointment to the Board or employment whether through resignation, purported of the Company must be recommended by the Nomination redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Committee for approval by the Board.
The Articles of Association also require Directors to retire and submit Save in respect of the Companys share schemes, there are no themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting significant agreements to which the Company is a party that following their appointment and to stand for re-election at least take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control every three years following their election or last re-election.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors will a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles eligible, will offer themselves for election or re-election.
of Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors remuneration Authority to purchase own shares The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the Directors 31 March 2010, shareholders authorised the Company to needed to run the Group successfully.
Details of the Directors purchase, in the market, up to 50,753,272 of its own ordinary remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report shares either to be cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
As at the date of this report, the Company had not purchased any of its own ordinary shares in the market.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern Directors interests basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group Details of the Directors and their connected persons interests and the Company will continue in business.
in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 42.
No Director The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Group company.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them The details of transactions with Directors of the Company to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the and related party transactions in the financial year ended Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for 31 December 2010 are set out in note 21 to the Group Financial taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard Statements on pages 65 and 66.
During the year, no Director the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and had any material interest in any contract of significance to the other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Directors and officers insurance and indemnities responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors During the financial year ended 31 December 2010 and up to the Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report date of this report, the Company has maintained liability insurance that complies with that law and those regulations.
for its Directors and officers.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors of the corporate and financial information included on the and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the its Articles of Association.
Qualifying third party indemnity preparation and dissemination of financial statements may provisions and qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
were in force throughout 2010 and remain in force as at the date of this report in relation to certain losses and liabilities which Statement of Directors responsibilities pursuant the Directors or Company Secretary may incur in the course of acting as Directors, Company Secretary or employees of the to Disclosure and Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 Each of the Directors whose names and functions are set out on Company or of any associated company.
pages 24 and 25 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Report and the Group and Company Financial Statements loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The business review includes a fair review of the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and development and performance of the business and the Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under position of the Company and the undertakings included that law they are required to prepare the Group Financial in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU description of the principal risks and uncertainties and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company that they face.
Financial Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Internal control Accounting Practice.
The Corporate Governance Report and Audit Committee Report on pages 31 to 35 includes the Boards assessment of the Under company law the Directors must not approve the Groups system of internal controls and consideration of the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee of the Institute of a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company Financial Statements, the Employees Directors are required to: The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and uses a number of ways to engage with Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
employees on matters that impact them and the performance of the Group.
These include formal half yearly business Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
performance updates by members of the executive management team for all employees, regular update briefings For the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for all employees, regular team meetings, the Groups intranet site which enables easy access to the latest Group information by the EU.
For the Company Financial Statements, state whether as well as Group policies, and the circulation to employees of results announcements and other corporate announcements.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained This also helps to achieve a common awareness amongst employees of the financial and economic factors affecting in the Company Financial Statements.
the performance of the Group.
com Group PLC 29 Annual Report 2010 Directors Report continued The Group has an established employee forum through which Disclosure of information to auditors nominated representatives ensure that employees views are The Directors who held office at the date of this report confirm taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit them.
A robust employee engagement survey process is also information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and in place to ensure that employees are given a voice in the each such Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have organisation and that the Group can take action based on taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit employee feedback.
information, and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
All employees are able to participate in the Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Share Incentive Plan which Auditors gives employees the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in KPMG Audit Plc have indicated their willingness to accept the Company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary reappointment as auditors of the Company.
This helps to encourage employee interest proposing their reappointment is contained in the notice of the in the performance of the Group.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be proposed to shareholders at that meeting.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity Annual General Meeting to all employees without discrimination and applies fair and The forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company will equitable employment policies which seek to promote entry be held at Doubletree by Hilton Chester Hotel, Warrington Road, into and progression within the Group.
Appointments are Hoole, Chester, CH2 3PD on Wednesday 4 May 2011 at 11.00am.
determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability, behaviour and competency.
The notice convening the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company, with details of the business to be transacted at Disabled persons the meeting and explanatory notes, is set out in a separate Disabled persons have equal opportunities when applying circular which has been sent to all shareholders at the same for vacancies, with due regard to their skills and abilities.
Procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of training and career development.
For those By order of the Board employees becoming disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is supportive so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the Group, wherever reasonably practicable.
Darren Drabble In the opinion of the Directors, all employee policies are deemed Company Secretary to be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
28 February 2011 Borrowings The Group did not have any borrowings during the financial year ended 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
Financial risk management It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the Groups profitability and cash flow.
The specific policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are set out in note 17 to the Group Financial Statements on page 62.
Political and charitable donations During the financial year ended 31 December 2010, the Group did not make any political donations 2009: nil and made charitable donations of 29,729 2009: 33,379.
Creditor payment policy It is Group policy to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided the supplier meets its obligations.
The average number of trade creditor days outstanding for the Group at 31 December 2010 was 50.8 days 2009: 58.4.
The Company is a holding company and therefore had no trade creditors at 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2010
