Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Remuneration report continued Base salary The base salary for each executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the performance of the individual and having regard to practice in companies of comparable size and complexity in the FTSE 350.
Salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis.
In line with the approach being taken across the organisation, executive Directors salaries will be increased in 2011.
In considering the level of increase, the Committee has been mindful of the general level of increase across the Group as well as the positioning of roles against the market.
The table below shows the salaries in 2010 and with effect from 1 January 2011.
During the year, Andrew Hosty was promoted to the Board as CEO Morgan Ceramics.
His base salary from appointment to the Board was 300,000 and will be increased to 305,000 from 1 January 2011.
Salary 2010 2011 Mark Robertshaw 450,000 465,000 Kevin Dangerfield 265,000 275,000 Andrew Hosty 300,000 305,000 From date of appointment to Board.
Base salary is the only element of the remuneration package that is pensionable.
Annual bonus The targets for the annual bonus are set by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the shortand long-term requirements of the Company.
Challenging goals are set, which must be met before any bonus is paid.
This approach is intended to align executive reward with shareholder return by rewarding the achievement of stretch targets.
The bonus scheme provides the opportunity for executive Directors to earn a bonus of up to 100% of basic salary if stretching performance targets are achieved.
For 2010, the bonus for the CEO and CFO was based on Group profit before taxation and amortisation.
The targets were set to incentivise the executive Directors to manage much more of the income statement to improve the earnings per share of the Group.
For 2011, the annual bonus will again be based 100% on the achievement of Group profit before tax and amortisation targets.
For 2010, the bonus for the CEO Morgan Ceramics was balanced between the performance of the Technical Ceramics Division and the Group as a whole, comprising Group profit before tax and amortisation 20%, Technical Ceramics EBITA 40% and Technical Ceramics cash conversion 40%.
For 2011, his bonus will be based on Group profit before taxation and amortisation 30%, Morgan Ceramics EBITA 50% and Morgan Ceramics third party working capital to sales % 20%.
In addition to the achievement of the targets set, in considering any awards to be made the Committee also takes into account the quality of the overall performance of the Company.
The bonuses awarded to executive Directors in respect of 2010 were as follows: Mark Robertshaw 100% of salary 2009: 20%.
The awards for the CEO and CFO were made on the basis that in 2010 the maximum Group profit before tax and amortisation target was achieved resulting in a bonus payment of 100% of salary.
The award for the CEO Morgan Ceramics also reflected performance against the Group profit before tax and amortisation target together with a Technical Ceramics EBITA target achieved at the maximum performance level and a Technical Ceramics cash target achieved at the maximum level, resulting in a bonus payment of 100% of salary.
Long-term incentive arrangements The Committee believes that share ownership by the executive Directors and senior executives helps align their interests with those of the shareholders.
Accordingly the Company operates a number of share schemes for the executive Directors and other senior employees, details of which are set out below.
78 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan BDSMP In 2008 shareholder approval was gained for the introduction of the BDSMP.
This Plan operates alongside the other long-term incentive arrangements.
Under the Plan rules, participants may be offered the opportunity to defer up to 75% of their annual bonus on a preor post-tax basis into Company shares.
Participants must hold the deferred shares for three years to be eligible for a matching award based on the pre-tax value of their deferred shares.
Matching shares may be earned at the end of three years in the event that stretching EPS targets have been met.
For the bonus earned for the 2008 performance year ie payable in early 2009, participants were given the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their bonus under the Plan.
This opportunity was increased to 75% in respect of the bonus earned for the 2009 performance year ie payable in early 2010 to provide participants with a meaningful opportunity to invest in Morgan Crucible shares and increase their alignment with shareholders.
The performance criteria attaching to these awards are disclosed in notes 4 and 5 to the Awards to Directors under the Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan table on page 85.
Following a review of remuneration in 2010, the Committee has decided for the 2010 performance year ie payable in early 2011 that participants should have the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their bonus in order to ensure greater alignment with shareholders through greater ownership in Company shares.
The targets for 2011 matching awards are as follows: EPS performance Matching shares 20% pa 3x match 16% pa 2x match 12% pa 1x match 8% pa 0x match There is straight-line vesting in between each of the points above.
EPS growth is considered the best measure of performance for the BDSMP as it provides alignment with our strategy and good line-of-sight for management.
To improve the relevance and further enhance the line-of-sight to EPS this year, the Committee has dropped the reference to RPI, whilst being mindful of the need to ensure targets remain stretching.
UK Retail Price Inflation is not considered a relevant benchmark for Morgan Crucibles profit growth as 79% of sales are generated outside the UK.
Defining EPS targets in nominal terms also has the benefit of providing more clarity around actual pence targets for the 2013 financial year.
The Committee will continue to review the EPS targets at the start of each award cycle.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP was approved at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and offers executive Directors and other senior executives the opportunity to receive shares as a reward for outstanding performance.
The scheme allows awards of up to 150% of basic salary, although in exceptional circumstances the Committee is able to make awards of up to 200% of basic salary.
The vesting of the awards is subject to the achievement of performance targets measured over the three-year period from the start of the year in which the award is made.
During the year, an award over 214,529 shares equivalent to 100% of 2009 salary was made to Mark Robertshaw, an award over 124,329 shares equivalent to 100% of 2009 salary was made to Kevin Dangerfield and an award over 117,016 shares equivalent to 100% of 2009 salary was made to Andrew Hosty before his promotion to the Board.
Due to the economic uncertainty at the time the 2009 awards were made, the Remuneration Committee decided to recalibrate the focus of awards between internal financial targets and relative share price targets.
Consequently, awards made under the LTIP in 2009 were based wholly on the Companys TSR performance against the comparator group overleaf.
If the Companys TSR places it at the median of the comparator group, 30% of the award will vest, with 100% of the awards vesting for performance at the upper quartile or above.
For performance between median and upper quartile, awards vest on a straight-line basis.
The Committee must also be satisfied that the Groups underlying financial performance justifies the level of vesting.
For 2010 awards, the Remuneration Committee felt it was appropriate to return to the previous split between TSR and EPS targets on the basis that the Company was again in a position to be able to set robust three-year EPS targets with meaningful line of sight for participants.
The split between TSR and EPS provides the right balance between incentivising strong financial growth and the Companys share price performance relative to peers see tables overleaf.
Therefore, awards made under the LTIP in 2010 are based 50% on EPS growth above UK RPI and 50% on TSR against the comparator group overleaf, extended from the 2009 comparator group to include six new companies.
In addition to the EPS and TSR targets, the Committee must be satisfied that the Groups underlying financial performance justifies the level of vesting.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 79 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Remuneration report continued The vesting schedule for the 2010 awards is as follows: % of the % of the award award TSR performance against the sector comparator group which vests EPS growth which vests  performance 50% RPI 10% pa 50% Median-ranked performance 15% RPI 4% pa 15% Below-median-ranked performance 0% RPI 4% pa 0% Straight-line vesting applies between each point for both vesting schedules.
The TSR comparator group for the 20072010 awards is set out below: Bodycote Meggitt Spectris Charter International Porvair Spirax-Sarco Chemring Group Qinetiq Tomkins Cobham Renishaw TT Electronics Cookson Group Ricardo Ultra Electronics Holdings Halma Rotork Umeco IMI Senior Weir Group Laird Group Smiths Group The original comparator group also included FKI and Foseco which have subsequently delisted.
Additional comparator companies for 2010 awards.
Following a review of executive long-term incentives in 2010, the Committee has decided that awards made under the LTIP in 2011 will continue to be based 50% on EPS growth and 50% on relative TSR performance for the CEO and CFO.
To support the new two-Divisional structure, the Committee has proposed that long-term incentive plans for senior Divisional executives be tailored to the value creation of each Division.
The LTIP within each Division is therefore based on performance against stretching EBITA growth and ROCE targets, combined in a matrix.
For the Divisional CEOs, Andrew Hosty and Don Klas, half of their long-term incentive will continue to be linked to Group TSR and half will be based on the relevant Divisional EBITA ROCE matrix.
For Andrew Hosty, CEO Morgan Ceramics, the Divisional portion of the LTIP will only vest if stretching performance is achieved, with no vesting occurring unless EBITA growth in Morgan Ceramics is at least 12% pa and ROCE is 35.7% in 2013: full vesting will occur for EBITA growth of 18% pa and ROCE of 40.7%.
This combination of measures is considered most appropriate for the Divisional CEOs, reflecting their roles as senior executives within the Group as well as their roles as heads of Divisions.
The stretching targets reflect the strategic plans within each of these Divisions.
As described above with reference to the BDSMP, the Committee has reviewed the EPS targets for the 2011-2013 cycle to ensure they continue to be stretching and relevant, and has dropped the reference to RPI, whilst being mindful of the need to ensure targets remain stretching.
The Remuneration Committee also continues to keep the TSR peer group under review and for 2011 has decided that a broader peer group is appropriate to provide a more robust benchmark against which to measure Morgan Crucibles TSR performance.
TSR-based awards for 2011 will therefore vest based on performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index the Index on the date of grant of an LTIP award.
This index has been chosen as it comprises a sufficient number of companies around one hundred constituents to be robust to M&A activity and is a relevant benchmark against which to assess Morgan Crucibles performance.
All the current TSR benchmark constituents are members of this index.
The vesting schedule for 2011 LTIP awards is as follows: % of the % of the award award TSR performance against the sector comparator group that vests EPS growth that vests  performance 50% 15% pa 50% Median-ranked performance 15% 8% pa 15% Below-median-ranked performance 0% 8% pa 0% Straight-line vesting applies between each point for both vesting schedules.
The Committee must also be satisfied that the Companys underlying financial performance justifies the level of vesting.
The details of awards held by all Directors are shown on pages 84 to 86.
80 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010
