Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Morgan Ceramics Division Divisional revenue Business description The Divisions engineering and design m Morgan Ceramics consists of two global capabilities are the key to its success.
Technical Full technical support and advice is offered 609.1 2010 Ceramics is a leader in customer-specific to customers throughout their product 521.1 2009 industrial components and assemblies development cycle, working closely with 559.6 2008 manufactured from advanced materials, them to understand their needs and provide while Thermal Ceramics is a world-leader engineered solutions that add value and in thermal management solutions for help differentiate their end products.
Divisional EBITA m high-temperature applications in industrial The Morgan Ceramics business strategy markets.
68.8 2010 is aligned with that of the Group, with 51.8 As at 2 January 2011 Morgan Ceramics the objective of being a world-leader in 2009 employs some 5,800 people worldwide.
engineered solutions based on advanced 73.0 2008 The Division is a truly global business, with ceramic and related materials.
The Divisions 57 manufacturing sites across six continents.
strategy is: The Business is structured with regional To focus on market niches where the teams supported by global engineering, Divisions distinctive competences and marketing, technology, research and innovation skills differentiate it.
development, strategy and finance functions.
To structure the Divisions business The Divisions major sites are located in for simplicity and high levels of Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, France, accountability.
India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Russia, the To drive operational excellence in all UK and the USA.
The Division has 50 sales of the Divisions facilities.
offices working directly with end users and To actively manage the Divisions also sells through distribution networks.
portfolio to achieve optimum shareholder returns.
To develop the Divisions leaders, teams and technical talent to deliver its strategy.
Strong performance in recovering markets 40 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The Technical Ceramics Business is a leading Ceramics and assemblies for electron Market sectors supplier of bespoke,  tubes used in a range of medical, Energy industrial products manufactured from security, industrial and research The Division is increasingly being called on materials including structural ceramic, applications such as airport security to develop components and sub-assemblies electro-ceramic and precious metals.
scanners, TV and radio broadcasting for new products across the power sector.
Key markets for these products include and X-ray equipment.
It supplies a range of products used in the electronics, aerospace, industrial equipment, Engineered ceramics for fluid handling manufacture of thin-film photovoltaic cells healthcare and energy.
for the solar industry, while the Certech Piezoelectric ceramic actuators for business manufactures cores used in the Technical Ceramics components and electronic data storage.
manufacture of turbine blades for industrial assemblies are used for hundreds of Components and assemblies for lasers gas turbines.
high-technology application niches, used in product marking and medical including: Environmental and energy cost efficiency and industrial applications.
issues make heat and thermal management Ceramic cores used in the casting of a key issue in the power generation and The Thermal Ceramics Business is a turbine blades for aero engine and renewable energy sector.
The Divisions world-leader in heat management solutions, industrial gas turbines.
thermal management products have a serving a broad spectrum of industrial and Braze alloys for aero engine build and strong position in higher end applications, non-industrial markets with insulation repair and ceramic components and for example low bio-persistent fibre requirements ranging from 500C to sub-assemblies for aero engine Superwool is used for duct insulation in 1,600C.
Its high-temperature insulating monitoring and control equipment.
heat recovery steam generators HRSGs, fibre, insulating bricks and monolithics Components and sub-assemblies for providing high-temperature resistance using enable users to optimise thermal efficiency, a broad range of medical applications, an environmentally friendly material.
The reduce energy costs and improve including implantable devices, new-generation fibre Superwool Plus environmental performance through prosthetics, surgical and diagnostic improves HRSG design further by reducing reduced CO emissions.
heat losses or reducing panel thickness.
provides passive fire protection for the industrial and construction sectors.
Products are manufactured from advanced insulating materials marketed under a number of leading brands, including Superwool, JM, Pyro-Bloc, FireMaster and Tri-Mor.
They are used worldwide in demanding applications which are increasingly influenced by legislative and environmental requirements.
Major markets include petrochemical, iron and steel and industrial equipment.
Strong performance in recovering markets Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 41 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Morgan Ceramics Division continued Transportation As automotive technologies advance in Piezoelectric components are also the key Morgan Ceramics supplies a wide range response to regulatory and consumer technology in applications such as blood of products to the aerospace industry, from demand, new materials and systems are flow measurement and foetal heart braze alloys for engine build and repair and required to solve thermal, noise reduction, monitors, providing increased reliability and ceramic components and sub-assemblies for high temperature filtration and frictionaccurate detection.
Additionally, they can engine monitoring and control equipment related issues.
A wide range of Morgan be found in ultrasonic air-in-line sensors to cores used in the casting of turbine blades.
Ceramics products are used successfully in medical devices and infusion pumps.
to meet these needs with fibre blankets The high-performance piezoelectric material The Division also supplies piezoelectric and papers providing thermal and acoustic is used in high-power transmission of components and sensors, including fuel solutions for the truck and bus industry in high-frequency waves to assist with surgical level sensors and gyroscopes, and such areas as the floor, engine compartment cutting.
Morgan Ceramics supplies efficient Diamonex engineered coatings for use on and exhaust systems.
materials for small medical tools such as critical components of aircraft fuel systems.
ultrasonic dental descalers and ultrasonic In addition, the Divisions Min-k range The piezoelectric properties of PZT ceramic scalpels, which are used in applications such of microporous insulation is used in many make it an ideal material for the transducers as cataract removal, and ceramic capacitors applications to provide heat shields, such and sensors found in numerous automotive can also be found in lasers for eye surgery.
as protecting aircraft reverse thrusters from applications such as parking aids, alarm hot exhaust gases and also protecting the systems, wheel balancing, engine knock Electronics, telecoms and consumer electronics in a flight data recorder in the sensors and ignition systems.
Technical Morgan Ceramics components and event of an accident.
ceramics, such as alumina and zirconia, offer sub-assemblies are used extensively in ideal properties for seals in injector units, hand-held, land-based and satellite pump bearings and valve plates.
communications equipment and networks for the telecommunications sector, as well Healthcare as in PCs, servers, data storage and a range Morgan Ceramics medical engineering of peripheral equipment for IT hardware expertise includes ceramic orthopaedic producers.
joint replacements and highly specialised ceramic-to-metal assemblies for implantable The demand for mobile devices that offer devices such as pacemakers, cochlear increasing functionality, together with implants and defibrillators.
increased requirements for data storage, drives the consumer products market to The Division supplies key components for develop and introduce a constant flow of instrumentation and diagnostic equipment new products.
In addition, the laser market such as ultrasonic imaging, CAT and MRI continues to find new applications that drive scanners.
Its superior piezoelectric ceramic growth in product marking and process components are used extensively in medical control.
ultrasound to enable increased image resolution, while multilayer chip capacitors are used extensively in MRI systems to tune the magnetic field accurately.
42 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Petrochemical Industrial Research and development Morgan Ceramics supplies both new and Morgan Ceramics high-efficiency Research and development capabilities retro-fit projects in the global petrochemical piezoelectric materials are used in many are led by the Technical Director with sector, providing heat management high-power ultrasonic systems such as those a network of materials scientists and solutions for fired heaters, sulphur recovery for cleaning and welding, whilst its range of process engineers across the Divisions units, fluid catalytic cracking units and advanced ceramics are ideal for use in harsh operations.
They work with customers to boilers.
The Division also supplies offshore processing environments such as those engineer solutions that address their needs.
platforms with FireMaster fire protection found in valves, pumps and a variety of The Division also undertakes research systems, which are comprehensively manufacturing processes.
in collaboration with leading universities certified and extensively tested to meet in Europe and North America.
Morgan Ceramics ceramic rollers are national and international standards, used in kilns used to manufacture metals, For technical ceramic applications, internal offering proven performance.
glass, ceramic-ware and fuel cells, and kiln research and development for components Long-term growth in this sector is geared to furniture and high-temperature components and sub-assemblies has been focused population expansion with projects lasting are used in many specialist thermal on product development for the medical, many years in planning and implementation.
processing applications, from industrial renewable energy and water filtration Fire protection-related legislation is also annealing to the manufacture of medical markets.
A number of patents are in process a key factor in driving demand.
The to protect our intellectual property in these Divisions fibre products also offer multiple areas.
Developments include new benefits to the ceramics industry, including technologies for implantable devices that saving energy by reducing kiln car mass, will enable higher density electronic and over one million square metres of our implantable devices for applications such insulating products are installed each year in as neurostimulation.
This is a relatively kilns firing ceramic products, including tiles, new medical implant application but with tableware and sanitary ware.
high growth opportunities as it addresses a variety of illnesses and conditions.
The Division is a leading supplier of monolithic linings for blast furnaces, fibre Renewable energy and the supporting modules in reheating and heat treatment infrastructure continue to find new furnaces and insulating firebricks for hearth applications for ceramics.
Water filtration and reheating furnaces where product using ceramic technology has also started quality is a key differentiator.
The Divisions to become an active area of development FireMaster fire protection systems are as the properties of ceramics can be comprehensively certified and extensively controlled and outperform many other tested to meet national and international material solutions.
standards offering proven fire protection in industrial plants.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 43 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Morgan Ceramics Division continued The majority of the Divisions research and Business performance Business developments development into thermal management Revenue in the Morgan Ceramics Division During the year, Technical Ceramics solutions is carried out at the Divisions was 609.1 million 2009: 521.1 million, maintained its focus on positive mix shift, Bromborough, UK site in a purpose-built representing an increase at reported rates building the number of new business world-class facility.
At constant currency the increase projects in higher margin, higher scientists, the team has led the market in revenue was 15.4%.
value-added end-markets such as medical in the development of low bio-persistent and aerospace, whilst continuing to reduce Revenue for the Technical Ceramics Business fibres, low-energy furnace operation and exposure to more commoditised and in 2010 was 250.1 million 2009: 206.0 product development.
The role of low economically cyclical product areas.
million, an increase of 21.4% at reported bio-persistent fibres is seen as being of Continuous operational improvement rates.
Revenue was up by 20.5% on a increasing importance in the future of the programmes, cost reduction initiatives and like-for-like constant currency basis with high-temperature insulation market and emphasis on positive price pass-through all regions showing strong improvement.
so research and development activities are all helping to support margin growth.
Thermal Ceramics revenue increased by have been directed towards extending The plan to consolidate the majority of 13.9% to 359.0 million in 2010 2009: our product range in this area.
two sites in California, USA was completed 315.1 million.
On a constant currency on time and the benefits produced were basis, the year-on-year increase was 12.1%.
in line with expectations and also supported margins in the year.
EBITA for the Morgan Ceramics Division was 68.8 million 2009: 51.8 million, In 2010 major investments concentrated on a margin of 11.3% 2009: 9.9%.
For opportunities that consolidated our position Technical Ceramics, EBITA was 34.0 million in the key market for next-generation hard 2009: 25.1 million, reflecting a disc drive components.
The merger with year-on-year increase of 35.5% at reported the Thermal Ceramics Business now gives rates.
At constant currency this increase was the Business greater resources to establish 34.0%.
Technical Ceramics raised its EBITA a significant Technical Ceramics Business margin by 1.4 percentage points, reaching in Asia and Latin America.
Thermal Ceramics EBITA also increased in the year Whilst 2010 represented a return to growth to 34.8 million 2009: 26.7 million, for Thermal Ceramics, it has also been an increase of 30.3% at reported rates.
a period of continued cost control and The EBITA margin also showed good consolidation in the face of challenging improvement to 9.7% 2009: 8.5%.
Commencing in the second half of 2010 we began the process of reducing costs in mainland Europe and announced plans to reduce overheads.
44 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements During the second half of 2010 Thermal Thermal Ceramics new product Outlook Ceramics order intake started to improve development remains concentrated in the Overall, market demand strengthened in all regions including Europe.
This has field of low bio-persistent fibre with the in 2010 as shown by Technical Ceramics continued into the early part of 2011 with continued roll-out of Superwool Plus, order book and its improved new the expectation that the year will show a product offering improved insulation business pipeline.
Of performance, as well as the higher The North American business was the first particular note is the strength of the South temperature Superwool HT.
The Business to show recovery and towards the end of American market which is being led by the is positioned as the global technology the first half Europe began to improve.
significant investments being made in the leader in the production of its low Despite these positive signals the Technical petrochemical sector.
Ceramics Business continues to watch The emphasis of the Thermal Ceramics carefully for any signs of inflation.
The medium-term outlook for Thermal Ceramics remains encouraging, driven by World Class Manufacturing programme Continued weakness in the industrial gas the growth in global population and the was changed.
The focus remains to increase turbine sector and medical device markets continuing industrialisation of emerging productivity by improving health, safety are being offset by improvements in economies.
In 2010 some 39% of revenue and environmental performance, quality, demand from sectors within the electronics was generated in the Asian and Latin cost, logistics and customer satisfaction.
The production ramp-up to meet American regions and this percentage is The programme has been renamed demand for the next generation of hard set to increase.
These factors, combined Operational Excellence with targets based disk drive products is continuing to plan.
with the need to reduce energy expenditure on a benchmarking programme that have The European business had a better year and the increasingly stringent environmental accountability and responsibility at plant despite a slow start with weak market legislation that favours low bio-persistent level.
These locally based and managed conditions in general industrial markets and fibres such as Superwool initiatives are being coordinated and, will continue construction.
This principally affects the supported by engineering and research to drive demand for Thermal Ceramics business in Germany, which supplies time to optimise manufacturing processes.
The merger products for manufacturing applications with the Technical Ceramics Business will involving thermal processing.
encourage the further differentiation of the Divisions fibre business and allow the Throughout the year the Technical Ceramics Business to leverage the strength of its Business saw reduced demand for industrial worldwide management team.
gas turbine products and this is likely to continue into 2011.
The Business continues to look carefully at potential bolt-on acquisition opportunities that would enhance the offering in key markets, which together with a strong new business pipeline leaves the Business well placed for the future.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 45
