Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations Morgan Engineered Materials Division Divisional revenue Business description Divisions presence in renewable energy to m The businesses within Engineered Materials now include anode materials for lithium ion are global suppliers of highly engineered batteries.
Today the Engineered Materials 408.0 2010 solutions built from a portfolio of material Division has strong positions in carbon 421.5 2009 technologies that includes carbon, silicon brushes for industrial and rail traction 275.4 2008 carbide, oxide-based ceramics and advanced applications, seals and bearings for fluid polymeric composites.
The Divisions handling, crucibles for the processing of footprint provides a global reach that non-ferrous metals, high-temperature Divisional EBITA m enables the delivery of market-leading insulation for silicon wafer production and solutions to a variety of chosen endadvanced lightweight protective ceramic 45.5 2010 markets.
These chosen end-markets are composite armour systems.
41.4 2009 served through three global businesses: As at 2 January 2011 the Division employs 40.5 Morgan Advanced Materials & Technology 2008 some 4,000 people, serving customers in Morgan AM&T, NP Aerospace and Molten around 100 countries worldwide.
Its global Metal Systems MMS.
For reporting presence includes 40 operating facilities purposes the Division consists of two global in 25 countries, with major materials reporting segments: Morgan AM&T processing plants in the USA, Europe, including NP Aerospace and Molten Metal South America and Asia feeding an Systems MMS.
integrated network of finishing plants.
The Divisions capabilities are rooted in the The Division benefits from a strategically understanding, application and processing located low-cost manufacturing base, with of its broad range of advanced materials.
sites in Mexico, China, Hungary and India The acquisition of a majority equity stake that allow the Division to serve customers in NP Aerospace in 2009 extended the across the globe.
Divisions materials and ballistic technologies to include lightweight ceramics composites, and the acquisition of Changsha Hairong New Materials Co. Ltd. Hairong in China at the end of 2010 has broadened the Growth in core markets drives significant profit improvement 36 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The Divisions strategy aligns with the The Divisions three global businesses Electrical current transfer Groups strategic priorities and has fostered go to market through an effective array The Morgan AM&T Business has a strong success in the ballistic protection market, of channels that include both direct sales position in the global market, providing entry to the silicon solar cell market, and, and distributor networks.
Morgan AM&T engineered solutions that add value and via the recent acquisition, entry into the primarily uses direct sales channels improved reliability to a diversified customer lithium ion anode market.
Specifically, complemented by strategic distribution base.
The Business utilises a proven the Divisions strategy is to: partners, who serve both the original advanced materials portfolio combined equipment market and the aftermarket with a customer-focused global footprint Add value to advanced materials and and are supported by a global network of to supply carbon brushes, linear and technology to deliver engineered applications engineers.
NP Aerospace uses overhead collectors and rotary current solutions to chosen markets.
direct channels to serve major militaries transfer products to a diverse OEM and Engender a culture of operational and vehicle OEMs around the world, while end user base operating within rail, transit, excellence with a focus on continually MMS leverages an effective global network power generation, mining and a variety improving the value we deliver to our of independent distributors to serve the of other key industrial markets.
The Establish and fully embed a mindset for Fluid handling Division is strategically positioned to ensure growth through focused business Seals and bearings are critical to the pumps that the best possible resource is deployed development, specifically in and compressors used in many fluid to provide advanced materials and high-growth and high-margin markets.
handling applications in the petrochemical, technologies in the form of engineered Invest in our future through our food processing, residential, irrigation and solutions to the following key global technology centres of excellence and oil and gas industries.
Morgan AM&T has markets: through acquisitions, alliances and a wide and expanding range of carbon and partnerships.
Defence and protection silicon carbide materials and is a globally Fully engage our entire workforce and Morgan Crucible continues to be a supplier recognised leading provider of seal faces, instil a culture of continuous reinvention.
of advanced ceramic technology to the US bearings, rotors, vanes and other technical Continuously seek and develop the right body armour market through its Morgan solutions required for a large variety of fluid people.
It is also the major supplier handling applications.
of protective body armour systems and Non-ferrous metals advanced lightweight vehicle armour MMS has a leading market position in systems to the UKs defence forces through crucibles used in foundry applications in the NP Aerospace.
The acquisition of NP non-ferrous metals industry, which make Aerospace broadened the materials up 80% of its revenue.
Key markets are portfolio and competency in ballistics, North America, India, Brazil, Germany and positioning Morgan Crucible as a global Asia particularly China.
leader in lightweight armour systems.
NP Aerospace remains a critical resource to the UKs Ministry of Defence for major integration contracts for the fielding of next-generation tactical wheeled vehicles and the highly advanced systems have seen service in both Iraq and Afghanistan.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 37 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Morgan Engineered Materials Division continued Power generation and renewables Research and development EBITA for the Engineered Materials Division Over the past few years the global energy The Businesses within the Engineered was 45.5 million 2009: 41.4 million, sector has become an increasingly Materials Division are leaders in carbona margin of 11.2% 2009: 9.8%.
This important target market for the Division.
based materials, oxide and non-oxide improvement reflects the strong recovery The Businesss technology and product ceramics, lightweight composites, and in in Morgan AM&T and MMS and the fact portfolio includes components which are ballistics and blast technology.
Hairong that NP Aerospace continued to deliver critical to traditional power generation has added the sciences of electro chemistry mid-teen margins despite the large companies, the nuclear industry and the and rechargeable batteries to the Divisions reduction in sales volumes.
In solar power, expanding technology portfolio.
The EBITA margins were 8.9% 2009: 5.7%, Morgan AM&T is a world leader in Divisions research activities include material those for NP Aerospace 14.2% 2009: advanced high-temperature solutions and process capabilities as well as product 15.5%, and for MMS 15.6% 2009: 3.0%.
providing major producers of polysilicon and systems development.
These activities The improvement in the Morgan AM&T and silicon ingots with the means to are located within the major material results reflects the recovery of its core enhance solar cell performance.
In wind processing facilities in the USA, the UK business across most end-markets with power generation, the Business supplies and China.
The Divisions businesses the order book showing continued carbon brushes and rotary transfer systems deploy application development engineers improvement through the period.
Morgan which perform in the harshest environments worldwide to work with customers in AM&T continues to benefit from the strong around the globe.
With the acquisition of applying advanced materials and development of its Chinese business with Changsha Hairong New Materials Co. Ltd. technologies to develop leading-edge revenue growing more than 40% in 2010.
Hairong Morgan AM&T adds a recognised engineered solutions according to customer The Morgan AM&T Business also continues technical leader in the production of need, with a focus to position each to see the benefits of the extensive cost graphite materials for anodes used in lithium Business as leaders in high-growth and reduction actions taken in 2008 and 2009, ion batteries for portable electronic devices emerging markets.
with improved margins being achieved from and electric vehicles.
Business performance moves to low-cost regions such as Mexico, Semiconductor processing Revenue in the Engineered Materials China and Hungary and from the ongoing Morgan AM&T products are at the heart of Division was 408.0 million 2009: Operational Excellence Program.
many electronic innovations, and are used 421.5 million, representing a decrease MMS revenue grew across all regions with in semiconductor manufacturing processes at reported rates of 3.2%.
At constant a particularly strong performance in China, such as ion implantation, epitaxy and currency this decrease in revenue was India and South Korea driving total revenue compound crystal growth.
The revenue for Morgan AM&T above the pre-recession levels of 2008. to faster, smaller and lower cost devices, excluding NP Aerospace was 246.8 million The business returned to strong profitability, semiconductor processing equipment 2009: 205.2 million representing at mid-teen margins, as a result of the companies are dependent on advanced a significant increase of 20.3% at reported realignment of its cost base and focus on materials being able to work at higher rates and 17.2% on a constant currency high-growth markets.
temperatures and having higher purity levels basis.
NP Aerospace revenue was to achieve the required performance.
The 120.9 million 2009: 186.2 million, Business also supplies products used in the in line with our expectations following the manufacture of components such as optical exceptional level of vehicle integration fibres and laser diodes, and is securing contracts last year.
MMS achieved revenue a growing presence in the high-growth of 40.3 million 2009: 30.1 million, market for LEDs.
Although this sector representing very strong growth of 33.9% represented a relatively small portion of the 29.9% on a constant currency basis.
Businesss revenue in 2010, its engineered solutions are highly valued and prospects for future growth through innovation and global reach are promising.
38 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Business developments The Division continues to invest heavily Outlook The background to 2010 has been the in the development of ballistic solutions For the Morgan AM&T Business the nearrecovery in the global economy which saw to counter ever-increasing threats and to and long-term prospects remain positive, a pick-up in the industrial markets served meet demand for lighter weight solutions.
with demand in Western markets expected by the Morgan AM&T and MMS Businesses.
The ballistic protection market in the UK to continue to improve during 2011 and was less robust in 2010 than in recent years, with operations in China expected to The Morgan AM&T Business saw demand in with reduced Urgent Operational continue to grow strongly.
European markets and the Americas recover Requirement UOR demand for tactical from the low levels during the global Improvements to the cost base and to wheeled vehicles by the UK Ministry of economic crisis, although in a number of global operational capability, along with Defence.
Going forward the Division areas it has not yet reached pre-recession the focus of effort and resource on higher expects that the market will continue to levels.
Sales in China, however, continued growth markets, mean that the Business offer solid opportunities due to the to grow strongly, largely due to the wind is well positioned to take advantage of continued escalation of ballistic threats and and automotive sectors.
Solid market share improvements in the global economy.
increasing demand for lighter, more mobile gains were achieved in target segments solutions for both vehicles and personnel.
NP Aerospace is expected to continue to such as railways and wind energy in both perform well above pre-acquisition levels: Western and developing economies.
An NP Aerospace office was opened during however, revenue in 2011 is expected to be the year in the USA in Detroit, Michigan Cost reduction initiatives were continued in below that of the last two years as UOR as part of the Divisions strategy to leverage Europe, despite increases in demand, with demand continues to ramp down for the its global infrastructure to deliver NP more production being moved to low-cost vehicle integration business.
Opportunities Aerospaces technologies to the major countries, production of similar products beyond the UK market are being actively NATO militaries.
consolidated to fewer sites and overhead pursued with the potential to drive a further costs reduced.
In the MMS Business, demand rebounded reinvention of the business.
during 2010 led by strong growth in Asia In December, Morgan AM&T added a new The outlook for MMS is positive with with MMS well placed for the future growth technology to its portfolio through the continued sales growth in Asia and that is expected to come from the BRIC acquisition of Changsha Hairong New increasing throughput through the Indian countries.
Materials Co. Ltd. the leading lithium ion and Chinese manufacturing facilities.
Having anode company in China for electric vehicle successfully completed the relocation of its and energy storage applications.
This manufacturing facilities, approximately 70% acquisition strategically positions the of MMSs 2010 output came from India, Business to capitalise on these two Brazil and China.
MMS continues to be well burgeoning sectors in China and to build placed to take advantage of the continuing a strong global position in the wider global growth of emerging economies and to lithium ion market.
Looking forward, demand in the renewables sector is expected to grow significantly and Morgan AM&T is well placed in terms of its technology portfolio and global reach to capitalise on this growth.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 39
