70 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance The Board of Directors J-P Luksic Chairman Mr. J-P Luksic is Executive Chairman.
He was appointed a Director in 1990 and Deputy Chairman in 2000.
degree in management and science from the London School of Economics.
He was also Chief Executive officer of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. untilhis appointment as Chairman of the Group in 2004.
He is a non-executive director of QuiencoS.
He is vice-chairman of the Consejo Minero, the industry body representing thelargest international mining companies operating in Chile.
Mr. J-P Luksic will be 47 atthedate of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
C H Bailey Non-Executive G S Menndez Non-Executive Mr. C H Bailey was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1987 and is the Senior Mr. G S Menndez was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1985.
Mr. Bailey is a Chartered Accountant, and inbusiness administration from the Universidad fide Chile and is a publicaccountant.
Mr. Bailey will be 77 at the date Heisadirector of Quienco S. A. and Banco fide Chile and ischairman of the board of  Meeting.
directorsof Banco Latinoamericano fide Comercio Exterior S. A. Bladex.
He is also the vice-chairman ofFundacin Andrnico Luksic A. and Fundacin Pascual Baburizza, both ofwhich are charitable foundations in Chile.
Mr. Menndez will be 62 at the date of the 2011AnnualGeneral Meeting.
R F Jara Non-Executive G A Luksic Non-Executive Mr. R F Jara was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2003.
He is a lawyer and a director Mr. G A Luksic was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2005.
Mr. Luksic is a director of ofEmpresa Nacional del Petrleo.
He is chairman of the FundacinMinera Los Pelambres several companies including Nexans S. A. and Banco fide Chile and chairman of Quienco S. A. anda director of Fundacin Andrnico Luksic A. and Fundacin Pascual Baburizza, all Compaa Cerveceras Unidas S. A. Vina San Pedro Tarapaca S. A. and Madeco S. A. ofwhichare charitable foundations in Chile.
Mr. Jara will be 58 at the date of the 2011 Mr. GALuksic will be 55 at the date of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
J G Claro Non-Executive W M Hayes Non-Executive Mr. J G Claro was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2005.
He is currently chairman of Mr. W M Hayes was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2006.
He is a director of Royal Embotelladora Andina S. A. and Energia Coyanco S. A.
He is a director of several other companies GoldInc.
He was previously a senior executive with Placer Dome Inc. from 1988 to 2006. inChile, including Entel Chile S. A. and Empresas CMPC S. A.
He is also a member of the governing Mr. Hayes is a former president of the Consejo Minero, the industry body representing the boards of Universidad Adolfo Ibez and Centro fide Estudios Pblicos, a non-profit academic largest international mining companies operating in Chile and former president of the Gold foundation in Chile.
He is a former chairman of the Sociedad fide Fomento Fabril Chilean Society Institute in Washington, D. C. He holds an M. A. degree in International Management from ofIndustrialists, the Confederacin fide la Produccin y del Comercio Confederation of Chilean theThunderbird School of Global Management.
Mr. Hayes will be 66 at the date of the 2011 Business and the Consejo Binacional fide Negocios Chile-China Council for Bilateral Business Annual General Meeting.
Mr. Claro will be 60 at the date of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
H Dryland Non-Executive T C Baker Non-Executive Mr. H Dryland was appointed a Non-Executive Director subsequent to the year end on Mr. T C Baker was appointed a Non-Executive Director subsequent to the year end on 1 March 20January 2011.
He is a senior managing director at Rothschild based in the United States and 2011.
He was previously executive vice-president and chief operating officer at Kinross isGlobal Head of Rothschilds investment banking activities in the mining and metals sector.
GoldCorporation, and is a member of the board of Augusta Resource Corporation.
He has a Hehas 25 years of investment bankingexperience in natural resources, advising on numerous B. Sc.
Prior to joining Kinross Gold Corporation in 2006, mergers and acquisitions, restructurings and nancings during his career.
Prior to joining Mr. Baker was executive general manager of Placer Dome Chile.
He has previously managed Rothschild in 1986, he practised law in the United States, specialising in corporate M&A, joint mining operations in Chile, the United States, Tanzania and Venezuela and held geological ventures and nancings in the natural resources and infrastructure sectors, and, prior to that, andproduction roles in Kenya and Liberia.
Mr. Baker will be 59 at the date of the 2011 worked in the Energy Division of the World Bank.
He holds Masters Degrees in Business and AnnualGeneral Meeting.
Comparative Law from the University of Warwick UK and the George Washington University US respectively.
Mr. Dryland will be 55 at the date of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 71
