Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Healthcare... for critical applications.
The strength and biocompatibility of ceramic materials enable them to be machined into extremely intricate shapes to treat life-threatening conditions.
Open heart surgery A pioneering medical device which uses ultrasound to separate microembolisms from blood during open heart surgery has been made possible by our piezoceramic technology.
The piezoceramic plate expands and contracts rapidly when a current is applied, creating an ultrasound wave which separates out microembolisms without damaging blood cells.
This procedure improves the experience for patients and reduces the need for blood transfusion.
40 years Ultrasound has been used in medical applications for over 40 years.
22 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements New tumour treatment We have designed and manufactured ceramic tips for a ground-breaking device that destroys liver tumours in a minimally invasive procedure.
The extremely fine tip directly pierces the tumour before microwave radiation is used to destroy the cells.
This treatment significantly reduces patient trauma and recovery time, thus saving money by minimising hospital stays.
Up to 10x faster The new device is three to 10 times faster than other systems.
Hospital stays can be reduced from three weeks to a single day.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 23 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 25 Operational and financial 32 Chief Executive Officers 62 Board of Directors and 88 Consolidated income highlights review Executive Committee statement 26 Morgan Crucible at a glance 34 Group business review 64 Directors report 89 Consolidated statement of 28 Chief Executive Officers 35 Key performance indicators 68 Corporate governance comprehensive income strategic review 36 Review of operations 75 Statement of Directors 90 Consolidated balance sheet 30 Chairmans statement 46 Corporate responsibility responsibilities 91 Consolidated statement 54 Financial review 76 Remuneration report of changes in equity 58 Risk management 87 Independent auditors report 92 Consolidated statement 60 Key resources and contractual of cash flows relationships 93 Notes to the consolidated 61 Cautionary statement financial statements 141 Company balance sheet 142 Notes to the Company balance sheet 151 Group statistical information 152 Shareholder information Morgan Crucible is a world leader in advanced materials.
Our highly skilled, dynamic people provide high-technology solutions for specialised applications in selected global markets.
24 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010
