10 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Strategic Review 3 Growth beyond theCore Business 2 Organic and Strategy for the sustainablegrowth of theCore Business Mining Business 1 Securing and strengthening the Core Business Los Pelambres completed its plant expansion during Q1 2010, Securing and strengthening increasing throughput by approximately 30%.
1 Esperanza made its first shipment of copper concentrate in the Core Business January 2011, following the start of commissioning of the plant in November 2010.
Esperanza will signicantly increase total The first pillar of our strategy for the mining Group copper production by approximately 25%.
business is to optimise and enhance our At El Tesoro, pre-stripping of the Mirador deposit commenced existing core business the Los Pelambres, inDecember 2010, with production from this satellite deposit Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla mines.
expected to commence in the final quarter of 2011.
Michilla is continuing with work on the evaluation and recategorisation of its resources, to allow the extension of its current mine plan, as well as additional exploration which could further extend the mine life.
In the Sierra Gorda District, mineral resource estimates were Organic and sustainable completed in respect of the Telgrafo and Caracoles deposits, 2 increasing the Groups total mineral resources by 3.9 billion growth of the Core Business tonnes with an average copper grade of 0.38%.
This gives atotal of 6.1 billion tonnes with an average copper grade The second pillar of the strategy is to achieve of0.39% in the Sierra Gorda District.
sustainable, organic growth from further At the Antucoya deposit a feasibility study is in progress, developing the areas around our existing evaluating the potential for a project producing approximately 80,000 tonnes of copper per year.
At Los Pelambres a scoping study is examining the key factors which could allow it to utilise its significant resource base in thelonger term.
At the Reko Diq joint venture, work on the feasibility study and Growth beyond the the environmental and social impact assessment study are 3 bothcomplete and have been submitted to the Government Core Business ofBalochistan.
In July 2010 the Group signed a denitive agreement with The third pillar of the strategy is to look Duluth Metals Limited to acquire an initial 40% stake in the forgrowth beyond the areas of our existing Nokomis  group metal deposit, a operations both in Chile and internationally.
potentially world-class base and precious metal deposit locatedin the highly prospective Duluth Complex in Minnesota, The primary focus is on potential early-stage and work is progressing in respect of the feasibility study.
Further development of the Groups portfolio of early-stage international earn-in agreements.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 11 The Group uses the following enablers to support our strategy: Quality of existing assets Commitment to health and safety The Group has a high-quality, low-cost portfolio of operating assets and Management of health and safety is a key priority for the Group.
The Group development projects, with a weighted average net cash cost of 104.0 cents aims to work to the highest standards to safeguard its employees, contractors lb in 2010.
This means it is well positioned to perform strongly throughout the and communities.
Pages 49 and 50 commodity price cycle.
The Esperanza project will provide additional new Strong labour relations production also with a low net cash cost.
Pages 26 to 37 The Group values the importance of its workforce.
The Group provides its Strong financial position employees with training and opportunities to full their potential, and with fair The Groups net cash position of US$1.3 billion at the end of 2010 has allowed remuneration which reects their contribution.
This has been reected in the the proposed significant capital return to shareholders, while still leaving the good history of labour relations across the Group.
During 2010 the Group Group well placed to progress with its medium and longer-term growth plans successfully completed new long-term labour agreements with unions at as well as preserving the exibility to take advantage of opportunities which LosPelambres and Michilla.
Page 66 Community relations Experienced management team The Group seeks to manage the social impact of its activities, and aims to The Groups stable, well-established management team has an excellent make use of its operations as a platform for the social and economic trackrecord of delivering on planned production growth and operational development of its local communities.
Page 76 efficient environmental management Extensive mineral resource base The Group recognises the importance of the effective management of the The Group has substantial mineral resources, well in excess of the ore environmental impacts of its activities, from exploration through to closure.
reserves incorporated in existing mine plans, which could provide the potential Itpromotes efficient management of natural resources, in particular energy for expansions in production volumes or extensions of existing mine lives.
efficiency and responsible water use.
Pages 54 to 57 During 2010 the total resource tonnage of the Groups subsidiaries increased by 46%, from 9.2 billion tonnes in 2009 to 13.4 billion tonnes, following the proving-up of the resources relating to the Telgrafo and Caracoles deposits.
