Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Executive Committee Andrew Given Paul Boulton Don Klas Non-executive Director Company Secretary CEO Morgan Engineered Materials Simon Heale Amanda Wooding Non-executive Director Director of Human Resources Andrew Given Mark Robertshaw Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Andrew was appointed as a non-executive Kevin Dangerfield Director in December 2007 and is the Chairman Chief Financial Officer of the Audit Committee.
He was previously the senior non-executive Director and Chair of the Don Klas Audit Committee at VT Group plc, the Senior CEO Morgan Engineered Materials Independent Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Spectris plc and a non-executive Andrew Hosty Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of CEO Morgan Ceramics Spirent Communications plc.
Andrew was formerly Deputy Chief Executive of Logica Paul Boulton CMG plc and held senior management positions Company Secretary in Plessey and Nortel Networks.
Amanda Wooding Simon Heale Director of Human Resources Non-executive Director Simon was appointed as a non-executive Director in February 2005 and is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Panmure Gordon and Co plc, a non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Kazakhmys plc, a non-executive Director and Chair of the CSR Committee of PZ Cussons Plc and a non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit and Compliance Committee of Marex Group Limited.
Simon was appointed as a trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support in May 2010 and sits on their Finance and Legal Committee and their Audit Committee.
He was Chief Executive of China Now from 2007 to 2008 and was Chief Executive of the London Metal Exchange from 2001 to 2006.
Simon qualified as an accountant with Price Waterhouse and has Member of the Audit Committee.
had extensive experience in the Far East, having Member of the Remuneration Committee.
held senior positions with the Swire Group in Member of the Nomination Committee.
Japan and Hong Kong and with Jardine Fleming in Hong Kong.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 63
