72 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report, together with the audited financial Results and dividends statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The consolidated profit before tax has increased from US$1,437.6 million in 2009 to US$2,573.2 million in 2010.
Principal group activities The Board has recommended a final dividend of US 112.0 cents 2009 US The principal activities of the Group are copper mining including exploration and 20.0 cents per ordinary share, comprising an ordinary dividend of US 12.0 cents development, the transportation of freight by rail and road and the distribution 2009 US 6.0 cents and a special dividend of US 100.0 cents 2009 US ofwater.
These activities are mainly based in Chile.
An ordinary interim dividend of US 4.0 cents was paid on 7 October activity is to act as a holding company.
Group operations are carried out through 2010 2009 ordinary dividend US 3.4 cents.
This gives total dividends per subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
The principal subsidiaries, associates share proposed in relation to 2010 of US 116.0 cents 2009 US 23.4 cents, and joint ventures that make up the Group are set out in Notes 16 to 18 to the including the special dividend.
The total amount of dividends paid to ordinary financial statements.
One subsidiary, the Antofagasta Railway Company plc, shareholders including special dividends proposed in relation to 2010 will be hasa branch in Chile known as the FCAB which provides rail freight services.
US$1,143.6 million, compared with US$230.7 million in 2009. Business review Preference shares carry the right to a xed cumulative dividend of 5% per The Company is required by section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 to provide annum.
The preference shares are classied within borrowings, and preference a business review in this report.
The requirements of the business review are dividends are included within finance costs.
The total cost of dividends paid fullled in the disclosures contained within the Chairmans Statement on pages onpreference shares and recognised as an expense in the income statement 4to 7, the Marketplace section on pages 12 to 15, the Operational Review was US$0.2 million 2009 US$0.2 million.
Further information relating to including information on expected future developments on pages 24 to 57, the dividends is set out in the Financial Review on page 64, and in Note 12 to the Financial Review on pages 60 to 67 and the Corporate Governance Report on financial statements.
A summary of the key performance indicators considered most relevant to the Group is on pages 16 and 17.
Information on environmental, Directors employee and social and community matters is included within the Corporate The Directors who served during the year are set out on page 149.
No Director Sustainability section on pages 46 to 57.
Information on significant contractual has a service contract with the Company which cannot be terminated within and other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group is 12months.
Mr. H Dryland and Mr. T C Baker were appointed Non-Executive included within this Directors Report on pages 72 and 73.
A description of the Directors subsequent to the year end on 20 January 2011 and 1 March 2011 financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, together with respectively.
Mr. D E Yarur served as a Non-Executive Director throughout 2010, theprincipal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, is contained in the Risk and resigned from the Board subsequent to the year end on 1 March 2011.
Management section on pages 18 to 21, and in Note 25 c to the financial As recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors are statements.
significant events since the balance sheet date requiring disclosure seeking re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Biographical are set out in Note 39 to the financial statements.
All the above matters are details of the Directors are set out on page 70.
The reasons why the Board incorporated into this report by reference.
considers that these Directors should be re-elected are set out in the Corporate Value of land Governance Report on pages 76 to 80 and in particular in the sections headed Land included within property, plant and equipment in the financial statements Performance evaluation and Re-election.
It is not practicable to estimate the value of such land and Directors interests mineral rights, since these principally depend on product prices over the long The interests of the persons including the interests of their families who were term and will vary with market conditions.
Land included in investment properties Directors at the end of the year, in the preference and ordinary share capital relates to forestry properties which the Group maintains but does not use in any ofthe Company, are shown on page 82. of its existing operations.
This land is held for long-term real estate development and recreational potential and is held in the financial statements at cost.
The fair value of such land is disclosed in Note 15 to the financial statements.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 73 there are collective labour agreements with each of the labour unions at the Directors indemnities and insurance Groups mining operations.
These agreements are typically of between three In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent and four years duration.
Several of these labour unions are afliated with the permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors are granted an indemnity Federacin Minera fide Chile: from the Company in respect of liabilities personally incurred as a result of their ofce.
In respect of those matters for which the Directors may or may not be the Group has contracts with a number of suppliers to sub-contract indemnified, the Company maintained a Directors and Ofcers liability certainservices at each of its mine sites, including vehicle and equipment insurance policy throughout the financial year.
This policy has been renewed maintenance and other logistical services.
In addition, the Group has a number forthe current financial year.
of medium and long-term contracts for the supply of key inputs such as electricity, sulphuric acid, oil and explosives with a number of suppliers: Conicts of interest tax invariability agreements are in place in respect of the Groups four The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director must avoid a situation where miningoperations Los Pelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may whichprovide that set rates will apply in respect of the mining royalty for conict, with the Companys interests.
The Company has undertaken a process specified periods: to identify, and, where appropriate, authorise and manage potential and actual in 2003 the Group was awarded a 30-year concession to operate the water conicts.
Each Director of the Company has identied his interests which may rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, supplying domestic constitute conicts, including for example, directorships in other companies.
The domestic tariffs are controlled by the Chilean Water TheBoard has considered the potential and actual conict situations of each of Regulator.
Further details are given in Note 35 to the financial statements: the Directors and decided in relation to each situation whether to authorise it and the transport division has long-term contracts with a number of customers, the steps, if any, that need to be taken to manage it.
The authorisation process which typically govern volumes and pricing structures: and isnot regarded as a substitute for managing an actual conict of interest if one arises.
The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of actual and potential the Group has shareholder agreements in place governing its relationship conicts of interest is an ongoing process.
Directors are required to notify the withits partners at its operations and development and exploration projects.
Company of any material changes in those positions or situations that have TheGroup also has a number of earn-in agreements in respect of exploration already been considered, as well as to notify the Company of any other new and development projects.
positions or situations that may arise.
In addition to considering any new situations as they arise, the Board considers the conict position of all Directorsformally each year.
significant relationships The Group has a number of significant contractual or other arrangements which are essential to its operations and projects: the Group holds a number of mining and exploration rights in Chile and other countries in which it has exploration or development activities, normally granted by the relevant national government: a significant proportion of the Groups sales of copper concentrate and other payable elements and molybdenum concentrate are made under long-term framework agreements with a number of customers.
These framework contracts will typically set out the minimum annual volumes to be supplied, with the processing charges determined annually and the pricing of contained material to be in accordance with market prices.
A significant proportion oftheGroups copper cathode sales are made under annual contracts with anumber of customers.
These contracts will typically specify the volumes tobe supplied, with the pricing to be in accordance with market prices.
Furtherdetails of such arrangements are given in Note 25 d to the nancialstatements: 74 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Directors Report continued Capital structure Donations Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital, including details of The Group made charitable donations of US$13.7 million during the year ended any movements in the issued share capital during the year, are shown in Note 29 31 December 2010 2009 US$2.2 million.
The donations include amounts to the financial statements.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares, paid during 2010 from the US$10 million recovery fund established by which carry no right to xed income.
Each ordinary share carries one vote at Antofagasta Minerals S. A. to support the earthquake reconstruction efforts anygeneral meeting of the Company.
Details of the preference share capital inChile, as described in more detail in the Corporate Sustainability section.
areshown in Note 23 to the financial statements.
The preference shares are Thisalso includes US$53,000 2009 US$32,000 of charitable donations non-redeemable and are entitled to a xed cumulative dividend of 5% per inthe United Kingdom, principally related to educational studies with a focus on annum.
Each preference share carries 100 votes on a poll at any general Chile.
The Group made political donations of US$49,000 during the year ended meeting of the Company.
The nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital 31December 2010, in relation to presidential elections 2009 US$2.2 million is 96.1% of the total sterling nominal value of all issued share capital, and the in relation to Chilean presidential and parliamentary elections.
These donations nominal value of the issued preference share capital is 3.9% of the total sterling were made in accordance with the Chilean legislation which governs the nominal value of all issued share capital.
nancing of political parties and candidates in order to facilitate the democratic process of the country.
The donations were made via the Chilean Electoral There are no specic restrictions on the transfer of shares or on their voting Management Body, which transfers funds to political parties and candidates.
rights beyond those standard provisions set out in the Companys Articles of Association and other provisions of applicable law and regulation including, Supplier payment policy and creditor days inparticular, following a failure to provide the Company with information about The Company acts as a holding company and does not trade in the United interests in shares as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is Kingdom or elsewhere.
Creditor days for the Group have been calculated at notaware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that 32days 2009 40 days.
Each operating company is responsible for agreeing mayresult in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
terms of payment with each of their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments Detailsof significant holdings in the Companys shares are set out in the tosuppliers are made in accordance with agreed terms.
Substantial shareholdings section on page 75.
Environment The Company has the authority to purchase up to 98,585,669 of its own The Group seeks to ensure that its operations and products cause minimal harm ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
Care is taken to limit discharges of environmentally harmful Withregard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company substances and to dispose of waste material in a safe manner.
Contingency isgoverned by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code arrangements and plans exist to reduce the risk and limit the effect of any 2010, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of accidental spillage.
The Groups policy is that all its operations should comply Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
fully with or exceed applicable Chilean regulations.
Further information regarding Thereareno significant agreements in place which take effect, alter or the Groups environmental performance and activities is given in the Corporate terminateupon a change of control of the Company.
There are no agreements Sustainability section on pages 46 to 57. inplace between the Company and its Directors or employees which provide forcompensation for loss of ofce resulting from a change of control of theCompany.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 75 Auditors Annual General Meeting In the case of each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held from 10.30 a. m. on ofthisAnnual Report: 8June 2011 at Church House Conference Centre, Deans Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
The Notice of the Meeting, together with an explanation so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the ofthe business to be dealt with at the Meeting, is included in a separate Companys auditors are unaware: and document sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
he has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to By Order of the Board make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that theCompanys auditors are aware of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
This statement For and on behalf of is made and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section Petershill Secretaries Limited 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Company Secretary A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor will be 7 March 2011 proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Substantial shareholdings As at the date of this report, the following significant holdings of voting rights inthe share capital of the Company have been disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Ordinary share Preference share Total share Table of substantial capital capital capital shareholdings % % % Metalinvest Establishment 50.72 94.12 58.04 Kupferberg Establishment 9.94 8.27 Blackrock Inc. 5.10 4.24 Aureberg Establishment 4.26 3.54 Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment are both controlled by the E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
As explained on page 128, Metalinvest Establishment is the immediate parent company of the Group and the E. Abaroa Foundation is the ultimate parent company.
Aureberg Establishment is controlled by Mr. J-P Luksic, the Chairman of the Company.
