Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Remuneration report The Directors Remuneration report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Committee and has been approved by the Board.
Shareholders will be given the opportunity to approve the report at the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2011.
The report has been drawn up in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
The Remuneration report is divided into two parts.
The first part contains commentary on remuneration policy, which is not required to be audited.
The second part contains the remuneration tables that have been audited in accordance with the relevant statutory requirements.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing Group policy on executive remuneration and for determining, on behalf of the Board, specific remuneration packages for the executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committees terms of reference are available on our website.
During the year the members of the Committee were: Simon Heale, who is the Chairman of the Committee, Martin Flower, Tim Stevenson and Andrew Given.
Each of the non-executive Directors is regarded by the Board as independent.
Tim Stevenson was independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman of the Board.
The Committee met on seven occasions during the year.
Each Committee members attendance at these meetings is set out in the Corporate governance report on page 68.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Director of Human Resources attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The Committee also had access to advice from the Chief Financial Officer.
No executive Director or other attendee is present when his or her own remuneration is under consideration.
During 2010, following a review of remuneration consultants, Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee as its executive remuneration advisers and has provided advice on performance measurement, setting annual bonus and long-term incentive targets, and benchmarking senior executive remuneration and non-executive Director fees.
Kepler provided no other services to the Company during the year.
During the financial year, Deloitte LLP who were previously appointed as the Committees advisers provided advice on market practice and remuneration policy as well as total shareholder return TSR analysis.
In addition, Deloitte provided unrelated tax advice to the Company.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that all the remuneration packages offered are competitive and designed to attract, retain and motivate executive Directors and senior executives of the right calibre in order to run the Company successfully and to create value for shareholders.
The policy of the Committee is to ensure that a significant proportion of the total remuneration opportunity is performance-related and based on the achievement of measurable targets which are relevant to and support the business strategy.
This is in order to create a strong link between performance and reward which should be beneficial to shareholders, employees and the Company.
In assessing all aspects of pay and benefits, the Committee takes into account the packages offered by similar companies to ensure the remuneration packages for executive Directors are competitive against the market in which the Company competes for talent.
For the purposes of such analysis, comparator companies are chosen having regard to: the size of the company eg in terms of market capitalisation, turnover and number of people employed : the diversity and complexity of its businesses: and the geographical spread of its businesses.
The Committee also considers the level of pay and employment conditions throughout the Company when determining executive Directors remuneration.
The Committee believes that the current remuneration structures are appropriate and support the business strategy.
76 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010
