Directors report The directors present their report on responsibility report, directors remuneration Substantial shareholdings the affairs of the group, together with report and governance report contain As at 18 May 2010, the Company has the financial statements and auditors forward-looking statements these are been advised by or is aware of the report for the 52-week period ended made by the directors in good faith based following interests in the Companys 27 March 2010.
The corporate governance on the information available to them at the ordinary share capital: statement set out on pages 30 to 35 time of their approval of this report.
These Percentage forms part of this report.
The chairmans statements will not be updated or reported Number of of issued Holder shares share capital statement at page 5 gives further upon further during the year.
Consequently information on the work of the board such statements should be treated with M&G Investment during the period.
The principal activity of caution due to the inherent uncertainties, Management Ltd 9,710,469 11.02% the group is as a specialist multi-channel including both economic and business risk FIL Ltd FMR LLC 8,957,774 10.17% retailer and wholesaler of products for factors, underlying such forward-looking DC Thomson & mothers-to-be, babies and children under statements or information.
Company Ltd 8,950,000 10.16% the Mothercare and Early Learning Centre Aberdeen Asset The use of financial instruments, the risk brands.
It also owns and operates Gurgle.
Management Group 7,432,929 8.44% management objectives and exposures com, the social networking site for parents.
are set out in the notes to the financial Acquisition of own shares Business review statements and the corporate governance The Company was given a general The principal companies within the report on page 32. approval at the AGM in July 2009 to Mothercare group for the period Going concern purchase up to 10 per cent of its shares under review were Mothercare plc The accounts have been prepared under in the market.
This authority expires after the Company : Mothercare UK Limited the going concern principle.
For full details the AGM on 15 July 2010.
The authority and Chelsea Stores Holdings Ltd which please see the governance report on has not been used during the year.
owns the Early Learning Centre brand.
The group entered into a joint venture for As at 18 May 2010, the Companys issued the development of retail stores in India Dividend share capital was 88,116,436 ordinary shares with DLF Retail Brands.
The group holds The directors recommend a final dividend of 50p each all carrying voting rights.
Details 30 per cent of the share capital and DLF of 11.3p per share.
An interim dividend of the change in the Companys issued the remainder.
The remaining 50 per cent of 5.5p was paid in February 2010 2009: share capital during the year is set out in of the share capital of Gurgle Limited was 4.6p per share making a total of 16.8p note 25.
No shares were held in Treasury.
The Companies per share 2009: total of 14.5p per share.
The Company has one class of ordinary Act 2006 requires the directors report The Trustees of the Mothercare Employee shares.
Each share carries the right to one to contain a review of the business Trust, who held 2,709,453 shares at the vote at general meetings of the Company.
and a description of the principal risks balance sheet date, have waived their There are no specific restrictions on the size and uncertainties facing the group.
entitlement to receive dividends in respect of a holding in the Company nor on the A review of the business strategy and of 1,184,383 shares.
The remaining shares transfer of shares, which are both governed a commentary on the performance of held by the Trust are conditionally awarded by the general provisions of the Companys the group is set out in the performance to participants in certain of the groups Articles of Association and legislation.
The highlights, our group overview, chairmans employee share schemes where such directors are not aware of any agreements and chief executives statements, the schemes provide for dividends to accrue between shareholders that may result in business review and financial review on on such conditional awards.
Consequently restrictions on the transfer of shares or on pages 2 to 18.
The principal risks facing the amount of the dividends waived by voting rights.
the business are detailed in the corporate the Trust will change from year to year in governance report at page 30.
These Details of the Companys employee share accordance with conditional awards made.
disclosures form part of this report.
schemes are set out in the remuneration The directors report is prepared for the report.
The Trustees of the Mothercare members of the Company and should not Employee Trust abstain from voting its be relied upon by any other party or for shareholding in the Company.
Where the directors report including the performance highlights, our group overview, business review, financial review, corporate 27 40536 p26-96.
