Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Business review Our business The Mothercare group is comprised principally of two iconic retail brands with international appeal: Mothercare and Early Learning Centre.
It also owns the internet social networking site for parents, Gurgle.
The Mothercare brand is an indispensable part of the process of parenting.
Ben Gordon The Mothercare brand has global appeal and reach providing a one stop shop Chief Executive shopping environment in-store in 52 countries which, allied to its worldwide internet and catalogue business, provides the widest range of products for mothers-to-be and children up to eight years old with maternity and childrens clothing, accessories, furniture, home furnishings, feeding, bathing, travel equipment and toys.
Mothercare prides itself in being a specialist retailer, providing products that are safe, innovative and relevant to parents faced with the ever changing demands of bringing up children and helping them to meet the needs and aspirations of their children, worldwide.
The Early Learning Centre also has a strong brand heritage.
Originally founded as a mail order business providing toys and books with educational content, it extended its reach into stores both in the United Kingdom and overseas.
It too has a multi-channel approach offering customers the choice to shop in-store, on the net or through the seasonal catalogues.
The Early Learning Centre brand provides eight major categories of toys and games primarily from birth to six years old.
Both Mothercare and Early Learning Centre source products from around the world.
The group co-ordinates the sourcing of its products through three principal sourcing offi ces, one each in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Bangalore.
These offi ces are the conduit for innovative and exclusive product development.
Product sourced from our key markets is then consolidated and shipped to our stores around the world via a dedicated supply chain designed to be both cost and environmentally effi cient.
com is our social networking site providing support and a wealth of information to registered users on all aspects of parenting as well as giving new mothers the chance of sharing experiences.
Mothercare strategy We have four key growth channels through which we develop our two brands: 1.
indd 6 27 5 10 02:35:29 Mothercare worldwide 1 2 network sales exceed 1bn.
Results 3 The Mothercare group delivered a strong performance in 2009 10 with underlying growth in sales and profi ts in both our UK and International businesses for segmental analysis see note 5.
Group sales for the year rose by 5.9 per cent to 766.4 million 2008 09: 723.6 million.
Underlying profi t from operations, excluding the share-based payments charge, increased by 16.6 per cent to 52.0 million 2008 09: 44.6 million and underlying profi t before tax increased by 0.8 per cent to 37.2 million 2008 09: 36.9 million.
Group profi t before tax decreased from 42.0 million last year to 32.5 million this year.
However this is after charging 4.7 million of non-underlying items credit of 5.1 million last year mostly relating 1.
Mothercare An excellent example of creative to the volatile non-cash adjustments all we know innovation in the year is the Mothercare where we revalue stock and commercial toiletries range SPIN pushchair.
Working with experts to currency hedges to spot rate.
BabyK address new child development research, not affect the cash fl ows or ongoing Mothercares in-house design team profi tability of the group.
Mirdif Mall, Dubai developed this unique pushchair which The group generated 57.8 million of cash allows babies to benefi t from both facing fl ow from operations and ended the year their parents and also looking out to with a net cash balance of 38.5 million the world.
The Mothercare SPIN launched 2008 09: 24.8 million.
As a result of the with great success around the world, strong underlying performance of the becoming an immediate bestseller in its group and the positive cash generation, fi first year.
Mothercare is now the leading we are pleased to propose a fi final dividend pushchair retailer in a number of markets of 11.3p per share giving a total dividend around the world, including the UK.
Design for the year of 16.8p per share, an increase and innovation at Early Learning Centre of 15.9 per cent.
continues, and one of our recent developments was the launch of our Two world class brands interactive Retro Robot which proved to Over the last fi five years we have grown be a bestseller over the Christmas period.
Mothercare from a predominantly UK retailer into a global multi-channel company through our two world class brands, Mothercare and Early Learning MyChoice three-wheeler Centre.
This transformation has been pushchair achieved through excellent product innovation and design together with a focus on specialism.
We will continue to build the Mothercare group as the worlds leading parenting retailer.
indd 7 27 5 10 02:35:32 Business review Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Business review continued Phase 2 can be split into three distinct 1.
UK retailing Growing our proposition UK retail sales per square foot elements, each with separate targets.
In November we announced that phase 1 full year UK retail sales of our property strategy, which we started compared to year end i New out-of-town parenting centres in May 2008, was complete and that the UK store square footage Our out-of-town parenting centres are 5.0 million of benefits highlighted at that true destination stores with the full range time had been achieved with 5.0 million of Mothercare and Early Learning Centre 292 288 284 less capital expenditure than anticipated.
product together with key concessions.
At the same time we announced phase 2 Our target is to increase the number of our property strategy.
Whilst phase 1 of parenting centres in the UK to 120. was all about the rightsizing of Mothercare In November we announced that we stores, reducing space and increasing would open 10 new parenting centres per sales per square foot, phase 2 will deliver annum and in 2009 10 we met this target.
a significant shift in footprint from in-town to The new stores are performing well and the more profitable out-of-town parenting we have attracted 10.2 million of lease centre format driving profit per square incentive payments from landlords in 08 09 10 foot but leaving the overall retail space the year.
Our plans to open 10 further in the UK broadly the same.
out-of-town parenting centres in 2010 11 are on track.
Even after closing 63 stores in phase 1 of our property strategy, we are still left with ii Rationalise high street chain a very favourable lease expiry profile We announced in November our plans to where almost 50 per cent of the groups close or renegotiate the leases on 90 lower leases are due to expire by March 2012. profit in-town stores, dealing with 30 stores This, together with the weak property each year over three years.
In 2009 10 we market, has given us an excellent opportunity exceeded our target with 29 store closures to embark on a new phase of our property and 14 lease renegotiations.
strategy, closing more lower profit in-town iii In-town opportunities stores, opening more out-of-town We also identified a number of key towns parenting centres in key catchments with where we targeted eight of our new strong property deals and renegotiating landmark format stores.
One of these rents downwards at lease expiry.
was opened during 2009 10 and another after year end taking the total to six.
We now expect our property strategy to deliver 16.1 million of annual benefits each year by the end of 2012 from phase 1 and phase 2 combined an increase to our previous estimate of 15.0 million.
UK retailing Parenting centres opened this year reshaping our portfolio: parenting centres and landmark stores 9 40536 p01-25.
indd 9 27 5 10 19:56:55 Business review Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Business review continued Our channels for growth 2.
Direct continued rapid growth Direct has continued its rapid growth with total sales of 126.8 million in the year, an increase of 18.2 per cent.
Direct Direct has continued its rapid growth with total sales of 126.8 million in the year, an increase of 18.2 per cent.
The development of e-commerce in the UK over the last ten years has transformed the face of UK retail and Mothercare has been in the vanguard of that transformation.
Mothercare UKs Direct business is now over 20 per cent of our UK business split between orders placed online at home and online in store.
The growth of Direct 72.4m refl ects the transformation of retailing Direct in Home sales with stores increasingly acting more as showrooms.
This is particularly true for our extensive range of nursery furniture, pushchairs and car seats.
We continue 54.4m to expand our product ranges online and Direct in Store sales our full Clothing range is now available on the Mothercare website in addition to our full range of Home & Travel and Toys.
We are now rolling out our Widest Choice programme for Early Learning Centre with a much larger range of lines now available online only.
Also, in September we acquired the remaining 50 per cent of Gurgle.
com, our social networking website for parents and parents-to-be, which continues to grow rapidly.
com Our social networking site for parents 10 40536 p01-25.
Wholesale realising our potential Wholesale is currently small, but represents a significant growth opportunity for us both in the UK and globally.
In the UK, wholesale sales were 4.8 million, up 78 per cent, and this will be boosted in 2010 11 by the autumn launch of our clothing partnership with Boots announced in February.
We will supply childrenswear to Boots UK on a wholesale basis, replacing their existing childrenswear offer in circa 400 UK stores from September 2010.
4.8m UK wholesale sales Our new toiletries range all we know 11 40536 p01-25.
indd 11 27 5 10 02:35:48 Business review Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Business review continued 12 40536 p01-25.
indd 12 27 5 10 02:35:54 Our channels for growth 4. International franchise developing our brands overseas Our fourth distribution channel is International franchising which is how we operate our overseas stores and this includes our two joint venture agreements in India and China.
International franchising remains the single largest growth opportunity for the group offering huge potential in developed and emerging markets, driven by the strength of our two brands, our unique network of strong franchise partners and our state-of-the-art logistics network.
4. International franchise In October we announced our newest joint We are growing the International business Our fourth distribution channel is venture with Delhi Land & Finance in India.
around the world by continuing to open International franchising which is how we This new joint venture, along with our new stores in existing countries, entering operate our overseas stores.
International existing partner in the region, Shoppers new countries and also opening larger franchising remains the single largest Stop, gives us an excellent opportunity format stores that can accommodate our growth opportunity for the group offering to accelerate our expansion in India.
We plan to open huge potential in developed and emerging At the year end we had 32 successful stores at least 100 additional overseas stores markets, driven by the strength of our in India and we expect to have 70 stores per year for the foreseeable future.
two brands, our unique network of strong open by the end of the current financial Summary and outlook franchise partners and our state-of-the-art year, well on the way to our medium term Mothercare has had another strong logistics network.
year with our worldwide network sales Our International franchise model has Mothercare owns 30 per cent of the exceeding 1 billion for the first time.
allowed rapid growth with no capital franchise companies in India and China.
International had a record year and investment for Mothercare.
We earn profits We charge a royalty on retail sales as with we ended the year with a total of from our royalties, as a fixed percentage of the franchise model, but we also earn a 1,115 stores worldwide in 52 countries.
Total International 30 per cent share of the net joint venture UK performance was robust with positive sales, which include International retail profits.
We contribute 30 per cent of the like-for-like sales growth for the fourth sales and International wholesale sales, capital expenditure in these markets and consecutive year, and our property increased by 21.4 per cent to 490.9 million.
with the rapid growth that we predict, restructure is on track.
As a result of the we are expecting to invest in the region excellent performance of the group, we International underlying profit from of 5 million of total capital expenditure in have again recommended a significant operations increased by over 40 per cent India and China over the next three years.
to 23.2 million on top of growth of over 50 per cent last year.
Over the last two In Europe we have 327 stores with strong The year finished with a more challenging years growth in our International business growth in Eastern European countries with consumer environment in the UK and has been rapid with store numbers up higher birth rates, including Poland, Russia strong growth in International.
We expect 47.4 per cent to 728 stores in 51 countries, and Ukraine.
this pattern to continue into 2010 11 and and average retail selling space up we are planning cautiously.
However, Across the Middle East and Africa we 47.9 per cent to 1.5 million square feet.
overall we are well placed going forward, have 225 stores and we are now opening Total International sales have increased with our rapidly growing International larger format parenting centre stores with by more than 70 per cent over the last two platform, strong cash flow and debt free two stores opened in Dubai in the year years and underlying profit from operations balance sheet.
During increased by nearly 120 per cent over the the year we launched Early Learning same period.
The International segment as Centre in South Africa.
reported also includes our small overseas wholesale business.
Asia Pacific is currently our smallest region with 176 stores, but it has the greatest Ben Gordon In our key growth markets of India and long term growth potential, including Chief executive China, our strategy is to form joint ventures both India and China.
During the year with our franchise partners so that we also launched Mothercare in Australia.
Mothercare can share in more of the upside in markets where we expect to generate substantial growth.
