Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Board of directors Ian Peacock Ben Gordon Neil Harrington Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Appointed chairman on 1 November 2002 Appointed in December 2002.
Formerly Finance having joined the board as chairman elect on Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Director of George Clothing UK, a division 1 August 2002.
Chairman of Family Mosaic plc, Disney Store, Europe and Asia Pacifi c. Has also of Asda Stores Limited, Chief Financial and a London based Housing Association held senior management positions with the Admin Offi cer of Global George, a division of and Deputy Chairman of Lombard Risk WHSmith Group in Europe and the USA and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
Prior to joining Wal-Mart, Management plc.
Director and Chair of audit LOreal S. A. Paris.
Non-executive director of was Finance Director of Barclaycard International, and compliance committee of C. Hoare & Co. Britvic plc.
a division of Barclays Bank plc and Group A City Fellow of Hughes Hall, Cambridge, a Financial Controller of French Connection Trustee of the PHG Foundation and Chairman Group plc.
of the Financial Advisory Committee for Westminster Abbey.
Previously a Trustee of WRVS and Chairman of Galiform PLC formerly MFI Furniture Group and has also held a number of senior positions in the banking industry in London, New York and Asia with Kleinwort Benson Group and with BZW.
A special adviser to the Bank of England from 19982000, and a non-executive director of Norwich and Peterborough Building Society from 19972005.
Bernard Cragg David Williams Senior non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed in March 2003.
Senior non-executive Appointed in August 2004.
Chair of Operating director of Workspace Group Plc and nonPartners of Duke Street Capital LLP, chair of executive director of Astro All Asia Networks plc, SandpiperCI Ltd, Adelie Food Holdings Ltd, Progressive Digital Media Group plc.
Formerly Oasis Dental Healthcare Ltd and The Original Group Finance Director and Chief Financial Factory Shop Ltd. Non-executive Director of Offi cer of Carlton Communications plc, Chairman the Royal London Mutual Insurance Group Ltd. of I-mate plc and Datamonitor plc and a Formerly chairman of Simple Ltd, Avebury non-executive director of Bristol & West plc Taverns Ltd, Wyevale Garden Centres plc and Arcadia plc.
and Ideal Shopping Direct plc.
Former Governor of London Business School.
Karren Brady Richard Rivers Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed in July 2003.
Vice-Chairman of Appointed in July 2008.
Formerly Head of West Ham United Football Club Limited and Strategy and Chief of Staff of Unilever and a director of WH Holding Limited.
Formerly chaired Unilevers Corporate Ventures Group.
Managing Director of Birmingham City A member of WPP Group Advisory Committee.
A non-executive director of Channel 4 Television Corporation and of Sport England.
