Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility continued Early Learning Centre stores will have Waste and packaging Products completed their installation of AMRs by Most of our waste comes from our stores, We consider carefully the environmental this summer, and subsequently a staff and most of that is the packaging which impact of making products, including our awareness campaign is planned for 2010 transports our products safely from the use of chemicals and natural raw materials which will coincide with the launch of a new distribution centre to the shop.
We have policies controlling the Corporate Responsibility CR Champions of 2009 we appointed a new contractor use of chemicals, focusing on those with scheme.
CR Champions will encourage with the specific task of helping us recycle known environmental or health risks.
and support colleagues in cutting energy more of this waste and in the first year we A big focus this year has been the use, recycling more waste and promoting have significantly increased our overall introduction of a new policy on the use our hanger re-use project.
recycling rate from approximately of wood in products.
The new version has 40 per cent up to 75 per cent.
We recycled As a group we are included under the been strengthened to prohibit wood from around 2,000 tonnes of paper and controversial and high conservation-value new Carbon Reduction Commitment cardboard last year, equivalent to the energy efficiency scheme which launched forests, to include an explicit support for weight of four million Mothercare the Forest Stewardship Council scheme, on 1 April 2010.
companies to report carbon emissions and is backed by a tracking system to help Our National Distribution Centre already us understand the origins of all the wood annually and purchase allowances for each tonne emitted.
The group is has an established recycling system, and we use in our products.
Our aim is that all an aspiration to send zero waste to landfill.
the wood we use must come from known currently registering its compliance and is considering how best to mitigate the This year it cut its total waste by 9 per cent and legal sources, and that an increasing via a reduction in cardboard packaging amount targeting 50 per cent of our cost of these new regulations.
solid wood should be certified under Our use of transport fuel has also fallen, the FSC scheme.
thanks to the consolidation of Mothercare The packaging removed in our stores and and Early Learning Centre fleets.
We have distribution centres is only part of the story.
People working for us already met our initial savings target Most of the products we sell are packaged The excellent team of people working 15 per cent over five years and have in some way, and this material must at Mothercare is a key ingredient of extended this further.
The initial gains from either be thrown away or recycled by the our success.
In return, we aim to provide removing duplicated routes have been consumer.
Last year our total packaging an excellent working environment, and secured and there will always be a need handled the amounts on our products, our success in doing so is illustrated by for more deliveries as we open more stores.
plus all the imported transit packaging a number of external benchmarks.
we throw away in stores and distribution Nevertheless, we believe further emissions Mothercare was voted the 5th 25 Best Big centres was 9,000 tonnes, a decrease Companies to Work For by our employees savings can be made from investing in our of 22 per cent versus 2007 08.
Consumers fleet: last year we fitted speed restrictors in The Sunday Times survey for 2010. and government expect us to minimise We were the top retailer in the list to our vehicles, implemented new delivery this, and we have both packaging schedules to increase vehicle fill and which measures eight factors including technologists and a packaging waste Leadership, My Company, Giving conducted trials with double-deck trailers.
Via the use of technology and continued Something Back and Personal Growth.
We have taken a similar approach to This year we increased our scores in all attention to routing efficiency, we continue to pursue absolute reductions in our cutting carrier bag use.
By controlling waste eight factors which helped us improve our and increased consumer awareness, we position from no.
5 in 2010. carbon emissions from vehicles.
have reduced the number we gave away in We also achieved Two Star status in the our Mothercare stores by a further 9 per cent Best Company accreditation, established this year.
We have therefore increased to recognise corporate excellence in the our five-year target, looking now for a workplace.
Two Stars is recognised as 50 per cent cut in the number of bags we outstanding and we were one of only two use.
We have also changed our bags to retailers to be awarded this.
We were also include 40 per cent recycled content.
shortlisted for the Employer of the Year in the Oracle Retail Week Awards 2010.
