Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance continued Any failure of the groups logistics, In addition to the evaluation of business The board and directors distribution and information risk referred to above, the programme The board of Mothercare plc meets technology strategies or platforms of specific risk management activity regularly and maintains overall control may restrict the ability of the group continued during the year across of the groups affairs through a schedule to make product available in its the activities of both brands in the of matters reserved for its decision.
worldwide stores network and Direct United Kingdom.
Under this programme, These include setting the group strategy, businesses thereby failing to meet individual stores are tested against a the approval of the annual budget and customer expectations and adversely risk assessment model that emphasises financial statements, major acquisitions affect sales and profits.
health and safety, disability discrimination, and disposals, authority limits for capital fire safety and internal process compliance.
and other expenditure and material A failure in any economic climate to treasury matters.
Details of the terms of invest appropriately in the groups The internal audit function a combination reference of the boards committees are infrastructure, people, tangible of internal resources and external resource also set out in the corporate governance and intangible assets as it seeks led by  LLP section of the Companys website at to balance short and long term supplements the risk-based approach www.
Furthermore, the Company has adopted procedures to The non-executive directors are Financing.
The Company and ensure auditor independence, the details independent and free from any the group may be exposed to of which are set out in the section below business or other relationship that could counterparty risk in respect of detailing the work of the audit committee.
interfere materially with their judgement.
its hedging, banking, insurance The non-executive directors do not or other finance based contracts The board believes that the system of participate in any bonus, share option and particularly in the ability of internal control described can provide or pension scheme of the Company.
the relevant counterparties being only reasonable and not absolute able to continue to be able to assurance against material mis-statement The chairmans other business meet their obligations.
The audit committee periodically commitments are set out in the has sought to widen its banking reviews the system of internal control on biographical details on page 26 and relationships through the recent behalf of the board.
there have been no significant changes renewal of its facilities.
during the period relating to these During the course of its review of the commitments.
Against this background, the system of system of internal control, the board internal control is designed to manage has not identified nor been advised of The board considers that the balance rather than eliminate risks.
any failings or weaknesses which it has achieved between executive and determined to be significant.
Therefore a non-executive directors during the In order to effectively manage risk, the confirmation in respect of necessary actions period was appropriate and effective for executive committee see page 33 has not been considered appropriate.
the control and direction of the business.
has overall responsibility for ensuring that a rolling programme of structured The group aspires to achieve high The board is assisted by committees that risk assessments of those areas having standards in corporate governance it has established with written terms of a significant effect on the future of the and the principles adopted by the reference.
The roles of the remuneration, business is carried out.
The programme group are commented on briefly below: audit and nomination committees are ensures, so far as practicably possible, set out below.
The audit, remuneration that the appropriate risk management and nomination committees were processes are identified, controls comprised of the four non-executive established, residual risks evaluated directors with the chairman additionally and that the necessary action and risk serving on the remuneration and avoidance measures taken or monitoring nomination committees.
Elements of the programme of the meetings held during the year are reviewed by the internal audit of the board, its committees and the function during the year.
The process attendance by individual directors outlined above has been in effect during is set out at page 35. the period and up to the date of the approval of the accounts by the board.
