Significant agreements Charitable and political donations As in previous years a copy of the The group has entered into two The Company made a further donation chairmans opening statement to the agreements that are subject to change to the Mothercare Group Foundation meeting, together with a resum of of control provisions.
These agreements during the year of 186,000.
Total questions and answers given at the are i a multi currency revolving facility charitable donations for the year meeting, will be prepared following dated 26 April 2010 in respect of a ended 27 March 2010 were 414,070 the AGM.
This will be made available 20,000,000 credit facility with Barclays 2009: 156,386. to shareholders on request to the group Bank PLC for general business purposes company secretary at the Companys It is the Companys policy not to make and ii a multi currency revolving facility head office.
dated 26 April 2010 in respect of a The notice of meeting gives explanatory 20,000,000 credit facility with HSBC Annual General Meeting notes on the business to be proposed Bank PLC for general business purposes.
The 2010 Annual General Meeting will at the meeting.
be held on Thursday, 15 July 2010 at Corporate citizenship 10.30am in the conference suite at the By order of the board The groups corporate social Companys head office at Cherry Tree responsibility ethos and details of the Road, Watford, Hertfordshire WD24 6SH.
programmes that it runs in its business relationships around the world is set out The notice of the meeting and a on pages 19 to 25. prepaid form of proxy for the use of shareholders unable to come to the Auditors Clive E Revett AGM but who may wish to vote or to put In the case of each of the persons who Group company secretary any questions to the board of directors were directors of the Company at the 20 May 2010 are enclosed with this annual report.
date when this report was approved: The Company wishes to encourage so far as each of the directors is as many shareholders as possible to aware, there is no relevant audit vote electronically.
Those shareholders information as defined in the who have elected to, or now wish to Companies Act 2006 of which the participate in voting via electronic Companys auditors are unaware: and communications, may register their vote in respect of resolutions to be proposed each of the directors has taken all to the AGM at www.
the steps that he she ought to have To use the facility shareholders will need taken as a director to make himself their voting ID, task ID and shareholder herself aware of any relevant audit reference number from their proxy form information as defined and to and register at www.
establish that the Companys auditors For full details on how to use this facility are aware of that information.
please see the Notice of Meeting.
This confirmation is given and should Shareholders may also submit questions be interpreted in accordance with the via email to investorrelations@ provisions of Section 418 2 of the mothercare.
The chairman will Companies Act 2006. respond in writing to questions received.
A resolution proposing the re-election of Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company will be put to the AGM.
