Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility continued For the next generation We believe that corporate responsibility We set five-year targets in 2007 08 so we The group has two well known brands, are now two years into our programme.
should be at the core of what we do.
Mothercare and Early Learning Centre.
With that in mind we aim to act responsibly The targets are all compared to 2007 08 Both evoke the future.
Both focus on as the baseline year: towards: parents and children, children who will the environment: To cut the absolute carbon emissions one day grow up to be parents themselves.
from our UK buildings by 15 per cent: Our aim is that, when they do, the groups t he people who work for us: businesses will be there to help them, just To cut the absolute carbon emissions our suppliers and the people making as we helped previous generations.
In fact, from our UK fleet by 20 per cent and distributing our products: and next year sees the 50th anniversary of original target was 15 per cent : the Mothercare brand.
Many of those o ur customers, parents and families.
To cut the packaging associated with first Mothercare babies are now proud every 100 of products that we sell Our approach is to try to consider all these parents and grandparents themselves.
in our day-to-day running of the group.
by 40 per cent original target was 15 per cent : We are serious about caring for that next There is a small central team, supported by generation of parents, so we need to external experts, which asks questions that To cut the number of single-use carrier think long term.
We need to consider the are important to the values of our brands.
bags by at least 50 per cent original environment and the world they will inherit.
The responsibility to answer them lies with target was 30 per cent : Our five-year targets represent a good all who work in the business.
start, focusing our own energies on We will ensure that over 50 per cent of Clive Revett, the group company secretary, the solid wooden products we sell are some key issues.
The other activities set and Gillian Berkmen, our group brand and out on these pages also show how we made from wood that is either recycled commercial director oversee all our work or certified by the Forest Stewardship are supporting and working on other on these topics.
A committee of directors social needs.
Council FSC meets bi-monthly and reviews our progress.
Our challenge over the next year is to find The group board takes an active interest, Pushing up recycling, ensuring that ways to harness the energy, creativity and at least 75 per cent of our waste is receiving reports from this committee resources of the group behind a few larger and debating targets and strategy.
recycled: and initiatives that really make a difference.
For the groups community programme This has been the subject of two substantial to be raising 1 million for a charity discussions at the board this year, and a by 2013. set of pilot projects is under way to define these initiatives.
We intend to look further Weve added the word solid to this out, set ourselves some inspiring goals, target, to focus on products made from and bring the resources of our two strong whole pieces of wood rather than MDF brands to bear to see what we can achieve.
or plywood, over which we have found Our aim is to cement the group as a business we have much less control.
for the long term, and the brands as This year we have strengthened three of enthusiastic leaders in their fields.
We will them to reflect our rapid progress to date.
report next year on our progress.
Our progress against five of them shaded blue is shown, along with other environmental data in the table opposite.
