Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Directors report continued Directors Employees Pensions The following directors served during the The Company involves all of its employees The group operates pension schemes 52-week period ended 27 March 2010: in the delivery of its strategy.
It regularly for those of its employees who wish discusses with all its employees its to participate.
Details of the pension Name Appointment corporate objectives, performance as charge is set out in note 30.
The board Ian Peacock Chairman and well as the economic environments in is mindful that further change to independent which the Company trades through its elements of its pension provision non-executive director, business sectors.
This is achieved through will be inevitable given the proposed chairman of the the Company magazine Small Talk, tax and auto-enrolment requirements nomination committee briefings, bulletins, e-mail and video to be introduced in 2011 and 2012.
In Karren Brady Independent presentations.
the circumstances the Company has non-executive director commenced a series of reviews to seek The Company aspires to develop a loyal Bernard Cragg Senior independent a practical solution to these challenges.
and high performing team through its non-executive director DNA development processes.
As part Payment of suppliers and chairman of the of this development process it measures Payments to merchandise suppliers audit committee the capabilities of the groups employees, are made in accordance with general Ben Gordon E xecutive director ascertains their development needs and conditions of purchase, which are Neil Harrington Executive director develops and implements programmes communicated to suppliers at the Richard Rivers Independent designed to ensure that the critical skills beginning of the trading relationship.
non-executive director required for the development of both It is the groups policy to make payments David Williams Independent the individual and the Company are to non-merchandise suppliers, unless non-executive director attained.
The Company is proud once otherwise agreed, within the period set and chairman of the again to have been included in The out in the suppliers invoice or within remuneration committee Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies 60 days from the date of invoice.
In accordance with the Companys Articles The amount owed to trade creditors at of Association, Ben Gordon, David Williams The groups remuneration strategy the end of the financial year represented and Bernard Cragg retire by rotation is set out in the remuneration report.
nil days 2009: nil days of average from the board following the conclusion That report includes details of the daily purchases during the year for the of the AGM on 15 July 2010 and stand various incentive schemes and share Company and 51 days 2009: 57 days for re-election at the AGM.
Biographical plans operated by the group.
details of all of the directors, indicating The group is an equal opportunities Fixed assets their experience and qualifications, are employer and ensures that recruitment Changes in tangible fixed assets set out on page 26. and promotion decisions in all of its are shown in note 16 to the accounts.
Details of directors service arrangements companies are made solely on the A valuation of the groups freehold and are set out in the remuneration report basis of suitability for the job.
Disabled long leasehold properties, excluding on page 40.
There are no special people are given due consideration rack rented properties, was carried contractual payments associated with for employment opportunities and, out by external valuers, as at December a change of control of the Company.
The basis of the valuation is Existing every effort is made to retain them Use Value in respect of properties A statement of directors interests in the by providing relevant support.
primarily occupied by the group and shares of Mothercare plc and of their on the basis of Market Value in respect remuneration is set out on pages 41 and of investment properties, both bases 86 respectively.
A statement of directors being in accordance with the Practice interests in contracts and indemnity Statements contained in the RICS arrangements is set out on page 33.
This adjusted valuation of the properties resulted in a surplus over their net book value of 8,551,204.
