Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility continued Case study Case study Parents and families China Financial Literacy Project India Crche Facilities One of the core strands of Mothercares Mothercare has been working with an The responsible sourcing team in India DNA is Care for Parents.
In our stores NGO in Hong Kong and China to develop has been working with several key every day our motivated and trained training for workers on how to manage suppliers and eight of their factories to people advise thousands of parents on their money.
The objective is to address improve the crche facilities available to the best product for them, or the best for some of the root causes of longer term workers and their children.
In our parenting centres, families migration and debt.
The training covered: of a crche is a legal requirement in most can get all they need under one roof in factories in India, but there is little guidance a child-friendly environment.
Our Early calculating gross and net income: on the quality of the space or the equipment Learning Centre stores offer hands-on developing and implementing budgets that is made available.
testing for kids to help parents make the for outgoings: best choices.
The team undertook a risk assessment at controlling expenses: the factories within the group and worked But we aim also to consider parents more with the management to improve the widely.
Our stores are often a meeting avoiding debt: facilities available.
This included efforts to: place for parents in the community: savings: and i ncrease the spaces provided for the Early Learning Centre runs Playtime planning for the future and setting goals.
crches and equip them with proper Tuesday.
We believe play is an important facilities: part of a childs development, so on The NGO undertook the training session Tuesdays at ten oclock, parents can at one of our large pushchair suppliers, d evelop timetables for activities bring their children along and join in and attendance was very high.
Feedback to provide structure and ensure that the activities which will help them learn from workers was that it was extremely all the childrens requirements were about the importance of creative, helpful and that they would use the met during the day: imaginative and active play.
information and knowledge that they p rovide toys and other equipment for had gained to budget and increase their We are planning to pilot Expectant the crches: and Parents events in three of our Mothercare savings.
97 per cent of the workers who attended said that they would recommend create storage areas so that mattresses, stores which will allow parents-to-be to gather information about essential the training to their friends and colleagues.
toys and study materials can be stored They also said that they would be keen to when not in use.
products related to the first stages of parenthood.
There will also be an attend other training sessions on financial Since the project was concluded, the team literacy, especially on subjects such as opportunity for parents to obtain health has been working with more factories advice from a health professional in investing, wealth creation, insurance and to increase the impact of the work.
programme fits perfectly into the brand We are looking at developing a system values of Mothercare and allows us to The Mothercare group has established whereby our own staff can do this training positively affect the everyday lives of those and supports the Mothercare Group for other suppliers.
We believe that the engaged in producing our products.
Foundation an independent grantprogramme has assisted and will assist Our work in this area has been applauded making body focused on projects and in improving the overall welfare of workers by local NGOs.
charities helping families and babies.
Its in our Chinese supply chain.
Trustees are drawn from the Mothercare board Karren Brady, Ian Peacock, Ben Gordon and Clive Revett.
In 2009 10, the group gave 186,000 to the Foundation, which in turn made 134,000 in grants.
indd 24 27 5 10 02:36:00 The principal donations were: Meningitis Research Foundation MRF : This direct giving is just one part of a 5,546 towards the publication of some of wider community programme: we involve Wellbeing of Women WoW : 35,846 MRFs Baby Watch materials, highlighting colleagues as far as we can to help direct to fund the salary of a research midwife the main warning signs and symptoms and raise funding, and the programme for their Baby Bio Bank project.
This is a of meningitis and septicaemia in babies.
is becoming increasingly international as five-year research project investigating the These leaflets are placed as inserts in the groups international presence grows.
most common complications of pregnancy 95 per cent of all red Child Health Record including pre-eclampsia, miscarriage and Involving staff: UK staff enjoy fundraising books given to new mums at birth.
This is foetal growth restriction.
Surplus product samples the second time the Foundation has are sold through a staff store, with proceeds The Cambridge Foundation: 15,000 funded this resource with MRF.
Early Learning was donated towards the Baby Growth Watchdog Hong Kong : 9,000 Centre staff held a draw, raising over Study, taking place at the University paid the salary for six months for a speech 1,400 for charity.
In Hong Kong, colleagues of Cambridge in conjunction with therapist at Watchdog charity, as proposed are planning to visit the Watchdog centre Addenbrookes Hospital in Cambridge, by the Mothercare charity committee to assess progress and recommend future looking into the effect on environmental recently set up in Hong Kong.
Our Indian sourcing office runs a chemicals on the unborn foetus.
This is a non-profit pre-school centre for children staff Charity Committee which has raised follows an initial 35,000 donation from with special educational needs that over 3,000 via sample sales and similar the Foundation towards this study the provides intensive and well-rounded activities.
These funds are given to local previous year.
early intervention and therapeutic services, charities, including a school for deaf and WellChild: 10,000 towards its Helping helping those children achieve their full dumb children near our office in Tirupur.
Hands project, which offers real and potential at the earliest possible age.
Mothercare staff visited the school to practical improvements and solutions assess their needs, concentrating the Mothercares total direct giving to charity to the home environments of terminally donation on the purchases of hearing aids last year was 414,070, as shown in the sick children, eg levelling of a garden and a hearing loop system.
The largest donation was to the to enable wheelchair access, improving the Foundation, other substantial gifts were International projects: In Hong Kong we layout and decor of a sick childs bedroom.
to the Foundation for the Study of Infant donated over 170 boxes of sample goods Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Death and Cancer Research UK.
Both of to various charities, along with a variety of Charity GOSHCC : 15,000 paid for these last two were donations from cause surplus computer equipment.
Colleagues half the costs of some of the advanced related marketing a range of products raised almost 2,000 in charity sales for molecular tests to be used over the course sold in store supporting the charities work.
In India the Mothercare of a two-year research project, looking Valuable Trust a separate legal Trust, This total giving represents 1 per cent of the into the causes of birth defects and with trustees from a number of garment groups profit before tax.
The study businesses acts as a major sponsor of Donation uses state-of-the-art technology to try and the Tirupur Hospital.
Mothercare Group Foundation 186,000 find out the genetic basis of underlying Foundation for the problems, and then will find out what Study of Infant Death 92,600 happens to these babies as they develop Cancer Research UK 50,000 and grow after birth.
The number NSPCC 32,100 of children that GOSH sees and the Bliss 10,000 complexity of the conditions it treats, Retail Trust 10,000 provide a unique opportunity to engage in I Can Charity 7,500 ground-breaking research that could Other charities and gifts 25,870 benefit children all over the UK and internationally.
indd 25 27 5 10 02:36:01 Corporate responsibility Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Board of directors Ian Peacock Ben Gordon Neil Harrington Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Appointed chairman on 1 November 2002 Appointed in December 2002.
Formerly Finance having joined the board as chairman elect on Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Director of George Clothing UK, a division 1 August 2002.
Chairman of Family Mosaic plc, Disney Store, Europe and Asia Pacifi c. Has also of Asda Stores Limited, Chief Financial and a London based Housing Association held senior management positions with the Admin Offi cer of Global George, a division of and Deputy Chairman of Lombard Risk WHSmith Group in Europe and the USA and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
Prior to joining Wal-Mart, Management plc.
Director and Chair of audit LOreal S. A. Paris.
Non-executive director of was Finance Director of Barclaycard International, and compliance committee of C. Hoare & Co. Britvic plc.
a division of Barclays Bank plc and Group A City Fellow of Hughes Hall, Cambridge, a Financial Controller of French Connection Trustee of the PHG Foundation and Chairman Group plc.
of the Financial Advisory Committee for Westminster Abbey.
Previously a Trustee of WRVS and Chairman of Galiform PLC formerly MFI Furniture Group and has also held a number of senior positions in the banking industry in London, New York and Asia with Kleinwort Benson Group and with BZW.
A special adviser to the Bank of England from 19982000, and a non-executive director of Norwich and Peterborough Building Society from 19972005.
Bernard Cragg David Williams Senior non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed in March 2003.
Senior non-executive Appointed in August 2004.
Chair of Operating director of Workspace Group Plc and nonPartners of Duke Street Capital LLP, chair of executive director of Astro All Asia Networks plc, SandpiperCI Ltd, Adelie Food Holdings Ltd, Progressive Digital Media Group plc.
Formerly Oasis Dental Healthcare Ltd and The Original Group Finance Director and Chief Financial Factory Shop Ltd. Non-executive Director of Offi cer of Carlton Communications plc, Chairman the Royal London Mutual Insurance Group Ltd. of I-mate plc and Datamonitor plc and a Formerly chairman of Simple Ltd, Avebury non-executive director of Bristol & West plc Taverns Ltd, Wyevale Garden Centres plc and Arcadia plc.
and Ideal Shopping Direct plc.
Former Governor of London Business School.
Karren Brady Richard Rivers Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed in July 2003.
Vice-Chairman of Appointed in July 2008.
Formerly Head of West Ham United Football Club Limited and Strategy and Chief of Staff of Unilever and a director of WH Holding Limited.
Formerly chaired Unilevers Corporate Ventures Group.
Managing Director of Birmingham City A member of WPP Group Advisory Committee.
A non-executive director of Channel 4 Television Corporation and of Sport England.
