Directors Report The directors present their report and The net cost of this dividend was Directors accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 12.0m 2009, 7.5m.
The biographies of the directors, all of February 2010. whom served throughout the year, are The directors recommend a final dividend shown on page 20.
In accordance with Activities and results of 6.41p per share 2009, 6.41p for the the provisions of the Combined Code The principal activity of the group is 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010, the 2008 those non-executive directors who retailing through direct home shopping.
net cost of which will be 17.8m 2009, have served a term of more than 9 years The activities are more fully explained in 17.5m.
The dividend will be paid on 30 on the board will be subject to annual the Chief Executives Review on pages July 2010. re-election.
Those affected by such a 6 to 17.
Group profit before taxation from provision are Lord Alliance of Manchester continuing operations for the 52 weeks Movements in reserves are shown in the CBE, Nigel Alliance OBE and Ivan Fallon.
ended 27 February 2010 amounted to Consolidated Statement of Changes in Accordingly they will retire at the next 85.7m 2009, 92.3m.
No geographical Equity on page 47. annual general meeting and, being eligible, segmentation is provided as, apart from offer themselves for reappointment at that small operations in the Republic of Ireland Acquisitions and disposals meeting.
and Germany, all activities take place in As announced in September 2009 the the United Kingdom.
group acquired certain assets of High and In addition, in accordance with the Articles Mighty Limited from the joint Administrators of Association of the company Dean Enhanced business review for the cash consideration of 1.6m.
This Moore and John McGuire will retire at the The company is required by the included the brand, website, stock and the next annual general meeting and, being Companies Act 2006 to set out in this assets of 14 stores based in the UK.
eligible, offer themselves for reappointment report a fair review of the business of at that meeting.
the group during the 52 weeks ended Share capital 27 February 2010 and the position of Details of the companys authorised and Details of directors interests beneficial the group at the end of that period.
issued share capital are shown in note 22 and non-beneficial in shares of the The company is also required to set on page 65. company are given in the Remuneration out a description of the principal risks Report on page 42 and are deemed to and uncertainties facing the group.
The company has one class of ordinary be incorporated into this report by crossThe information fulfilling the above shares which carry no fixed income.
requirements can be found within this share carries the right to one vote at report, within the Chairmans Statement, general meetings of the company.
There With regard to the appointment and the Chief Executives Review and the are no specific restrictions on the size of replacement of directors, the company is Financial Review pages 18 to 19 and a holding nor on the transfer of shares governed by its Articles of Association, is deemed to be incorporated in this which are both governed by the general the Combined Code and the Companies report by this cross-reference.
provisions of the Articles of Association Act.
The powers of directors are described and prevailing legislation except as set out in the board terms of reference and the The board has a policy of continuously below in the section entitled Voting Rights Corporate Governance Report on page 27. identifying and reviewing key business and Restrictions on Transfers.
No person risks and monitors a number of financial has any special rights over the companys Directors and officers liabilities and non-financial Key Performance share capital and all issued shares are The group maintains insurance for directors Indicators, which are detailed on page fully paid.
and officers of the group, indemnifying 18.
The board oversees the development them against certain liabilities incurred by of processes to ensure these risks are Details of outstanding employee share them whilst acting on behalf of the group.
managed appropriately and executive options and the operation of the relevant directors and operational directors are schemes are shown in note 27 on page 67.
Major shareholders tasked with implementation and oversight In addition to the directors shareholdings of these processes and reporting to Annual general meeting shown in the Remuneration Report on the board.
The annual general meeting is to be held page 42 and in accordance with Chapter on 6 July 2010.
The notice convening 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Dividends and reserves the annual general meeting is being sent Rules, the following notifications had been An interim dividend of 4.38p per share to members by way of separate circular received from holders of notifiable interests 2009, 2.78p was paid on the ordinary together with full explanatory notes on each in the companys issued share capital at shares of the company on 8 January 2010. resolution to be proposed at the meeting.
30 April 2010: Holding % of issued share capital Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 14,190,152 5.10 Standard Life Investments 12,164,198 4.37 22 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report Environmental, social and The group has drawn up and issued a Employees governance issues comprehensive whistleblowing policy providing employees with an appropriate - Employee involvement.
The group firmly Governance and risk management means of communication in case of ethical believes that continuing success can only The board is committed to maintaining concerns regarding the way the group be achieved by an engaged, enthusiastic, high standards of corporate governance.
operates in its day-to-day activities.
The company monitors and evaluates No whistleblowing events were reported Consequently, considerable resources are risk on an ongoing basis as part of its in the year.
Frequent commitment to sustainable business.
departmental team briefings are held Further details are contained in the Environment and an employee engagement survey is Corporate Governance Report on pages The group recognises its environmental conducted regularly.
A Consultative Forum 27 to 30. responsibilities and is committed to operates within the logistics division where minimising any damage which its employees from all levels contribute and Ethics activities may cause to the environment.
share ideas that help shape the culture The board regards the maintenance of the It has delegated specific responsibility for of the business.
This division has also highest ethical standards in business as an environmental matters to Keith Risk, director achieved Investors in People accreditations essential characteristic of the way in which of logistics, who sits on the operational and it is planned that the group will the group conducts all of its business.
board of J. D. Williams & Company Limited.
achieve this standard across all areas of A code of ethical conduct covering In addition, the company actively pursues a the business.
Over 500 group employees commercial standards, conflicts of interest, number of environmental policies, including either hold shares in the company or have gifts and hospitality has been circulated those designed to contain energy costs, options awards to acquire them through to and agreed by all employees.
All senior achieve the active recycling of paper and the groups various share option and longmanagers and employees of the group are packaging materials wherever practical, term incentive schemes.
required to comply with both the letter and and promote the widespread use of the spirit of the code in all their dealings for information technology to reduce the level of A large proportion of the groups training and on behalf of the group.
consumption of paper by its employees.
In and development activity is delivered by the year under review the group has worked our in-house learning and development In their dealings with each other, other very closely with the Carbon Trust and has team, which is supplemented by external group companies, their shareholders, engaged external consultants, Envantage training in the specialist technical and IT customers, suppliers, competitors, Ltd and Storm Waste Ltd to advise on the training arenas.
regulatory authorities and the wider formulation of the groups policy on energy community, employees are required to: consumption and waste management.
As well as individually tailored training, there is also a suite of self-training tools available conduct all dealings with each other and The group adopts a full life-cycle view which covers a range of topics from externally with honesty, integrity, respect of all packaging products used in its negotiation skills to effective influencing.
Wherever practicable, employees are free to request attendance at comply with all relevant laws, regulations packaging components are made from any of these workshops, which encourage and internal company policy: materials and processes causing minimum them to be proactive and take ownership encourage and support a business harm to the environment when either of their own skills development.
An online culture which exhibits and promotes manufactured, processed, recycled or database simplydevelopment exists ethical conduct at all levels within the eventually disposed of.
The groups paper which enables employees to access a wide organisation: packaging is made from a minimum of range of self-development activities, tools avoid any situation or action, which 70% recycled paper and all other paper and information.
could cause damage to the groups used by the business is sourced from reputation: and 100% recyclable papers.
Constructive relationships foster a teamworking environment in which possible, paper used in the printing of with the trade unions which represent the praise and recognition play key roles.
our catalogues is derived from managed groups employees principally USDAW and renewable sources accredited by the and SATA are encouraged.
Elements Directors of all group companies are Forest Stewardship Council.
The following of the group are covered by a collective required to disclose details of related party environmental mileposts have been bargaining arrangement with USDAW.
transactions for review and authorisation achieved in the current financial year: - Union membership is encouraged and by the audit committee and by the board.
regular communication with the union is A decrease in electricity consumption facilitated through partnership forums A register of gifts and benefits offered of 788 thousand kilowatts.
established on the principle of shared by suppliers and other parties whether A reduction of 426 tonnes of commitment to business success, accepted or declined is maintained under CO2 emissions per annum.
employment security and development the control of the group head of internal A reduction of gas consumption of 30%.
with a particular emphasis on quality of audit.
All employees, managers and Water consumption down 31%.
life, openness and adding value.
directors are required, each month, to A reduction in carbon footprint of declare any offer of gifts or hospitality with 953 tonnes since 2007 2008.
The group a value of 25 or more, offered, accepted Third place in the FTSE 350 Carbon supports the principle of equal opportunities or declined.
Disclosure Project 2009. in employment and is opposed to all forms 90% of group waste is now recycled.
of discrimination, including those on the grounds of colour, race, nationality, ethnic or The group has committed to achieving national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual 0% waste to landfill by 2011. orientation, marital status or disability.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23 Directors Report Our selection processes for recruitment, retailer and employer we endeavour to assessment forms and Code of Conducts promotion, training and development are ensure that all products and services to all suppliers.
At the date of writing 803 non-discriminatory.
We believe it is in the sold by us or used in the workplace are suppliers have been issued with selfbest interests of employees and the group designed so that they are safe and without assessment forms and just over 60% to provide these opportunities to the most risk to the end-user in proper use.
have responded with the remainder being suitable candidates.
Once the assessment Customers forms are returned suppliers are rated and An all-employee survey carried out in One of the key factors of the groups graded by reference to the ETI Base Code 2008 to be repeated in 2010 revealed success is the quality of its relationship and International Labour Organisation a balanced working population spread with its customers.
across a diverse range of ethnic origins, satisfaction surveys are conducted, both gender and age-groups.
directly and through third parties, to We will work proactively with suppliers to ensure that the group closely monitors correct any non compliance.
Continued Applications for employment by disabled the opinions and requirements of its non compliance will lead to fide-selection.
persons are always fully considered, customers.
In addition, telephone enquiry It is the intention to audit this process bearing in mind the aptitudes of the and complaint calls received from by means of random announced and applicant concerned.
In the event of any customers are analysed and appropriate unannounced visits and consideration is employee becoming disabled, every effort action taken to improve the levels of being given to joining one of the external is made to ensure that their employment service offered to them.
agencies active in the area of ethical with the group continues and that trading and social responsibility such as appropriate training is arranged.
It is the Suppliers ETI and SEDEX.
policy of the group that the training, career The group sources products and services development and promotion of disabled from across the world.
A significant Community persons should, as far as possible, be proportion of this expenditure is with The group is committed to investment identical to that of other employees.
suppliers with whom the group has a longin, and support of, the communities in term relationship, which helps to provide which it operates.
The family, health and Each year the group rewards and a continually improving quality of product well-being programme, now in its sixth recognises significant contribution from and service to customers, whilst reducing year, is actively supported, and continues its customer contact centre employees by costs.
to provide additional benefits for all our inviting them to compete for a nomination employees.
to receive an award for outstanding It is the groups practice to:- customer service.
The group maintains close links with Agree the terms of payment at the start of the Christie Hospital in Manchester, the - Health and safety.
The groups the business relationship with suppliers.
Marie Curie Foundation Breast Cancer policy is to ensure compliance with all Ensure that all suppliers are made aware Awareness and the Retail Trust.
It also relevant legislation to ensure, as far as is of the terms of payment applicable to regularly encourages employees to reasonably practicable, the health, safety the contract.
participate in fundraising activities for and welfare at work of its employees, Pay in accordance with contractual and these, and other worthwhile causes.
events can be anything from national questionnaires, physiotherapy, audiometry, support such as Children in Need and the an improved management referral process Trade creditors of the group at 27 February Alzheimers Society to very local causes and rehabilitation programs have enabled 2010 represented 38 days 2009, 41 days for hospices and childrens hospitals in occupational health issues to be better of purchases.
group maximises the potential donation The group is aware of the potential social by matching the level of money raised Cumulative group accidents statistics impact of its business dealings, particularly by employees to double the size of the show that in the year under review there in developing countries.
was a 25% reduction in those incidents conditions of contract, for the purchase requiring statutory reporting under the of all products for resale require that In the last financial year, money was raised Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and our suppliers must adhere to a code of for noteworthy causes such as Bowel Dangerous Occurrences Regulations conduct in respect to their labour force Cancer UK sponsored marathon and 1995, with the groups Reportable that includes freedom of employment: Marie Curie 57,000 worth of daffodil pins Accident Incidence Rate at nine incidents freedom of association and the right of sold.
The group supported the Canal Boat and overall accident statistics down collective bargaining: all employees work adventure charity where employees paid 28% at 181 accidents.
These statistics in safe and hygienic conditions: there is for more than 100 deprived and disabled are the lowest on group record to date no recruitment of child labour: a living children to enjoy a holiday.
In addition the demonstrating a significant reduction in wage is paid for the country of origin: groups employees organised fund-raising major injuries per population of employees working hours are not excessive: there are activities to assist the following good and a commitment to employee health and no discriminatory practices: no harsh or causes: safety.
The group was awarded the Gold inhuman treatment of labour.
In addition, Award in ROSPAs Occupational Health all labour, safety and relevant laws local Comic Relief: & Safety Awards in 2009, recognising to the country of manufacture must be Many Hands Campaign for Manchesters its commitment and leadership in health observed.
new childrens hospital: and safety matters as well as its wellHelp for Heroes: developed health & safety management Based around the Ethical Trading DEC Haiti relief fund: systems and culture.
As a responsible Initiative ETI, the group has issued selfWillow Wood Hospice: 24 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report Beechwood Cancer Care: scheme providing a defined contribution Pursuant to the companys code for Children in Need: pension arrangement, administered by securities transactions whereby the Springhill Hospice: and Prudential Stakeholder Pensions.
directors and designated employees Cornerstone Charity for the homeless.
require approval to deal in the companys Further to the arrangement agreed with shares: In 2009 10 a record number of employees the Pensions Regulator in January 2007 Where a person with an interest in the were involved in charitable events.
as part of the companys B share return companys shares has been served with Numerous separate charitable fundraising of value scheme, the company paid an a disclosure notice and has failed to events were held by employees and extra 4m into the pension fund during the provide the company with information sponsored, or participated in, by the relevant year in continued reduction of the concerning interests in those shares: group, raising more than 37,000. funding deficit.
The company is not aware of any In August 2009 the group donated a Financial risk management, arrangements between shareholders that considerable quantity of clothing stock objectives and policies may result in restrictions on the transfer of to Wood Street Mission in Manchester, a The group is exposed to certain financial securities or voting rights.
The rights and charity established to help poor families risks, namely interest rate risk, currency obligations attaching to the companys and children.
The quantity of stock risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
ordinary shares are set out in the Articles donated is to be used towards assisting Information regarding such financial of Association.
up to 1400 families based on assisting 140 risks is detailed in note 19 on page 61. families per month with clothing, bedding The groups risk management policies Employee share schemes and baby equipment.
and procedures are also discussed in rights of control the Financial Review on page 18.
The trustees of the N Brown Group plc Charitable and political donations Employee Share Ownership Trust and During the year, the group made Change of control the trustees of the N Brown Group plc charitable donations of 70,569 There are a number of agreements that No.
No political donations take effect, alter or terminate upon a hold shares on trust for the benefit of the have been made 2009, nil.
change of control of the company such executive directors and employees of the as commercial contracts, bank loan group, which are used in connection with Pension fund agreements, property lease arrangements the companys various share incentive The group continues to ensure that the and employee share plans.
The trustees currently abstain N Brown Group Pension Fund is managed are considered to be significant in terms from voting the shares but have power to in accordance with best practice and of their likely impact on the business of vote or not at their discretion in respect current legislation.
A trustee company, the group as a whole.
Directors service of any shares in the company held in the which is controlled by a board of directors, contracts are terminable by the company relevant trust.
The trustees may, upon the administers the funds assets.
One of these on giving 12 months notice.
There are no recommendation of the company, accept is an independent professional trustee agreements between the company and or reject any offer relating to the shares in and the rest have a vested interest in the its directors or employees that provide for any way it sees fit, without incurring any performance of the fund, representing additional compensation for loss of office liability and without being required to give the interests of pension fund members, or employment that occurs because of a reasons for their decision.
In exercising pensioners and N Brown Group plc.
No events were reported in their trustee powers the trustees may take The funds investments are managed by the year.
all of the following matters into account: Aberdeen Asset Management Limited and Legal and General Assurance Pensions Tax status The long-term interests of beneficiaries: Management Limited and the actuarial The company is not a close company The interests of beneficiaries other than and administration services are provided within the meaning of the Corporation financial interests: by Mercer Human Resource Consulting Taxes Act 2010.
The interests of beneficiaries in their Limited.
capacity as employees or former Auditors employees or their dependants: N Brown Group plc and some of its A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as The interests of persons whether or not associated companies are required to auditors to the company and to authorise identified who may become beneficiaries indemnify the trustee company and its the directors to fix their remuneration will in the future: and officers in respect of certain liabilities be proposed at the annual general meeting Consideration of a local, moral, ethical, incurred by them in the performance of on 6 July 2010. environmental or social nature.
their obligations relating to the N Brown Group Pension Fund or in administration Voting rights and restrictions on Going concern of the Fund.
This amounts to a qualifying transfer of shares The directors have adopted the going indemnity provision as defined in section None of the ordinary shares carry any concern basis in the financial statements 236 of the Companies Act 2006. special rights with regard to control of the and their opinion is explained in the company.
The N Brown Group Pension Fund was closed to new entrants with effect from 31 There are no restrictions on transfers of Liability January 2002.
New employees joining the shares other than: All the information supplied in the group after 31 January 2002 and existing Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 5, employees who had not joined the N Certain restrictions which may from time the Chief Executives Review on pages 6 Brown Group Pension Fund as at that date, to time be imposed by laws or regulations to 17, Financial Review on pages 18 to 19, are entitled to join a stakeholder pension such as those relating to insider dealing: Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 42 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25 Directors Report and the Corporate Governance Report on provide additional disclosures Responsibility statement pages 27 to 30 form part of this Directors when compliance with the specific Report.
Any liability for the information is requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to We confirm that to the best of our restricted to the extent prescribed in the enable users to understand the impact knowledge: Companies Act 2006. of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial the financial statements, prepared in Directors responsibilities statement position and financial performance: and accordance with the relevant financial The directors are responsible for preparing make an assessment of the companys reporting framework, give a true and fair the Annual Report and the financial ability to continue as a going concern.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial statements in accordance with applicable position and profit or loss of the company law and regulations.
The directors are responsible for keeping and the undertakings included in the adequate accounting records that consolidation taken as a whole: and Company law requires the directors are sufficient to show and explain the the management report, which is to prepare financial statements for companys transactions and disclose incorporated into the directors report, each financial year.
Under that law the with reasonable accuracy at any time the includes a fair review of the development directors are required to prepare the financial position of the company and and performance of the business group financial statements in accordance enable them to ensure that the financial and the position of the company with International Financial Reporting statements comply with the Companies and the undertakings included in the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Act 2006.
They are also responsible for consolidation taken as a whole, together European Union and Article 4 of the IAS safeguarding the assets of the company with a description of the principal risks Regulation and have elected to prepare and hence for taking reasonable steps for and uncertainties that they face.
the parent company financial statements the prevention and detection of fraud and in accordance with United Kingdom other irregularities.
By order of the board Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards The directors are responsible for the Alan White and applicable law.
Under company maintenance and integrity of the corporate Chief Executive law the directors must not approve the and financial information included on the accounts unless they are satisfied that companys website.
Legislation in the United Dean Moore they give a true and fair view of the state of Kingdom governing the preparation and Finance Director affairs of the company and of the profit or dissemination of financial statements may 11 May 2010 loss of the company for that period.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing the parent company financial Each person who is a director at the date statements, the directors are required to: of the approval of this report confirms that: select suitable accounting policies and so far as the director is aware, there is no then apply them consistently: relevant audit information of which the make judgments and accounting groups auditors are unaware: and estimates that are reasonable and the director has taken all steps that he prudent: ought to have taken as a director in order ensure applicable UK Accounting to make himself aware of any information Standards have been followed and to establish that the groups auditors are prepare the financial statements on aware of that information.
the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the This confirmation is given and should company will continue in business.
be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies In preparing the group financial Act 2006. statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: By order of the board properly select and apply accounting Philip F Harland LL.
B Hons Solicitor policies: Secretary present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides 11 May 2010 relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: 26 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
