Overall performance Driving revenue After the difficulties of 2009, 2010 saw a steady rehabilitation As regulated prices reduced slightly in January 2010, of the Group in the UK rail industry.
With a strong operational underlying passenger volumes have increased by 4%.
An performance across its two rail franchises, both have now improving Central London employment market helped c2c been extended by the DfT c2c will run until November 2012 in particular and the extension of the Oyster card to suburban or May 2013 at the DfTs option and National Express East rail improved revenue.
c2c also successfully grew its leisure Anglia NXEA will operate until February 2012.
The Group patronage and its consistently outstanding reliability, achieving will actively bid to secure the new c2c franchise when punctuality in August of 98.8%, boosted revenues.
The tendered, to build on the record-breaking punctuality delivered franchise also recorded its best ever customer satisfaction in 2010, together with the proposed 18 month extension to results, reaching 91% in both the Spring and Autumn late 2013 of NXEA.
National Express is now positioned to Passenger Focus surveys.
Meanwhile, NXEA also improved participate in profitable future rail operations where risks are punctuality, reaching 90% during the year.
Managing costs Revenue in 2010 was 637.5 million 2009: 1,190.5m, Both franchises have managed cost successfully during 2010. significantly down on the prior year reflecting the hand-back Improved procurement reduced utility costs by 2 million and of the loss-making East Coast franchise in November 2009. successful rationalisation of staffing agencies delivered wage Underlying revenue grew by 3%, driven by strong growth in cost savings.
passenger numbers in the second half of the year.
Severe Improved safety leads to lower costs.
NXEA successfully drove weather at the beginning and end of the year had limited down signals passed at danger SPADs by nearly 50% in impact: both services recovered operational performance the year, whilst reducing employee, passenger and contractor quickly through the dedicated efforts of the entire workforce.
This was overshadowed by a serious accident NXEA remains in 80% revenue support from the DfT.
at a level crossing in East Anglia, when an unauthorised Normalised operating profit improved strongly to crossing by a road tanker resulted in a collision with a train, 33.8 million 2009: 12.0m.
Continued cost control with a number of injuries but, thankfully, no fatalities.
The road combined with improving revenue drove operating tanker driver was subsequently convicted of endangering rail margin 4.3 percentage points higher, to 5.3%.
We are working actively with Network Rail to ensure that level crossing risks are fully assessed and compliance with procedures enforced with all users.
Safety performance at c2c was also strong, with only one SPAD and all employee, passenger and contractor safety targets exceeded.
