Business review Most new contracts in the school bus business require Business model the provision of new buses.
As a result, capital investment, In North America, the Groups operations are carried out primarily in fleet, increased to US$126.3 million in 2010 2009: by our subsidiaries, Durham School Services and Stock US$38.3m.
However, the Business Recovery project delivered Transportation.
Together, they are the second largest a thorough overhaul of fleet management systems which will private operator.
The outsourced private operator market is see the improved cascading of buses around the country to only around one third of the total, with the remainder being maximise returns in this capital intensive business.
In addition, in-sourced: that is, owned and run by the school boards almost 2,000 existing buses were removed from the fleet, themselves.
The outsourced market is highly fragmented reducing the proportion of spare vehicles from over 20% with an estimated 4,000 small operators around the to 11% and driving improved efficiency in fleet maintenance, country.
Contracts typically run from three to five years vehicle licensing and storage costs.
and contract churn tends to be low.
Additionally, once Developing opportunities won, operators tend to face almost no revenue risk over Safety is paramount in the school bus industry and 2010 saw the life of a contract.
Scale is beneficial but not overarching new management target improvements in accidents, injuries economies can be achieved through procurement, and child safety.
Lost Time Injury rates decreased by 26%.
centralisation of administration and business development.
This continued focus will ensure a better service is delivered Access to capital is key as most new contracts require to customers, insurance and legal costs are reduced and investment in new buses and asset utilisation is lower, fewer employees are at risk of injury.
due to the part time usage of these specialised vehicles.
We are targeting to complete our two year margin improvement plan in North America by the end of 2011.
Delivering the remaining US$10 million of annualised cost We are confident that savings will be key.
Improving fleet management will remain a priority in 2011 with the progressive roll out of GPS systems.
this business has both This will be combined with an improved procurement process, targeting fleet investment and parts savings.
revenue and margin growth We are maintaining a high rate of contract retention to reduce opportunity for the future.
churn, with margin discipline maintained.
Nevertheless, the challenging market conditions, with their pressure on school board transport budgets, provide opportunity and we will continue to seek conversion of existing in-sourced school board contracts.
We have completed our first bolt-on acquisition for some time, acquiring a privately owned 200 bus operation in New Jersey which has a strong geographic fit with our existing operations, and we will continue to explore such opportunities.
With a strengthened management team substantially in place, we are confident that this business has both revenue and margin growth opportunity for the future.
