Business review Developing opportunities Business model In addition to the major Agadir contract, Morocco remained ALSA is the largest private operator of buses and coaches a key driver of growth, with ALSA adding a tourist transport in Spain, with a strong position in the Intercity coach market concession in Marrakech to the existing urban operation.
Its markets are regulated and supported The international coach business carried an extra 20,000 by long-term concession agreements that provide exclusive passengers as the Icelandic volcano shut down much of rights to operate routes.
Concessions run for 10 to 15 Europes air travel: this has also provided a longer term benefit years on average and favour high performing incumbents, to the image of coach travel in Spain and to ALSA, in particular.
resulting in low contract churn.
ALSAs portfolio provides ALSA launched an upgraded website during the year and now a balance between long distance coach operations, generates 25% of revenue through this channel, despite lower which receive no subsidy and take revenue risk in return domestic penetration of the internet.
ALSA has also pioneered for flexibility over the number of services operated and the use of social media sites to generate customer interest, a regulated maximum fare: regional coach operations while its loyalty programme brought 160,000 new customers which may be subsidised by the autonomous regions: to the BusPlus card.
With over 400,000 members of the and urban bus operations under which city councils scheme, customers benefit from booking priority and flexible contract for heavily subsidised services, usually without travel, and it allows ALSA to increase the sophistication and revenue risk to the operator.
This stable model benefits targeting of its sales and marketing investment.
Meanwhile, from significant political consensus, with public transport the executive Supra class coach service continues to be seen as essential public service in Spain.
There has been extended, with successful launches in Andalucia and on flexibility on both sides of concessions, given recent difficult the Madrid to Barcelona route.
economic conditions, which reflects the close partnership ALSA continues to lead in technological development and and relationships between the operator and regulatory environmental management of its services, with 100% of authorities.
Exclusivity results in competition being mostly the fleet now operating on a diesel biodiesel mix, and hybrid intermodal: ie with rail, low cost airlines and the car.
vehicles being introduced into urban transport services alongside some LPG vehicles.
We expect the economy in Spain to remain challenging in ALSA is the largest private 2011 but, in the absence of further negative impacts to GDP and unemployment, ALSA should benefit from some organic operator of buses and revenue growth and new tender opportunities.
With very few coaches in Spain.
contracts and concessions due for renewal during 2011, ALSA will continue to drive cost efficiency, utilise Group procurement scale and manage services to match closely customer needs.
We believe that the regulated concession model where private operating companies are involved, and in which ALSA is the leading player, will be attractive to other European markets as liberalisation develops, and we expect to be able to leverage ALSAs expertise in selected international tenders and bolt-on opportunities.
