Group Chief Executives review continued After strong profit growth in 2009, UK Coach consolidated its 6 pence per share to non-normalised basic earnings per share position in 2010.
Underlying revenue grew by 3% year-on-year, EPS in 2010.
We have also now closed the Group UK Coach but additional investment saw the margin decrease, from 14.1% pension scheme in the UK and agreed a deficit funding plan to 12.8%, as we invested in marketing, new facilities and in tactical which should see the scheme be self-sufficient in six years.
Our strong brand and unique business have reached agreement with the DfT under which both parties model present opportunities to deliver revenue and profit growth have dropped all claims relating to the East Coast franchise exit.
Innovation is key to achieving this.
In 2010 We have significantly reduced the Groups future exposure to selfwe rolled out telematic traffic management and driver safety insured incident costs and we have negotiated an exit settlement systems that will improve the passenger experience, and during from National Express long-held shareholding in Inter-Capital and 2011 new systems and customer service applications will further Regional Rail Limited, which had exposed the Group to heavy support financial performance.
A new senior management team losses for many years.
Together, these settlements have given us is driving this change.
certainty over future cash commitments.
In addition, in resolving these legacy issues, the Group is committed to minimising future Opportunities in Rail exceptional operating costs.
Our goal in Rail has been to move beyond the difficulties of 2009 and ensure that National Express is positioned to participate in These actions should reduce overall future volatility and ensure profitable future rail operations where risks are both appropriate that EPS growth is more directly linked to operational success and manageable.
We are delighted that we have secured and that free cash generation is more stable.
This has supported extensions to both of our current rail franchises: we expect to our proposed restoration of the dividend, with a final payment operate National Express East Anglia until February 2012 and for 2010 of 6 pence per share fully supported by our non-rail c2c until May 2013.
We continue to deliver superior customer earnings and free cash flow.
Importantly, a foundation has been service and performance c2c remains one of the most punctual established from which we can develop and grow the business.
franchises in Britain whilst we are leading the industrys A framework for development investment to reduce commuter overcrowding, in partnership With a stronger management team in place and a clear focus on with the Department for Transport DfT.
delivering consistent operational excellence, we are now achieving Targeting industry leading margins significantly improved business performance, with better margins Our business improvement plans are well underway.
During 2011, we will move to the next phase of our to focus on delivering margin improvement through reduced strategy, further enhancing shareholder value creation.
North America is now achieving an 8% operating margin We are focused on three key areas of improvement: and we aim to achieve double digit industry-leading margins by the end of 2011.
This will be a challenge, but the highly Structure we have flattened our organisation structure and competitive, budget constrained market offers both issues and shortened the decision-making process, whilst embedding opportunities.
We will deliver the remaining US$10 million of our clear, quantitative key performance metrics.
For example, the Business Recovery programme through the application of GPS three UK businesses now report directly to me as Group Chief technology and centralised procurement.
Our UK Bus business Executive, removing two previous management layers: is already delivering an industry average margin but we will continue to optimise the network and drive revenue growth to Investment in key development areas we have take us towards industry leading performance.
We will deliver our invested in new talent through 20 core appointments.
The five remaining business improvement goals in 2011, to achieve strong divisional heads bring over 130 years of mass public transport returns across all our operations.
With our talent development Creating a higher quality business for the future framework, we are building the capability to manage existing In addition to delivering much improved margins, 2010 was also and developing operations.
We have specific teams now the year in which we resolved a number of historic legacy issues focused on driving down global procurement costs and and created a platform for a higher quality business in the future.
identifying new strategic opportunities for the future: and We also completed the rebuilding of our capital structure to the extent that the Group is seen increasingly as one of the best Culture we are creating one common culture, with a shared financed in the sector.
Two bond issues in January 2010 and vision and values, and we have improved our performanceJune 2010 raised 575 million at attractive rates, alongside a based incentive framework.
500 million refinancing of our bank facility in July.
Consequently, the Group now has long-term committed funding in place until between 2014 and 2020.
In addition, the Group has ample facility Nobody will try harder for and covenant headroom.
We have been successful in resolving a number of areas our customers than we do.
where there has been potential for volatility in profit or in cash generation.
We have negotiated a settlement of all outstanding UK corporate tax issues with HMRC, under which the Group will settle 17million in outstanding liabilities over the next four years, compared with a potential liability of approximately 50 million.
This excellent outcome has resulted in a one-off benefit of over 6 National Express Group PLC Business review With a stronger management team in place and a clear focus on delivering consistent operational excellence, we are now achieving significantly improved business performance, with better margins and returns.
Our vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers Relationships we have extensive experience in managing by consistently delivering excellent value, frequent, high long-term contractual relationships.
In North America school performing mass public transport services.
bus, our contracted order book is 4.1 years: We have adopted a common set of values across National Express to deliver our vision: Quality international assets National Express uniquely Safety more than anything else, we value the safety of benefits from a balanced exposure to the UK, Spain and our customers and our employees.
Nothing we do is worth North America, in bus, coach and rail.
This portfolio provides getting hurt for and we will not do anything which risks causing a balance economic growth, political environment and harm.
We have launched a major internal programme, Driving regulation can all vary.
For example, recent uncertainty Out Harm, which is designed specifically to educate and instil over UK government funding in UK Bus has been offset by a safety-first culture at all levels and across all parts of the benefits in our Spanish and North America businesses.
Employee remuneration is now increasingly aligned high quality assets offer access to many mass transport with safety performance: opportunities, as many countries move to liberalise their markets: and Customers we place customers at the heart of our Cash generation our businesses balance cash generation business.
Nobody will try harder for our customers than with capital investment.
Whilst North America school bus is we do, particularly when things go wrong.
We are working capital intensive, for example, UK Rail uses limited capital.
to improve our customer service: for example, we are We are able to reinvest surplus cash in areas that generate strengthening our contact centre in Birmingham to provide higher returns.
24 7 advice to our UK Coach customers if they are stranded or concerned about their travel plans: Strategy People we behave towards all our employees with the Our strategy will develop the unique attributes of this business respect and dignity we expect from others.
We will strive portfolio in three stages: to enable all our people to reach their full potential and to 1 Margin growth we will continue what we have started give their best as individuals and in teams.
Our employees margin growth in the existing business through an unceasing are core in enabling National Express to consistently deliver focus on revenue and cost management: high performing services of which we can be proud.
Our Revenue management we will continue to optimise yield new innovation programme, Make A Difference, has management for example, in UK Bus and Coach, create brought groups of employees from all levels of the business new services and ways to access the market, and focus together to drive improvement.
For example, our UK Bus on building customer retention: and Routes2Excellence scheme has combined the views of customers, drivers and staff to produce an innovative route Cost management we will eliminate unnecessary learning scheme for drivers: and operating costs, optimise our route networks, drive better procurement, remove unnecessary management layers Community we are proud to operate in many international and utilise technology to improve efficiency.
Our policies and practices will advance the social, environmental and economic conditions of those 2 Organic growth we will target volume growth in our communities.
I am delighted that our flagship coach station existing markets, by offering better products and services in Birmingham was the first public transport station to achieve which our customers want to buy and by winning new bid the BREEAM standard for environmental performance.
opportunities across our bus, coach and rail markets.
We have returned to underlying growth in Spain, where there are also a number of new bid opportunities.
We believe we can A diversified international portfolio grow the UK Coach business and we will seek to participate We have a diversified portfolio of bus, coach and rail businesses in profitable future UK Rail operations under the new, longer operating in international markets.
Some of the key strengths of term franchising regime: this portfolio include: Market leadership in most of our markets we have strong 3 Bolt-on acquisitions over time we will target opportunities or exclusive positions and compete primarily with other forms to acquire operators which fit with our existing businesses of transport, such as the car or plane.
We are market leader in the same modes and geographies, and which quickly in West Midlands bus and have a 60% share of the UK add scale and synergies to the existing operations.
We will scheduled coach market with our National Express brand: apply strict return criteria to ensure that any acquisition adds shareholder value.
For example, in December 2010, we Market knowledge we have a deep understanding of and completed a US$13.3 million bolt-on school bus acquisition expertise in managing regulated concessions, which provide in New Jersey, USA, which offers strong geographic fit to our price protection, service exclusivity and stability.
In Spain, our existing adjacent operations.
long-term concessions provide an order book of 7.2 years: National Express Group PLC 7 Group Chief Executives review Operating cash continued generation remained strong and represents 109% profit conversion.
In the longer term, we will look at selected opportunities to grow Monitoring our business in both existing and new geographies and take advantage of The Group is managed using a set of key performance indicators liberalisation and continued privatisation of mass public transport that monitor delivery of performance improvement and ensure markets.
Our experience in different regulatory regimes could that capital is allocated in a disciplined way to support our longer allow increasing value creation as Continental European and term objectives.
The KPIs are set out on pages 23. other markets are opened up to competition.
We have set up a 2010 saw positive progress in all but two of our financial KPIs.
small Commercial Development team with significant international Underlying revenue growth returned in most businesses, despite public transport experience to explore such opportunities.
We reducing mileage operated in several businesses, and should will undertake any such expansion in a measured way and only improve as the Group targets organic growth from improving where we bring clear competence and expertise to leverage the economic conditions.
Strong growth in normalised profit before opportunity, adopting a disciplined approach to capital allocation tax reflected the delivery of margin improvement.
Normalised and a clear Return on Capital model to ensure shareholder basic EPS declined, however, due to the partial impact on 2009 returns are delivered.
In delivering our strategy, we will focus on achieving superior longCash generation is a key objective for the Group.
Operating term returns on investments in excess of our cost of capital.
The cash generation remained strong and represents 109% profit Groups pre-tax return on capital employed ROCE increased in conversion, building on 2009, when low investment and one-off 2010 to 13.2% 2009: 10.7% and we are targeting to improve this working capital reductions drove a very strong cash performance.
As a result of better profitability and cash generation, the Groups Our strategy will be built around offering excellent value for money debt gearing ratio continues to improve, achieving 2.1 times debt prices, frequent services and pleasing our customers.
To our bus, in 2010. coach and rail customers, excellent prices must be a cornerstone of Our non-financial KPIs provide key passenger, network and safety our strategy and therefore our cost base must be lean.
The total mileage operated continued to reduce whilst unique market position and by ensuring that nobody tries harder passenger numbers across most divisions increased, improving for our customers, I believe we have excellent opportunities to drive our operating efficiency and environmental impact.
Similarly, value creation and deliver strong returns for our shareholders.
we grew the number of routes we operate in North America, improving revenue.
Excellent opportunities Our employee lost time injury rate improved or was broadly unchanged across our different businesses and, in rail to drive value creation.
operations, the number of signals passed at danger declined.
The number of preventable vehicle accidents also improved.
Outlook Further improvement in our safety record is a priority and is the Following our strong performance in 2010, we have continued to focus for our new Driving Out Harm programme.
see good margin progression and revenue growth into 2011.
Our Further information on our financial KPIs is set out in the cost improvement plans are proceeding, with particular focus on Performance and Financial Review.
North America and UK Bus, and investment in improved customer Dean Finch services in UK Coach is now underway.
Spain continues to deliver Group Chief Executive a strong performance, with limited adverse impact from the 24 February 2011 domestic economy, and improving volumes in Intercity travel.
UK Rail is performing as expected and we will strive to renew the East Anglia franchise when it is tendered later this year.
2011 will bring a number of challenges, with tough economic and fiscal conditions prevailing in most markets.
Increased fuel duty and reduced concessionary income in the UK is expected to impact us by a net 10 million per annum from late 2011 onwards.
We are developing plans to offset this adverse effect.
We are hedged for fuel usage through 2011 and beyond.
With the foundation firmly in place and a clear focus on delivering our strategy, we expect to continue to perform well during the year ahead, whilst building for future growth.
