Business review Developing opportunities Business model The Coach division has been substantially overhauled in 2010, National Express is a national coach network, offering great with a new management team recruited from the transport and value and accessible travel to all.
It is the only scheduled consumer goods sectors.
The Express coach business has national coach network in the UK and the largest in Europe, been reorganised around its key segments Airports, Long running 500 coaches a day serving over 1,000 domestic Distance, Multi-hopper and Short Distance.
With 70% unprompted brand recognition, sharper focus, create new journey opportunities and improve the National Express coach business benefits from its revenue management.
The division will continue to extend its integrated network and scale, which is built on a flexible, application of new systems, with a new booking platform being outsourced business model, where third party providers developed in conjunction with the ALSA sister business in Spain supply 80% of the coaches.
With competitors focused on and better yield management support under development.
point-to-point services with limited infrastructure, the Group Innovation is a major area of focus.
On-board coach tracking aims to leverage the breadth and interconnectivity of the was trialled during 2010 and will be fitted to all coaches by network to drive growth in the future.
This is already providing operational benefits to re-route coaches caught in traffic congestion and is providing customer benefits on the key Stansted-London route, where it is used to ensure customers always find a coach on stand for National Express is the this turn up and travel service.
During 2011, new applications only scheduled national will deliver more real time information to customers through information screens, internet and mobile channels.
coach network in the UK Our Airports business has renewed its five year contract with BAA to operate Heathrow Central Bus Station, leading to and the largest in Europe, additional investment and services at this key network hub.
running 500 coaches We expect other airport contract and rail replacement business to remain at current levels.
The UK governments CSR also a day serving over 1,000 abolished the funding of the half price over-60s concessionary coach travel scheme from October 2011.
This was worth domestic destinations.
14 million to National Express in 2010.
Through mitigating actions we consider approximately 5 million of this to be at risk.
Through the improved targeting available via better customer segmentation, we expect to make steady progress in the development of new services, allowing us to increase customer retention and frequency of travel.
We expect to achieve significant gains from our programmes in the medium term and further develop the strength of the National Express coach brand.
Dramatically higher rail pricing in future years, together with the retendering of major rail franchises and the commensurate impact likely on the profitability of rail competitors, should provide further opportunities for the Coach division to leverage its unique network and valueorientated customer proposition.
