Overall performance Driving revenue The UK Bus business delivered a strong performance in 2010, Fare adjustments during the summer of 2010 delivered a returning to an industry average margin after a period of weak rebalancing of the fare basket.
Cost control improved markedly and better fare incremental journey pricing, whilst driving more efficient and network management was combined with a commitment network usage.
Whilst cash single fares remained unchanged, to invest in new fleet across the core operation.
the pricing of travelcards, which account for 50% of revenues, was increased to better match journey demand with supply.
Excluding revenue from the Travel London operation, which was Passenger volumes remained subdued, down 4% during the sold in June 2009, underlying revenue was broadly flat yearyear, reflecting lower levels of economic activity in both the on-year.
This was a good performance given a 4% decline in West Midlands and Dundee regions.
More targeted marketing, network mileage to improve operating efficiency.
Prices rose together with additional measures to encourage travel, should by 4% as the fare basket was realigned in June 2010. improve growth in the bus business, whilst enhancing margins further.
Working with Centro, the local integrated transport Normalised operating profit, after stripping out the lower executive, we are investing in 600 buses over the next five years, margin Travel London results from 2009, increased by 48% which will drive capacity and, we expect, patronage on the core to 28.3 million 2009: 20.8m including 1.7m from Travel network.
We are also investing in hybrid buses as part of our London.
Operating margin was 11.0% 2009: 7.1% and is commitment to greener vehicles and to promote greater use now consistent with the industry average, having reached of more environmentally friendly public transport over the car.
this target significantly ahead of schedule.
2010 also saw delivery of new benefits for cash-constrained customers.
The website was overhauled to provide easier The UK Bus business access to route and timetable information, along with a mobile version for customers on the move.
It is now easier for delivered a strong customers to purchase tickets on-line, which is proving very performance in 2010, popular, and this facility has been extended to include Dundee travelcards.
Live information updates helped passengers returning to an industry during the worst of Decembers weather, with nearly 60,000 visits received on a single day.
average margin after a period of weak profitability.
