Business review Developing opportunities Business model NXEA began the roll-out of its 185 million capacity National Express has a strong operational skills base in investment programme, funded in conjunction with the UK rail, the most deregulated rail system in Europe.
In December 2010, new services were introduced to UK rail industry has long-term franchises awarded on an the timetable, with a total of over 4,000 extra seats added exclusive operation basis to private operators.
Prices are on Liverpool Street commuter services at peak times.
The predominantly regulated and costs are substantially fixed overall programme includes faster trains, on-board Wi-fi from around track access, rolling stock and franchise payments Norwich to London and, from March 2011, new rolling stock to the DfT.
The Group runs two franchises, now designated will be introduced to the network.
Station and maintenance Greater Anglia and Essex Thameside by the DfT operating improvement work has also been carried out across East under the National Express East Anglia and c2c brands, Anglia and c2c, with two new carriage washers, car park which run until 2012 13. c2c has consistently been extensions and station upgrades.
amongst the top performers for punctuality and service The Group is in the process of bidding for the DfTs in the industry and East Anglia has improved considerably announced tender of the Greater Anglia franchise the over the Groups period of operation.
Both franchises successor to NXEAs operation, which will run from February are profitable.
2012 for a period of approximately 18 months.
A decision on this franchise is expected in late 2011.
The retendering process for c2c will not start until 2012 and the Group expects to bid.
At this time, the Group has no plans to take part in either the West Coast Main Line or East Coast Main Line bidding processes.
The Group believes it can drive both improved customer service and shareholder returns in UK Rail, subject to the balance of risk and reward available in the DfTs proposed longer franchises.
The overall programme includes faster trains, on-board Wi-fi from Norwich to London and, from March 2011, new rolling stock will be introduced to the network.
