Business review We continue to roll out a package of revenue enhancing and Managing costs cost reduction improvements under the leadership of our During 2010, the business made strong progress in addressing new UK Bus Managing Director.
We are supporting our fleet the issues that led to earlier margin decline.
The network was investment programme with a campaign to address anti-social reassessed to match capacity to demand, with services and behaviour, provide more real-time information to passengers frequencies adjusted to add capacity to the high demand and start to utilise benefits from our new smart card system corridors.
As a consequence, average revenue per journey that was introduced during 2010.
Our on-board Traffilog increased and fuel efficiency improved, adding to a 3 million system will be used to reduce fuel costs and engender safer fuel benefit.
Following a review of depot footprint, one facility driving behaviours.
A Lean engineering pilot will be extended was closed, reducing costs by over 2 million per annum, across all depots and is targeted to reduce engineering costs, and driver wages were restructured, to help address some increase fleet availability by reducing time off the road and of the highest costs in the industry which had resulted from decrease the total size of the fleet.
In addition, a new two year wage agreement has been reached in the West Midlands Whilst the economic outlook and unemployment in our which will see pay rise by 2% per annum from October 2010. regions remain challenging, the quality of our UK Bus business is high and the urban density of our customer base offers an attractive platform for improving service and driving stronger National Express West performance.
We do not anticipate a material impact from Midlands is the market recent government cuts.
We have targeted delivery of margin improvements towards industry-leading levels in the medium leader in the largest term through investment in new buses and new technology, as well as by securing procurement and engineering savings.
single urban network in the deregulated market Business model National Express West Midlands is the market leader outside of London.
in the largest single urban network in the deregulated market outside of London.
In this competitive environment, The Midland Metro tram service made a profit during the our business can use its scale benefits and infrastructure year for only the second time since its inception and achieved to operate a region-wide core network, delivering a reliable, outstanding service over 99% reliability and 98.5% punctuality.
affordable service for our customers.
Whilst our regional market share is nearly 80%, there is particularly strong Developing opportunities competition from a number of operators on high In October 2010, in its Comprehensive Spending Review volume routes.
CSR, the UK Government announced a reduction of 20% in the Bus Service Operators Grant BSOG from April 2012, together with a review of the concessionary reimbursement scheme and a cut in local funding for transport.
We estimate the adverse impact from BSOG to be approximately 4 million for 2012 and 5 million in a full year.
We have made our submissions to the Competition Commission review of the UK Bus industry and await its report, due later in 2011.
