The Hotel Hoppa service and The Kings Ferry also saw Overall performance growth, the latter including high profile executive contracts After a record profit in 2009, the UK Coach business for football clubs and politicians.
Eurolines had a strong 2010: consolidated its position this year.
Although greater investment following the Icelandic volcano eruption in April, 28,000 in marketing, new facilities and services reduced operating people were repatriated to the UK from continental Europe margin by just over one percentage point, the business during the affected period.
The value offered and ease of use continues to lead its market and has, under new management, demonstrated by Eurolines during this period have helped it gain completed a review to identify future opportunities to build this many new customers and this business will provide a platform exciting network and brand.
to support the Groups planned expansion as continental Overall revenue grew 3% in 2010 to 250.3 million 2009: European countries liberalise their domestic markets.
242.9m, with underlying revenue in the Express coach The UK Coach division benefited from a number of contractbusiness also up 3%.
Despite the highly competitive pricing based projects during the year.
At Gatwick Airport, National environment, as many rail companies continue to heavily Express provided the inter-terminal monorail replacement discount fares, yields in Express coaches improved by 1% service through most of 2010.
Our co-ordination of pilgrim and underlying volume increased by 2%.
The division also saw transport for the papal visit to Birmingham, as well as the good growth in The Kings Ferry commuter-hire operation and ongoing partnership with a number of music festivals, from Eurolines.
Offsetting this, the impact of Normalised operating profit decreased slightly during the Network Rails reduced engineering programme during the year year, from 34.3 million in 2009 to 32.0 million in 2010.
The was seen in lower activity in our Rail Replacement business.
This reflected an Managing costs increase in scheduled operating costs, including fuel costs The divisions flexible cost base structure continued to benefit for third party operators.
However, the key drivers were an cost management.
With around 80% of services run by third increase in marketing expenditure, investment in new facilities party operators under long-term contracts, capacity was including the state-of-the-art Birmingham Coach Station, successfully flexed to meet changing customer requirements, which opened in December 2009 and tactical campaigns and under-performing operators were replaced without to defend aggressive competition and successfully retain interruption to service.
The bus-based, real-time information our leading market share.
system called Traffilog has been extended to UK Coach and Driving revenue is already improving fuel efficiency, providing improved route The National Express scheduled business enjoyed a strong planning and helping to assess driving standards.
The fitting recovery in airport traffic during 2010, offsetting some crossof automatic alcohol testing to all express coaches provides country weakness.
Customer access continued to improve a further safety feature.
in 2010 the website, which now accounts for over 50% of passenger revenue booking, was relaunched in September.
Customers tell us that coach station facilities are important to them: in addition to Birmingham, new stations were opened at Milton Keynes, Swansea, Derby and Blackpool, all significantly improving passenger experience.
In addition, station facilities at Manchester, Leeds and Liverpool were all refurbished.
