National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 27 Directors Report for the year ended 31 March 2010 Financial instruments The information in this Directors Report does not comprise a Directors Report within the meaning of the Companies Acts Details on the use of financial instruments and financial risk and UK Listing Authoritys Listing, Disclosure and Transparency management are included on pages 18 to 22 in the Operating Rules.
Such a report for National Grid Gas plc is included within and Financial Review.
that companys annual report and accounts.
Future developments As the NTS businesses reported on within these regulatory Details of future developments are contained in the Operating accounting statements do not comprise a legal entity, the and Financial Review.
following information is provided for NGG as a whole.
Employee involvement Further details of matters required to be included in a Directors NGG, as a part of National Grid, has well established and Report are incorporated by reference into this report, as effective arrangements through electronic mail, intranet and indetailed below.
house publications and briefing meetings, at each business location and company wide, for communication and Directors consultation with both employees and trade union The Directors serving as at the date of this report were: representatives, and for communication of performance, Malcolm Cooper Appointed June 2007 strategy and operating model, together with significant business Mark Fairbairn Appointed June 2003 issues.
NGG recognises the importance of aligning employee Stuart Humphreys Appointed July 2008 and shareholder interests, and is committed to employee share Paul Whittaker Appointed June 2007 ownership through the National Grid plc Share Incentive Plan Adam Wiltshire Appointed June 2006 and Sharesave scheme, which are open to all employees.
Nick Winser Appointed July 2003 Policy and practice on payment of creditors It is NGGs policy to include in contracts or other agreements, Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is arranged and terms of payment with suppliers.
Once agreed, NGG aims to qualifying third party indemnities are in place for each Director.
abide by these terms of payment.
The average creditor Principal activities and business review payment period at 31 March 2010 was 17 days 16 days at 31 A full description of the Companys principal activities, March 2009. businesses and principal risks and uncertainties is contained in Audit information the Operating and Financial Review on pages 1 to 26, which Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors in are incorporated by reference into this report.
office at the date of the signing of this report are aware, there is Material interests in shares no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware National Grid Gas plc is a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make of National Grid Gas Holdings Limited.
The ultimate parent themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to company of National Grid Gas plc is National Grid plc.
establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Dividends Annual General Meeting During the year, interim dividends totalling 300 million were Notice of the NGGs Annual General Meeting for 2010 will be paid 2008 09: 300 million interim dividend.
The Directors issued separately to shareholders.
have not proposed a final dividend.
By order of the Board Donations During 2009 10, some 2.6 million 2008 09: 2.7 million was invested in support of community initiatives and relationships in the UK.
There were no direct charitable donations for 2009 10 2008 09: 0.5 million.
No political donations were made in the UK and EU, including Karen Clayton donations as defined for the purposes of the Political Parties, Company Secretary Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
29 July 2010 Research and development Expenditure on research and development was 10 million National Grid Gas plc, 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH during the year 2008 09: 4 million.
Registered in England and Wales Number 2006000
