Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies Health and safety Our emphasis on the importance of health and safety within NWL has resulted in major improvements to our safety record in recent years.
This year we experienced 10 reportable accidents and incidents per 1,000 employees, which is a continual decline over the previous six years.
We have established a medium term plan for taking health and safety forward in the company to 2015.
We aim to further reduce the number of accidents by 10% each year and to reinforce the safety culture in Sir Derek Wanless presents the company.
Sandra Williams with her health and safety award NWL proactively supports and encourages employees to strive for high standards of health and wellbeing by providing a wide range of services, support and resources relating to occupational health, with the Groups medical advisor providing comprehensive occupational health services, general health promotion and stress management.
NWL employees also have on and offsite access to specialist advice and treatment to support recovery from musculoskeletal disorders MSD.
We have reduced sickness absence due to MSD by 22%.
We continue to promote healthy eating, hydration and to discourage smoking in our workforce and offer excellent health screening and medical insurance schemes.
Around 2,200 employees have been through our health screening and fitness standards programmes, both of which now include lifestyle advice elements.
Research and development NWL run a programme of research and development linked to its operations, which includes the development of technical solutions for water and waste water management, collaborative research within the sector and partnerships with academic and research organisations.
This has supported the invention, development, trial and or implementation of: a device for reducing flooding and pollution: energy efficiency of waste water aeration systems to determine optimum design and best practice cleaning and replacement cycles: microbial fuel cells or electrochemical cells, which generate electricity or hydrogen from waste water respectively: beneficial re-uses for water treatment sludge: reed-bed based solution for thickening iron rich water treatment sludge and aluminium rich sludge: fide-watering and thickening water treatment works sludge: leak detection technology: early warning system for leaks and bursts: and remote pipeline condition assessment.
During the year, the Group invested 2.1 million 2009: 1.8 million in research and development.
