Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies A long running formal programme, which began just after privatisation, to rehabilitate older parts of the water distribution network has come to an end, contributing to improved water quality results over recent years.
Work using new cleaning techniques to refurbish more than 150 kilometres of the large diameter pipe network is well advanced.
The network supplies drinking water to over half a million customers in south east Northumberland and parts of Tyneside.
More than half of the programme has been completed successfully and work will be completed in 2011, significantly reducing customer complaints of discoloured water.
Work begins at Abberton Reservoir Water resources Work started in January 2010 on increasing the capacity of Abberton Reservoir near Colchester by 58%.
The one remaining part of the overall Abberton Scheme that requires permissions is the variation of abstraction licences at Denver and Blackdyke in Norfolk.
We are working closely with the EA on progressing this.
Once this scheme is operating in 2014, we do not expect to have to develop further major resources in Essex for the next 25 years.
We believe it is important to manage the demand for water so that it does not exceed levels that can be supplied in a sustainable way.
Metering has an important role to play in this regard.
For several years we have been installing water meters upon change of occupier in properties in the Essex area.
This is in addition to the optional metering scheme available to all customers.
Around 45% of domestic households in Essex and 58% in Suffolk are now metered.
In the north east, where supplies are more plentiful, 22% of households are metered.
In addition, Essex & Suffolk Water have run an award winning water efficiency campaign which, together with the good response from customers, has helped control demand for water.
New water efficiency targets have been introduced in 2010 11 to reduce per capita consumption across the company and a number of initiatives have been piloted during the year.
A new campaign will also be launched across the company to promote water efficiency ranging from water saving kits to activity in schools and development of our website.
Our assets proved very resilient during the harshest winter for 30 years and we were able to maintain supplies to customers during the period, thanks to the efforts of our employees.
The severe freeze, followed by the thaw, did result in a significant increase in burst pipes and leakage which meant we, along with other companies, did not meet our annual targets this year although our three year rolling targets have again been met.
