Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies NWL aims to maintain good working relationships with its regulators and Customer service with regional organisations, such as local authorities, which have an interest is at the heart of in the services it provides and can influence the companys business.
the company and all employees have The final determination established a tough settlement for the period 2010-15.
However, we are well placed to deliver the required objectives a clear focus on and to meet our commitments to providing safe and secure water supplies getting things right and protecting the environment.
There is a change in emphasis in the first time every time.
quinquennial 1.2 billion investment programme, from achieving new quality standards to maintaining the high standards already achieved.
We will also be working to tackle the challenges posed by climate change, reducing our operational carbon emissions and improving the resilience of our assets.
We welcome the passing of the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 which clarifies responsibilities in relation to flooding and sustainable drainage as well as tidying up and updating other water related legislation.
The introduction of a duty on landlords to provide water companies with relevant details so that accurate bills can be issued to tenants is particularly welcome and should assist in collecting income from the private rented sector where bad debts have been relatively high.
The full implementation of Operator Self Monitoring was completed in January 2010.
This involves NWL taking on responsibility for sampling and analysing the final effluent at sewage treatment works for compliance purposes.
This task was previously undertaken by the EA and the transfer is consistent with the Better Regulation principles.
We are pleased that the final River Basin Management Plans published by the EA for the rivers in our regions proposed an appropriate balance between challenging environmental targets and a clear evidence base for action.
We support the emphasis on tackling diffuse pollution at source rather than end of pipe solutions.
NWL intends to increase the emphasis given to catchment management across its operating areas and will increase the number of employees dedicated to promoting catchment management solutions.
This will help tackle emerging challenges from water soluble pesticides and also bring a range of other benefits in terms of habitat protection, biodiversity and carbon management.
Putting customers first Our relationship with customers is core to the success of our business and it is essential that they trust our service.
Customer service is at the heart of the company and all employees have a clear focus on getting things right first time every time.
Although we are required to meet regulated standards for customer service, the quality of our service goes beyond that.
