Corporate Corporate Directors Directors Governance governance report remuneration responsibilities report Group Directors remuneration report In this report, which will be submitted for approval at the AGM on 29 July 2010, we describe how the executive directors are remunerated.
Those parts of the remuneration report which are subject to audit by Ernst & Young are marked audited.
The Remuneration Committee The role of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee determines the remuneration and terms of employment of the Chairman of the Company, executive directors of NWG and NWL and a further seven senior managers, in accordance with a remuneration policy approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for the Committee are published on our website at www.
co. uk in the about us: corporate governance section or a copy can be requested from the Company Secretary.
The Committee is always available to engage with major shareholders and their representatives to discuss remuneration matters.
During 2009, the Remuneration Committee did consult with its larger shareholders, the Association of British Insurers and RiskMetrics on the change that has been made to the LTIP performance measures.
Remuneration Committee members The Committee members are Martin Ngre chairman until 31 March 2010, Sir Patrick Brown, Anita Frew, Alex Scott-Barrett chairman from 1 April 2010, who are all considered by the Company to be independent, and Sir Derek Wanless.
The membership of the Committee was, therefore, compliant with the Combined Code throughout the year.
Martin Parker, the Company Secretary, is secretary to the Committee.
External advice The Committee continued to receive advice during the year from its appointed advisers, Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, and also from the Managing Director although never about his own remuneration.
HNBS was paid 41,616 for these services in 2009 10 and continues to assist the Committee in maintaining best practice in relation to remuneration.
HNBS did not provide any other services to the Company during the year.
The Committees work in 2009 10 The Committee met three times during the year with 100% attendance by all members, to: set the remuneration package for the new Chief Executive Officer: discuss and approve the new policy on LTIP performance measures: agree bonus payments for 2008 09: set performance targets for executive directors and senior managers: agree salaries for 2010 11: determine the vesting percentage to be applied to the LTIP awards made on 21 December 2006 which vested on 21 December 2009: and grant LTIP awards on 4 January 2010 to vest on 4 January 2013.
As the Committee works closely with NWLs remuneration committee, Committee papers and minutes are circulated to all NWL and NWG non-executive directors, who can give their views direct to the Committee chairman and can attend meetings if they wish.
