Directors Directors Corporate Corporate remuneration responsibilities Governance governance report report Group The advantages of using these targets include: the continued use of TSR provides consistency with past awards, alignment with investors and, as a result of the less correlated and volatile sectors now being excluded, provides an improved line of sight for executives: the use of an absolute ROCE target ensures that reward is directly linked to the managements delivery of the business plan: they recognise that the maintenance of NWLs regulated assets through the serviceability targets is critical to the longer term returns for shareholders: and customer satisfaction is a key objective for NWL and customers are important stakeholders.
In the event of a change of control, the Committee would determine the extent to which the performance conditions had been met and the proportion of the performance period that had elapsed in deciding whether or not any vesting of awards would take place.
The LTIP award, granted on 21 December 2006, became available to vest on 21 December 2009.
The Committee instructed  PwC to assess the level of vesting of this award.
PwC reported that 33.2% of the award was available to vest being 66.5% of the award relating to the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE 250 Index and 0% of the award relating to the Companys ROCE performance against the other water companies.
Prior to vesting, the Committee satisfied itself that the recorded TSR performance was a genuine reflection of the Companys underlying performance.
Details of the number of awards which lapsed and those which were exercised by the directors of the Company are shown in Table 3.
Full details of award levels and performance conditions are shown in Table 2.
Responsible investment The Committee is aware of Guideline 3.2 of the ABI Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure and is satisfied that neither the executive directors annual bonus targets nor the LTIP performance conditions are likely, inadvertently, to motivate irresponsible behaviour.
Non-executive directors fees The Companys remuneration policy is that the Chairman and the non-executive directors should receive a fixed fee for their normal duties.
Reflecting the added responsibilities and time commitment, chairing the Remuneration and Audit Committees attracts an additional fee over the non-executive directors standard base fee.
Fees payable during 2009 10 and the Companys policy from 1 April 2010 in line with the approach taken in respect of the salaries of NWG executives are: 2010 11 2009 10 Chairman 159,516 157,500 Non-executive director base fee 37,220 36,750 Audit Committee chairing fee 10,634 10,500 Remuneration Committee chairing fee 5,317 5,250 The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not receive benefits in kind and do not participate in bonus, pension or share schemes operated by the Company.
Further details of non-executive directors remuneration are set out in Table 1.
Directors interests in LTIP awards The directors conditional interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company, awarded in accordance with the terms of the LTIP as at 31 March 2010, are set out in Table 3.
