Directors Directors Corporate Corporate remuneration responsibilities Governance governance report report Group Remuneration Committee The work of the Remuneration Committee and details of the directors remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration report.
Nomination Committee The main duty of the Nomination Committee is to identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies for approval by the Board.
The Committee also reviews succession planning for the Board, NWL board and senior appointments and will make recommendations to the Board when appropriate.
The Committees usual policy is to use external recruitment consultants or to advertise in order to identify suitable candidates.
Following the announcement of John Cuthberts retirement, the Committee initiated a search for a successor.
Heidi Mottram was identified as a suitable candidate by recruitment consultants and then interviewed by a specially authorised sub-committee of the Nomination Committee.
She then had discussions with the Finance Director before her appointment was recommended to the full Nomination Committee and then the boards of NWG and NWL.
In addition to the appointment of Heidi Mottram, the Committee also recommended to the NWG and NWL boards the appointment of Margaret Fay, as an additional independent non-executive director.
The Committee felt that an additional non-executive with strong business and political contacts, especially in the north east, would be a valuable addition to the boards.
Margaret Fay was regarded by the Committee as an ideal candidate for this role and she was, therefore, approached by the Company to discuss the opportunity.
The Committee also considered extensions to the appointments of non-executive directors on the NWG and NWL boards whose contracts for services expired during the year.
An extension to the appointment of Sir Derek Wanless took him into his seventh year as a non-executive director of the NWG Board and, having been subject to a rigorous review as required by the Combined Code, the Committee remains satisfied with his performance.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a term of one year and all directors are now subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The members of the Nomination Committee are now Sir Derek Wanless chairman, Sir Patrick Brown, Heidi Mottram, Martin Ngre, Alex Scott-Barrett and Jenny Williams, and the membership is compliant with the Code.
Accountability and audit Audit Committee The Audit Committee members during the year were Sir Patrick Brown chairman, Alex Scott-Barrett and Jenny Williams.
Alex Scott-Barrett is a chartered accountant and the Board is satisfied that he has recent and relevant financial experience.
On 1 April 2010, Martin Ngre was appointed as an additional member of the Committee.
The Committees membership complies with the Code.
The Chairman and executive directors are invited to Audit Committee meetings with the permission of its chairman but have no right of attendance.
Managers from within the Group are invited to Audit Committee meetings to discuss issues relating to their areas of the business.
During the year, the Committee met with both the external Audit Partner and Internal Audit Manager to discuss audit business, without the executive directors being present.
The Committee remains satisfied that the internal audit function is able to operate with independence and is not under any pressure from the executive management of the Company to produce particular results.
The Committee members receive regular briefings from the external auditors to enable them to keep up to date on financial reporting standards.
