Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies We also meet regularly with national, regional and local authorities and other appropriate organisations to explain NWLs activities and related issues.
Political During the year, the Group has worked with politicians of all parties, officials and opinion formers.
This work has included making representations on issues which NWL feels are important to our customers and communities such as competition, the Flood and Water Management Bill, adoption of CCWater and DWI site visit for private sewers, Water for health, climate change, the Water Framework the mains cleaning programme Directive and other legislative issues which could affect our customers.
in Northumberland We do not support any political party and we do not, directly or through any subsidiary, make what are commonly regarded as donations to any political party or other political organisations.
However, the wide definition of donations in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 covers activities which form part of the necessary relationship between the Group and political parties and political organisations.
These activities include attending Party Conferences, as these provide the best opportunity to meet a range of stakeholders, both national and local, to explain our activities, as well as local meetings with MPs, MEPs and their agents.
The costs associated with these activities during 2009 10 were as follows: Name of political party Conservative 3,832 Labour 12,855 Liberal Democrats 2,864 Total 19,551 Shareholder authority to permit the Company to continue with these activities until the 2011 AGM will be sought at this years AGM.
Our investors Our main communication with shareholders is through the publication of the annual report and financial statements, half-yearly financial report, interim management statements and through information on the Companys website.
In addition, the executive directors have regular contact with the Companys large institutional investors, as well as giving presentations to analysts and stockbrokers.
During the year, the executive directors met 30 times with a range of institutional investors.
Further information on NWGs shareholder relations is contained in the corporate governance report.
