Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Risks and resources The NWG Board requires all subsidiaries within the Group to identify and assess the impact of risks to their business.
For each risk, the likelihood and consequences are identified, management controls and frequency of monitoring are reported and the scale of the risk is assessed.
Apart from NWL, none of the subsidiaries has risks considered to be significant to the Groups short and long term value.
For NWL, the management team reviews the approach to risk management in detail every year and the Audit Committee considers the outcome.
The Waste water storm tank, South NWL management team review the significant risks every month and Shields, part of our 3.0 million summary reports on these reviews are submitted to the NWL board.
This flood alleviation scheme year, the Audit Committee commissioned an additional risk and assurance mapping report from Ernst & Young, to provide NWLs management and the Audit Committee with a view of the different assurance functions and the extent to which they provide assurance that the control activities mitigating the key business risks are working properly.
In performing the review, Ernst & Young interviewed several of the managers most involved in the management of risk and, having done so: identified the main risks in NWLs existing risk register and additional risks that they would typically expect to be included based on their knowledge of the water sector: identified the main audit and assurance activities: and mapped the sources of assurance against the control activities and risks checking for gaps and duplication.
The main conclusions, which were reported by Ernst & Young to the NWL board, were: the mechanics of the risk assessment and the format of the risk register are typical of what Ernst & Young would expect to see within an effective risk management process: much of the content of the risk register is very typical of what they see within other companies operating within this sector: and there are many different sources of assurance across the business and the assurance coverage of key risks is reasonable.
Having received Ernst & Youngs assessment of the current approach to risk and assurance, the board considered the documentation of risk appetite and the manner in which assurance is received.
The board agreed that as well as ensuring that an effective bottom up risk management programme is in place, they should also consider risks of a more strategic nature regularly.
Subject to addressing Ernst & Youngs points, the board considered the current approach to general business risk to be acceptable, although board papers could usefully make more explicit reference to how risks have been evaluated.
However, a draft register of strategic risks will also be produced for discussion.
As well as helping to identify these risks this should also help the board agree whether its appetite for risk should be documented formally.
