Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Operational performance continued Business customers The economic situation has had a significant impact on some business sectors which are important in our operating regions and NWL has been working closely with major customers in those sectors to mitigate the impact where possible.
The closures at Corus and Artenius in the Tees Valley have been well publicised.
Details of a contract with the new owner of the Artenius site and of a contract extension by one Corus business are given on page 51.
Furthermore, with the regional economic agencies, NWL has secured existing and encouraged new business.
Kielder Water & Forest Parks Lakeside Way Leisure customers NWL is one of the founding members of Kielder Water & Forest Park Development Trust, which has been accepted by the Charity Commission for registration as a charity.
This will replace the existing Kielder Partnership and will seek to promote sustainable development, recreation, access and leisure, education, infrastructure and a range of other charitable purposes at Kielder and in the surrounding area.
The development of Kielder Water & Forest Park is supported by the Northumberland Strategic Partnership, Government Office for the North East and One North East.
This year has seen the completion of a 26 mile lakeside multi-user track and water access points as well as the opening of an award winning observatory and a range of mountain biking tracks.
com provides further details of all facilities.
NWL continues to develop its leisure facilities at all strategic sites, investing in fishing facilities, holiday accommodation and supporting Access for All.
Water The quality of water is critical to our customers and samples are taken on a daily basis for analysis under regulations monitored by the DWI.
The quality in all areas served remained high.
North N Target Performance South S 2009 10 2009 10 DWI Mean Zonal Compliance % N 99.90 99.91 S 99.98 99.82 DWI Operational Performance Index % N 99.65 99.58 S 99.98 99.97 Distribution Maintenance Index % N 99.70 99.21 S 99.85 99.94 The DWI will investigate any incidents which could compromise quality and the number of such incidents fell during the year.
NWL has appointed catchment management officers to work with farmers and regulators in Essex to help reduce the level of pesticides in the environment and their impact on raw water quality.
This work is progressing well and has produced encouraging results.
