Directors Directors Corporate Corporate remuneration responsibilities Governance governance report report Group Remuneration policy The Committee considers the principles and provisions of the Combined Code when setting its policy and believes it is fully compliant.
The policy of the Company is to provide remuneration that is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the Company successfully, while paying fairly.
Although HNBS provides the Committee with detailed comparative data on other companies in the sector, the Committee is aware of, and avoids the risk of, remuneration being ratcheted up as a result of benchmarking exercises.
Consistent with its fair pay policy, when considering the remuneration packages of senior executives and directors, the Committee takes into account pay awards to other employees in the Group.
The Committee also considers environmental, social, risk management and governance issues when setting remuneration terms.
The remuneration policy of the Committee is: that the setting of base salaries is largely influenced by individual contributions and internal relativities rather than external comparators although for 2009 10 the Committee was influenced by general economic conditions : that the annual bonus plan recognises the interests of all of the Companys stakeholders shareholders, customers and employees rather than being focused solely on profit: and that management shares in the longer term value created for the Companys investors and the serviceability of the Companys regulated assets.
Elements of remuneration The remuneration of the executive directors comprises: basic salary: benefits including pension and participation in the Companys SIP : a performance related annual bonus: and annual LTIP awards.
In addition to reviewing each constituent element, the Committee reviews the remuneration packages as a whole to ensure that they remain appropriate in terms of structure and quantum.
The chart below shows the composition of the new Chief Executive Officers remuneration as a percentage of basic salary both at target and maximum levels of performance.
Maximum performance assumes the achievement of maximum bonus and full vesting of LTIP awards.
Chief Executive Ofcers remuneration Fixed pay Variable pay Target Maximum 0% 50% 100% 150% 200% 250% 300% Basic salary Pension and benets Annual bonus LTIP 69
