Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Operational performance continued Environment NWL agreed, last year, Target Performance a plan to reduce northern operating area only 2009 10 2009 10 emissions by 35% Sewage treatment works % 99.7 100 by 2020.
Bathing waters Mandatory Standard % 100 100 Pollution incidents category 1, 2 and 3 89 114 NWLs exceptional performance for sewage treatment works continued with all consented works remaining compliant over the year.
Two major schemes, to further improve performance at Sunderland and Darlington sewage treatment works, were completed.
The advanced anaerobic digestion plant at Bran Sands is now fully operational and generating the expected volumes of biogas and electricity.
The re-organisation, to operate the plant at much lower manning levels than previously, has been successfully implemented.
Plans to provide a similar plant on Tyneside to process the remainder of the companys sludge, and also replace older technology, are progressing well.
All 34 bathing waters in the north east again passed the required Mandatory Standard and 30 of these met the more demanding Guideline Standard.
Intense summer storms again caused extensive property flooding.
Incidents of internal property flooding were the highest ever reported, many due to a single storm over two days in July which affected the whole north east region.
Capital schemes to remove 277 properties from flooding registers were successfully completed.
Planning to identify schemes for coming years forms a key part of our investment programme and is well advanced, with a further 250 properties to be addressed in 2010 11.
The five year programme to improve the visual appearance of discharges from nearly 500 combined sewer overflows was successfully completed, with engineering works taking place at 106 locations in the year.
Climate change The water industry is one of the largest users of energy in the UK and we aim to play a full part in support of Governments plans to reduce emissions.
We have been working hard over recent years to reduce our carbon footprint while preparing ourselves for the future challenges of a change in climate and the weather events we may face as a consequence.
NWL agreed, last year, a plan to reduce emissions by 35% by 2020, when compared with a 2008 baseline.
If the emissions associated with electricity production also fall, in line with Government predictions, this should mean that our emissions will be halved by the 2020 milestone date.
