Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies This could mean higher capital and revenue costs to provide additional We will continue to sludge processing facilities.
The development of the Safe Sludge Matrix play a leading role in and the proposed revision of the Sludge Use in Agriculture Regulations the industry on water have reduced the immediate risk in this area.
NWL is introducing advanced efficiency measures anaerobic digestion to both reduce sludge volumes and the carbon impact of its activities and provide a sustainable outlet for sludge.
Advanced and to encourage anaerobic digestion is already in operation at our Bran Sands site and plans customers to use to develop this at our Howdon site are well advanced.
The second is the potential for sewer flooding.
As rainfall patterns become more variable and intense storms more frequent, localised heavy rainfall can result in sewers becoming overloaded.
We welcome the focus on integrated flood management in the Flood and Water Management Act 2010.
Affordability and customer debt Affordability is an issue for NWL with income deprivation levels in the northern area the highest of all water and sewerage companies and in the southern area, close to the national average.
Providing our customers with a range of payment facilities and frequencies that suit their individual circumstances is a critical element of successful income collection and debt prevention.
We ensure that customers are aware of options which help reduce charges and ease the establishment of payment arrangements.
Customers who deliberately avoid paying charges are actively pursued and we continue to work with Ofwat and Defra to seek changes to legislation to assist the industry to impose and collect charges.
Water resources The way we retain, recycle and distribute our water resources is a central part of our business.
While NWL has sufficient water resources in the north east, we believe it is still important to manage the demand for water so that it does not exceed levels that can be supplied in a sustainable way.
In our Essex and Suffolk areas, however, water resource availability is a key issue.
We have been successful over many years in encouraging our customers to use less water and in keeping leakage at or below the economic level.
Nonetheless, we need to continue to invest to achieve our aim of ensuring our customers have a safe, secure and reliable supply of water well into the future.
In January 2010, we published our final Water Resources Management Plan having received approval from the Secretary of State.
