Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Operating environment continued For the third year, we only increased our prices by the rate of inflation and did not use the real increase allowed by Ofwat.
This decision benefited customers directly.
We measure the views of our customers with quarterly tracking research alongside qualitative work in focus groups.
This helps us to understand their views on service, value for money and other issues as well as their general perception of the company.
We keep customers informed about our activities through leaflets with bills, an annual magazine called Source and our websites at www.
co. uk The sites include information about our services and now allow customers to ask questions and investigate work being carried out in their area.
If customers are directly affected by any work, we give advance warning and explain the need for the timing of such work.
We also communicate more broadly with local communities through public meetings.
NWG is actively involved in the business community in both of its operating areas through direct membership and involvement in the councils boards of the CBI, Chambers of Commerce and other similar organisations.
NWL has longstanding relationships with its key industrial and commercial customers in the areas it serves.
The north east, in particular, has a significant industrial base and existing customers and potential investors in the region value the availability not only of high quality potable and raw water but also access to reliable effluent treatment services.
Stakeholder relations NWG has a code of ethics, Our Code of Conduct, which is available on the Companys website, covering its relationships with customers, employees, suppliers, local communities, shareholders, other investors and regulators.
NWG meets its stakeholders regularly and also communicates by printed and electronic forms of communication and through the media.
National NWL is an active member of Water UK, the industry association which represents all UK water and waste water service suppliers at national and European level.
It provides a very effective framework for the industry to engage with Government, regulators, stakeholder organisations and the public and helps to develop policy and improve understanding of the industry.
