Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Board directors biographies Sir Derek Wanless John Cuthbert Chairman Managing Director until Sir Derek Wanless was appointed to the 31 March 2010 Board as an independent non-executive John Cuthbert was appointed to the director in December 2003.
John joined the water the board of NWL in January 2006, and, industry in 1991 and was appointed in July 2006 became Chairman of NWG Managing Director of North East Water and NWL.
Sir Derek chairs the Nomination plc in 1993.
Following the acquisition of Committee and is a member of the the former Northumbrian Water Group Remuneration Committee.
He became plc by Lyonnaise des Eaux in 1995, he a director of National Westminster Bank transferred within the Group to become in 1991 and its Group Chief Executive Managing Director of Essex & Suffolk in 1992.
He retired from this position in Water plc.
John took over as Managing 1999.
Sir Derek is currently Chairman Director of the former Northumbrian Water of Legal and General plcs Longevity Group plc, and also of NWL, in 2001 and Science Advisory Panel and a member up until 31 March 2010, was a member of of the Board for Actuarial Standards the Nomination Committee.
John retired at the Financial Reporting Council.
Heidi Mottram OBE Chris Green Sir Patrick Brown Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Senior Independent from 1 April 2010 Chris Green was appointed to the Non-executive Director Heidi Mottram was appointed to the Board in May 2003.
Chris joined the Sir Patrick Brown was appointed to the NWG and NWL boards, as an Executive former Northumbrian Water Group plc in Board in May 2003 and to the board of Director, on 1 March 2010, and became January 1990 and was initially involved NWL in January 2006.
Sir Patrick chairs Chief Executive Officer and a member in its diversified business activities before the Audit Committee and is a member of the Nomination Committee on 1 April.
being appointed as Group Finance of the Nomination and Remuneration Heidi began her career with British Rail Director in 1997.
Chris was appointed as Committees.
He held various positions as a General Management Trainee in the Finance Director of NWL in April 2000 in the Department of Transport and the mid 1980s.
Her first senior position was following the merger of that company Department of the Environment, becoming that of Station Manager in Harrogate with Essex & Suffolk Water plc.
Second Permanent Secretary and Chief in 1986 and she then held a number of Executive of the Property Services Agency roles before joining Midland Mainline in 1990.
He was Permanent Secretary in 1999 as Operations Director.
Heidi for the Department of Transport from was Commercial Director for Arriva 1991 to 1997.
Sir Patrick became a Trains Northern from January 2004, non-executive director of the Go-Ahead before joining Serco-NedRailways in Group plc in 1999 and its Chairman in November 2004 as Managing Director, 2002.
He is also Chairman of the Advisory Northern Rail Limited.
Heidi was named Committee of Alexander Proudfoot UK.
Rail Business Manager of the Year in 2009 and was awarded an OBE this year, for services to the rail industry.
58 Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies Margaret Fay CBE Claude Lamoureux Martin Ngre Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director from 1 June 2010 Claude Lamoureux was appointed to the Martin Ngre was appointed to the Board Margaret Fay was appointed to the boards of NWG and NWL on 1 December in May 2003 and to the board of NWL boards of NWG and NWL on 1 June 2006.
Claude was, until 1 December in January 2006.
Margaret was formerly Managing 2007, President and CEO of the Ontario the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Director of Tyne Tees Television until she Teachers Pension Plan Board OTPP.
He was, between April 2000 took early retirement in December 2003 Previously, he spent 25 years as a financial and April 2001, the CEO of the former in order to take up her current position executive with Metropolitan Life in Canada Northumbrian Water Group plc and the as Chairman of One North East, the and the US.
He is Chairman of Cordiant chief corporate representative of its parent Regional Development Agency.
She is Capital and is also a director of Xstrata company, Suez, in the UK.
He currently a Board Member of the new Homes plc, Industrial Alliance Insurance and chairs Ecofin Global Utilities Hedge Fund and Communities Agency, Patron of Financial Services Inc, Maple Leaf Foods Limited, Ecofin Special Situations Utilities Tees Valley Community Foundation and Inc, Atrium Innovations Inc, The Learning Fund and Ecofin North American Hedge the Prince of Wales Ambassador for Partnership and the York University Fund.
His other directorships include the North East of England.
OTPP holds 27% of the Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities was awarded an OBE for services to issued share capital of Northumbrian plc, Bolux Utilities Sicav Luxembourg, broadcasting in 2004 and, in 2010, a CBE Water Group plc and Claude is, therefore, Mercurius Utilities Liechtenstein, EFMI for services to regional development.
not regarded as an independent director.
Global Utilities and Infrastructure Funds plc and EFMI UBAM Global Utilities 130 130 Fund.
All the above funds are focused on utilities.
In 2005, he became a director of Promethean plc, an AIM-listed investment company and he sits on the supervisory ie board of Jean-Philippe Hottinguer & C. Alex Scott-Barrett Jenny Williams Martin Parker Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director General Counsel and Alex Scott-Barrett was appointed to Jenny Williams joined the Board in May Company Secretary the Board of NWG in September 2006, 2004, and the board of NWL in January Martin Parker was appointed as Company having previously joined the board of 2006 and is a member of the Audit Secretary of NWG in May 2003.
Alex chairs and Nomination Committees.
She is a joined the former Northumbrian Water the Remuneration Committee and is a Commissioner and Chief Executive of the Group plc in 1990, concentrating on member of the Audit and Nomination Gambling Commission and a Trustee of acquisitions, overseas projects and Committees.
Alex qualified as a chartered the charity, Connections at St Martins.
contracts with industrial customers, accountant in 1981 and joined Cazenove She was Head of Water Finance and before being appointed Head of Group in 1982.
He worked initially as an analyst Flotation at the time of water privatisation, Legal Services in 1998 and General and transferred to the corporate finance and has held various directorships in Counsel and Company Secretary department in 1986, becoming a partner Government departments, including of NWL in 2000.
In 1996, he became a director the Home Office, the Department of the of all the Board committees.
of the firms fund management division Environment, Transport and the Regions and, from 2000 to 2003, was the Chief and the Inland Revenue.
She was a Operating Officer of that division.
Alex left Director-General of the Lord Chancellors Cazenove in 2003.
He is a non-executive Department now the Department for director of Lighthouse Group plc and is a Justice.
Jenny will retire from the boards Trustee of LArche and Help for Heroes.
