Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies Going concern and treasury risk The financial ratios, financial results, liquidity position and credit ratings are described in the financial performance section on pages 22 to 25.
In addition, note 20 to the financial statements includes details on the Groups strategy and treasury operations for managing its capital: its exposures to liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and counterparty risk: and details of its financial instruments.
The Group has sufficient funding in place to finance all of its operations until the end of 2011, leaving it well placed to deal with continued volatility in capital markets.
The current economic climate is having an impact on revenues, particularly those from industrial and commercial customers and those associated with the housing market.
We continue to monitor the uncertain situation very carefully and, in particular, the recovery of domestic revenue.
We welcome the passing of the Flood and Water Management Act 2010, which will require landlords to disclose details of their tenants which will help improve debt collection.
Overall, industrial revenues are currently expected to be close to those assumed by Ofwat when setting prices for 2010-15.
Our largest single customer, Artenius UK Limited, ceased production in 2009 and Ofwat assumed this plant would remain closed.
However, in February 2010, it was bought by a Korean company, KP Chemicals, whose subsidiary Lotte Chemical UK Limited brought the plant back into operation in April 2010 although NWL revenue will be slightly lower than under the previous Artenius contract.
By contrast, a number of plants have closed which Ofwat had assumed would remain open.
The most significant is Corus Cast Products where the blast furnace was mothballed in January 2010, although Corus has also announced that the South Bank Coke Ovens, which was also under threat of closure, will remain open for at least a further three years.
The directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Regulatory risk The fact that NWL has been able to accept the outcome of PR09 reduces the main source of regulatory risk.
The Flood and Water Management Act 2010 also includes provisions to implement the recommendations of the Pitt Review on flooding as well as a range of other measures to tidy up aspects of water related legislation.
The flooding measures primarily relate to local authorities and the EA but also have implications for water companies, particularly with regard to how they interact and cooperate with those bodies.
