Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Financial performance continued Creditors The Companys policy is to agree payment terms with suppliers and to pay on time according to those agreed terms.
The Companys policy is to make payment not more than 30 days after receipt of a valid invoice, except as otherwise agreed.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amount invoiced by its suppliers during the year and the amount owed to its trade creditors at 31 March 2010, was 21 days 2009: 20 days.
Information pursuant to the Takeovers Directive Structure of the Companys share capital As at 31 March 2010, the Company had 518,623,845 ordinary 10 pence shares admitted to trading.
Rights and obligations attaching to the shares The rights attaching to the shares in the Company are set out in the Articles and may be changed with the approval of the shareholders.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, shares may be issued with or have attached thereto such preferred, deferred, qualified or other rights or such restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise, as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, if there has not been any such determination, as the Board may determine.
Shareholders are entitled to requisition a general meeting of the Company and to attend, vote and speak at general meetings, in accordance with the Companies Acts and the Articles.
Shareholders have the right to appoint proxies.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares Any shareholder may transfer a certificated share, as defined in the Articles, by an instrument of transfer in the usual form or in such other form as the Board may approve.
However, the transfer of an uncertificated share, as defined in the Articles, need not be in writing and shall comply with any rules adopted by the Board under Article 13.7.
The Board may, however, in its absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share that is not a fully paid up share or on which the Company has a lien, provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also decline to register any transfer unless: in the case of a certificated share, the instrument of transfer, duly stamped, is lodged with the Company accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: in the case of a certificated share, the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share: and in the case of a transfer to joint holders of a certificated or uncertificated share, the number of joint holders to whom the share is to be transferred does not exceed four.
26 Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies If the share to be transferred is an uncertificated share, the Board may refuse to register a transfer if the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 allow it to do so.
Additionally, where a member or other person on whom a Disclosure Notice has been served pursuant to section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not, within the period specified, supplied to the Company the information required in respect of any shares, the Board may impose a sanction declining to register any transfer of shares, other than a sale to a bona fide unconnected third party.
Significant shareholdings Details of shareholders with significant holdings in the Companys issued share capital are set out below: Number Number of shares at % share of shares at % share 31.3.
2010 capital Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board 138,588,471 26.72 138,588,471 26.72 Amvescap PLC 80,154,509 15.46 83,064,881 16.01 Pictet Asset Management SA 31,240,570 6.02 31,719,613 6.12 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 15,701,506 3.03 15,114,135 2.91 The holdings include, where applicable, the aggregate of investment management clients interests within the respective asset management companies and may have since changed without triggering a further notification.
Restrictions on voting rights In accordance with the Companys Articles, no member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, be entitled to be present or to vote, either personally or by proxy, unless all calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect of shares in the Company have been paid.
Additionally, where a member or other person on whom a Disclosure Notice pursuant to section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 has been served and has not, within the period specified, supplied to the Company the information required in respect of any shares, the Board may impose a sanction preventing the member from attending and voting at any general meeting.
27 Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Financial performance continued Shares required to fulfil vested awards made under the Northumbrian Water Group plc Employee Trust are acquired through Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited.
In line with ABI guidelines, dividends and voting rights are waived on these shares.
At 31 March 2010, the Employee Trust held a total of 914,518 shares.
The deadline for delivering either written or electronic proxy voting forms is 48 hours before the appointed time of the meeting.
Appointment and replacement of directors The Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to be a director.
The Board may also appoint directors, either to fill casual vacancies or as an addition to the Board, but any director so appointed shall hold office only until the next following AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
Heidi Mottram and Margaret Fay, who were appointed to the Board since the last AGM, will be eligible for election at this years AGM.
Additionally, the Companys Articles provide for the annual re-election of all directors.
Details of all the directors seeking re-election at this years AGM are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
The main duty of the Nomination Committee is to identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies for approval by the Board.
The work of the Nomination Committee is described in the corporate governance report.
The Company may, by special resolution, or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts, remove any director before the expiration of his period of office and may, by ordinary resolution, appoint another person in his place.
Any person so appointed shall be subject to retirement at the same time as if he had become a director on the day on which the director in whose place he is appointed was last appointed a director.
Amendments to the Companys Articles The Company may amend its Articles by passing a special resolution of its members.
The Company will be proposing a Special Resolution at this years AGM to adopt new Articles.
The proposed changes are explained in the Appendix to the Notice of Meeting.
Powers of the Board The Articles provide that the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which may exercise all such powers of the Company as are not required by the Companies Acts or the Articles to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles and any directions given by special resolution, the Board may, inter alia: establish local or divisional boards or agencies to manage any of the Companys affairs and appoint any persons to be members of such local or divisional boards, or agents, and fix their remuneration: 28
