Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Operational performance continued Water and waste water contracts Revenue for the Groups water and waste water contracts was 38.3 million for the year to 31 March 2010 2009: 39.8 million and profit on ordinary activities before interest was 10.2 million 2009: 9.1 million.
The increase is principally due to decreased power costs and the settlement of outstanding claims offset slightly by a reduction in respect of gas indexation on revenue tariffs at Caledonian Environmental Services.
All contracts are performing well and are in line with expectations.
The Group is involved in two projects to deliver long term private finance initiative contracts with Scottish Water for waste water treatment.
At Levenmouth, the Group now has a 100% shareholding in both project and operating companies and the benefit of a 40 year contract.
Funding was provided through a 37 year fixed interest rate corporate bond with the principal amortising from 2008.
On 12 April 2010, the Group settled the outstanding claim against Caledonian Environmental Services plc with the Design and Construction Consortium, with the costs being capitalised in the year.
The Group also, on this date, purchased the remaining 25% minority stake and the outstanding subordinated loan stock in Caledonian Environmental Services for a consideration of 0.4 million.
In Ayrshire, the Group has a 75% shareholding in the project company and a 100% shareholding in the company that operates the three effluent treatment plants that comprise this 30 year contract.
Finance was provided through a 27 year loan on a fixed interest basis with the principal amortising from 2003.
In Ireland, the Group is part of a contractual consortium that designed and built a waste water treatment plant for Cork City Council.
Under the consortium agreement, the Group has responsibility for a 20 year contract for the operation and maintenance of the plant.
AquaGib Limited, two thirds owned by the Group in a joint venture with the Government of Gibraltar, operates Gibraltars dual drinking water and sea water distribution systems under its 30 year contract with the Government of Gibraltar.
Other Agrer Revenue for the year to 31 March 2010 was 8.5 million 2009: 7.2 million.
During the year, Agrer has signed new contracts with a gross margin of 2.16 million, an increase of around 40% over the previous year.
