Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Financial performance continued Creditors The Companys policy is to agree payment terms with suppliers and to pay on time according to those agreed terms.
The Companys policy is to make payment not more than 30 days after receipt of a valid invoice, except as otherwise agreed.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amount invoiced by its suppliers during the year and the amount owed to its trade creditors at 31 March 2010, was 21 days 2009: 20 days.
Information pursuant to the Takeovers Directive Structure of the Companys share capital As at 31 March 2010, the Company had 518,623,845 ordinary 10 pence shares admitted to trading.
Rights and obligations attaching to the shares The rights attaching to the shares in the Company are set out in the Articles and may be changed with the approval of the shareholders.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, shares may be issued with or have attached thereto such preferred, deferred, qualified or other rights or such restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise, as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, if there has not been any such determination, as the Board may determine.
Shareholders are entitled to requisition a general meeting of the Company and to attend, vote and speak at general meetings, in accordance with the Companies Acts and the Articles.
Shareholders have the right to appoint proxies.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares Any shareholder may transfer a certificated share, as defined in the Articles, by an instrument of transfer in the usual form or in such other form as the Board may approve.
However, the transfer of an uncertificated share, as defined in the Articles, need not be in writing and shall comply with any rules adopted by the Board under Article 13.7.
The Board may, however, in its absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share that is not a fully paid up share or on which the Company has a lien, provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also decline to register any transfer unless: in the case of a certificated share, the instrument of transfer, duly stamped, is lodged with the Company accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: in the case of a certificated share, the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share: and in the case of a transfer to joint holders of a certificated or uncertificated share, the number of joint holders to whom the share is to be transferred does not exceed four.
