Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies appoint attorney s for such purposes and with such powers, authorities and discretions and for such period and subject to such terms and conditions as it may think fit: delegate its powers to any director: sign, draw, accept, endorse or otherwise execute all cheques, promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange and other instruments and all receipts for moneys paid to the Company in such manner as the Board shall from time to time determine: exercise all of the powers of the Company to grant and pay pensions, annuities, gratuities, superannuation or other allowances and benefits in favour of any person: and exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of the undertaking, property and assets and uncalled capital of the Company and to issue debentures and other securities for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Allotment of shares Subject to the provision of the Companies Acts, the Articles and any authorising resolutions passed in general meeting, the shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of the Board, which may offer, allot, grant options over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times, for such consideration and upon such terms and conditions as the Board may determine.
The directors will again be seeking authority from shareholders at this years AGM for the directors to allot shares during the ensuing year although, at present, the Company has no intention of doing so.
Purchase of own shares Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and the Articles and to any confirmation or consent required by law, the Company may from time to time purchase its own shares.
The Company will again be seeking authority from shareholders at this years AGM to purchase its own shares during the ensuing year although, at present, the Company has no intention of doing so.
Significant agreements As at 31 March 2010, NWL had 362.4 million of loans provided by the European Investment Bank EIB and the applicable terms include change of control clauses.
If, after consultation with NWL, the EIB is of the opinion that a change of control has had, or is likely to have, a material adverse effect, then the EIB could give 30 days notice of requesting early repayment of the loans plus, in certain circumstances, a premium depending on prevailing market interest rates.
29 Case study Carbon management plan Carbon management plan Northumbrian Water Limited published limiting tertiary UV disinfection its carbon management plan to outside the bathing water season meet its target of a reduction of 50% at five major works reduces in gross emissions by 2020 from a energy consumption and carbon 2008 base 35% from a reduction in emissions with no detrimental effect operational emissions and the rest on the marine environment: and from decarbonisation of the grid.
encouraging customers, through our using water wisely campaign, The carbon management plan includes to recognise that if they waste energy efficiency, renewable energy water, they also waste energy and water efficiency and supports our information and tools are available activities to help us adapt to a changing for customers on our websites.
It represents a sustainable and responsible way forward for the Through these projects, and by business, our customers and the reviewing the efficiency of our pumps environment.
The projects under way, across the business, we have reduced which will help us to achieve our carbon the amount of energy used by reduction target, are outlined below: almost 9% over the last five years.
investment of 33.0 million in new thermal hydrolysis advanced Northumbrian Water Limited has anaerobic digestion at Bran Sands, successfully achieved the Carbon which provides 50% c. 4.7 MW Trust Standard for its efforts in of the energy requirements of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
This will enable waste The standard provides an objective sludge to generate methane to benchmark against which our fuel gas engines and produce commitment and success in addressing green electricity.
A similar plant our climate change impact was will be constructed at Howdon, assessed and is significant as it which is planned for completion demonstrates progress against our in 2013 14.
Together these plants ambitious carbon management plan.
will increase our use of renewable energy by 20%, as well as reduce Alongside this work, we are continuing our overall energy demand: to develop our understanding of the hydroelectric installations at four potential impacts of a changing climate reservoirs including the UKs on the functions of the business.
The largest man-made reservoir, latest UKCP09 projections of the Kielder Water.
Work on a new 2.5 future climate were published by the million hydroelectric project at our UK Climate Impacts Programme Selset Reservoir has begun and last summer and provide a valuable will generate up to 750 kilowatts resource for understanding the of electricity 4,000 megawatt potential impacts on the business.
Renewable energy is also being generated with hydroelectric plants at Derwent, Lartington and Wear Valley reservoirs in addition to biogas combined heat and power plants at Stressholme, Hexham and Aycliffe: 30 Carbon Case study management plan 31
