Directors Directors Corporate Corporate remuneration responsibilities Governance governance report report Group Retirement of John Cuthbert and recruitment of Heidi Mottram John Cuthbert retired on 31 March 2010 and Heidi Mottram was appointed as an executive director on 1 March 2010, giving the Company the benefit of John Cuthberts expertise and experience in a one month handover process to Heidi Mottram.
Heidi Mottram took up her position as Chief Executive Officer on 1 April 2010.
As explained above, Heidi Mottram has been employed on a salary of 320,000.
She will not participate in the Companys final salary pension scheme now closed, and instead, the Company will make an employers contribution of 8% of salary into the Companys money purchase scheme for her benefit.
She will participate in the annual bonus plan and LTIP as described above.
No other compensation was paid to her in connection with her recruitment.
External appointments of executive directors The Boards position on external appointments is described in full in the corporate governance report but, in summary, the Board has agreed that executive directors of the Company who are appointed to non-executive directorships which pay a fee may retain the fees, subject to obtaining the Chairmans consent before an appointment is accepted.
Only one such external appointment per director will generally be permitted.
On 1 November 2009, John Cuthbert was appointed as a non-executive director of Bellway plc.
This appointment was made following Johns decision to retire from the Group earlier in the year.
John Cuthbert retained the directors fee received from Bellway plc, which is an annual amount of 46,380.
Heidi Mottram is a Board member of Yorkshire Forward for which she is paid and retains an annual fee of 8,666.
Directors interests in shares The directors beneficial interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company, as at 31 March 2010, are set out in Table 6.
The NWG Board has agreed to introduce a guideline requesting NWG directors to build up over a maximum of five years shares in the Company with a value equal to one years basic salary in the case of the executive directors or one years fees in the case of non-executive directors.
Directors interests in shares under the SIP The Company SIP is open to UK employees with more than three months service.
Further details of the SIP are set out in the directors report and business review.
During the year, the executive directors had the opportunity to participate in the SIP and their interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company, purchased and held in accordance with the terms of the SIP, are set out in Table 7.
This directors remuneration report has been produced in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
It was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
It will be put to the shareholders for approval at the Companys AGM.
Alex Scott-Barrett Chairman of Remuneration Committee 1 June 2010 75
