10 10 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 The future of grocery shopping is online The uk grocery market is 151 billion per annum of which online represents around 3%.
Over the foreseeable future, the online grocery market is expected to experience significant growth at the expense of traditional grocery channels.
Online grocery adoption is expected to be in line with other retail categories, driven by a number of complementary drivers: 4 3 FrESHNESS ACCESS TO 2 FrESH PrODUCE AvAILABILITY INCrEASES rEAL TIME 1 CONSUMEr rANGE PrODUCT CONFIDENCE AvAILABILITY rANGE PrICE Increasingly efficient online INCrEASES EXPANSION supply chains, picking and CONSUMEr BrOAD PrICE INCrEASES delivery processes lead to LOYALTY POSITIONING CONSUMEr more confident purchasing ATTrACTS CHOICE High product availability of fresh produce by CONSUMErS increases customer Consumers have more consumers.
Price is intrinsically linked choice and are able to to consumers perception discover new products The online grocery The online grocery of value, with value driving more effectively.
This in challenge: dealing with challenge: maintaining high interest.
Online retailing turn influences consumer short product life spans product availability across provides consumers with demand attracting new and handling and storing a range of categories to greater visibility on price customers and driving varied products across ensure that the average and value.
different temperatures shop of 55 items is Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement zones from source to delivered in full.
The online grocery The online grocery consumers kitchens.
challenge: to offer sufficient challenge: to provide a items across multiple range of products, across price points without three temperatures, compromising quality and that reflects and drives freshness.
consumer interest without leading to excessive waste due to the perishable nature of groceries.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 11 11 9 8 INFOrMATION PrODUCT 7 rELIABILITY INFOrMATION 6 ON TIME, AS INFLUENCES TIME OrDErED, CUSTOMEr 5 EvErY TIME DECISION MAKING FrEEING UP EASE OF USE CONSUMErS On time delivery real-time, accurate, MOST PrECIOUS and minimal product CONvENIENCE intuitive and predictive QUALITY ASSET substitution builds & INTUITIvE information informs AT LEAST AS consumer loyalty and OrDErING BrINGS consumers choice and reducing time spent GOOD AS IN increases willingness to CUSTOMErS BACK enriches the customer on grocery shopping STOrE shop online.
allows consumers greater Greater online access and Providing consumers flexibility and releases the introduction of smart The online grocery The online grocery with produce of equal or precious time for other mobile devices enable challenge: limited product challenge: consumers better quality than they activities.
consumers to shop any life combined with the want to make informed can choose for themselves time, any place, anywhere.
logistical challenges of purchasing decisions The online grocery in-store drives consumers This increases consumer delivering diverse customer requiring large amounts challenge: grocery online.
orders on time within a of product information shopping takes up a tight delivery window.
The online grocery including expiry dates.
significant proportion of The online grocery challenge: food can be an consumers shopping time challenge: providing easy emotive purchase, requiring compared to purchases and fast access to the 55 consumers to be confident of other goods.
Getting products in an average in their purchases and to consumers to change order across a large range build trust with an online deeply engrained attitudes of products.
UK rETAIL SALES BY SECTOr bn UK rETAIL ONLINE PENETrATION Source: Third party estimates Source: Third party estimates Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Grocery Clothing & Footwear Electricals Health & Beauty DIY and Gardening Furniture & Floorcoverings Homewares Book, News & Stationery Music & video Music & video Electricals Homewares Book, News & Stationery Clothing & Footwear DIY & Gardening Furniture & Floorcoverings Health & Beauty Grocery 151 41 23 17 14 13 11 10 5 53% 27% 9% 8% 8% 5% 4% 4% 3% Getting to Kno Getting to Kno About Ocado w Ocado w Ocado
