Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 19 19 Directors report Directors report and business review The Groups policies and strategies for managing financial risk are The business review sets out a comprehensive review of the summarised in Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements and performance of the business of the Group for the 52 weeks ended in the principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 29 to 32, as 28 November 2010 and of future developments.
required by Disclosure and Transparency rule 4.1.
The Companies Act requires the Company to set out in this annual Employee involvement, equal opportunities and disabled report a fair review of the business of the Group during the 52 employees weeks ended 28 November 2010, including an analysis of the The corporate social responsibility section sets out the Groups position of the Group at the end of the period, and a description of policies on employee engagement and disabled employees.
They are the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as the incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
The information that fulfils the business review requirements is set out in the Chairmans letter on page 3, Chief Charitable and political contributions Executive Officers review on pages 4 to 5, the Chief Financial Officers The particulars of the Groups charitable and political contributions review on pages 6 to 7, the About Ocado section on pages 8 to 18, made during the period are set out in the corporate social the principal risks and uncertainties description on pages 29 to 32 responsibility section.
They are incorporated by reference into this and the corporate social responsibility report on pages 26 to 28 of Directors report.
The Directors report and the business review or parts thereof are the management report for the purposes of the Board of Directors Disclosure and Transparency rule 4.1.
This information together The membership of the Board and biographical details of the with the sections of the annual report incorporated by reference Directors are given in the Board of Directors section and are consist of a Directors report that has been drawn up and presented incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
The changes to in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company the membership of the Board during the period are described in the law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report statement of corporate governance.
shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Appointment and replacement of Directors The Articles set out the rules applicable to the appointment, Principal activities retirement and removal of a Director of the Company, described Ocado Group plc the Company is a public limited company below.
incorporated and registered in England and Wales under the Companies Act with registered number 07098618.
Its registered Appointment of Directors: A Director may be appointed by the Company office is Titan Court, 3 Bishops Square, Hatfield Business Park, Hatfield, by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the Board.
appointed by the Board holds office only until the next annual general meeting of the Company and is then eligible for re-appointment.
The The Company is the holding company of the Ocado group of Board or any committee authorised by the Board may from time subsidiary companies the Group.
The principal activity of the to time appoint one or more directors to hold any employment Company is that of a holding company.
The Company owns directly or executive office for such period and on such terms as they may the entire issued share capital of Ocado Holdings Limited which determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
holds the entire issued share capital of Ocado Limited.
The principal activities of Ocado Limited are the retailing and distribution of Retirement of Directors: At every annual general meeting of the grocery and consumer goods.
Further information in relation to Company, each Director shall retire from office and may offer himself the principal activities of the subsidiary undertakings can be found in for re-appointment by the members.
Note 28 of the consolidated financial statements.
Removal of Directors by special resolution: The Company may by special The Group currently operates out of a dedicated CFC based at a resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period site in Hatfield, Hertfordshire, together with eight operational Spokes of office.
based in Coventry, Dartford, Leeds, Manchester, Southampton, Weybridge and White City as well as Bristol which started operating Vacation of office: The office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he after the end of the period.
resigns or offers to resign and the Board resolve to accept such offer: ii his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number: iii he is or has Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement Corporate governance been suffering from mental or physical ill-health and the Board resolves The corporate governance statement as required by the Disclosure that his office be vacated: iv he is absent without the permission of and Transparency rule 7.2.
1 is set out on pages 33 to 40 and is the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt Risk management or compounds with his creditors generally: vi he is prohibited by law The Groups procedures for managing risk are described on page 40 from being a Director: vii he ceases to be a Director by virtue of and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are described on the Companies Act: or viii he is removed from office pursuant to the pages 29 to 32 and those descriptions are incorporated by reference Articles.
If the office of a Director is vacated for any reason, he must into this Directors report.
cease to be a member of any committee of the Board.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our responsibilities w Ocado w Ocado 20 20 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Directors report continued Directors interests Share rights: Subject to the Companies Act, any resolution passed The Directors beneficial interests in the shares of the Company are by the Company under the Companies Act and other shareholders shown in the Directors remuneration report.
rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Directors indemnity Board may decide.
Such rights and restrictions will apply as if they The Directors indemnity arrangements are described in the were set out in the Articles.
redeemable shares may be issued.
The Directors can decide on the terms and conditions and the Amendment of the Articles manner of redemption of any redeemable shares.
Such terms and The Companys Articles may be amended by a special resolution of conditions will apply as if they were set out in the Articles.
to the Articles, the Companies Act and other shareholders rights, the unissued shares in the Company are at the disposal of the Board.
Share capital Pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency rules, the Listing rules, voting rights the Companies Act and the Large and Medium-sized Companies Shareholders will be entitled to vote at a general meeting or class and Groups Accounts and reports regulations 2008 No.
410, meeting of the Company whether on a show of hands or a poll, as the Directors report must contain certain disclosures regarding the provided in the Companies Act.
The Companies Act provides that: Companys share capital and the rights and restrictions attaching to A on a show of hands every member present in person has one the Companys shares, as set out in the following sections.
These vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by one statements are included so as to comply with Disclosure and or more members will have one vote, except that a proxy has one Transparency rule 7.2.
6 regarding the corporate governance vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been duly appointed by statement.
more than one member and the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for and by one or more other members The Companys authorised and issued ordinary share capital as at to vote against.
For this purpose the Articles provide that, where a 28 November 2010 comprised a single class of ordinary shares.
The proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show of hands, this shares have a nominal value of 2 pence each.
The ISIN of the shares will be treated as an instruction by the relevant shareholder to vote is GB00B3MBS747.
in the way that the proxy decides to exercise that discretion: and B on a poll every member has one vote per share held by him and he Details of movements in the Companys issued share capital can be may vote in person or by one or more proxies.
Where he appoints found in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
During more than one proxy, the proxies appointed by him taken together the period, shares in the Company were issued as set out in Note 23 shall not have more extensive voting rights than he could exercise in to the consolidated financial statements disclosed in accordance with person.
This is subject to any rights or restrictions which are given Listing rule 9.8.
4 7. to any shares or on which shares are held.
If more than one joint shareholder votes including voting by proxy, the only vote which Rights attaching to shares will count is the vote of the person whose name is listed before the The Companys shares when issued are credited as fully paid and free other voters on the register for the share.
from all liens, equities, charges, encumbrances and other interests.
All shares have the same rights including voting and dividend rights and Deadlines for exercising voting rights: The Articles provide a deadline for rights on a return of capital and restrictions as set out in the Articles, submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the described below.
time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Except in relation to dividends which have been declared and rights Restrictions on voting rights: No shareholder shall be entitled to vote on a liquidation of the Company, the shareholders have no rights to at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held share in the profits of the Company.
by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid or if a member has been served with a The Companys shares are not redeemable.
However, the Company restriction notice as defined in the Articles, described below.
may purchase or contract to purchase any of the shares on or offmarket, subject to the Companies Act and the requirements of the JSOS voting rights: Disclosed in accordance with the Listing rules Listing rules, as described below.
4 13 and the relevant company regulation, Appleby Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement Trust Jersey Limited, the independent company which is the trustee No shareholder holds shares in the Company which carry special of the Companys employee benefit trust the EBT Trustee will not rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no shares normally exercise the voting rights of unvested shares held under the relating to an employee share scheme which have rights with regard JSOS but may exercise such rights on vested shares at the request to control of the Company that are not exercisable directly and solely of the relevant participants of the JSOS.
Of the Companys issued by the employees, other than in the case of the Groups joint share shares, 32,476,700 ordinary shares are held by the EBT Trustee.
In ownership scheme the JSOS where interests can be transferred respect of 8,119,400 ordinary shares which have vested under the to a spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant of a participant in the JSOS, the EBT Trustee may vote in respect of such ordinary shares JSOS or certain trusts as noted below.
at the request of a participant.
The total of 24,357,300 unvested 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 21 21 ordinary shares held by the EBT Trustee are treated as treasury Restrictions on transfer of securities shares in the Group's consolidated balance sheet in accordance with The Companys shares are freely transferable, save as set out below.
As such, calculations The Company may, under the Companies Act, send out statutory of earnings per share for the Company exclude the 24,357,300 notices to those it knows or has reasonable cause to believe have an unvested ordinary shares held by the EBT Trustee.
However, the interest in its shares, asking for details of those who have an interest Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
and the extent of their interest in a particular holding of shares.
Dividends and other distributions When a person receives a statutory notice and fails to provide any The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare information required by the notice within the time specified in it, dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
the Company can apply to the court for an order directing, among Subject to the Companies Act, the Board may pay interim dividends, other things, that any transfer of shares which are the subject of the and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of statutory notice is void.
the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares with The transferor of a share is deemed to remain the holder until the preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the payment transferees name is entered in the register.
The Board can decline of interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
Except insofar as the to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
rights attaching to, or the terms of issue of, any share otherwise The Company does not currently have any partially paid shares.
provide, all dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated according to the amounts paid up on the share during any portion of share unless the instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any the period in respect of which the dividend is paid.
Except as set out other form which the Board may approve : A is duly stamped or above, dividends may be declared or paid in any currency.
certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the certificate or such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board Company, offer shareholders excluding any member holding shares may reasonably require: B is in respect of only one class of share: as treasury shares in respect of any dividend the right to elect to and C if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four receive shares by way of scrip dividend instead of cash.
registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date securities rules as defined in the Articles and where, in the case of when it was declared or became due for payment shall be forfeited a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the and revert to the Company.
The Company may stop sending uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments in payment of dividends by post in respect of any shares or may cease to employ JSOS: Participants interests under the JSOS are generally nonany other means of payment, including payment by means of a transferable during the period beginning on acquisition of the relevant system, for dividends if either i at least two consecutive interest and ending on 31 December 2013.
However, interests can payments have remained uncashed or are returned undelivered be transferred to a spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant of a or that means of payment has failed or ii one payment remains participant: a trust under which no person other than the participant uncashed or is returned undelivered or that means of payment or their spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant has a vested has failed and reasonable enquiries have failed to establish any new beneficial interest or any other person approved by the EBT Trustee.
postal address or account of the holder.
The Company may resume If a participant purports to transfer, assign or charge his interest other sending dividend cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments than as set out above, the EBT Trustee may acquire the participants or employing that means of payment if the holder requests such interest for a total price of 1. resumption in writing.
Lock-up agreements: Certain shareholders in the Company and Restriction on dividends: The Board may withhold payment of all or the Directors, pursuant to the underwriting agreement and selling any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of shareholders agreement and certain stand-alone lock-up deeds the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25 per cent.
interest entered into on 6 July 2010 in conjunction with the Companys IPO, as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a have agreed to be subject to certain lock-up arrangements.
Each restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide of these people have given undertakings to the underwriters of the the Company with information concerning interests in those shares IPO that, for a period ending 365 days in the case of Directors, and required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement for a period of 180 days in the case of certain shareholders, from 6 July 2010 that he or they will not, and will procure that none of his JSOS dividend rights: Disclosed in accordance with the Listing rules or their connected persons as defined in the relevant agreement 9.8.
4 13 and the relevant company regulation, shares or persons acting on his or their behalf will transfer any shares in held under the JSOS will not receive any dividends paid, but the existence at the time of Admission without the consent of the joint hurdles of the JSOS will be reduced proportionally so as not to global coordinators of the IPO, subject to certain exceptions including distort the value of the JSOS participants interests in the shares.
In the case of the Steiner 2008 Millennium Trust, of which Tim Steiner, Ocados Chief Executive Officer, is one of 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our responsibilities w Ocado w Ocado 22 22 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Directors report continued a number of discretionary beneficiaries, it was subject to a 180 day required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise lock-up pursuant to the above IPO arrangements.
On 18 February considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or 2011, which coincided with the Steiner 2008 Millennium Trust restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary selling 2 million shares, the Company announced that the Steiner or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, 2008 Millennium Trust agreed to be bound by a further lock-up, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the which expires on 6 July 2011, in line with the Directors IPO lock-up laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authorities to apply arrangements.
until the end of the next annual general meeting of the Company or, if earlier, until the close of business on 19 September 2011 but, Other than as described above, the Company is not aware of in each case, during this period the Company may make offers and any agreements between holders of securities that may result enter into agreements which would, or might, require shares to be in restrictions on the transfer of securities or that may result in allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to restrictions on voting rights.
be granted after the authority ends and the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares in the Company under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had variation of rights not ended: Subject to the Companies Act, rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less B the Board be given power, to allot equity securities as defined than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class in the Companies Act for cash under the authority given by the calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares, or with the resolution described in paragraph A above and or to sell shares sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 of of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general the Companies Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such meeting except an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two power to be limited: i to the allotment of equity securities up to an persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in aggregate nominal amount of 5 million in connection with the IPO nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding offers: ii to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury any shares held as treasury shares.
shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or invitation to apply The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless for, equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, paragraph A iv above, by way of a rights issue only : a to holders be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares of shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their ranking pari passu with them.
existing holdings: and b to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities, or as the Board otherwise considers necessary as permitted by the rights of those securities, Powers for the Company issuing shares and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, any equity securities any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to issued by the Company for cash must first be offered to shareholders deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, in proportion to their holdings of shares.
The Companies Act and regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory the Listing rules allow for the disapplication of pre-emption rights or any other matter: and iii in the case of the authority granted which may be waived by a special resolution of the shareholders, under paragraph A iii and or in the case of any sale of treasury either generally or specifically, for a maximum period not exceeding shares for cash, to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph ii five years.
above of equity securities or sale of treasury shares up to a nominal amount of 1 million, such power to apply until the end of the next By written resolutions of the Companys shareholders passed on annual general meeting of the Company or, if earlier, until the close 23 June 2010, it was resolved that: of business on 19 September 2011 but, in each case, during this A the Board be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise period the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, all powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in treasury shares to be sold after the power ends and the Board may the Company: i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,000,000 allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer in connection with the IPO: ii up to an aggregate nominal amount of or agreement as if the power had not ended.
50,000 as required for the purposes of arrangements requiring the The Directors undertake that, to the extent that the authority Company to satisfy the entitlements of non-employee optionholders conferred under: 1 paragraph A iii above is in respect of an who have entitlements to shares following Admission: iii up to Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement aggregate nominal amount which exceeds the aggregate of a the an aggregate nominal amount of 6,666,666 such amount to be aggregate nominal amount of the Companys issued share capital reduced by the nominal amount of any shares in the Company under immediately following Admission the Admission Capital and paragraph iv below in excess of such sum : and iv comprising b one-third of the Admission Capital, they will not exercise that equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the Companies Act authority in respect of such excess: 2 paragraph A iv above, is in up to an aggregate nominal amount of 13,333,333 such amount respect of an aggregate nominal amount which exceeds the aggregate to be reduced by any shares in the Company under paragraph iii of a the aggregate nominal amount of the Admission Capital and above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: a to b two-thirds of the Admission Capital, they will not exercise that holders of shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to authority in respect of such excess.
The Directors undertake to their existing holdings: and b to holders of other equity securities as 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 23 23 limit the exercise of the power in paragraph B above, as limited is carried out: such power to apply until the end of the next annual by paragraph B iii, to an aggregate nominal amount which is not general meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 19 September 2011 more than the aggregate of a the aggregate nominal amount of the but in each case so that the Company may enter into a contract to Admission Capital and b 5 per cent.
purchase shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the power ends and the Company may purchase This standard authority for issuing shares on a non pre-emptive basis shares pursuant to any such contract as if the power had not ended.
for cash may be renewed annually.
The Directors will seek to renew The Directors undertake that, to the extent that the authority this authority at the AGM as set out in the Notice of Meeting.
conferred in the above resolution is in respect of an aggregate number of shares which exceeds the aggregate of: a the aggregate number of shares in issue immediately following Admission the Powers for the Company buying back its own shares Aggregate Number and b 10 per cent.
of the Aggregate Number, The description below concerning the Company acquiring its own they will not exercise that authority in respect of such excess.
shares is made in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency rule 4.1.
6 4 and the relevant company This standard authority for the Company to purchase its shares may regulation.
be renewed at the annual general meeting.
The Directors will seek to The Company may purchase shares only out of distributable reserves renew this authority at the AGM on the terms set out in the Notice or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose of of Meeting.
The Company has not acquired its shares during the period.
It is the Companys present intention to cancel any shares it buys back in By written resolutions of the Companys shareholders passed on future, rather than hold them in treasury.
23 June 2010, it was resolved that the Company be authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act to make one Significant shareholders or more market purchases as defined in section 693 4 of the As required under the Listing rule 9.8.
6 2 and relevant company Companies Act of its shares, such power to be limited: i to a regulations, the table below sets out the notifications that the maximum number of 100,000,000 shares: ii by the condition that Company had received from its shareholders of the significant direct the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 2 pence and or indirect holdings being 3 per cent.
or more in the Companys the maximum price which may be paid for a share is the highest shares, pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency rule 5 which were of: a an amount equal to 5 per cent.
above the average market also published on a regulatory Information Service and on the value of a share for the five business days immediately preceding the Companys corporate website, up to 22 March 2011 being not day on which that share is contracted to be purchased: and b the more than one month prior to the likely date of the Notice higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest of Meeting : current independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase Percentage of Number of issued share Nature of ordinary shares capital holding S. N. roditi and associated holdings 61,512,060 11.11 Direct & Indirect Apple Trust 59,080,100 10.68 Direct FMr LLC 56,083,721 10.12 Indirect Generation Investment Management LLP 34,735,685 6.27 Indirect Appleby Trust Jersey Limited 32,476,700 5.87 Direct Blackrock, Inc 32,156,700 5.81 Indirect UBS Holdings Cayman Limited and UBS AG 33,016,844 5.96 Direct & Indirect Tim Steiner and the Steiner 2008 Millennium Trust 27,687,600 5.00 Direct & Indirect FIL Limited 27,287,909 4.93 Indirect Tempest Capital Limited 24,437,400 4.41 Direct The Nomad Investment Partnership L. P. 22,960,546 4.16 Indirect Jason Gissing and The Jason Gissing Life Settlement II 17,316,900 3.13 Direct & Indirect Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement Important contracts or arrangements considered to be essential to the business of the Company.
However, Under section 417 5 c of the Companies Act, the Company is as noted in the principal risks and uncertainties, Ocados reputation required to disclose information about persons with whom the and brand is based, at least in part, on its relationship with Waitrose.
Company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential If the Sourcing Agreement with Waitrose were to end or if Waitrose to the business of the Company.
were unable to source products for the Group, Ocado would need to engage additional personnel to: i find or create replacement Whilst the loss of or disruption to certain of the Groups supply, own-label products: and ii find appropriate suppliers and negotiate financing or manufacturing arrangements for example vans and CFC equivalent prices itself.
Waitrose, through whom Ocado sources machinery or other key contracts could affect the operations or the vast majority of products it sells and whose own-label products growth of the Group until a replacement solution is found, none are it sells, is a UK supermarket chain and the food division of the 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our responsibilities w Ocado w Ocado 24 24 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Directors report continued privately owned retailer John Lewis.
Waitrose has over 240 branches Research and development and future developments across the UK, sells high quality food and places an emphasis on the The Group has dedicated in-house software design and development provenance and traceability of the food that it sells.
In its last financial teams with primary focus on IT and improvements to the CFC and year ended 29 January 2011 it had gross sales of 5.0 billion and its material handling equipment.
Costs relating to the development made an operating profit of 274.9 million Source: of computer software are capitalised if they relate to internal capital www.
The Groups likely future developments are described in the About The principal risks and uncertainties section describes the principal Ocado section, Chief Executive Officers review and the Chief risks facing the Group that may have an adverse impact on the Financial Officers review.
Groups operations, performance or future prospects.
Results and dividends Change of control under significant agreements The Groups results for the period are set out in the consolidated There are a number of agreements to which the Group is a party income statement on page 48.
The Groups loss after tax for the that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of period amounted to 7.2 million 2009: 23.2 million.
the Company following a takeover bid.
Details of the significant agreements of this kind are as follows: The Directors do not propose to pay a dividend for the period 2009: nil.
Sourcing Agreement: If the parties terminate the Sourcing Agreement after certain competitors of Waitrose or John Lewis acquire 50 per cent.
or more of the shares or control of the Post balance sheet events Companys Board, Ocado is obliged to pay Waitrose the lower Events occurring after the balance sheet date that affect the Group of 40 million and 4 per cent.
of the market capitalisation of the are disclosed in Note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
This change of control provision will cease to bind the parties if, prior to the change of control, any party has already Creditor payment policy given a valid notice of termination.
It is the Groups policy, in respect of the current financial year for all trade creditors, to agree payment terms in advance of the supply of Debt facility agreement: The Group has a 100 million term goods with the supplier, to make the supplier aware of the terms of loan facility with Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc and Lloyds payment and to adhere to those payment terms.
The Company is a TSB Bank plc for the acquisition of land, building materials, plant, holding company and therefore has little trade creditors.
The Group machinery and equipment, for the existing CFC and or the does not follow any code or standard on payment practice in respect second CFC and or the Spokes.
If Ocado or Waitrose gives of the current financial year.
The Groups average trade creditor notice to terminate the Sourcing Agreement it will be an event of payment period for the 52weeks ended 28 November 2010 was default under this facility.
26 days 2009:27 days, based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by HSBC Equipment Finance UK Limited: On 22 July 2004 Ocado trade creditors.
as lessee and HSBC Equipment Finance UK Limited as lessor entered into a master sale and leaseback agreement.
Since then, there have been 24 sale and leaseback agreements covering the Market value of properties majority of the conveyor systems and associated capital goods The Directors are of the opinion that the aggregate market value of that have been added to the CFC since August 2004, with the Groups properties as at 28 November 2010 is in line with the outstanding sums totalling 28 million.
As well as either party net book value as set out in Note 11 to the consolidated financial having the right to terminate it on one months notice, pursuant statements.
to side letters between Ocado and HSBC varying the original agreement, HSBC is able to terminate the agreement if there is a Going concern change of control of the Company or if the Sourcing Agreement After making appropriate enquiries and having considered the is terminated for any reason.
business activities as set out on page 19 and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as set on pages 29 to 32, the Directors are Change of control for Director and employee agreements satisfied that the Company, and the Group as a whole, have adequate The Company does not have any agreements with any Director resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the on the going concern basis in accordance with Going Concern Companys share schemes may cause options and shares granted to and Liquidity risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
published by the Financial reporting Council in October 2009.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 25 25 Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Disclosure of information to auditors for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared Each Director who held office at the date of the approval of this the Group and the Company financial statements in accordance Directors report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there with International Financial reporting Standards IFrSs as adopted is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are by the European Union IFrS-EU.
Under company law the unaware, and that each Director has taken all the steps that they Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the the Company and the Group and of profit or loss of the Group for Groups auditors are aware of that information.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Independent auditors The Companys auditors,  LLP, have select suitable accounting policies and then apply them indicated their willingness to continue their role as the Companys consistently: auditors.
resolutions concerning the re-appointment of  LLP as auditors of the Company and to make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be and prudent: proposed at the AGM and set out in the Notice of Meeting.
state whether applicable IFrSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures unaudited interim financial information disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Unaudited interim financial information relating to the Group for the 24 weeks ended 16 May 2010 was published in the Company's IPO prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Prospectus dated 6 July 2010. unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Forward-looking statements The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Certain statements made in this report are forward-looking records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from any ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration expected future events or results expressed or implied in these report comply with the Companies Act and, as regards the Group forward-looking statements.
They appear in a number of places financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
They are also throughout this report and include statements regarding the responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the Directors concerning, Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and amongst other things, the Groups results of operations, financial detection of fraud and other irregularities.
condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business.
Persons receiving this report should not place undue reliance on The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of forward-looking statements.
Unless otherwise required by applicable the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing law, regulation or accounting standard, Ocado does not undertake to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of new information, future developments or otherwise.
Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Approved by the Board the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Neill Abrams accordance with IFrSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Company Secretary and Director of legal and Business Affairs view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of 23 March 2011 the Group: and the Directors report contained in this annual report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, and contains a description of the Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our responsibilities w Ocado w Ocado
