18 18 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Our values We continue to focus on our core values that underpin our mission: to revolutionise the way people shop forever: by giving them a uniquely innovative and greener alternative to traditional grocery shopping.
Ocado Ocado value service We use inspired thinking and cutting-edge We have a passion for delivering quality technology to keep honing our uniquely groceries in perfect condition and on time, efficient delivery model.
This helps us to drive while treating our customers with care and down prices and guarantee exceptional value honesty.
This helps us to share our vision of for money a different way of shopping: a better, greener and more convenient one Price and good value for money are key elements in consumer choice.
Delivering value to our customers is about We are a service orientated retailer and we never forget that ensuring that we have the products that customers want our relationship with our customers is key to our success.
to buy and sell them at a fair price.
The unique model that We strive to exceed our customers expectations in all that we operate allows us to remove operating costs.
We aim to develop and provide an innovative and these savings in the customer by operating a number of bespoke service that allows us to deliver to our customers competitive price matching features and continue to expand what they want, when they want and in a way that exceeds our own-label range Ocado, demonstrating our commitment their expectations.
As a result, we continue to attract to provide attractively priced products.
increasingly loyal customers from a broad demographic.
Ocado Ocado way choice We love what we do, and are proud of all the We care passionately about our environment.
wonderful groceries that we sell.
This drives This spurs us on to provide a greener, more us on to offer the widest choice imaginable, sustainable alternative to old-fashioned, and ensures everything we sell is always of store-based supermarket chains the highest quality We strive to make shopping at Ocado better for our customers, better for their groceries and better for the planet.
We pride ourselves at being able to offer our customers a We have a revolutionary green approach to selling groceries.
Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement wide range of products including being at the forefront of food Each delivery van replaces multiple car journeys every trends, enabling us to confidently recommend to our customers single day: by saving our customers a trip to a supermarket new or alternative product ideas that are aligned to customers we help to reduce the number of cars on the road each purchasing profiles.
We look to create successful relationships day.
Because our groceries are delivered directly from a with suppliers who share our values and who are focused dedicated warehouse the time from grower or supplier to on customer service, technical innovation and continuous the customers home is reduced.
This means customers get improvement criteria at the centre of our long-term longer to enjoy their purchases and reduces the amount of procurement ambitions enabling us to offer greater choice.
enables us to build strong and mutually beneficial relationships with our suppliers and customers.
