Report of the Directors The directors present their report to shareholders on pages 11 to 20 together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 year prior financial period, year ended 31 December 2009.
Principal Activities The Groups principal activities are the development, design and distribution of technologies and products for managed subscription television, telephony and broadband services and the provision of engineering design, and software applications to its set-top box and gateway customers.
The Group also provides related support services including customer care centres.
Business and Financial Results The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review and Management Report, including a review of the Groups activities, developments and the financial results for the year, and the key financial performance indicators relevant to the business of the Company principally revenue, gross margin %, EBITA, profit before tax, return on sales and net debt, can be found in the Chief Executive Officers Review and the Chief Financial Officers Review on pages 5 to10.
The aforementioned information is incorporated in this report by reference.
There is no information which falls to be disclosed pursuant to s. 417 5 of the Companies Act 2006, other than as noted in the risks and uncertainties section below.
Risks and Uncertainties The following are the key risks and uncertainties relevant to the business of the Group: Customers and Markets Orders placed by the Groups payTV and telecoms customers are typically large one-off orders for delivery over a number of months with supplemental orders for additional volumes.
As the eventual deployment of the set-top boxes or gateways can be unpredictable, revenues can be volatile.
The difficulty in predicting the Groups business flow and its risks can be exacerbated by a number of other factors including, for example, the development process for an advanced set-top box, which can take over 12 months.
The Group works on long lead times e. g. 4 months or more for component supply and manufacture, typical of the industry.
In the US market, in particular, customers firm order lead times may be less than the component lead times.
There are third party delivery risks, for example, difficulties in the delivery of components or software code, and the final order for manufacture and firm contractual commitment is usually dependent on product approvals and acceptance both from the operator and sometimes from third parties.
The Group is also exposed to the industry wide inherent risk of supply chain failure.
The Group has put in place procedures to monitor the financial and operating strength of key suppliers.
In addition, it utilises dual or multi source suppliers where appropriate to mitigate this risk.
Product Liability Claims In common with many companies in the industry, the Group is exposed to the risk of product liability claims made by customers or affected third parties, should the Groups products not fulfil the terms of the contracts under which they are sold.
The Group has in place quality control and other operational procedures to mitigate this risk.
Credit Risk The central finance function of the Group obtains reports from third party sources in respect of the credit worthiness of key customers and suppliers and sets individual credit limits as appropriate.
A credit insurance policy is maintained, which provides cover over certain debtors, subject to excesses, and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Deposit investments are generally undertaken only in liquid securities and with counterparties that have appropriate credit ratings.
11 | Pace plc Annual Report 2010 R&A Front.
indd 13 10 03 2011 16:35 Royalties The Groups products incorporate third party technology, usually under licence.
Inadvertent actions may expose the Group to the risk of infringing third party intellectual property rights.
Potential claims can be submitted many years after a product has been deployed.
Regulatory The Group is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and standards and remains exposed to changes in the regulatory environment, including potential modifications to import duty regimes, and legislation relevant to the Groups products.
It is Paces policy to require that all its subsidiaries comply with applicable laws, regulations and standards.
Currency Risks The standard industry currency is the US dollar, with the majority of components and manufacturing capacity purchased in this currency.
However, due to part of the Groups revenues being in Sterling and Euros, the Group is exposed to the risk of foreign currency movements.
To manage this risk, the Groups treasury policy is progressively to cover cash flows when these are sufficiently certain and to seek price variations through contractual mechanisms where significant currency movements occur.
Financial Results The consolidated income statement for the year is set out on page 33.
The profit before tax was 71.1m 2009: 69.9m and the profit before tax, interest, exceptional items and amortisation of other intangibles was 103.6 million 2009: 76.4 million.
Dividend The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.45p per ordinary share year ended 31 December 2009: 1.0p to be paid on 6 July 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 June 2011.
An interim dividend of 0.725p per ordinary share was paid during the year year ended 31 December 2009: 0.5p.
Share Capital Details of the Companys share capital including changes for the year and the rights attaching to the ordinary shares are contained in Note 20, and are incorporated in this report by reference.
Significant Shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following significant shareholdings as at 7 March 2011.
Number % of issued of shares share capital Prudential plc Group of Companies 20,807,071 6.85 David Hood and related family trusts 16,117,539 5.29 M&G Investment Fund 15,217,153 5.00 BlackRock Inc 15,142,824 4.97 Gartmore Investment Management 14,931,083 4.90 Pace plc Employee Benefits Trust 11,263,524 3.70 Multiflight Ltd 10,000,000 3.28 Legal & General Group plc 9,960,795 3.27 Pace plc Annual Report | 12 2010 R&A Front.
indd 14 10 03 2011 16:35 Report of the Directors continued Directors The names of the current directors of the Company are shown below.
All those listed held office throughout the year.
Mike McTighe Mike was appointed a Non-executive Director in June 2001 and became Chairman on 1 May 2006.
His principal other activities are Chairman of Volex Group plc, WYG Group plc, and JJB Sports plc, Senior Independent Director at Betfair plc, and a member of the board of Ofcom Postcomm.
Previously he was Chairman & CEO of Carrier1 International SA, and before that Executive Director & Chief Executive, Global Operations of Cable & Wireless plc.
Prior to these roles, Mike spent 5 years with Philips, 5 years with Motorola, and 10 years with GE.
Neil Gaydon Neil was appointed Chief Executive Officer in April 2006.
He was appointed to the Board in June 2002 as Worldwide Sales and Marketing Director.
He has been with the Company since 1995 and as President, Pace Americas spearheaded the development of the Companys US business between 1999 and December 2003.
Prior to this he was Regional Sales Director EMEA and head of New Business Development and Product Marketing for the Company.
Pat Chapman-Pincher Pat was appointed a Non-executive Director in February 2005 and became Senior Independent Director in May 2006.
She has over 30 years experience in the communications industry from senior roles in multinational Internet and telecoms companies to participating in technology company start-ups.
A founding partner and Chairman of the Cavell Group, which specialises in operational consultancy IP and wireless technologies, she is also a nonexecutive director of Friends of the Earth, and Groundwork East London.
Pat is also a member of the Advisory Board of Bradford School of Management.
John Grant John was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 August 2008.
John spent his executive career in a variety of senior international roles within the automotive industry and other engineering businesses.
He was Chief Executive of Ascot plc between 1997 and 2000.
Prior to that, he was Group Finance Director of Lucas Industries plc subsequently Lucas Varity plc between 1992 and 1996.
He previously held a number of senior positions within Ford Motor Company in Europe and the USA.
John is Non-Executive Chairman of Torotrak plc, and Gas Turbine Efficiency plc, and Non-Executive Director of Melrose plc, and MHP S. A. Stuart Hall Stuart was appointed Chief Financial Officer and joined the Board in April 2007.
Before joining the Company he was Group Finance Director of IQE plc and prior to that Finance Director of Energis Squared Limited and Director of Performance Management for Energis Group plc.
He has also been Finance Director at WBF Ltd, part of the Adare Printing Group plc, Carnography plc and Race Electronics.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with BDO Binder Hamlyn.
Mike Inglis Mike was appointed a Non-executive Director in July 2008.
He is currently Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Processor Division of ARM Holdings having previously been EVP, Sales and Marketing.
Before joining ARM, he worked in management consultancy with A. T. Kearney and held a number of senior operational and marketing positions at Motorola.
He previously worked in semiconductor sales, marketing, design and consultancy with Texas Instruments, Fairchild and BIS Macintosh and gained his initial industrial experience with GEC Telecommunications.
He is a chartered engineer and a Member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
David McKinney David was appointed Chief Operating Officer in April 2006 and joined the Board on 24 October 2006.
He has been with the Company since November 2005, having joined as Director of Engineering and Operations with responsibility for operations, engineering, test and quality strategy.
Previously David spent ten years in the semiconductor industry including NEC Semiconductors and Digital Equipment Corporation, before moving to and spending over ten years in the telecommunications sector including Motorola and Royal Philips Electronics, where he held senior executive and operational management roles.
David is a Graduate of the Royal Society of Chemistry and holds an MBA.
13 | Pace plc Annual Report 2010 R&A Front.
indd 15 10 03 2011 16:35 Mike McTighe and John Grant will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting of the Company and offer themselves for re-election.
The Board has determined that, following performance evaluation, both these nonexecutive directors continue to make a very effective contribution to the Board and demonstrate a high level of commitment.
Details of the executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 23.
Payment to Suppliers It is the policy of the Group to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers, which are varied from time to time.
Payment is made in accordance with those terms, subject to the other terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
The Group does not follow any code or standard on payment practice.
Creditor days at the end of the period for the Group were 69 days 31 December 2009: 64 days.
Research and Development The directors regard it as fundamental to the future success of the Group to engage in a substantial ongoing programme of research and development of new products, spending 80.5 million in the year 2009: 71.7m and charging 77.4 million 2009: 68.8m to the income statement during the year following the treatment under IAS38.
Donations During the period the Group donated 54,352 2009: 45,000 to charitable causes.
No political donations were made.
Further details of the charitable and community-related activities of the Group are given on page 18.
Corporate Governance The directors believe that the Company has complied throughout the period with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as revised and adopted by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Board confirms that it has established the necessary procedures designed to maintain a sound system of internal control and that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
Board of Directors The Group is controlled through the Board of Directors, which comprises three executive and four non-executive directors who bring a wide range of skills and experience to the Board.
Biographical details of all directors are to be found on page 13.
The Chairman, Mike McTighe, is mainly responsible for the running of the Board ensuring, together with the Company Secretary, that it receives timely and clear information appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer, Neil Gaydon, focus on running the Groups business and implementing Group strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer is assisted in managing the business on a day-to-day basis by the Executive Committee as further described below.
All the non-executive directors other than the Chairman are deemed by the Board to be independent and the Chairman was independent on his appointment, as required by the Combined Code.
In addition, the Board has designated Pat Chapman-Pincher as the Senior Independent Director.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are able to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary.
All directors, in accordance with the Combined Code, submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
New directors receive a programme of tailored induction on joining the Board and all directors are offered the opportunity to continually update their skills and knowledge by attending external training events.
The Company has in place procedures to deal with directors conflicts of interest and the Board is satisfied that these procedures operate effectively.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it and normally meets at least eight times each year.
It is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects and consideration of significant financing matters.
It reviews the strategic direction of the Group and conducts formal strategy reviews together with other senior executives within the Group at least once a year.
The Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present at least twice during the year.
It is the policy of the Board to undertake a formal review and evaluation of its performance including the performance of its committees, the Chairman and individual directors on an annual basis.
This is generally concluded by written feedback in standardised form from each director to the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director in the case of appraisal of the Chairman.
The Board intends to instruct an independent facilitator for the evaluation process at least once every three years and last did so in 2009.
Pace plc Annual Report | 14 2010 R&A Front.
indd 16 10 03 2011 16:35 Report of the Directors continued Board Committees The Board has established the following committees, each of which has written terms of reference specifying its authority and duties and copies of which are publicly available on the Companys website: www.
The Audit Committee is comprised of independent designated non-executive directors, Pat Chapman-Pincher, Mike Inglis and John Grant, who is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee has primary responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the auditors and reviewing their independence.
It receives and reviews reports from management and from the auditors including internal auditors relating to the interim and annual accounts and the control systems in use throughout the Group.
Meetings are held by the Committee with the auditors without executive management being present at least once a year and the Committee reviews arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties, including review of the Group whistleblowing policy.
The Executive Committee is chaired by Neil Gaydon as Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee generally meets once a month and ensures that the strategy, plans and policies previously agreed or delegated by the Board are implemented.
The Executive Committee comprises the three executive directors together with the following senior executives: Anthony Dixon General Counsel Jill Ezard Director of Human Resources Mathias Hautefort President, Pace Europe Helen Kettleborough Director of Communications Michael Pulli President, Pace Americas Scott Sheldon Chief Strategy Officer Mark Loughran President, Pace Enterprise The Remuneration Committee is comprised of Mike McTighe and independent designated non-executive directors John Grant and Pat Chapman-Pincher, who is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of the executive directors and other members of the Executive Committee including making recommendations regarding the grant of share incentive awards.
The members of the Committee have no personal interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in the running of the business.
The Nominations Committee is comprised of non-executive directors Pat Chapman-Pincher, John Grant, Mike Inglis and is chaired by Mike McTighe.
Its principal purpose is to consider and make recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment of new directors.
Board and Committee Meetings attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Committee Committee Committee Total Meetings 9 3 3 1 Pat Chapman-Pincher 9 3 3 1 Neil Gaydon 9 John Grant 8 3 3 1 Stuart Hall 9 Mike Inglis 9 2 David McKinney 8 Mike McTighe 9 3 1 Directors Remuneration The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of the executive directors and other members of the Executive Committee as a prelude to recommending their annual remuneration, bonus awards and award of share options to the Board.
The final determinations are made by the Board as a whole but no director plays a part in any discussions concerning their own remuneration.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
15 | Pace plc Annual Report 2010 R&A Front.
indd 17 10 03 2011 16:35 The Remuneration Report of the Directors to shareholders is set out on pages 21 to 28 and includes the remuneration policy of the Company and details of directors incentive payments and the related performance criteria.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting in 2010 the Company was authorised by shareholders to purchase up to 45,673,000 of its own ordinary shares, representing 15 per cent of its issued share capital as at March 2010.
The Company did not utilise this authority during the year.
The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2011 and a resolution to renew it will be proposed at that meeting.
Accountability and Audit A detailed review of the performance of the Groups business is contained in the Chief Executive Officers Review and the Chief Financial Officers Review.
These statements, together with the Letter from the Chairman and the Report of the Directors, are intended to present a balanced assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described on page 29 and the responsibilities of the auditors are described on page 30.
Internal Controls Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control rests with the Board.
The Board has delegated certain of its powers to the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness of the systems of control and to receive reports from the auditors internal and external and from the management relating to the interim and annual accounts and the control systems in use throughout the Group.
During the year and up to the date of this report, the Board carried out reviews of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
The reviews were undertaken in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance under the following headings and were aimed at clearly identifying the systems already in place and the action plans necessary to improve areas of control weakness.
The Control Environment Subject to those powers and limits of authority reserved by the Board, and to the Group policies and guidelines they have established, the conduct of the business of the Group is delegated within a clearly defined organizational structure and approved level of authority.
The Board has also adopted a Code of Business Ethics, which has been incorporated into the Employee Handbook issued to all employees.
Risk Assessment The directors and senior managers are responsible for identifying and monitoring sources of potential business risk and financial risk, and for taking such preventative and protective actions as they consider necessary to manage such risks effectively.
During the year a risk assessment review of the Groups business has been conducted by the Head of Risk Assurance and BDO Stoy Hayward acting as internal auditors in conjunction with members of the Executive Committee.
The Board has received and considered this review as part of an annual risk and control assessment.
The Groups systems are designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, significant business risks, including the risk of failure to achieve business objectives but can only provide reasonable not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Business risks are identified, evaluated and managed through functional line management reporting to divisional meetings, Executive Committee meetings and Board meetings as appropriate.
Each member of the Executive Committee is required to highlight and report on any significant business risks identified within their sphere of responsibility.
The key business risks associated with the timely completion of long-term development projects and ongoing business risks, including alleged infringement of third party intellectual property rights, are managed by crossfunctional teams of senior employees.
Business continuity plans addressing physical risks to the Groups development sites are maintained.
The Group has adopted Customer Account Teams grouped within Strategic Business Units SBUs so as to focus the business on customer needs.
The senior managers within the Customer Account Teams also monitor the financial and business risks, including competitor risks, associated with the delivery of agreed plans, reviewing such matters at Business Review Meetings held on a regular basis and attended by members of the Executive Committee.
Pace plc Annual Report | 16 2010 R&A Front.
indd 18 10 03 2011 16:35 Report of the Directors continued Financial Control and Information Systems The Groups strategic direction is reviewed regularly by the Board and plans, budgets and performance targets are reviewed and approved at least annually.
Directors receive monthly summaries of financial results which compare actual performance with targets, together with detailed management reports that identify the reasons for variances and the progress achieved.
Business planning documents are revised on a regular basis in line with actual and expected performance.
A review of the consolidated financial statements is completed by the centralised Group Finance Function to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected in the consolidated accounts.
Control Procedures Financial control procedures have been developed for all of the main business functions and in relation to the Companys financial reporting process and the Groups process for the preparation of consolidated accounts, and have been documented in a procedures manual.
Authorisation limits for purchases and capital expenditure are specified and procedures are in place for minimising exposure to potential weaknesses in the receipt, handling and despatch of goods.
The Groups main premises have received accreditation for BSI ISO 9001: 2000.
Monitoring Systems Monitoring of the internal control systems is carried out by the centralised Group Finance Function.
The Audit Committee considers annually whether there is a need to appoint a dedicated internal auditor and during the year the Committee re-appointed BDO Stoy Hayward to act as internal auditors, performing an agreed programme of internal audits in collaboration with the Companys Head of Risk Assurance and management.
BDO Stoy Hayward attended and presented their reports to each of the Audit Committee meetings during the year.
The Audit Committee also reviews external auditor objectivity and independence and has adopted a formal policy regarding the basis on which the auditors may be appointed to perform non-audit services.
Although no system of internal financial control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups systems are designed to provide the directors with reasonable assurance that transactions are authorised and completely and accurately recorded, that assets are safeguarded and that material errors, irregularities and actions contrary to Group policies and directions are either prevented or promptly discovered.
Going Concern The Group has borrowing facilities, to a maximum of $450m, in place until March 2014.
These are in the form of a $300m term loan, repayable via 6 instalments of $37.5m each due every six months, plus a final bullet payment of $75m, and a $150m revolver credit facility.
These facilities are subject to financial performance covenants which the Group currently complies with.
The Boards assessment of the Group and Companys ability to continue as a going concern has taken into account the effect of the current economic climate, current market position and the new borrowings in the year.
The principal risks that the Group is challenged with have been set out in the Risks and Uncertainties section of this report along with how the Directors intend to mitigate those risks.
The Board has prepared a financial and working capital forecast upon trading assumptions and other medium term plans and has concluded that the Group will continue to meet its financial performance covenants and will have adequate working capital available to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
17 | Pace plc Annual Report 2010 R&A Front.
indd 19 10 03 2011 16:35 Corporate Social Responsibility Employment Policies The directors recognise the importance of the Groups employees to its success and future development and are committed to providing an environment that will attract, motivate and reward high quality employees.
The Group continues to invest in a range of internal and external initiatives to promote employee development.
Employees are kept informed of matters affecting them as employees and factors affecting the performance of the Group through regular employee meetings briefings and a Company newsletter, Pacesetter.
In the UK, meetings of the Employee Partnership, an elected forum for the discussion of work related issues, are held with members of the Executive Committee at least four times per year.
The Group welcomes applications for employment from all sectors of the community and promotes equality of opportunity in employment regardless of age, sex, sexual orientation, disability or ethnic origin.
It is the Groups policy that training, career development and promotion opportunities should be available to all employees.
In the event that an employee becomes disabled, the Group makes reasonable adjustments where any aspect of premises or working practices puts such a disabled employee at a substantial disadvantage compared with a nondisabled employee.
Health and Safety Each strategic business unit in the Group has an established Health and Safety Committee made up of health and safety representatives, the designated health and safety officer and other persons with expert knowledge who review health and safety issues relevant to the Groups business.
Other safety-related committees also conduct periodic reviews of specific work practices.
These actions complement the UK Governments Health, Work, Wellbeing HWW initiative which has been adopted and implemented by the Company.
Part of the HWW incorporates return to work programmes and the Groups operations in Saltaire and Americas West and Americas East have adopted similar policies.
Each division incorporates, where appropriate, their ergonomic risk assessments.
The Groups businesses in India, the UK, Americas West and Americas East provide training for First Aid, Fire Evacuation and Fire Wardens.
Americas West undertakes earthquake training and Americas East undertakes hurricane training.
All of these initiatives are backed up by appropriate risk assessments.
Tool-box talks, short presentations on specific aspects of health and safety, are also published on the Groups intranet and shared between different parts of the Group.
The number of workplace accidents during the year for Saltaire was 14.
Outside the UK, there were 3 accidents in each of the Americas West and Americas East operations and 2 in India.
None of these accidents was regarded by the relevant local health and Safety Committee as serious.
A report concerning health and safety aspects of the Groups business and copies of specific Group safety policy documents can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Charitable and Community Support The Group has an established Charitable Donations Committee comprising employees based at the Groups premises in the UK, the USA and France.
The committee, which meets once a month, considers all requests for charitable and community project assistance within a financial budget and criteria approved by the Board on an annual basis.
The Groups support through the committee is focused on the local geographical area of Paces premises in Saltaire, Paris, Bangalore and Boca Raton in Florida, as well as the charitable and community initiatives of Group employees.
The corporate charity policy focus is to support local charities of benefit to the local area and people living close to each Group site.
During the year, a number of requests for support were considered by the committee, of which 99 satisfied the criteria and received financial support amounting to 48,352 in total.
The participation of employees of the Group in community and charitable activities outside work hours has been encouraged by the provision of funds to match individual sponsorship raised.
Donations amounting to 6,000 were made to charities local to Saltaire under the CEOs discretion.
Pace plc Annual Report | 18 2010 R&A Front.
indd 20 10 03 2011 16:35 Report of the Directors continued In addition, during the year the Board approved a proposal for Pace to become lead sponsor of the Leeds Ahead education strand of business engagement in the UKs West Yorkshire region over a two year period.
As part of this sponsorship the Company has contributed an interactive profile in the technology section of the u-explore national schools careers learning process.
Environmental Management During the year the Company set environmental targets and achieved the following outcomes in respect of its chosen measures of environmental impact: Activity Impact Objective Target Status Comment Product Continue to drive All new products to exceed current Target achieved the environmental best practice standards by achieving a performance of our minimum score of 80% using the Pace STBs ensuring all Design for Environment scorecard exceed minimum standards Product Drive innovation on Define and develop the Pace internal Work in progress the reduction of the Policy for minimum STB total energy environmental impact consumption TEC which goes beyond of Pace products current external best practice Product Drive the reduction of All materials used in the packaging of Target achieved the waste generated Pace products will be 100% recyclable during the lifecycle and 60% of all materials used in of STBs packaging to be sourced from recycled materials Site Operations Continue to drive Where no refurbishments are being done Not achieved Overall reduction reduction of CO seek to reduce the CO emissions by in scope 1 and 2 2 2 emissions across all 10%.
Otherwise do not exceed 2009 carbon intensity of sites Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
9.38% Elec, Gas and Oil Site Operations Reduce scope 3 Reduce SBU scope 3 emissions by Target achieved Overall reduction indirect emissions reducing flight emissions by 10% in scope 3 carbon intensity of 15% Supply Chain Drive a reduction of Develop a supply chain environmental Target achieved the environmental improvement strategy focusing on impact of Paces reducing the environmental impact of our supply chain supply chain Supply Chain Develop supplier Develop a supplier engagement strategy Target achieved awareness of Paces focusing on building supplier awareness environmental of our environmental activities activities Supply Chain Engage our suppliers Measure the carbon footprint of a Pace Target achieved on our environmental STB activities ultimately delivering a measured STB carbon footprint The Company has maintained certification to the international management standard ISO 14001 at its Saltaire, Florida and Bangalore sites and for the first time achieved certification at the Paris site.
The Group Environmental Policy has been applied to all Pace sites worldwide.
The Company is a signatory to the European Code of Conduct on Energy Efficiency of Digital TV Service Systems EU Code of Conduct, ENERGY STAR Program Requirements for Set-top Boxes and MEPS Minimum Energy Performance Standard.
Pace is committed to ensure that all products are designed to minimise energy consumption through its Design for Environment programme.
The Company continues to monitor the environmental impacts of all its activities, details of which are available from the Company Secretary or the Companys website.
19 | Pace plc Annual Report 2010 R&A Front.
indd 21 10 03 2011 16:35 Auditors KPMG Audit Plc held office as auditors during the year.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors, considering whether, taken as a whole, the various relationships if any between the Group and the auditors impair, or appear to impair, the auditors judgement or independence.
The Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity and independence of KPMG Audit Plc was not in any way impaired by either the nature of the non-audit related services undertaken during the year, the level of the non-audit fees charged or any other fact or circumstances.
Having considered the results of the Committees work, the Board is recommending the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors.
Each of the directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirms that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the directors have each taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Relations with Shareholders The Board has continued to establish and maintain relationships with institutional shareholders and communicates with investors through the Groups web site www.
A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders is in place at which institutional shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet with non-executive directors and analyst presentations are made following announcement of the interim and annual results.
Shareholders are welcome to participate at the Annual General Meeting at which the Board will be available for questions.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 12 May 2011 at the offices of the Company at Salts Mill, Victoria Road, Saltaire, West Yorkshire, BD18 3LF.
Full details of the business to be transacted at the meeting will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Responsibility Statement of the Directors A statement of the responsibilities of the directors is contained on page 29.
The directors whose names appear on pages 13 confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with the description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Anthony J Dixon Company Secretary 8 March 2011 Pace plc Annual Report | 20 2010 R&A Front.
