22 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 International education Key performance IndIcators our International millions 2010 2009 Headline cer underlying growth growth growth education company, Sales 1,234 1,035 19% 16% 6% theworld leader by Adjusted 171 141 21% 10% 8% operating profit revenues, is active in ONLINE LEARNING USERS more than 70 countries.
10 673,460 It is a major focus of our strategy, and sales and profits 09 474,068 have doubled since 2006.
Our strategy is to combine The number of registrations by students and professors to access one of educational content, assessment, technologies and our International Education online learning programmes.
related services to help educational institutions become more effective and their students more ONLINE RESULTS LOGINS successful.
We expect to benefit from a series of powerful long-term global trends: increasing public Logins no.
andprivate spending on education despite current 10 140,643 pressures on public spending in developed markets : 09 79,751 growing participation rates in elementary, secondary Number of logins by users of International Educations online and higher education: the demand for assessment results service.
toprovide measures of achievement: the growing technology infrastructure in educational institutions: and the rise of English as a global language.
global highlights in 2010 include: Our International Education business has significant We acquired Wall Street Institute WSI, which exposure to a wide range of currencies including the provides premium spoken English training for adults, US dollar and the euro.
In 2010, currency movements for $101m in cash.
WSI has about 340 franchised boosted revenues by 38m and adjusted operating learning centres in 25 territories in Asia, Europe, profits by 15m compared to 2009. theMiddle East and Africa.
More than 670,000 students used our MyLab digital learning, homework and assessment programmes, an increase of more than 40%.
They included 150,000 users of our online English-language products MyEnglishLabs and MyNorthStarLab, a 170% increase.
Our eCollege learning management system won newcontracts in Malaysia and Colombia.
Our Fronter learning management system continued to grow strongly with unique registration rising more than 20% to 1.1 million students in more than 8,700 schools, colleges and universities around the world.
IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 3 Our performance 23 Pearson Learning Solutions, which combines We established a new school improvement business productsand services from across Pearson to inthe UK, which will work with schools to help deliverasystematic approach to improving student themtrain teachers, improve strategic planning and performance, won new contracts in South Africa, structure teaching methods.
continental europe highlights in 2010 include: uK highlights in 2010 include: In Italy, adoption of our Linx digital secondary science BTEC, our flagship vocational qualification, attracted programme increased three-fold, helping Pearson more than 1.4 million student registrations, up 28% togrow strongly and become joint market leader for on2009.
Research suggests that a BTEC National combined lower and upper secondary education.
qualification can increase an individuals lifetime earnings Linxis built around content from our North by up to 92,000.
Registrations for our NVQ workAmericanscience programmes customised for the based learning qualification grew 45% to more than Italian market.
We began to develop a broader range 165,000, and we introduced the BTEC Apprenticeship and depth of digital products and services, including toserve the work-based learning market.
teacher training, to personalise learning and increase educational effectiveness.
We marked more than 5.4 million A AS Level and GCSE and Diploma scripts in the 20092010 academic In the Netherlands, we launched iPockets, the first fully year, with 90% now marked on screen.
Pearson digital Early English course for 4-8 year-olds in primary marked and delivered 3.4 million tests in six weeks for education.
The course is 100% digital and subscription the National Curriculum Tests at Key Stage 2. based and customised for the Dutch market.
Pearson announced plans to create a vocational degree, to boost student access to higher education inthe UK and around the world.
The first phase of degree programmes will be developed in business, engineering, IT and health and social care.
Wall street englIsH starting a global conversation Student enrolments at ourWall Street English schools increased by 27%.
Weannounced plans to open 50 new English language centres in China adding to the 66centres and schools already operating under the Wall Street English and Longman English brands.
Wealso acquired Wall Street Institute WSI, whichprovides premium spoken English training foradults, for $101m in cash.
WSI has about 340 franchised learning centres in 25 territories in Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
To learn more about Wall Street English, watch our film at www.
com films 24 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 International education continued africa and the middle east highlights in 2010 include: Pearson announced its intention to acquire a 75% stake In South Africas Western Cape province, we won a in CTI Education Group of South Africa, one of South three-year contract to prepare, administer and report Africas leading private higher education institutions, all Grade 9 student assessments.
The tests focus for 31 million in cash.
CTI serves more than 9,000 onboth individual student results and the systemic students on 12 campuses.
performance of schools and districts.
To learn more about CTI Education Group, watch our film at www.
com films Pearson won new national contracts in Ethiopia, to supply 2.9m Biology and Physics learning materials We generated strong growth in the Gulf region in forSenior Secondary Grades 9 to 12.
In Zimbabwe, higher education with integrated technology products wewere awarded a contract by UNICEF to deliver in Business & Economics and Science.
13.5 million textbooks to children in Grades 17 in asia highlights in 2010 include: mathematics, environmental science, English, Shona Wall Street English see previous page.
In January 2011, Pearson agreed to increase its shareholding in Indian education company TutorVista to a controlling 76% stake for a consideration of $127m.
TutorVista supplies digital content and technology platforms, online tutoring and services toK-12 schools.
To learn more about TutorVista, watch our film at www.
com films latin america highlights in 2010 include: Our School curriculum business grew strongly, particularly in Mexico, Colombia, Chile and Peru, as we continued to build our locally developed materials as well as Spanish language adaptations of US school programmes.
Strong growth of English Language Teaching materials across Latin America underpinned by performance inBrazil, Colombia, Argentina, Chile, Dominican Republic and Peru.
sIstema educacIonal BrasIleIro learning: a systemic approach Pearson agreed a strategic partnership with Sistema Educacional Brasileiro SEB in Brazil to provide services to its educational institutions and to acquire its school learning systems sistema business for $517m.
SEBs serves more than 450,000 students across both private and public schools.
To learn more about SEB, watch our film at www.
