iNtroDuCtioN our StrAtEGy our PErForMANCE our iMPACt oN SoCiEty GovErNANCE FiNANCiAl StAtEMENtS Section 5 Governance 53 We supplement the existing directors training Every year the board receives a detailed report programme through continuing presentations at ontheviews of major institutional shareholders, boardmeetings about the companys operations, providedeither by our corporate brokers or our byholding board meetings at the locations of operating independent investor relations advisers, Makinson companies and by encouraging the directors to visit Cowell.
At every meeting, the directors also receive operating companies and local management as and ananalysis of the shareholder register highlighting any when their schedule allows.
Directors can also significant movements in ownership or the share price.
Board committees Directors indemnities The board has established three committees: the In accordance with section 232 of the Companies Act nomination committee, the remuneration committee 2006 the Act, the company grants an indemnity to and the audit committee.
The chairmen and members allof its directors.
The indemnity relates to costs of these committees are appointed by the board on incurred by them in defending any civil or criminal the recommendation where appropriate of the proceedings and in connection with an application nomination committee and in consultation with each forrelief under sections 661 3 and 4 or sections relevant committee chairman.
1157 1 - 3 of the Act, so long as it is repaid not later NOMINATION COMMITTEE than when the outcome becomes final if: i they are convicted in the proceedings: ii judgement is given Chairman Glen Moreno against them: or iii the court refuses to grant the Members Glen Moreno, Marjorie Scardino, David Arculus, relief sought.
Patrick Cescau, Susan Fuhrman, Ken Hydon and Joshua Lewis The company has purchased and maintains directors and officers insurance cover against certain legal The nomination committee meets as and when liabilities and costs for claims in connection with any required.
The committee primarily monitors the act or omission by such directors and officers in the composition and balance of the board and its execution of their duties.
committees, and identifies and recommends to the board the appointment of new directors and or Dialogue with institutional shareholders committee members.
We have an extensive programme for the chairman, When considering the appointment of a new director chief executive, executive directors and senior the committee reviews the current balance of skills and managers to meet with institutional shareholders.
Thechief executive and chief financial officer present Whilst the chairman of the board chairs this committee, trading updates five times a year and attend regular he is not permitted to chair meetings when the meetings throughout the year with investors both in appointment of his successor is being considered or the UK and around the world.
The chairman meets during a discussion regarding his performance.
with our principal investors and our advisers throughout the year and keeps the board informed During 2010 the committee met to consider the oftheir views on strategy and corporate governance.
appointment of additional independent non-executive The chairman and senior independent director also directors and to review succession planning for make themselves available to meet any significant non-executive and executive board positions, as well shareholder as required.
Thenon-executive directors as board committee assignments.
meet informally with shareholders both before and The committee has written terms of reference which after the AGM and respond to shareholder queries clearly set out its authority and duties.
These can be and requests asnecessary.
found on the company website at www.
