IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 3 Our performance 17 outlook: 2011 Over the past five years Pearson has produced, penguin onaverage, 16% growth in earnings and cash flow.
Penguin will face another year of fast-changing industry Wesustained our growth even in the face of very conditions, driven by the rapid growth of both digital tough economic and market conditions in recent sales channels and digital books, and by the resulting years.
We are planning for some of our markets to pressures on physical bookstores.
After particularly remain weak in 2011, particularly those that depend strong competitive performance and financial results ongovernment spending and traditional print in2010, we expect Penguin to perform in line with publishing business models.
In addition, we face tough theoverall consumer publishing industry this year, comparatives especially in the first half of the year while we continue to adapt the business to these after our particularly strong competitive and financial industry changes.
Even so, we have built a series of competitive Interest and tax advantages which should help us deliver another In 2011, our lower net debt level and pension finance goodyear in 2011.
These advantages include our charge will result in a lower interest charge to adjusted sustained investment, digital leadership, educational earnings than in 2010.
Weexpect our P&L tax charge effectiveness, positions in fast-growing economies against adjusted earnings to be in the 2426% range andoperating efficiency.
and our cash tax rate to be in the 1520% range.
education exchange rates In education, we expect to achieve continued growth Pearson generates approximately 60% of its sales in in 2011.
In North America, we see growth in higher the US.
A five cent move in the average :$ exchange education despite slower enrolment rates and rate for the full year which in 2010 was 1:$1.54 has assessment more than offsetting a slower year for the an impact of approximately 1.3p on adjusted earnings school publishing industry theresult of the lower new per share.
adoption opportunity andpressure on state budgets.
Our International education business will benefit from its rapidly-growing position in services, technology anddeveloping economies, enabling it to grow again despite the weak public spending environment in somemarkets.
ft group At the FT Group, we are rapidly shifting our business model towards digital and subscription revenues.
Advertising revenues remain unpredictable, but we seehealthy demand for the FTs premium content, especially in digital formats, and a recovery in business conditions for Mergermarket.
