48 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Board of directors Chairman Executive directors Glen Moreno, chairman, aged 67, Marjorie Scardino, chief executive, aged Will Ethridge, chief executive, Pearson wasappointed chairman of Pearson 64, joined the Pearson board in January North American Education, aged 59, on1October 2005 and is chairman 1997.
She trained and practised as a joined the Pearson board in May 2008, ofthe nomination committee.
He was lawyer, and was chief executive of The having held a number of senior positions appointed deputy chairman of The Economist Group from 1993 until joining within Pearson Education, including Financial Reporting Council Limited in Pearson.
She is also vice chairman of CEO of the International and Higher November 2010.
He is also the senior Nokia Corporation and on the boards of Education divisions.
He is chairman of independent director of Lloyds Banking several charitable organisations.
In 2010 CourseSmart, a publishers digital retail Group plc as well as a non-executive she was named a fellow of the American consortium and chairman of the director of Fidelity International Limited.
Academy of Arts and Sciences.
He was previously the senior independent director of Man Group plc and acting chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited, the company set upby HM Treasury to manage the governments shareholdings in UK banks.
Non-executive directors David Arculus, aged 64, is a Patrick Cescau, aged 62, is the senior Susan Fuhrman, aged 66, is president of non-executive director of Telefnica S. A. independent director of Tesco plc and a Teachers College at Columbia University, He is also chairman of Numis director of INSEAD, the Business School Americas oldest and largest graduate Corporation plc and in October 2010 for the World.
In September 2010, he school of education and president of the was appointed chairman of Aldermore joined the board of IAG, the International National Academy of Education.
His previous roles include Consolidated Airlines Group, S. A.
He previously dean of the Graduate School chairman of O plc, Severn Trent plc and was previously group chief executive of of Education at the University of 2 IPC Group, chief operating officer of Unilever.
He became a non-executive Pennsylvania and on the board of United Business Media plc and group director of Pearson in April 2002 trustees of the Carnegie Foundation managing director of EMAP plc.
He andsenior independent director forthe Advancement of Teaching.
Shebecame a non-executive director Pearson in February 2006 and is chairman ofPearson in July 2004. of the remuneration committee.
iNtroDuCtioN our StrAtEGy our PErForMANCE our iMPACt oN SoCiEty GovErNANCE FiNANCiAl StAtEMENtS Section 5 Governance 49 Executive directors rona Fairhead, chairman and chief robin Freestone, chief financial officer, John Makinson, chairman and chief executive of the Financial times Group, aged 52, joined Pearson in 2004 as executive of the Penguin Group, aged 49, joined the Pearson board in June deputy chief financial officer and became aged56, joined the Pearson board in 2002 as chief financial officer.
She was chief financial officer in June 2006, when March 1996 and was finance director until appointed chief executive of The Financial he also joined the Pearson board.
He was appointed chairman Times Group in June 2006 and became previously group financial controller ofThe Penguin Group in May 2001. responsible for Pearson VUE in March ofAmersham plc now part of GE.
Heisalso chairman of The Royal National 2008.
From 1996 until 2001, she served Hequalified as a chartered accountant Theatre and trustee of the Institute for as executive vice president, group control with Touche Ross now Deloitte.
She is also a Heisalso anon-executive director and non-executive director of HSBC Holdings founder shareholder of eChem Limited.
plc and chairs the HSBC audit and risk committees.
In December 2010 she was appointed as a non-executive director of The Cabinet Office.
Non-executive directors A member of the audit committee.
The members of the board as at 31December 2010, together with A member of the remuneration theirbiographical details, are shown committee.
A member of the nomination committee.
As a matter of board policy, Pearson shareholders have the opportunity to re-elect all board directors each year atthe companys Annual General Meeting this year, on 28 April 2011.
Thechairman believes that the Ken Hydon, aged 66, is a noncontribution and performance of each executive director of Reckitt Benckiser ofthe directors continues to be valuable Group plc, Royal Berkshire NHS and effective and it is appropriate for Foundation Trust and Tesco plc.
He was them to continue to serve as directors previously financial director of Vodafone ofthe company.
Group plc and of subsidiaries of Racal Details of directors remuneration, Electronics.
He became a non-executive interests and dealings in ordinary director of Pearson in February 2006 and sharesand options of the company are is chairman of the audit committee.
contained in the report on directors remuneration on pages 63 to 86.
Detailsof directors service agreements can be found on pages 74 and 75.
