74 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 report on directors remuneration continued The headroom available for all Pearson plans, service agreements executive or discretionary plans and shares held in In accordance with long established policy, all trust is as follows: continuing executive directors have rolling service headroom 2010 2009 2008 agreements under which, other than by termination inaccordance with the terms of these agreements, All Pearson plans 7.6% 6.4% 6.2% employment continues until retirement.
Executive or The committee reviewed the policy on executive service discretionary plans 4.1% 3.0% 2.8% agreements in 2008 and again in 2010.
Ourpolicy is that Shares held in trust 3.3% 3.3% 3.3% future executive director agreements should provide that the company may terminate these agreements by giving shareholding of executive directors no more than 12months notice.
Asan alternative, the company may atits discretion pay inlieu of that notice.
The committee expects executive directors to build Payment in lieu ofnotice may be made in instalments and upa substantial shareholding in the company in line may be subject to mitigation.
with the policy of encouraging widespread employee ownership.
To complement the operation of the We will keep the application of the policy on executive companys long-term incentive arrangements, we will service agreements, including provisions for payment in in future operate formal shareholding guidelines for lieu of notice, under review, particularly withregard to executive directors.
The target holding will be 200% of thearrangements for any new executive directors.
the salary for the chief executive and 125% of salary for In the case of the longer serving directors with legacy the other executive directors consistent with median agreements, the compensation payable in circumstances practice in FTSE 100 companies that operate such where the company terminates the agreements without arrangements.
notice or cause takes the form of liquidated damages.
Shares that count towards these guidelines will include There are no special provisions for notice, pay in lieu of any shares held unencumbered by the executive, their notice or liquidated damages in the event of termination spouse and or dependent children as set out in table of employment in the event of a change of control 3 on page 81.
They will also include any shares vested ofPearson.
but held pending release under a restricted share plan as marked as in table 4 on pages 82 to 84.
On termination of employment, executive directors entitlements to any vested or unvested awards under Executive directors will have five years from the date Pearsons discretionary share plans are treated in of appointment to reach the guideline.
accordance with the terms of the relevant plan.
The value of the executive directors holdings based onthe middle market value of Pearson shares on 25February 2011 which is the latest practicable datebefore the results announcement comfortably exceeded these guidelines.
