iNtroDuCtioN our StrAtEGy our PErForMANCE our iMPACt oN SoCiEty GovErNANCE FiNANCiAl StAtEMENtS Section 5 Governance 57 In particular, with regard to preparing consolidated are in place.
Regular reports on the work of group accounts, the group financial reporting team operates internal audit are provided to executive management a rigorous process.
This includes up-to-date Group and, via the audit committee, to the board.
financial policies, formal requirements for business unit The head of group internal audit is jointly responsible finance functions, Group consolidation reviews and with the group legal counsel for monitoring compliance analysis of material variances, group finance technical with our Code of Conduct, and investigating any reviews, including the use of technical specialists, reported incidents including fraudallegations.
andreview and sign-off by senior finance managers.
Thesecontrols are monitored and assessed during treasury management theyear by the group internal audit and group The treasury department operates within policies compliance functions.
approved by the board and its procedures are reviewed regularly by the audit committee.
Major In addition, the chief executive prepares a report for transactions are authorised outside the department the board, 11 times a year, on key developments, atthe requisite level, and there is an appropriate performance and issues in the business.
Frequent reports are made risk management tothe chief financial officer and regular reports are Operating companies undertake formal, semi-annual prepared for the audit committee and the board.
risk reviews to identify new or potentially underinsurance managed risks.
Throughout the year, risk sessions Insurance is provided through Pearsons insurance facilitated by the head of group internal audit are held subsidiary or externally, depending on the scale of the with operating company management to identify the risk and the availability of cover in the external market, key risks the company faces in achieving its objectives, with the objective of achieving the most cost-effective to assess the probability and impact of those risks and balance between insured and uninsured risks.
to document the actions being taken to manage those risks.
The Pearson management committee reviews Going concern the output of these sessions, focusing on the significant risks facing the business.
Management has the Having reviewed the Groups liquid resources and responsibility to consider and execute appropriate borrowing facilities and the Groups 2011 and 2012 action to mitigate these risks whenever possible.
cash flow forecasts, the directors believe that the Theresults of these reviews are summarised twice a Group has adequate resources to continue as a going year by group internal audit for evaluation and onward concern.
For this reason, the financial statements have, reporting to the board, in summary, and in more detail as usual, been prepared on that basis.
Information via the audit committee.
regarding the Groups borrowing liabilities and financial risk management can be found in notes 18 and 19 on Group internal audit pages 129 to 137.
The group internal audit function is responsible for providing independent assurance to management on Shareholder communication the design and effectiveness of internal controls to mitigate financial and operational risks.
The annual Pearson has an extensive programme of internal audit plan, derived from a risk-based communication with all of its shareholders large and approach, is approved by the audit committee.
Recommendations to improve internal controls We also make a particular effort to communicate andtomitigate risks, or both, are agreed with regularly with our employees, a large majority operatingcompany management after each audit.
ofwhom are shareholders in the company.
Formal follow-up procedures allow Group internal Wepostallcompany announcements on our website, audit to monitor operating companies progress in www.
com, as soon as they are released, implementing its recommendations and to resolve any andmajor shareholder presentations are made control deficiencies.
The group internal audit function accessible via webcast or conference call.
Our website also has a remit to monitor significant Group projects, contains a dedicated investor relations section with in conjunction with the central project management anextensive archive of past announcements and office and to provide assurance that appropriate presentations, historical financial performance, share project governance and risk management strategies price data and a calendar of events.
