28 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 consumer publishing: penguin Key performance IndIcators penguin is one of the millions 2010 2009 Headline cer underlying growth growth growth most famous brands Sales 1,053 1,002 5% 2% 6% inbook publishing, Adjusted 106 84 26% 10% 26% operating profit known around the US BESTSELLERS world for the quality Bestsellers no.
10 253 ofits publishing and 09 243 itsconsistent record The number of Penguin books entering the Top Ten bestseller lists in the US New York Times.
Over the past five years, Penguins profits have 10 66 increased at an annual average rate of 8%.
09 46 In 2010 Penguin achieved record sales and profits in a The number of Penguin books entering the Top Ten bestseller lists in the UK Nielsen BookScan Top Ten.
challenging and rapidly-changing industry environment.
Penguins profits were struck after making additional E-BOOK SALES provisions for a number of credit exposures in the book retailing sector, including in relation to Borders in the Sales % US.
Ourmarket share gains and improved profitability 10 6.2% were the result of three factors in particular: 09 2.3% 1.
An outstanding US publishing performance included Penguin global e-book sales as a percentage of Penguin Group net sales.
arecord number of bestsellers, an increase in market share and rapid expansion in emerging digital platforms global highlights in 2010 include: and formats: A strong and consistent publishing performance across 2.
Penguin in the UK celebrated the best year in its imprints and territories produced market share gains history, leading the bestseller lists and increasing its in the US, UK and Australia, our three largest markets.
market share by 2 percentage points to 10%: Strong growth in developing markets was boosted by 3.
DK captured the benefits of its 2009 reorganisation, the launch of new imprints and the increasing breadth with sales of Lego Star Wars titles boosting revenue and and depth of our local publishing programmes in India, the transfer of cost centres to India enhancing its margin.
Continued investment in global publishing with the launch of Penguins Classics in Portuguese and Arabic, joining existing Mandarin and Korean editions: the launch in India of a new imprint in partnership with bestselling author and superstar Shobhaa fide: and the continued international roll-out of our non-fiction imprint Allen Lane in Canada.
IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 3 Our performance 29 digital highlights in 2010 include: jamIe olIver eBook sales were up 182% on the previous year and now account for 6% of Penguin revenues worldwide.
the uKs biggest We accelerated our investment in digital products and innovation with new app releases in the childrens selling non-fiction market including Spot, Peppa Pig, The Little Engine That Could, Ladybirds Babytouch and the Mad Libs title of the last decade app, which was named one of the best apps at the 2010E-Book Summit.
For adults, we launched the Jamie Olivers 30 Minute Meals sold 1.2 million groundbreaking myFry app, published the amplified copiesto become the UKs biggest selling hardback ebook of Ken Folletts international bestselling novel non-fiction title of the last decade.
The Pillars of the Earth, featuring video, art and music from the original TV series: and we introduced ten DKEyewitness Top Ten Travel Guides apps with moreto follow in 2011.
Penguin continued to invest to transform its internal publishing processes onto Pearson-wide digital platforms, enabling faster product development and more efficient creation and re-use of content.
publishing performance highlights in 2010 include: Penguin performed strongly in the US with a broad range of number one bestsellers from repeat authors such as Charlaine Harris, Nora Roberts, Tom Clancy, Ken Follett and Patricia Cornwell.
Kathryn Stocketts The Help stayed on the New York Times bestseller list for the whole of 2010 and has sold more than three million copies to date.
30 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 consumer publishing: penguin continued publishing performance highlights continued: Penguin Childrens had an excellent year in the US, Our outstanding performance in the UK, resulting in with Penguin Young Readers Group achieving a our market share rising two percentage points to 10%, record39 New York Times bestsellers, and in the UK, was led by Jamie Olivers 30 Minute Meals.
It sold where we reclaimed our position as the number one 1.2million copies to become the UKs biggest selling childrens publisher with significant market share gains.
non-fiction title of the last decade.
Major bestsellers In 2011, we will publish books from some of our included Stephen Frys The Fry Chronicles, Kathryn leading authors including, in the US, Patricia Cornwell, Stocketts The Help, and The History of the World in 100 SueGrafton, Charlaine Harris, Nora Roberts, Objects published in partnership with the BBC and the HenryKissinger, Betty White, Richelle Mead, British Museum, as well as the Percy Jackson and Diary JohnGrisham and Eric Carle: and, in the UK, of a Wimpy Kid series.
JamieOliver, Stephen Fry, Rob Brydon, Jeff Kinney, DK produced a very good year thanks in part to its Rick Riordan andDavid Almond.
top-performing franchise LEGO Lego Star Wars Visual Dictionary was on the New York Times bestseller list for the whole of 2010 with 18 weeks at number one.
Other bestselling titles included The Masterchef Cookbook, Complete Human Body and Natural History.
DK continues to benefit from the organisation changes made in 2009 as well as the ongoing development of its publishing centre in India.
tHe fry cHronIcles number one in five categories Stephen Frys The Fry Chronicles made publishing history as the first title to hit number one in five categories: hardback, eBook, enhanced eBook with videos featuring the author, audio book and an innovative app that allows readers to delve in and out of the book by topic.
