46 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 our impact on society continued progress and plans In 2009, we set out a series of plans for 2010 in the Annual Report covering our responsible business practice priorities.
We report here on our progress against those plans.
plan 2010 progress plan 2011 Continue the Pearson summit at an Achieved The third International Conference Continue to help local education eventin London in 2010 to include a on Education was held in London in June leaders from countries around the focus on ICT in education, a key concern 2010 welcoming education experts from world to explore and apply what for educators in the classroom and for around the world.
The conference theme distinguishes strong performing administrators hoping to improve was how to learn from UK experience in educational systems through our academic systems, assessments adopting and applying digital technologies ongoing support of the OECD and andreporting.
insupport of teaching and student learning.
programmes such as the Pearson CCSSO International Education Summit.
Continue to provide professional Achieved Pearson Southern Africa and the Expand our use of the latest mobile and development for educators and Pearson Foundation continued to develop digital technologies as we provide administrators in Southern Africa and and expand their innovative early-childhood professional development for classroom tointegrate this programming with professional development programme teachers and administrators in local educational programming that is based focusing on partnering local education communities around the world through on the Bridgeit model first introduced bodies to deliver training in literacy, programmes such as Bridgeit and the inTanzania in 2009. numeracy and childhood development Mobile Learning Institute.
forteachers in Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa as well as Tanzania.
Continue to develop our emerging Ongoing A third of participants in our 2010 also saw the development and leaders through international experience various future leader and talent management launch of a training module on ethical and support Pearsons needs in our programmes came from businesses outside conduct.
Our plan for 2011 is to further developing markets.
Afocus this year was develop this through additional material, on developing talent inAsia.
a train the trainers pack and an e-learning module.
Continue to show evidence of progress Ongoing 27% of Pearson top managers are Continue to develop programmes and in retention of people with diverse female.
Pearson was awarded the Opportunity relationships that help attract and retain backgrounds for both entry level and Now FTSE Executive Women Award 2010 talented diverse people into our management positions by tracking the for employing the most female executives.
business and track our progress.
success of women, people from minority Pearson in the US was recognised for the Activities planned for 2011 include ethnic backgrounds and those with a 10th time as one of 100 Best Employers for acontribution to the It Gets Better disability within Pearson.
The Pearson Diversity video campaign launched by Penguin develop programmes and relationships Summer Internship was recognised as a author Dan Savage.
to attract talented people from the finalist in the Best Diversity within Work above groups into our business.
Experience Awards at the National Placement & Internship Awards 2011.
Pearson was included in the Human Rights Campaign Best Places to Work for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees.
Continue to develop our capacity to Achieved We ran a company-wide award We aim to review how we approach, combine training opportunities for our scheme toidentify and celebrate exemplary recognise and support our people when staff with opportunities to partner with commitments made by Pearson they volunteer in their local communities schools, colleges and not-for-profits.
peoplegetting involved in their local with a particular focus on schools and communities.
For the first time, we took colleges steps to formally invite our people to participate in specific projects managed bythe Pearson Foundation.
Target ongoing Target achieved IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 4 Our impact on society 47 plan 2010 progress plan 2011 Continue to expand and consolidate our Achieved We now have 40 green teams Continue to develop and support our network of environmental teams across involving over 300 people around theworld.
network of environmental teams across our businesses.
our businesses including launching a global award scheme to recognise the work of our environmental champions from across the business.
Maintain and extend our commitment Achieved Pearson extended its climate To maintain our commitment to being tobeing a climate neutral company.
neutrality to cover existing businesses as aclimate neutral company in 2011. atthe end of 2009.
We continue to invest in reducing our carbon footprint and to offset what we cannot eliminate by other means.
Further development of the Planet Ongoing New website developed: designed Launch new Planet Pearson website Pearson website by Pearson staff.
and piloted with its contents shaped by a globally as part of a wider commitment global employee survey on environmental to encouraging global collaboration.
Continuation of our programme to Achieved Our dedicated green capital funds Continuation of our programme to makeour key buildings energy efficient.
invested in projects ranging from renewable make our key buildings energy efficient energy generation from solar panels to with a particular focus on on-site lighting upgrades.
Completing the ISO 14001 Ongoing Good progress made towards Complete ISO 14001 certification environmental management system preparing for accreditation.
inAustralia and identify additional forour business in Australia.
businesses to start the process in 2011.
Continue to work with industry partners Ongoing As part of an industry group, we As part of an initiative to build to establish a methodology toassess the are supporting the development of a web acomprehensive global vendor carbon footprint ofatextbook.
tool to assess the carbon footprint of a book.
relationship management system We have also assessed the emissions relating comprising a suite of online portals Establish a total carbon footprint to the paper purchased from suppliers in anddata-marts, we will incorporate identification initiative for our company.
corporate responsibility metrics in vendor selection where appropriate.
Establish FSC chain of custody Ongoing Process seeking accreditation Complete FSC chain of custody certification for our paper use in started in 2010. certification for our paper use in ourNorth American businesses.
Increase the impact on children Achieved Over one million free books Increase support for exemplary andadults reached through literacy weredonated to schools and libraries under early-learning and literacy organisations campaigns, focusing Booktime funds the Booktime programme, supported by and for the young people they serve more strategically and rolling out materials for use by parents, teachers and through community campaigns such Jumpstarts Read for the Record inlibraries.
Through We Give Books the asBooktime and Read for the Record, programme further internationally.
international digital initiative launched in and via We Give Books.
2010 by the Penguin Group and the Pearson Foundation we extended the reach of Read for the Record internationally.
Increase the number of interventions Achieved Two examples featured in this Continue to increase the number of wemake to facilitate constructive debate section are the London Economics research interventions we make to facilitate on key contemporary issues.
into the impact of BTEC qualifications on constructive debate on key earning potential and the Pearson Foundation contemporary issues.
Launch the Pearson Prize in the US, Achieved Over 10,000 college students Extend our support of young leaders identifying students currently in a two applied for the inaugural Pearson Prize.
making a difference inside and or four-year college university who The70 winners were selected based on outsidethe classroom by continuing areworking on specific projects that theirrecord of contributing to enriching programmes such as the Pearson support their institution and or local college life.
Prizeand the international Pearson communities, and providing a package Fellowship for Social Innovation.
offinancial and in-kind support to helpthese students finish their collegecareers.
