iNtroDuCtioN our StrAtEGy our PErForMANCE our iMPACt oN SoCiEty GovErNANCE FiNANCiAl StAtEMENtS Section 5 Governance 53 We supplement the existing directors training Every year the board receives a detailed report programme through continuing presentations at ontheviews of major institutional shareholders, boardmeetings about the companys operations, providedeither by our corporate brokers or our byholding board meetings at the locations of operating independent investor relations advisers, Makinson companies and by encouraging the directors to visit Cowell.
At every meeting, the directors also receive operating companies and local management as and ananalysis of the shareholder register highlighting any when their schedule allows.
Directors can also significant movements in ownership or the share price.
Board committees Directors indemnities The board has established three committees: the In accordance with section 232 of the Companies Act nomination committee, the remuneration committee 2006 the Act, the company grants an indemnity to and the audit committee.
The chairmen and members allof its directors.
The indemnity relates to costs of these committees are appointed by the board on incurred by them in defending any civil or criminal the recommendation where appropriate of the proceedings and in connection with an application nomination committee and in consultation with each forrelief under sections 661 3 and 4 or sections relevant committee chairman.
1157 1 - 3 of the Act, so long as it is repaid not later NOMINATION COMMITTEE than when the outcome becomes final if: i they are convicted in the proceedings: ii judgement is given Chairman Glen Moreno against them: or iii the court refuses to grant the Members Glen Moreno, Marjorie Scardino, David Arculus, relief sought.
Patrick Cescau, Susan Fuhrman, Ken Hydon and Joshua Lewis The company has purchased and maintains directors and officers insurance cover against certain legal The nomination committee meets as and when liabilities and costs for claims in connection with any required.
The committee primarily monitors the act or omission by such directors and officers in the composition and balance of the board and its execution of their duties.
committees, and identifies and recommends to the board the appointment of new directors and or Dialogue with institutional shareholders committee members.
We have an extensive programme for the chairman, When considering the appointment of a new director chief executive, executive directors and senior the committee reviews the current balance of skills and managers to meet with institutional shareholders.
Thechief executive and chief financial officer present Whilst the chairman of the board chairs this committee, trading updates five times a year and attend regular he is not permitted to chair meetings when the meetings throughout the year with investors both in appointment of his successor is being considered or the UK and around the world.
The chairman meets during a discussion regarding his performance.
with our principal investors and our advisers throughout the year and keeps the board informed During 2010 the committee met to consider the oftheir views on strategy and corporate governance.
appointment of additional independent non-executive The chairman and senior independent director also directors and to review succession planning for make themselves available to meet any significant non-executive and executive board positions, as well shareholder as required.
Thenon-executive directors as board committee assignments.
meet informally with shareholders both before and The committee has written terms of reference which after the AGM and respond to shareholder queries clearly set out its authority and duties.
These can be and requests asnecessary.
found on the company website at www.
com investors  governance 54 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Board governance continued role and responsibilities REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The committee has written terms of reference which Chairman David Arculus clearly set out its authority and duties.
These are Members David Arculus, Patrick Cescau, Ken Hydon reviewed annually and can be found on the company and Glen Moreno website at www.
com investors  governance The remuneration committee has responsibility for The committee has been established by the board determining the remuneration and benefits packages primarily for the purpose of overseeing the accounting, of the executive directors, the chief executives of the financial reporting, internal control and risk management principal operating companies and other members of the processes of the company and the audit of the financial management committee, as well as recommending the statements of the company.
chairmans remuneration to the board for its decision.
The committee is responsible for assisting the boards The committee takes independent advice from oversight of the quality and integrity of the companys consultants when required.
No director takes part external financial reporting and statements and the inany discussion or decision concerning their own companys accounting policies and practices.
The committee reports to the full TheGroups internal and external auditors have board and its report on directors remuneration, directaccess to the committee to raise any matter of which has been considered and adopted by the board, concern and to report on the results of work directed is set out on pages 63 to 86. by the committee.
The committee reports to the full The committee met four times during the year, and has board on a regular basis but no less frequently than written terms of reference which clearly set out its atevery board meeting immediately following a authority and duties.
These can be found on the committee meeting.
It also reviews the independence company website at www.
com investors of the external auditors, including the provision of  governance non-audit services further details of which can be found on page 58, and ensures that there is an During the year, Terry Burns retired from the board appropriate audit relationship.
and was replaced on the remuneration committee byPatrick Cescau.
External audit Based on managements recommendations, the AUDIT COMMITTEE committee reviews the proposal to reappoint the external auditors.
Thecommittee reviewed the Chairman Ken Hydon effectiveness and independence of the external Members Ken Hydon, David Arculus, Patrick Cescau, Susan Fuhrman and Joshua Lewis auditors during 2010 and remains satisfied that the auditors provide effective independent challenge to management.
The committee will continue to review Members the performance of the external auditors on an annual All of the audit committee members are independent basis and will consider their independence and non-executive directors and have financial and or objectivity, taking account of all appropriate guidelines.
related business experience due to the senior positions There are no contractual obligations restricting the they hold or held in other listed or publicly traded committees choice of external auditors.
In any event, companies and or similar public organisations.
Ken the external auditors are required to rotate the audit Hydon, chairman of the committee, is the companys partner responsible for the Group audit every five designated financial expert.
He is a fellow of the years.
The current lead audit partner has been in place Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, for three years.
theAssociation of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
During the year, the committee discussed the planning, Healsoserves as audit committee chairman for conduct and conclusions of the external audit as Tescoplc, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Royal itproceeded.
At the July 2010 audit committee meeting, the The qualifications and experience of the other committee committee discussed and approved the auditors group members are detailed on pages 48 and 49. audit plan, in which they identified the following key risks of misstatement of the Groups financial statements: iNtroDuCtioN our StrAtEGy our PErForMANCE our iMPACt oN SoCiEty GovErNANCE FiNANCiAl StAtEMENtS Section 5 Governance 55 Revenue recognition, specifically in relation to The results of their review of the impairment model, long-term contract accounting and increasingly including a consideration of key assumptions such as todigital revenue streams where management discount rates and perpetuity rates and sensitivities, assumptions and estimates are necessary: which indicated that all cash-generating units had ample headroom: and Accounting for acquisitions and disposals in light of material transactions in 2010, in particular, valuation of The outputs of their controls testing for Sarbanesacquired intangibles which involves significant judgement: Oxley, section 404 reporting purposes and in support of their financial statements audit.
Key balance sheet judgements, since small changes in provisioning judgements or methodology can have The auditors also reported to the committee the notable impacts on the Groups balance sheet and misstatements that they had found in the course of income statement: and their work and the committee confirmed that there were no such material items remaining unadjusted in Assessment of goodwill and intangible assets for these financial statements.
impairment in the context of current market conditions, recognising that management judgement training isrequired.
The committee receives regular technical updates aswell as specific or personal training as required.
The committee also discussed with the auditors the Inaddition to the committees regular technical risks of fraud in the Group and the programme of updates, a training session was held in June 2010 at work they planned to undertake to address the risks which PwC updated the committee on a number of they had identified to ensure that they did not lead to relevant accounting matters and provided a briefing amaterial misstatement of the financial statements.
onthe UK Bribery Act and changes to UK corporate Thiswork included the evaluation and testing of the governance practice.
The auditors explained where they planned to obtain direct external evidence.
Meetings The committee met four times during the year with The committee discussed these issues with the the chief financial officer, head of group internal audit, auditors at the time of their review of the half year members of the senior management team and the interim financial statements in July 2010 and again at external auditors in attendance.
The committee also the conclusion of their audit of the financial statements met regularly in private with the external auditors and for the year in February 2011.
In December 2010, the head of group internal audit.
The committee thecommittee discussed with the auditors the status members attended site visits to our businesses in of their work, focusing on their work in relation to NewJersey and Texas during the year and met with internal controls.
Asthe auditors concluded their senior financial management based there in order to audit, they explained to the committee: better understand how Group policies are embedded The work they had conducted over revenue, which in operations.
included targeted procedures at businesses which were At every meeting, the committee considered reports considered to have more complex revenue recognition, on the activities of the internal audit function, including such as the assessment and testing businesses: the results of internal audits, risk reviews, project The results of their review of acquisition accounting for assurance reviews, and fraud and whistleblowing all significant acquisitions, encompassing assessment of reports.
The committee also monitored the companys managements valuations of intangible assets as well as financial reporting, internal controls and risk other purchase price adjustments: management procedures and considered any significant legal claims and regulatory issues in the The work they had done to test managements context of their impact on financial reporting.
assumptions and estimates in relation to balance sheet judgements encompassing provisions for bad and Specifically, the committee considered the following doubtful debts and inventory, recoverability of matters during the course of the year: pre-publication assets and authors advances, The annual report and accounts: preliminary estimates of tax and pension liabilities and how they announcement and trading update: had satisfied themselves that these were reasonable: The Group accounting policies:
