52 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Board governance continued the role and business of the board We endeavour to give non-executive directors access to the senior managers of the business via involvement The formal matters reserved for the boards decision at both formal and informal meetings.
In this way and approval include: wehope that the experience and expertise of the Determining the companys strategy in consultation with non-executive directors can be utilised for the benefit management and reviewing performance against it: of the company.
At the same time, this practice enables the non-executive directors to develop an Any decision to cease to operate all or any material understanding of the abilities of senior management part of the companys business: which will help them judge the companys prospects Major changes to the companys corporate structure, and plans for succession.
management and control structure or its status as a public limited company: Board evaluation Approval of all shareholder circulars, resolutions and The board conducts an annual review of its corresponding documentation and press releases effectiveness.
For the review of 2010, the board has concerning matters decided by the board: appointed an external adviser to conduct detailed Acquisitions, disposals and capital projects above 15m interviews with all directors to ensure the board is per transaction or project: effectively focused on its agreed priorities: governance: All guarantees over 10m: strategy: business performance and people.
Treasury policies: Theoutcome and recommendations of this review willbe discussed at the April 2011 board meeting.
Setting interim dividends, recommending final dividends to shareholders and approving financial statements: During the year, we have made progress in a number Borrowing powers: of areas which came out of the 2009 board effectiveness review.
In particular, board meetings Appointment of directors: havebeen lengthened to take place over two days, Appointment and removal of the company secretary: including an informal dinner to give further opportunity Ensuring adequate succession planning for the board for constructive debate and discussion of issues raised and senior management: in the board meetings.
Determining the remuneration of the non-executive During the course of the year the executive directors directors, subject to the Articles of Association and were evaluated by the chief executive on their shareholder approval as appropriate: performance against personal objectives under Approving the written division of responsibilities thecompanys standard appraisal mechanism.
between the chairman and the chief executive and Thechairman leads the assessment of the chief approval of the terms of reference of board executive and the senior independent director committees: and conducts a review of the chairmans performance.
Reviewing the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements, including the performance of the board, Directors training its committees and individual directors and determining Directors receive a significant bespoke induction the independence of directors.
programme and a range of information about Pearson The board receives timely, regular and necessary when they join the board.
This includes background financial, management and other information to fulfil its information on Pearson and details of board duties.
Directors can obtain independent professional procedures, directors responsibilities and various advice, at the companys expense, in the performance governance-related issues, including procedures for of their duties as directors.
All directors have access to dealing in Pearson shares and their legal obligations the advice and services of the company secretary.
The induction also includes a series of meetings with members of the board, presentations regarding the business from senior executives and a briefing on Pearsons investor relations programme.
