IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 3 Our performance 25 professional education Key performance IndIcators our professional millions 2010 2009 Headline cer underlying growth growth growth business is focused on Sales 333 275 21% 20% 6% publishing, training, Adjusted 51 43 19% 16% 5% operating profit testing and certification We launched online learning products with customisable content, assessment and personalised study paths and for professionals.
also delivered 450 hours of technical training through online subscriptions for the IT certification market.
Over the past five years, we have increased operating We developed applications for social networks and profit from 17m in 2006 to 51m in 2010.
We expect mobile devices to extend the reach and accessibility these businesses to benefit from rising demand for ofour content and videos available within our Safari work-related skills and qualifications in both developed Books Online platform.
and developing markets and from close connections professional training highlights in 2010 include: with professional content and customers in other parts We acquired Melorio plc, one of the UKs leading of Pearson.
vocational training groups, for 98m, supporting our professional testing highlights in 2010 include: vocational education strategy by combining Melorios We continued to see good growth at Pearson VUE, training delivery skills with our existing complementary with test volumes up 3% on 2009 to approximately strengths in educational publishing, technology and 8million.
Average revenues per test are increasing as assessments.
Melorio traded well in the second half we develop a broader range of services and enhance ofthe year securing a number of large key contracts our systems and assessments to meet our customers for training delivery, and successfully graduating and current and future needs.
placing the largest IT graduate cohort in the history of the business.
Our investment in systems, streamlining Pearson VUE renewed a number of major contracts the course offering and training centres and back office including the Driving Standards Agency DSA of Great integration are all on track.
Britain and the Driver & Vehicle Agency DVA of Northern Ireland: Cisco: and Colorado Department To learn more about Melorio, watch our film at www.
On 11 January 2011, we announced a 12-year extension of our relationship with the Graduate Management Admission Council to gmat retaIned administer the Graduate Management Admission Test.
We also won a number of new contracts to deliver a testing decade computer-based tests in the US, UK and the Middle East, At the start of 2011, our largest professional testing covering the real estate, accountancy, legal, healthcare, contract with the Graduate Management Admission skills and finance sectors.
Council to administer the GMAT test was renewed professional publishing highlights in 2010 include: until 2022.
Our Professional publishing business was level in 2010with steady margins as strong growth in digital products and services offset continued challenging trading conditions in the retail market and international g m a t markets, as well as a planned reduction in the number of print titles published.
