introduction our strateGy our perFormance our impact on society Governance Financial statements section 5 Governance 63 report on directors remuneration The board presents its report on directors Pearson Management Committee who report directly remuneration to shareholders.
This report complies to the chief executive.
This includes base salary, annual with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized and long-term incentive entitlements and awards, and Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports pension arrangements.
Regulations 2008 and was approved by the board The committees terms of reference are available on ofdirectors on 7 March 2011. the companys website.
The committee believes that the company has The committee met four times during 2010.
The matters complied with the provisions regarding remuneration discussed and actions taken were as follows: matters contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code.
19 and 26 February 2010 We will put a resolution to shareholders at the Annual Reviewed and approved 2009 annual incentive General Meeting AGM on 28 April 2011 inviting them plan payouts to consider and approve this report.
Reviewed and approved 2007 long-term incentive plan payouts and release of shares the remuneration committee Approved vesting of 2005 and 2007 annual bonus David Arculus chaired the remuneration committee share matching awards and release of shares for the year 2010: the other members were Patrick Reviewed and approved 2010 base salary increases for Cescau, Ken Hydon and Glen Moreno.
David Arculus, the Pearson Management Committee Patrick Cescau and Ken Hydon are independent Reviewed and approved 2010 Pearson and operating non-executive directors.
Terry Burns stepped down company annual incentive plan targets from his membership of the committee and his role Reviewed and approved 2010 individual annual asa non-executive director on 30 April 2010. incentive opportunities for the Pearson Management GlenMoreno, chairman of the board, is a member Committee ofthe committee as permitted under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Reviewed and approved 2010 long-term incentive awards and associated performance conditions for the Marjorie Scardino, chief executive, Robin Baliszewski, Pearson Management Committee director for people, Robert Head, compensation and Discussed policy on service agreements for executive benefits director, and Stephen Jones, head of company directors secretarial, provided material assistance to the committee during the year.
They attended meetings of Reviewed and approved 2009 report on directors the committee, although no director was involved in remuneration any decisions relating to his or her own remuneration.
Noted companys use of equity for employee share plans To ensure that it receives independent advice, the committee has appointed Towers Watson to supply Reviewed and approved the remuneration package for survey data and to advise on market trends, long-term the chief executive incentives and other general remuneration matters.
23 July 2010 Towers Watson also advised the company on health and welfare benefits in the US and provided consulting Approved 2010 long-term incentive awards for advice directly to certain Pearson operating executives and managers companies.
Considered the strategy and timetable for the 2011 The committees principal duty is to determine renewal of the long-term incentive plan andregularly review, having regard to the UK Reviewed committees charter and terms of reference Corporate Governance Code and on the advice of Approved changes to the remuneration packages for thechief executive, the remuneration policy and the two members of the Pearson Management Committee remuneration and benefits packages of the executive directors, the chief executives of the principal operating companies and other members of the
