50 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Board governance Corporate governance His role includes being available to shareholders if they should have concerns that have not been addressed introduction through the normal channels, and attending meetings The Pearson board believes that good corporate with shareholders in order to gain a balanced governance supports good performance and the understanding of any concerns that they might have.
It believes that The senior independent director also meets with the robust, open board debate over major business issues non-executive directors at least once a year in order brings a discipline to important decisions and adds a to appraise the performance of the chairman, and valuable and diverse set of external perspectives.
would be expected to chair the nomination committee Theboard believes that during 2010 the company in the event that it was considering succession to wasin full compliance with section 1 of the Combined therole of chairman of the board.
Code 2008 the Code with the exception of its ratio of independent non-executive directors to executive independence of directors directors.
Following the resignation of Terry Burns and The board reviews the independence of each of the untimely death of CK Prahalad in April last year, thenon-executive directors annually.
This includes there was an imbalance of executive and non-executive reviewing their external appointments and any directors on the board for a short period of time.
potential conflicts of interest as well as assessing However, effective 1 March 2011, Joshua Lewis theirindividual circumstances.
wasappointed to the board as an independent All of the non-executive directors were considered by non-executive director and upon appointment joined the board to be independent for the purposes of the the nomination committee and audit committee.
Code during the year ended 31 December 2010.
Theboard embraces the Codes underlying principles with regard to board balance andthe nomination Conflicts of interest committee, led by the chairman, isactively seeking an Since October 2008, directors have had a statutory additional suitable candidate whopossesses the right duty under the Companies Act 2006 the Act to avoid mix of knowledge, skills and experience to enhance conflicts of interest with the company.
As permitted debate and decision-making.
Adetailed account of the bythe Act, the company adopted new Articles of provisions of the Code can be found on the company Association at its AGM in 2008 to allow the directors website at www.
com investors shareholderto authorise conflicts of interest.
The company has information governance established a procedure to identify actual and potential conflicts of interest, including all directorships or Composition of the board otherappointments to companies which are not part The board currently consists of the chairman, Glen of the Pearson Group and which could give rise to Moreno, five executive directors including the chief actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts executive, Marjorie Scardino, and five independent are then considered for authorisation by the board.
The relevant director cannot vote on an authorisation Chairman resolution, or be counted in the quorum, in relation to As stated in his biography, the chairman was appointed the resolution relating to his her conflict or potential as deputy chairman of the Financial Reporting Council conflict.
The board reviews any authorisations granted Limited on 18 November 2010.
Both the chairman and on an annual basis.
the board are confident that he can fulfil this new role without reducing his time commitment to Pearson.
Board meetings Senior independent director The board meets six times a year, each meeting taking Patrick Cescau was appointed senior independent place over two days, and at other times as appropriate.
director last year following the retirement of Terry In recent years, we have developed our board meeting Burns.
The board believes that Patricks extensive agenda to ensure that board discussion and debate is knowledge of Pearson together with his broad centred on the key strategic issues facing the company.
commercial experience, make him highly suitable for Over the course of 2010 the major items covered by this appointment.
Although he is approaching nine the board included: years of service, the board continues to consider himto be independent.
iNtroDuCtioN our StrAtEGy our PErForMANCE our iMPACt oN SoCiEty GovErNANCE FiNANCiAl StAtEMENtS Section 5 Governance 51 BuSiNESS PErForMANCE: 25 AND 26 FEBruAry 2010, loNDoN BuSiNESS PErForMANCE: 22 AND 23 July 2010, loNDoN 2009 Report and Accounts Interim results 2010 Operating plan Post-acquisition reviews Risk Acquisition of Wall Street Institute Annual review of authorised conflicts Acquisition of Americas Choice Disposal of Interactive Data Corporation StrAtEGy: 7 AND 8 oCtoBEr 2010, AuStiN, tExAS GovErNANCE: 29 AND 30 APril 2010, loNDoN Strategic plan 2011 to 2013 Feedback on Annual Report Review of Assessment and Information business Report on shareholders views Acquisition of CTI Education Group Board effectiveness review Review of audit, remuneration and nomination Acquisition of Melorio plc committee terms of reference Disposal of Interactive Data Corporation PEoPlE AND StrAtEGiC PlAN: 9 AND 10 DECEMBEr 2010, loNDoN StrAtEGy: 10 AND 11 JuNE 2010, uPPEr SADDlE rivEr, NEW JErSEy Acquisition of TutorVista Strategy discussions Communications: Corporate Review of standing committee terms of reference responsibility: People: Shared Services: Digital People and business strategies Acquisition of Sistema Educacional Brasiliero Risk Review of non-executive directors fees The following table sets out the attendance of the companys directors at board and committee meetings during 2010: Audit remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee meetings meetings meetings meetings maximum 6 maximum 4 maximum 4 maximum 3 Chairman Glen Moreno 6 4 3 Executive directors Marjorie Scardino 6 3 Will Ethridge 6 Rona Fairhead 4 Robin Freestone 6 John Makinson 5 Non-executive directors David Arculus 6 3 4 3 Terry Burns 2 2 1 Patrick Cescau 6 4 2 3 Susan Fuhrman 6 4 3 Ken Hydon 5 4 3 3 CK Prahalad 1 1 took a temporary leave of absence due to illness.
resigned 30 April 2010. appointed to the remuneration committee effective 30 April 2010. deceased 16 April 2010.
The board values the insight it receives from witnessing first hand how our businesses are run and meeting the operating teams who run them.
It held its June board meeting in New Jersey and its October meeting in Texas, toreview and discuss the business and strategy for its operating companies located there.
