18 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 north american education Key performance IndIcators north american millions 2010 2009 Headline cer underlying growth growth growth education is pearsons Sales 2,640 2,470 7% 5% 4% largest business, with Adjusted 469 403 16% 14% 12% operating profit 2010 sales of 2.6bn US EDUCATION PUBLISHING SCHOOL AND COLLEGE SALES GROWTH VS INDUSTRY and operating profit Pearson % 10 7.7% of469m.
09 5.2% Industry % 10 4.4% Building on our roots as a leading publisher of 09 0.2 % educational materials and provider of assessment services, we have made significant investments and Pearsons total year-on-year sales growth in school and college education publishing products in the US versus the year-on-year sales growth of the change to transform Pearson into a world-leading total US industry.
provider of learning technologies for students and enterprise technologies for educational institutions.
SCHOOL PUBLISHING ADOPTION CYCLE WIN RATES These technology services including eCollege, PowerSchool, the MyLabs and Edustructures are Win rate % thebackbone of our strategy to help educators raise 10 28% student performance and institutions to become 09 37% moreeffective.
Pearsons market share by value of new business in the US adoption states.
Market share is quoted as a percentage of the total value of adoptions that we participated in.
ASSESSMENT AND INFORMATION TESTING CONTRACT WIN RATES Win rate % 10 79% 09 60% The lifetime value of US testing contracts won by Pearson this year as a percentage of the total lifetime value of competitive contracts bid for this year.
ONLINE LEARNING USERS MyLab registrations no.
10 7,322,765 09 5,551,215 The number of registrations by students to access one of our US online learning programmes.
IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 3 Our performance 19 Higher education highlights in 2010 include: assessment and Information highlights in 2010 include: The US Higher Education publishing market grew 7.3% Revenues at our Assessment and Information division in 2010, according to the Association of American were broadly level with 2009.
State funding pressures Publishers, with the industry seeing healthy enrolment made market conditions tough for our state growth and good demand for instructional materials.
assessment and teacher testing businesses: these were Pearson gained share, benefiting from its lead in offset by good growth in diagnostic and clinical technology and customisation, and has now grown assessments.
Assessment and Information achieved faster than the US higher education industry for good profit growth, benefiting from a shift to premium 12consecutive years.
products and further efficiencies generated from the integration of the Harcourt Assessment business.
amerIcas cHoIce partners in education We acquired Americas Choice to boost Pearsons services in school reform, a major focus of the US Pearsons pioneering MyLab digital learning, education department.
Americas Choice brings homework and assessment programmes grew strongly together instruction, assessment, leadership with student registrations up 32% to more than 7.3 development, professional development, coaching million.
Evaluation studies show that the use of MyLab and ongoing consulting services.
programmes can significantly improve student test scores and institutional efficiency http: bit.
ly fWPic0 We launched LearningStudio, a broad suite of learning management technologies including eCollege and Fronter.
We increased fully-online student enrolments by 54% to 8.3 million in North America.
Renewal rates remain high at approximately 90% by value.
To learn more about Americas Choice, watch our film at www.
com films 20 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 north american education continued We renewed two important contracts, extending our Pearson gained share with a strong performance from long-standing relationships with the College Board to enVisionMATH, Pearsons pioneering digital math administer the SATs and with the Texas Education curriculum.
A two-year study in elementary schools Agency to administer state-wide student assessments.
concluded that students using enVisionMath demonstrated significantly greater improvement in We continue to achieve strong growth in secure online math computation, math problem-solving and math testing, delivering 13.3 million online tests in 2010, up communication compared to students using other 41% over 2009. math programs.
In computation they jumped the Our market-leading student information systems equivalent of five grade levels in two years.
business in the US continued to achieve rapid organic growth further boosted by the acquisition of Administrative Assistants Limited in 2010.
We now support almost 16million US students, an increase of49% over 2009.
We achieved strong growth with AIMSWEB, our progress monitoring service which enables early intervention and remediation for struggling students.
AIMSWEB now supports almost four million students, an increase of more than 20%.
Successnet, our online learning platform for teachers and students which supports Pearsons digital school curriculum highlights in 2010 include: instruction, assessment and remediation programmes, The US School publishing market grew 3.2% in 2010, grew strongly.
It generated almost six million according to the Association of American Publishers.
registrations in 2010, up 33% on 2009, with the State budgets continue to be under pressure but the number of assessments taken through the system industry returned to growth, benefiting from the increasing 53% to more than eight million.
stronger new adoption opportunity this year total opportunity of $800m in 2010 against $500m in 2009.
IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 3 Our performance 21 We continue to develop digital programmes, platforms dIgIts and mobile apps to boost achievement and to increase access and affordability.
We successfully launched twice as much three major new school programmes: digits right time for teaching Writing Coach www.
com a blended digits, our digital middle school maths programme, print and online programme that helps middle and high provides powerful services for teachers including school students in writing and grammar with embedded assessment, differentation of students and personalised assignments and grading.
Studies of automation of administrative tasks.
In field tests and classes using the technology behind Writing Coach pilots, digits helped to make teachers more efficient, show significant gains in writing proficiency as doubling the amount of time they had to devote measured by district and state assessments: toinstruction.
ly i9NcId Online Learning Exchange, an open education resource that allows teachers to create personalised digital learning programmes using standards-based Pearson content as well as teacher-generated material.
com is the largest virtual world for young children in the US with average monthly unique visitors growing by 40% to 8.1 million from more than 100 countries and speaking more than 70 languages.
Poptropica launched seven new islands and was the fifth most searched-for video game on Google.
