Northumbrian Water Group Between 1997 and 2006 the Company Both were provided with additional pension sch environnement operated a restricted share Plan rsP.
the benefits under an unapproved funded severn trent final award made in september 2006 reached Supplementary Pension Scheme of the Shanks Group the end of its three-year restricted period in Company in order to bring their pension Suez Environnement September 2009 with the TSR performance benefits up to a level which would have been provided under the other schemes as if the united utilities of the Company against a comparator group Earnings Cap had not applied.
With effect being measured over the three-year period from 6 April 2006 the earnings cap no longer These are the Companys key listed sector ended on 31 March 2009 details of the RSP applied to pension schemes as part of the comparators.
and the tsr performance condition applied simplification of taxation of pensions legislation.
are set out in the notes to table b Restricted The Committee accordingly decided to provide share Plan and Performance co-investment Water Waste GrouP vesting all of the directors future service pension Plan on page 46. over this period the % of total award benefits above the earnings cap level from the Company achieved the position equivalent to Above the index Pennon Group Executive Pension Scheme.
The the 50th percentile of the comparator group Supplementary Pension Scheme was therefore 15% 50% which resulted in no shares vesting from the closed and the accrued benefits were paid out award.
For at least part of the award to have Equal to the index 15% to its members in April 2006. vested the Company would have needed to straight-line vesting in between achieve a position at least above the position the above points The pensionable pay for Executive Directors of the company at or nearest to but not consists of the highest basic salary in any above the 50th percentile position of the Below the index 0% consecutive 12-month period of service within comparator group.
For the 2004 RSP award five years of retirement.
Bonuses are not which vested in 2007, 85% of the award Up to 50% of the award will vest according included in pensionable pay.
vested and for the 2005 award which vested to the Companys ranked TSR performance in 2008, 70% of the award vested.
Any awards against the constituents of the FTSE 250 In lieu of the provision of pension benefits, which did not vest at the end of the relevant index excluding investment trusts.
This Chris Loughlin receives an annual payment Restricted Period lapsed and therefore 15% is the FTSE index to which the Company equivalent to 30% of his annual basic salary.
and 30% of the awards which vested in 2007 belonged at the time of the award.
and 2008 respectively lapsed and 100% of the In determining remuneration arrangements 2006 award lapsed in September 2009. for Executive Directors, the Committee ftse 250 GrouP vesting % of total award gives full consideration to their impact on the iv other share schemes Executive pension schemes funds and costs of providing directors are entitled to participate in the At or above the 75th percentile 50% individual pension arrangements or payments Companys Sharesave Scheme and Share Above 50th percentile 15% in lieu of pension provision.
Both are all-employee plans to which performance conditions do not apply.
straight-line vesting in between total sHareHolDer return tsr the above points v service contracts In accordance tsr At or below the 50th percentile 0% with Company policy, all Executive Directors 250 have service contracts subject to one years 200 notice.
They are due to expire when Executive In addition to this TSR condition, before any 150 directors reach their normal retirement age award is capable of vesting, the committee will of 60 unless extended by agreement between also need to be satisfied that the underlying 100 the Director and the Company.
No provision operational and economic performance of 50 is made for termination payments under the the Company is at a satisfactory level.
In the event of termination will include consideration of sustainability and by the Company of any Executive Directors environmental factors and safety performance, Pennon Group service contract, the Board would determine as well as financial performance.
ftse 250 what payments if any should be made to the director depending on the circumstances of For the first PCP awards made in August the termination.
the dates of the contracts 2007 following shareholder approval at the the graph above shows the value, over the are: Annual General Meeting in July 2007 the same five-year period ending on 31 March 2010, performance measures were used as set out of 100 invested in Pennon Group on 31 Colin Drummond 5 March 1992 above save that the sector comparator group March 2005 compared with the value of 100 David Dupont 2 January 2003 included Biffa and Kelda Group instead of invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
The other Chris Loughlin 16 May 2006 Sch and Suez.
As these companies have now points plotted are the values at intervening fide-listed, the committee in respect of the 2007 financial year-ends.
This Index is considered vi Provision for pensions colin award at the end of the three-year Restricted appropriate as it is a broad equity market drummond and david dupont participate in Period will have discretion to include them in index of which the Company has been a the Pennon Group Pension scheme and the the calculation of the index up to the date of constituent over most of the period covered.
Pennon Group Executive Pension Scheme.
fide-listing or other earlier date at its discretion these are funded defined benefit schemes and exclude them from that date onwards or the graph above has been produced in which, dependent on length of service at adopt an alternative approach.
accordance with regulations made pursuant to normal retirement date, could amount to section 421 of the companies Act 2006. two-thirds of final pensionable pay, with the Whilst the Committee intends currently to exception of service to 5 April 2006 where apply similar performance conditions to those an earnings cap applied in these schemes to set out above to any future PCP awards, they these two directors.
will be reviewed on an annual basis to ensure that they remain appropriate and suitably stretching for future awards.
Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010 | P. 43
