ABOUt OUr BUsinesses ViriDOr REGULATORY AND The Government is currently consulting on The Government introduced landfill tax COmPETITIVE ENVIRONmENT possible long-term bans on the disposal of as an incentive to divert waste away from certain types of waste to landfill.
Landfill tax applies to all waste The UK is required under the EU Landfill disposed of at a licensed landfill site, unless Directive to reduce the amount of Under the Environmental Permitting England the waste is specifically exempt, such as soil biodegradable municipal waste going to from historically contaminated sites up to and Wales Regulations 2007 all waste landfill sites to: 2012.
Landfill tax is chargeable by weight.
handling, treatment and disposal facilities For inert waste, landfill tax was chargeable previously operating under either a waste 75% of 1995 level by 2010 at 2.50 per tonne from 1 April 2008 and management licence or a Pollution Prevention 50% of 1995 level by 2013 this has been frozen to 2010 11.
A standard and Control PPC permit require an 35% of 1995 level by 2020. rate of 48 per tonne applies to all other Environmental Permit.
taxable waste up from 32 in 2008 09 The Pre-Treatment Regulations 2007 which is due to rise by a further 8 per PLANNING FOR WASTE AND require all waste going to landfill to have tonne per annum to reach a level of 80 per RECYCLING INFRASTRUCTURE undergone some form of pre-treatment tonne in 2014 15.
All waste management facilities, including the including recycling.
development and expansion of landfill sites, In order to meet the requirements of are subject to planning permission from the At the same time the Government has the Landfill Directive, individual local relevant local authority.
Major facilities such set targets in England for recycling and authorities have also been set statutory as EfW plants above 50 MW must receive composting of municipal waste to increase targets for the diversion of biodegradable consent from the relevant Secretary of State.
from the current level of around 35% municipal waste from landfill.
Each waste to 40% by 2010, 45% by 2015 and 50% disposal authority has been allocated an Viridor believes that good environmental by 2020.
Higher targets are in place for allowance of the amount of biodegradable and operational management is important some of the devolved administrations.
The waste it may dispose of to landfill for the to winning future planning consents.
It has Government is promoting recycling by years 2005 to 2020.
These allowances are now implemented its integrated Business various measures including encouraging designed to ensure that the UK as a whole Management System incorporating externally councils to provide separate collection of achieves the requirements of the EU Landfill accredited environmental, quality and health recyclables which enhances the recycling Directive.
Subject to some constraints, and safety management standards ISO 14001, rate obtainable at MRFs.
There are specific local authorities can carry forward or trade ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001. targets for recycling of all packaging with allowances under the Landfill Allowance financial incentives in the form of Packaging Trading Scheme LATS.
Any authority Planning applications are subject to rigorous Recovery Notes PRNs and Packaging exceeding its allocation without such an assessment by local authorities who Export Recovery Notes PERNs.
Specific allowance faces a penalty of 150 per will consider them against the backdrop regulations affect waste electrical and tonne in addition to the cost of disposing of policies contained within the local electronic equipment WEEE which has its of the waste.
This is expected to result in development plan framework which have own system of Evidence Notes.
the introduction of alternative treatment been adopted for their areas.
Applications and disposal processes at higher cost than have to address a wide range of issues current routes.
and the relevant regulators are statutory consultees in this process.
Viridors growth strategy is focussed on recovering value from waste through recycling and generation of renewable energy P. 22 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW INTEGRATED mUNICIPAL WASTE WASTE REGULATION This premium relates to the balance mANAGEmENT CONTRACTS AND ENVIRONmENT between actual UK output and target UK THE ROLE OF PRIVATE FINANCE EU Directives and related UK legislation, output.
At present the UK is behind target INITIATIVES OR PUBLIC PRIVATE as well as planning and licensing, have been and many believe it will remain so for some PARTNERSHIPS referred to previously.
In addition, ROO 2009 To assist in meeting their landfill diversion has introduced a mechanism so that such targets, many local authorities are seeking to The Environment Agency EA and the headroom will be maintained.
Eligibility for let integrated waste management contracts Scottish Environment Protection Agency ROCs is governed by complex rules.
Landfill covering a range of activities often including SEPA monitor performance against gas, anaerobic digestion AD and certain household waste recycling sites HWRS, permit and licence conditions and general other waste technologies including good composting, recycling and recovery, EfW, waste environmental law.
Major breaches are quality CHP such as the planned Runcorn transfer and bulk transport and final disposal.
The EA and SEPA EfW CHP plant are eligible.
can also require the operator to In a number of instances these will be financed undertake upgrades to ensure future A recent change in RO in 2009 was the under PFI arrangements where local authorities compliance and, where a pollution incident introduction of the banding of ROCs.
The apply to the Government for the funding of or permit or licence breach has occurred, impact of this change is that all landfill gas capital projects which fall within the eligibility remedial action.
projects accredited by 1 April 2009 will criteria.
Successful applicants receive cash continue to receive one ROC per Megawatt funds known as PFI credits which do not Waste facilities are also subject to the same hour.
This will also apply to any additional have to be repaid and can be used by the local regulations as other industries, including capacity provided it is commissioned by authorities to fund a proportion of the capital health and safety, Control of Substances 1 April 2011.
Those accredited after that and operating expenditures needed for projects.
Hazardous to Health CoSHH and the date will only receive 25% of one ROC.
In addition the Viridor ensured that the vast majority of Councils may also choose to let long-term transport of waste and recycled materials is its potential capacity was appropriately contracts using PPP arrangements.
Under this subject to specific regulation and controls.
In addition they avoid the complexities of securing PFI certain technologies such as AD have been credits.
Viridor considers that the operational RENEWABLES OBLIGATION RO incentivised with double ROCs.
Viridor is nature of the contract is very similar whether ORDER 2009 ROO 2009 pursuing a number of AD opportunities and it is a PFI or a PPP.
Under the RO the Government has a target has currently secured six planning consents.
to generate 10% of UK electricity usage Viridor has been operating a 25-year PFI from renewables by 2010, and 15% by 2015 37% of Viridors landfill gas power contract with West Sussex County Council compared with around 6% generation from generation output is under NFFO schemes.
since 2004, and a 25-year PPP contract with renewables at present.
The EU has set the These contracts are due to end in tranches Somerset County Council since 2006.
In UK a target of 15% of total energy, including over the next six years after which the early April 2009 the Viridor Laing consortium heating, transport and other energy output can transfer to the RO.
Prior to reached financial close for the 25-year Greater uses, to be generated from renewables.
the RO renewable energy generation was Manchester PFI waste and renewable energy This potentially equates to over 30% of incentivised under the NFFO.
Under this, contract, the largest of its kind in the UK.
electricity from renewables in the UK.
users of relevant technologies could sell their output on medium long fixed price Viridor recognises that there is a range of risks Production of renewable energy is contracts rising in line with inflation.
The associated with entering into such contracts, incentivised under the RO whereby overall price per MWh achievable under which are often for a 25-year term.
However, renewable energy generators get a premium NFFO contracts is lower than that currently subject to a careful assessment of the risks on for the Renewables Obligation Certificate received under the RO.
a contract-by-contract basis, the company will ROC in addition to the underlying brown continue seeking to secure such contracts.
energy price for their production.
44% of Viridors profit now comes from recovering value from waste PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 | P. 23
