DIRECTORS REmunERaTIOn REpORT PurPose remuneration PoliCy the directors remuneration report is designed to provide for the Last year the Remuneration Committee reported that it would benefit of shareholders details of: undertake a review of Remuneration Policy in September 2009.
Having undertaken this review with advice from Towers Perrin the Committee the role of the Remuneration Committee concluded that the current policy remained appropriate.
This policy which will be applied in 2010 11, and is also currently intended to be the Groups Remuneration Policy applied in each subsequent year, is to provide for Executive Directors Directors remuneration a remuneration package which is adequate to attract, retain and remuneration disclosures required by the Directors Remuneration motivate good quality executives and which is commensurate with report regulations which are audited.
the remuneration packages provided by companies of similar size and complexity.
The key guiding principles of this policy are to: The Company understands investors concerns relating to executive design an overall package to be competitive and to take account of director remuneration and, whilst focus has been on the financial the markets in which the Groups businesses operate sector primarily, it is fully recognised that there is a need for other support the overarching business strategy for the Group sectors to reflect this concern in their remuneration policies and overall remuneration practice.
This is why last year, despite the adopt incentive arrangements designed to reward performance Groups businesses being well positioned in the economic slowdown, and align the interests of the Executive Directors with those of the remuneration committee decided not to increase salaries for shareholders Executive Directors beyond those set in 2008. reinforce the incentive element of the package by maintaining base salaries for Executive Directors at the relevant market median remuneration Committee have a remuneration package which is fair and consistent with the remuneration committee of the Board comprises three other companies in the sector and which provides incentives for Non-executive Directors who are all regarded by the Company as outperformance.
Martin Angle is the chairman of the committee and the other two members are Gerard connell and dinah nichols.
The policy in respect of Non-executive Directors fees is set out on the committees terms of reference is available from the Group page 44 in the Non-executive Directors remuneration section.
Company Secretary and can be found on the Companys website pennon-group.
co. uk It includes: In setting executive remuneration the Remuneration Committee not only takes account of employment market conditions, but seeks to advising the Board on the framework of executive remuneration for ensure that there are coherent pay and benefit structures across the the Group Group which are consistent with the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and Senior Management.
From summary reports determining the remuneration and terms of engagement of the on workforce remuneration and terms and conditions of employment Chairman, the Executive Directors and Senior Management of by the Executive Directors with regard to their respective business the Group.
areas, the Committee has regard to the general levels of responsibility, qualifications and experience required throughout the Group in No Director or any other attendee participates in any discussion on, or setting salary and other benefits of the Executive Directors and Senior determination of, his or her own remuneration.
the committee also ensures the incentive structures do not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently During the year the Committee met on seven occasions and received motivating irresponsible behaviour.
A number of individual performance advice or services which materially assisted the Committee in the objectives specifically relate to achieving non-financial targets.
consideration of remuneration matters from Ken Harvey, Chairman of the Company, and from the following advisors who were appointed The balance between maximum performance-related remuneration directly by the Committee: receivable and direct remuneration ie.
excluding pensions, car benefit Ken Woodier, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary on and health cover is the same as last year with one-third direct and remuneration and share scheme matters.
He also provides legal two-thirds performance-related.
This is expected to continue for the advice and company secretarial services to the Company foreseeable future.
The Company also has a Shareholding Guideline Hewitt Associates Limited, pensions and remuneration consultants, which applies to Executive Directors and Senior Management.
It is on calculating total shareholder return for the Companys Restricted structured to demonstrate their commitment to the future success Share Plan now replaced by the Companys Performance & of the Group.
Executive Directors are expected to build up their co-investment Plan.
Hewitt also provide actuarial and investment shareholding over a five-year period to a value which is at least pensions advice to the trustees of the Groups Pension schemes equivalent to their basic annual salary.
Towers Perrin Limited now Towers Watson Limited, remuneration consultants, who undertook a review of the Groups remuneration policy and practice for the Committee during the year.
remuneration of exeCutive DireCtors Below is an outline of the total remuneration package for Executive Directors.
fixed variable Performance-related Base Salary short-term Annual Long-term 3 years Pension Final Salary Defined Annual Incentive Bonus Plan - Maximum 100% of Performance and co-investment Plan PcP Benefit or cash alternative basic salary with 50% paid in cash and 50% in shares future performance over 3 years deferred for 3 years other car benefit and Assessed against corporate financial performance 50% linked to water and waste comparator group health cover and individual personal achievements relating to a and 50% linked to relative FTSE 250 with an underpin range of operational and compliance targets.
relating to operational and economic performance.
Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010 | P. 41
