Other stAtUtOry inFOrmAtiOn PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDEND The holders of the Companys shares are BUSINESS REVIEW Statutory Group profit on ordinary activities entitled to receive the Companys reports The principal activities of the Company after taxation was 139.5 million.
The and accounts and in relation to general and its subsidiaries the Group are the Directors recommend a final dividend of meetings of the Company they have the provision of water and sewerage services, 15.60p per ordinary share to be paid to right to attend and speak, exercise voting shareholders on the register on 13 August waste management, recycling and renewable rights and appoint proxies: 2010, making a total dividend for the year of energy.
Information regarding the Group, 22.55p, the cost of which will be 79.6 million, including events and its progress during the b there are no restrictions on the transfer leaving a credit to reserves of 59.9 million.
year, events since the year-end and likely future of issued shares of the Company or on the The Business Review on pages 4 and 5 and developments is contained in the Business exercise of voting rights attached to them, 28 to 30 analyses the Groups financial results Review set out on pages 2 to 37 of this except where the Company has exercised in more detail and sets out other financial Directors report.
its right to suspend their voting rights or to information, including the Directors opinion prohibit their transfer following the omission In addition the Business Review contains a fair on asset values on page 28. of their holder or any person interested and balanced review of the business of the in them to provide the Company with DIRECTORS Group, including its position and prospects, Key information requested by it in accordance Gerard Connell and Chris Loughlin are due to Performance Indicators and a description of with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 retire at the AGM on 29 July 2010 and offer the principal risks and uncertainties facing the or where their holder is precluded from themselves up for re-election.
In addition, in Group in accordance with the requirements exercising voting rights by the Financial accordance with best practice as set out in of the Combined Code and Section 417 of the Services Authoritys Listing Rules or the City the Combined Code, Ken Harvey continues Companies Act 2006.
In addition in accordance Code on Takeovers and Mergers: to offer himself up for re-election annually as with the ABI Corporate Social Responsibility he has been a Director for over nine years.
Guidelines, statements are included on any c details of significant direct or indirect holdings The Board continues to believe that Gerard significant environmental, social and governance of securities of the Company are set out in Connell, as a Non-executive Director standing ESG risks and the actions taken in mitigating the shareholder analysis on page 110: for re-election is independent, and that he these risks within the Business Review on makes an effective and valuable contribution pages 21, 26, 27, 30 and 31.
Further information d the Companys rules about the appointment to the Board, demonstrating continued on ESG aspects of the Groups business are and replacement of Directors are contained commitment to the role.
Ken Harvey and included in the Corporate Responsibility Report in the Articles and accord with usual English Gerard Connell do not have service contracts.
The principal subsidiaries Ken Harvey does have a contract for services Directors are determined by UK legislation of the Company are listed in Note 39 to the which is terminable upon 12 months notice.
and the Articles in force from time to time.
Chris Loughlin has a service contract which Changes to the Articles must be approved is due to expire in three years time, being CORPORATE GOVERNANCE by the Companys shareholders by passing a upon his normal retirement date.
Resolutions STATEmENTS special resolution: for the above Directors re-election will The following disclosures are made pursuant to be proposed at the AGM.
The Directors Part 6 of Schedule 7 of the Large and Mediume the Directors have the power to make biographies are set out on page 40. purchases of the Companys own shares in sized Companies and Groups Accounts & issue as set out in the section on page 39 Reports Regulations 2008 and Rule 7.2.
R No Director has, or has had, a material Purchase of Own Ordinary Shares.
No of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure interest, directly or indirectly, at any time such purchases have been made during the and Transparency Rules DTR.
The further during the year under review in any contract year.
The Directors also have the authority information required by DTR 7.2 is set out in significant to the Companys business.
A list to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal the Companys Corporate Governance and of all the Directors during the year is set out value of 30,448,075 which was approved Internal Control Report set out on pages 49 in the emoluments table on page 44.
Further by shareholders at the 2009 Annual General to 52 of this Annual Report which is hereby details relating to the Directors and their Meeting AGM.
In addition, shareholders included within this Directors Report by service agreements or contracts for services approved a resolution giving the Directors reference.
are set out on pages 43 and 44 and details a limited authority to allot shares for cash of the Directors interests in shares of the As at 31 March 2010: other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
Company are given on pages 45 to 48.
These resolutions remain valid until the a details of the Companys issued share conclusion of this years AGM.
Similar capital, which consists of ordinary shares of DIRECTORS INSURANCE AND resolutions will be proposed at this years nominal value 40.7 pence each, are set out INDEmNITIES AGM.
The Directors have no present in Note 32 to the financial statements on The Directors have the benefit of the intention to issue ordinary shares other than pages 97 to 99.
All of the Companys issued indemnity provisions contained in the persuant to the Companys Scrip Dividend shares are fully paid up, rank equally in all Companys Articles and the Company has Alternative: and respects and are listed on the Official List maintained throughout the year Directors and and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Officers liability insurance for the benefit of f there are a number of agreements which The rights and obligations attaching to the the Company, the Directors and its Officers.
take effect, alter or terminate upon Companys shares, in addition to those The Company has entered into qualifying a change of control of the Company conferred on their holders by law, are set third party indemnity arrangements for the following a takeover bid, such as bank loan out in the Companys Articles of Association benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope agreements, Eurobond documentation, Articles, copies of which can be obtained which comply with the requirements of the private placement debt and employees from Companies House in the UK or by Companies Act 2006 and which was in force share plans.
None of these is considered writing to the Company Secretary at the throughout the year and remains in force.
to be significant in terms of their Companys registered office.
potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
P. 38 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW STATEmENT AS TO DISCLOSURE These forums, together with regular meetings APPOINTED BUSINESS OF INFORmATION TO AUDITORS with particular groups of employees, are used South West Water Limited is required a So far as each of the Directors in office to ensure that employees are kept up to date to publish additional financial information at the date of the signing of the report is with the operating and financial performance relating to the appointed business as water aware, there is no relevant audit information of their employer.
and sewerage undertaker in accordance of which the Companys auditors are with the Instrument of Appointment from unaware: and The Group also uses a monthly information the Secretary of State for the Environment.
cascade process to provide employees A copy of this information will be available b each of the Directors has taken all the with important and up to date information from 15 July 2010 upon application to the steps each Director ought to have taken about key events and to receive feedback Company Secretary at Peninsula House, Rydon individually as a director in order to make from employees.
Lane, Exeter Ex2 7HR or on the website themselves aware of any relevant audit southwestwater.
co. uk information and to establish that the Further information about employment Companys auditors are aware of that matters relating to the Group are set out on ANNUAL GENERAL mEETING information.
pages 18-20, 24 and 35 of the Business Review.
The twenty-first Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Sandy Park RESPONSIBILITY STATEmENTS The Group encourages share ownership Conference Centre, Sandy Park Way, Exeter, Each of the Directors, whose names and amongst its employees by operating an HM Devon Ex2 7NN on 29 July 2010 at 11.00am.
In functions are listed on page 40, confirms Revenue & Customs HMRC approved addition to routine business, resolutions will be that, to the best of each persons knowledge Sharesave Scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
proposed at the Annual General Meeting to: and belief: At 31 March 2010 around 36% of the Groups employees participated in these plans.
renew the existing authorities to issue a a the financial statements, prepared in limited number of shares with updating accordance with International Financial RESEARCH AND DEVELOPmENT to accord with the latest institutional Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by Research and development activities within the guidelines and the Companies Act 2006 the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, Group involving water and waste treatment and to purchase up to 10% of the issued liabilities, financial position and profit of the processes amounted to 0.2 million during the share capital of the Company Group and of the Company: and year 2008 09 0.2 million.
seek authority to make political donations under the Political Parties, Elections and b this Directors Report includes a fair review PENNON GROUP DONATIONS Referendums Act 2000, as amended.
It of the development and performance of the During the year donations amounting to is not the Groups policy to make political business and position of the Company and 63,609 2008 09 74,781 were made.
This is a precautionary measure the Group, together with a description of the Further details are included on page 36 of the which is followed by many companies to principal risks and uncertainties they face.
No political donations were ensure that there is no inadvertent breach made 2008 09 Nil.
of the law The Directors are responsible for the re-elect Mr K G Harvey, Mr G D Connell maintenance and integrity of the Companys TAx STATUS and Mr C Loughlin as Directors of the website pennon-group.
co. uk Legislation in The Company is not a close company within Company the United Kingdom governing the preparation the meaning of the Income and Corporation adopt new Articles of Association.
This is and dissemination of financial statements may Taxes Act 1988. proposed principally to bring the Articles up differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
to date in accordance with the provisions of PAYmENTS TO SUPPLIERS the Companies Act 2006 which are all now FINANCIAL INSTRUmENTS It is the Groups payment policy for the in force and include changes to the limits Details of the financial risk management year ending 31 March 2011 to follow the set out in the existing Articles relating to objectives and policies of the Group and Code of The Better Payment Practice Directors fees the exposure of the Group to price, credit, Group on supplier payments.
Information increase the Companys borrowing 1 liquidity and cash flow risks are set out in the about the Code can be obtained from power from 2 to 3 times capital and 2 Business Review on page 31. the website payontime.
co. uk The reserves and amend the definition of Company will agree payment terms with capital and reserves to exclude therefrom EmPLOYmENT POLICIES AND individual suppliers in advance and abide the impact of market price movements EmPLOYEE INVOLVEmENT by such terms.
The ratio, expressed in on the accounting treatment of financial The Group has a culture of continuous days, between the amount invoiced to the derivatives to which the Company is a improvement through investment in people Company by its suppliers during 2009 10 party as set out in the Companys Articles at all levels within the Group.
The Group is and the amount owed to its trade creditors seek authority to continue to call general committed to pursuing equality and diversity at 31 March 2010, was 34 days.
meetings other than an annual general in all its employment activities including meeting on not less than 14 clear days recruitment, training, career development PURCHASE OF OWN notice pursuant to the EU Shareholder and promotion and ensuring there is no bias ORDINARY SHARES Rights Directive effective in August 2009, or discrimination in the treatment of people.
The Company has authority from shareholders shareholder authority is required to In particular, applications for employment to purchase up to 10% of its own ordinary continue to call meetings on at least 14 clear are welcomed from persons with disabilities shares as renewed at the AGM in 2009 days notice.
and special arrangements and adjustments which was valid as at 31 March 2010 and Details of the resolutions are set out in the as necessary are made to ensure that remains currently valid.
Of the 5,724,131 separate Notice of Annual General Meeting applicants are treated fairly when attending shares held in Treasury at 31 March 2009, which is circulated to shareholders with this for interview or for pre-employment aptitude 631,557 were subsequently re-issued under Annual Report or provided by electronic tests.
Wherever possible, the opportunity is the Companys Sharesave Scheme for communication via the Companys website taken to retrain people who become disabled proceeds of 1.9 million.
co. uk Information required during their employment in order to maintain by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is their employment within the Group.
AUDITORS also on the Companys website.
 LLP were Employees are consulted regularly about appointed auditors until the conclusion of By Order of the Board changes which may affect them either the twenty-first Annual General Meeting.
A KEN WOODIER, through their trade union appointed resolution for their re-appointment upon the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary representatives or by means of the elected recommendation of the Audit Committee of Staff Council which operates in South West the Board will be proposed at the AGM.
24 June 2010 Water for staff employees.
PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 | P. 39
