ViriDOr Viridor profits grew strongly in 2009 10 as it continued to expand its resource management activities This reflects our focussed strategy of: COLIN DRUmmOND capitalising on our strong position in landfill waste disposal CHIEF ExECUTIVE proactively developing new recycling operations to meet ambitious VIRIDOR LImITED EU UK targets successfully exploiting the huge potential in waste-based renewable energy generation.
Further detail on the climate change and environmental drivers behind governments policies and Viridors strategy is given in the sections on CHIEF ExECUTIVES OVERVIEW main trends and business and strategy on pages 14 and 15. iridor is one of the UKs leading waste management, recycling FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS and renewable energy companies.
Over the past 10 years we Viridor traded very strongly in 2009 10, building further on the Vhave evolved from waste collection and disposal into a more growth achieved over the past eight years.
Revenue was up 18.7% broadly based resource recovery business with major activities in 98.5 million to 626.5 million, of which acquisitions accounted for recycling and waste-based renewable energy generation.
At the same 89.7 million and existing business 8.8 million including landfill tax time we have increased our profits at an average rate of over 20% of 6.3 million.
PBITA plus joint ventures per annum since 2001.
Over 40% of our profit contribution now comes from recovering value from waste.
Viridors earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of intangibles EBITDA rose 9.1% from 105.2 million to 114.8 We have core competencies in landfill disposal, recycling and wastemillion.
Profit before interest, tax and amortisation of intangibles based renewable energy generation.
The company operates materials PBITA for the year increased by 15.1% 9.6 million to 73.1 recycling facilities MRFs, waste transfer stations, treatment plants, million, compared with 63.5 million in 2008 09. household waste recycling sites HWRS, composting facilities, landfills and renewable energy generation facilities in most regions of the UK and With the commencement of the Greater Manchester and Lakeside has a collection fleet focussed on the industrial and commercial market.
projects, joint ventures now account for a significant part of Viridors profits 4.2 million in 2009 10 and we now focus on Continuing developments in the UKs waste management and PBITA plus joint ventures as a key performance indicator.
We profit renewable energy policies, driven by climate change and environmental from our joint ventures both via interest on shareholder loans awareness, create major opportunities for Viridor.
and via share of the joint ventures profit after tax PAT.
PBITA plus joint ventures grew by 19% in 2009 10 and has grown by a In 2009 10 Viridor delivered another year of very strong profit growth compound rate of 22% since 2001. despite the difficult economic conditions in the UK and worldwide.
At the same time we progressed various major strategic initiatives, Profit before tax PBT at 55.4 million was up 34.8% on the previous including in particular the Greater Manchester waste and renewable year and has grown at a compound rate of 19% since 2001.
Capital energy project the largest of its kind in the UK and the Lakeside expenditure for the year was 46.6 million 2008 09 84.0 million Energy from Waste EfW plant, both of which commenced profitable and we invested 30.8 million in our Greater Manchester, Runcorn operations.
We also completed the acquisition of two further recycling Combined Heat and Power CHP and Lakeside joint ventures.
These and other initiatives are expected to enhance our business significantly in future years.
P. 12 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW PBITA PLUS JOINT VENTURES, PBT AND RETURN ON EQUITY PBITA plus joint ventures which contributed from 2008 and PBT are key overall measures of Viridors performance and are set out in the table below for the ten-year period 2001 to 2010.
The table also sets out the Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR for these measures, being the rate of growth between 2001 and 2010 expressed as a single annual average figure over the period.
Return on equity is also a key measure of Viridors performance and is calculated as PBT expressed as a percentage of Pennon Groups equity investment in Viridor 252 million at 31 March 2010.
In 2009 10 landfill accounted for 31% and landfill gas power generation 28% of Viridors profit contribution, compared with the previous years 45% and 25% respectively.
Recycling accounted for 16% last year 16% and contracts grew to 15% from 3% in the previous year whilst joint ventures accounted for 4% last year 2%.
In total 44% of Viridors profits come from recovering value in waste either by power generation or recycling.
FINANCIAL YEAR 2009 10 FINANCIAL YEAR 2008 09 JVs 4% Contracts and other 3% JVs 2% Contracts and other 15% Collection 9% Recycling 16% Recycling 16% Collection 6% Power generation 25% Landfill 31% Power generation 28% Landfill 45% LANDFILL capacity brought on in late 2008 09.
All of the output increase was Total landfill disposal volumes decreased by 0.7 million tonnes 15% accredited for full ROCs in advance of the banding change.
Viridors to 3.9 million tonnes in the year.
Approximately 0.2 million tonnes average revenues per Megawatt hour MWh grew by 21% to of this was due to landfill closures, as reported last year.
The bulk of approaching 90 reflecting the growth in the proportion of output the remaining reduction was in third party industrial and commercial eligible for Renewables Obligation Certificates ROCs.
Taking volumes which were heavily impacted by the general weakness in advantage of favourable market conditions in May 2008, Viridor sold the UK economy.
Average revenue per tonne increased by 1.1% to forward the brown element of its ROC-able electricity to March 2010 approaching 22 per tonne 3.1% like for like excluding site closures.
Current power generation prices are significantly Consented landfill void reduced from 81 million cubic metres at 31 circa 30 per MWh lower.
This will materially affect power generation March 2009 to 77 million cubic metres at 31 March 2010, reflecting 1.2 segment performance for 2010 11. million cubic metres planning gains and usage during the period of 4.8 million cubic metres.
At 31 March 2010 Viridors landfill gas power generation capacity was 100 Megawatts MW including a small amount of sub-contract LANDFILL GAS capacity.
At 31 March 2010 63% of Viridors power generating Viridors landfill gas power generation output increased by a further 10% capacity was eligible for ROCs and 37% for the Non Fossil Fuel to 555 Gigawatt hours GWh during the year particularly reflecting Obligation NFFO.
CONSENTED LANDFILL VOID POWER GENERATION CAPACITY As at 31 March 2010 Viridor had a consented void capacity of 77 Electricity generated is sold to electricity suppliers, usually under NFFO million cubic metres.
contracts or under shorter term contracts with ROCs.
As at 31 March 2010 Viridor had 100 MW of operational landfill gas generating capacity which is virtually the same as the previous year.
These figures exclude 3 MW of sub-contract capacity in Suffolk.
In addition there is 27.5 MW of energy from waste combustion capacity Bolton and 50% of Lakeside.
130 90 120 KPi KPi 85 110 100 80 90 80 75 70 60 70 50 As at 31 march As at 31 march PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 | P. 13 million cubic metres of void space 87 2005 2006 90 2007 84 2008 81 77 2009 Capacity mW 61 2005 75 2006 2007 84 2008 101 2009 128 RECYCLING PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS AND PRIVATE The UK is required under the EU Landfill Directive to reduce the FINANCE INITIATIVES amount of biodegradable municipal waste going to landfill sites.
To meet Public Private Partnership PPP and Private Finance Initiative PFI the requirements of the Landfill Directive the UK Government uses contracts are a key part of Viridors strategy.
landfill tax as a price mechanism.
At the same time the Government has set clear targets for the recycling of household waste, and Financial close on the Greater Manchester Waste PFI 25-year contract local authorities must also implement strategies for the diversion was achieved on 8 April 2009.
It is the UKs largest ever combined waste of biodegradable municipal waste away from landfill.
The former and renewable energy project, managing 1.3 million tonnes of waste per Chancellors Budget announcement on 24 March 2010, continuing the year.
The total potential energy generation will be approaching 140 MW increase in landfill tax of 8 a year from 48 per tonne currently to 80 from Phases I and II of the Runcorn plant, the four anaerobic digesters per tonne in 2014 15, will further enhance the long-term economics of ADs and the existing Bolton Energy from Waste EfW plant.
In general, recyclate costs are typically significantly lower than the cost of using virgin materials for manufacturers.
The PFI is a joint venture between Viridor and John Laing Infrastructure.
Operation of the associated facilities is being carried out As reported last year recyclate prices were high in the first half of on a sub-contract basis by Viridor.
In October 2009 it was confirmed 2008 09 and low in the second half, reflecting the prevailing general that all required facilities planned for development had received world economic conditions.
Since then recyclate prices have recovered, planning permission.
At 31 March 2010 of these 42 facilities 22 had been ending the year at around the peak levels seen in early 2008 09. completed and handed over to Viridor to operate.
Viridors recycling traded volumes grew 3.5% to a little over 1.4 million tonnes, with an improved recyclate mix.
Recyclate prices have Associated with the Greater Manchester PFI is an EfW CHP facility continued to strengthen since the year-end but are expected to ease Runcorn Phase I which is a three-way joint venture between Ineos back later in the year.
Chlor, Viridor and John Laing Infrastructure.
Planning permission was achieved by Ineos Chlor for both phases of the EfW CHP plant at In June 2009 Viridor acquired London Recycling Limited for a cash Runcorn in September 2008 and construction of the first phase has consideration of 10.6 million, plus debt acquired of 1.5 million.
Total capital expenditure for the Greater Manchester its headquarters in East London, the business comprises a full range of PFI is projected to be 405 million with an additional 235 million for recycling operations including a fleet of collection vehicles, a WEEE the associated EfW CHP plant Runcorn Phase I. Viridors funding facility, paper processing, confidential material destruction, a MRF and contribution will be 85 million.
In addition we have secured all of the a waste auditing facility.
It handles approximately 50,000 tonnes of rights to Phase II of the planned EfW CHP facility at Runcorn.
London Recycling has had a good track record will be targeted at the North West market more generally and is a over recent years in providing essential recycling services to businesses significant upside to the initial project given rising landfill tax and the in the capital and has an excellent geographic and business fit with shortage of competing capacity in the North West.
Viridors operations in the South East of England.
In addition to the above contracts we continue to bid selectively for Plastics in particular are a significant and growing part of Viridors other projects.
We are the preferred bidder for the Oxfordshire PPP recycling business and in July 2009 Viridor acquired Intercontinental and one of the last two for the Cheshire PFI and the South West Devon Recycling Limited for a cash consideration of 4.2 million, plus Waste Partnership.
We are one of the last three for the Peterborough debt acquired of 3.9 million.
Based in Skelmersdale, Lancashire, EfW and MRF contracts and one of four still in the bidding for the the company processes High Density Polyethylene HDPE and Gloucestershire PFI and South London Waste Partnership contracts.
Polyethylene Terephthalate PET plastic bottles, such as are recovered Most of these projects include renewable energy.
It converts the bottles to pellet or flake for sale to plastic product manufacturers, mostly within the UK.
The plant mAIN TRENDS AND FACTORS LIKELY TO AFFECT THE has the capacity to treat 40,000 tonnes of plastics waste per annum.
FUTURE DEVELOPmENT, PERFORmANCE AND POSITION Intercontinental Recycling also has a good geographic and business OF THE COmPANYS BUSINESS fit with Viridors existing operations and is particularly well-placed to The waste management and renewable energy business is heavily receive volumes from the Greater Manchester Waste PFI.
influenced by environmental and climate change considerations and associated Government policies.
Our CONTRACTS belief is that being green is good for business, as is demonstrated by the Contracts profits were well ahead with continued good performance companys financial performance.
from the West Sussex PFI and 10 other municipal contracts.
The sludge contracts business which performed poorly in the second half Government policies are designed in the first instance to minimise the of 2008 09 was back in profit.
There was also a significant contribution amount of waste generated, then to maximise reuse and recycling, from the Greater Manchester Waste PFI sub-contract.
followed by treatment and energy recovery via EfW facilities and other technologies.
This is underpinned by final safe disposal in landfills.
The Government is implementing the EU Landfill Directive and reducing the amount of waste to go to landfill.
This Directive was a response in part to methane emissions from landfills, although in fact the bulk of this in the UK is now captured for renewable energy generation.
Continued strong growth in PBT P. 14 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW Government targets of diverting municipal This is likely to put particular pressure on the most competitive renewable projects waste away from landfill up to 2020 are leading local councils budgets and may result in their in five tranches of bidding.
In April 2002 to a decline in the landfill market.
However, delaying new major waste PPPs PFIs or in the NFFO regime was replaced by the with only around six or seven years consented seeking other ways to reduce their waste Renewables Obligation RO regime.
Under capacity in the UK as a whole according to management costs.
the RO, eligible generators receive the brown Environment Agency estimates and with energy price plus the value of the associated new consents difficult to achieve, Viridors BUSINESS AND STRATEGY Renewables Obligation Certificate as 77 million cubic metres is regarded as a very Our strategy is to deliver strong growth and described on page 23. valuable resource, with 15 years average add value by: capacity available at current rates of fill.
The overall price for electricity supplied capitalising on our strong position in landfill under the RO regime is currently substantially At the same time it is increasingly recognised waste disposal higher than that achieved under the most that waste is a major renewable energy proactively developing new recycling recent NFFO scheme.
This has facilitated the source, accounting for approximately 25% operations to meet ambitious EU UK increase of Viridors total landfill gas power of the current UKs renewable energy or targets generation capacity to 100 MW at 31 March roughly 1.5% of the total UKs electricity successfully exploiting the huge potential in 2010, compared with 27 MW in March 2002. production.
1.2% of this comes from landfill waste-based renewable energy generation.
Of this power generation capacity, 63% gas utilisation, which has grown by 600% over is under the RO regime and 37% is under the past 10 years, and 0.3% from energy from Viridors landfill market consists of municipal, NFFO.
Viridors existing NFFO contracts end waste combustion.
As the energy produced commercial and industrial wastes, along with in tranches over the next six years after which from waste is a product of waste treatment, certain other special types of waste.
Landfill the capacity can transfer to ROCs.
it is effectively low cost.
Unlike certain other is currently the major final disposal route for renewables it provides baseload power which these wastes.
To take advantage of opportunities presented is distributed around the grid typically close by the Governments developing waste to where energy is required.
Viridor is a major landfill site operator within strategy, Viridor is pursuing EfW schemes the UK with a total consented landfill capacity detailed below including, where feasible, There is scope for a major increase in of approximately 77 million cubic metres as CHP and a range of recycling or related the amount of energy recovered from at 31 March 2010.
Viridor is at present filling treatment opportunities, including materials waste in the UK particularly in EfW this at a rate of around five million cubic recycling facilities,  facilities especially with CHP as well as in metres per annum, which results in an average treatment, anaerobic digestion, composting developing technologies such as Anaerobic remaining life of 15 years at current rates of and household waste recycling sites.
Viridor estimates that waste fill, which is significantly longer than for the facilities may be combined in integrated waste could account for 6% of UK electricity industry as a whole.
production by 2015 if planning barriers could be addressed, and has called upon the UK Gas produced from decomposing waste on Viridor is pursuing possible long-term EfW Government to set this as a target.
landfill sites is increasingly used to generate opportunities, including proposals in Cardiff electricity.
It is a form of renewable energy which received planning permission in June The need for councils to avoid steeply and now represents 1.2% of the UKs total 2010, Avonmouth, Dunbar and Oxfordshire increasing landfill tax and to achieve their electricity generation.
EfW represents which have had planning permission turned landfill diversion targets creates attractive a further 0.3% according to Defra.
The down locally and are being appealed, and near opportunities for PFI PPP and other contracts.
Governments stated strategy is to increase Plymouth.
Construction of the consented Examples include Viridors contracts with the percentage of electricity generated Exeter EFW plant is expected to start West Sussex, Somerset, Greater Manchester from all renewable sources from the during 2010 11. and the South London Waste Partnership, current figure of around 5% to a target of facilities such as the Lakeside EfW plant and 10% in 2010 and 15% in 2015.
Viridor has In pursuing its strategy, Viridor seeks to grow the Runcorn EfW CHP plants, recycling called on the Government to set a target its recycling, renewable energy and waste operations such as those of Viridor Resource of 6% of electricity to be generated from management business, both organically and Management and our electrical goods and glass waste sources by 2015.
The UK has an EU through acquisition.
It has continued to be an active participant in the consolidation of recycling services.
target of generating 15% of total energy the UK waste market to date and, between from renewable sources by 2020, which October 2001 and March 2010, has made 17 Whilst the long-term trends in favour of is likely to require over 30% of electricity acquisitions in the waste sector for an aggregate Viridors business are very positive, the to be generated from renewable sources.
These weakness of the UK economy is having a Historically, renewable energy projects were businesses have now been integrated into the significant effect on waste volumes and power supported by the Government through Viridor group.
It is certain that public the NFFO scheme.
Under this fixed price, expenditure will be reduced in the face of the Retail Prices Index RPI contracts with UKs massive budget deficit.
terms of up to 15 years were awarded to Greater Manchester 25-year PFI Lakeside Energy from Waste contract operating successfully plant commenced operations PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 | P. 15
