ABOUt OUr BUsinesses ViriDOr REGULATORY AND The Government is currently consulting on The Government introduced landfill tax COmPETITIVE ENVIRONmENT possible long-term bans on the disposal of as an incentive to divert waste away from certain types of waste to landfill.
Landfill tax applies to all waste The UK is required under the EU Landfill disposed of at a licensed landfill site, unless Directive to reduce the amount of Under the Environmental Permitting England the waste is specifically exempt, such as soil biodegradable municipal waste going to from historically contaminated sites up to and Wales Regulations 2007 all waste landfill sites to: 2012.
Landfill tax is chargeable by weight.
handling, treatment and disposal facilities For inert waste, landfill tax was chargeable previously operating under either a waste 75% of 1995 level by 2010 at 2.50 per tonne from 1 April 2008 and management licence or a Pollution Prevention 50% of 1995 level by 2013 this has been frozen to 2010 11.
A standard and Control PPC permit require an 35% of 1995 level by 2020. rate of 48 per tonne applies to all other Environmental Permit.
taxable waste up from 32 in 2008 09 The Pre-Treatment Regulations 2007 which is due to rise by a further 8 per PLANNING FOR WASTE AND require all waste going to landfill to have tonne per annum to reach a level of 80 per RECYCLING INFRASTRUCTURE undergone some form of pre-treatment tonne in 2014 15.
All waste management facilities, including the including recycling.
development and expansion of landfill sites, In order to meet the requirements of are subject to planning permission from the At the same time the Government has the Landfill Directive, individual local relevant local authority.
Major facilities such set targets in England for recycling and authorities have also been set statutory as EfW plants above 50 MW must receive composting of municipal waste to increase targets for the diversion of biodegradable consent from the relevant Secretary of State.
from the current level of around 35% municipal waste from landfill.
Each waste to 40% by 2010, 45% by 2015 and 50% disposal authority has been allocated an Viridor believes that good environmental by 2020.
Higher targets are in place for allowance of the amount of biodegradable and operational management is important some of the devolved administrations.
The waste it may dispose of to landfill for the to winning future planning consents.
It has Government is promoting recycling by years 2005 to 2020.
These allowances are now implemented its integrated Business various measures including encouraging designed to ensure that the UK as a whole Management System incorporating externally councils to provide separate collection of achieves the requirements of the EU Landfill accredited environmental, quality and health recyclables which enhances the recycling Directive.
Subject to some constraints, and safety management standards ISO 14001, rate obtainable at MRFs.
There are specific local authorities can carry forward or trade ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001. targets for recycling of all packaging with allowances under the Landfill Allowance financial incentives in the form of Packaging Trading Scheme LATS.
Any authority Planning applications are subject to rigorous Recovery Notes PRNs and Packaging exceeding its allocation without such an assessment by local authorities who Export Recovery Notes PERNs.
Specific allowance faces a penalty of 150 per will consider them against the backdrop regulations affect waste electrical and tonne in addition to the cost of disposing of policies contained within the local electronic equipment WEEE which has its of the waste.
This is expected to result in development plan framework which have own system of Evidence Notes.
the introduction of alternative treatment been adopted for their areas.
Applications and disposal processes at higher cost than have to address a wide range of issues current routes.
and the relevant regulators are statutory consultees in this process.
Viridors growth strategy is focussed on recovering value from waste through recycling and generation of renewable energy P. 22 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW
