CORpORaTE GOVERnanCE anD InTERnaL COnTROL of matters reserved for its decision and the Board also considered whether there introDuCtion anD ComPlianCe delegates more detailed consideration of was a need in the forthcoming year for certain matters to Board committees: to an independent and externally facilitated the Board is committed to the highest the subsidiary boards of South West Water performance review to be carried out standards of corporate governance with the and Viridor: to the Executive Directors: and and noted that the new uK corporate aim of continuing to enhance its effectiveness.
to the Group General Counsel & Company Governance Code of the Financial Reporting the Annual report is the principal means Secretary, as appropriate.
Recognising this Council which applies to financial years of reporting to shareholders on the Boards policy, the matters reserved to the Board commencing on or after 29 June 2010 stated governance policies.
this section sets out include the approval of financial statements: that evaluation of the Board should be how the main and supporting principles acquisitions and disposals: major items of externally facilitated at least every three years.
of good corporate governance contained capital expenditure: authority levels for the Board agreed to consider the options in section 1 of the combined code June other expenditure: risk management: and available for an externally facilitated evaluation 2008 version which apply to the Company, approval of the strategic Plan and annual later in the year.
have been applied in practice.
the code is operating budgets.
publicly available on the Financial Reporting the chairmans performance was evaluated council website frcpublications.
com or by The Board operates by receiving written separately by the Non-executive Directors, telephoning 020 8247 1264. reports circulated in advance of its meetings led by the Senior Independent Non-executive from the Executive Directors and the Group director.
the chairmans other significant The Company considers that it has complied General Counsel & Company Secretary on commitments outside the Group have not with the provisions of the code throughout matters within their respective business changed during the year and the Board is the year.
under the guidance of satisfied that such commitments do not the chairman, all matters before the Board prejudice the chairmans performance in The information required to be published are discussed openly and presentations and relation to his Group role.
6R of the UK Listing Authoritys advice are received on occasions from other Disclosure and Transparency Rules is set out senior executives within the Group or from All Directors are equally accountable for the in the Directors Report on page 38. external advisers.
proper stewardship of the Groups affairs with the Non-executive Directors having directors have access to the advice and a particular responsibility for ensuring that tHe BoarD anD its Committees services of the Group General counsel strategies proposed for the development of & Company Secretary and the Board has the business are critically reviewed.
The NontHe BoarD established a procedure whereby Directors, executive Directors also critically examine The Board of Directors at the end of the year in order to fulfil their duties, may seek the operational and financial performance of comprised the Chairman, three Executive independent professional advice at the the Group and fulfil a key role in corporate Directors and three Non-executive Directors.
The training needs of accountability through their membership of All three of the Non-executive Directors directors are reviewed on a regular basis.
the committees of the Board.
In addition are considered to be independent as none the Chairman during the year holds meetings of the relationships or circumstances set out the Board has internal procedures to evaluate with the Non-executive Directors without in paragraph A.
3.1 of the combined code the performance of the whole Board, each the Executive Directors present, to discuss apply to them.
They are also considered to committee, the chairman, each individual performance and strategic issues.
have the appropriate skills, experience in Director and the Group General Counsel & their respective disciplines and personality to Company Secretary.
The evaluation procedure the Board has in place a procedure for the bring independent and objective judgement relating to the Board and its committees consideration and authorisation of conflicts to the Boards deliberations.
Gerard connell was administered for the year by the Group or possible conflicts with the Companys is the Senior Independent Non-executive General Counsel & Company Secretary.
this is in accordance with the director.
the biographies on page 40 participants views were sought on a range of directors interests provisions of the demonstrate a broad range of business and questions which were specifically designed to Companies Act 2006 and the Companys financial experience.
There is a clear division ensure objective evaluation of performance for Articles of Association which grants to of responsibilities between the roles of the year 2009 10.
The participants responses Directors authority to approve such conflicts Chairman and the Chief Executives of South were then summarised and evaluated by subject to appropriate conditions.
West Water and Viridor as recorded in the the Group General Counsel & Company descriptions of the roles approved by the Secretary for the Board and each Committee Group policies allocate the tasks of giving Board.
All directors are subject to re-election to consider and determine whether any detailed consideration to specified matters, to when they have held office for three years.
changes should be made to be more effective.
monitoring executive actions and to assessing overall performance was considered to be reward, to the Board committees as set The Directors on the Board during the year satisfactory but a number of views expressed out overleaf.
were as listed in the emoluments table on by Directors on the operation of the Board page 44 directors remuneration report.
and certain committees were considered with the Board met in accordance with its a view to improving performance and overall schedule of meetings on twelve occasions.
Arising from the evaluation the All directors were present at each meeting Board agreed that it would be appropriate to with the exception of Martin Angle who was review the Matters reserved to the Board and absent on one occasion.
In accordance with the financial limits on delegations to directors.
Group policies the Board has a schedule Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010 | P. 49 auDit Committee the auditors for any material work and The Committee has been keeping the balance obtaining the approval of the committee.
between audit and non-audit work under The Audit Committee was chaired by Gerard Such appointment will only be granted if the close review and continues to ensure that connell, who has current and relevant committee is satisfied that the auditors it is satisfied the auditors independence financial experience.
The other members of independence and objectivity are safeguarded.
and objectivity are safeguarded before the committee were Martin Angle and dinah This is achieved by reviewing the appointment granting permission for non-audit work to Nichols.
During the year the Committee with the auditors as considered appropriate be undertaken.
met on five occasions and all members were and receiving from the auditors at the year-end present at each meeting with the exception a letter setting out how the auditors believe The Executive Directors, South West Water of Martin Angle who was absent on one their independence and objectivity have been and Viridor Finance Directors, the Group occasion.
In discharging its terms of reference maintained.
The Companys current auditors Financial Controller, the Group Internal the committee receives reports and meets ensure that the senior partner responsible Auditor and the external auditors attend regularly in particular to: for the external audit of the Group remains meetings of the Committee by invitation.
monitor the integrity of the financial responsible for such audit for no more than Provision is made for both the external and statements of the Group, including a review five years and that there is an independent internal auditors to have the right of direct of significant reporting judgements, prior to partner who is involved in planning the audit access to the committee, and in particular the approval by the Board: and in the reviewing of the final accounts of committee chairman, without the presence keep under review the effectiveness of the the Company including assessing any critical of any Executive Director or other Senior Groups internal controls, including all matters which may be identified in the audit.
material financial, operational and the Auditing Practices Board ethical standards compliance controls and risk management recognise that fee arrangements both their systems: nature and size may give rise to a self interest threat regarding auditor independence.
Where monitor and annually review the such circumstances arise there is a need to put effectiveness of the Groups internal audit in place appropriate safeguards.
the auditors function and approve the annual internal have confirmed to the Committee that they audit plan: have complied with all relevant guidance and review the findings of the internal audit have implemented appropriate safeguards function and review and monitor including: managements responsiveness to such all non-audit related services, where findings: necessary, being performed by personnel oversee the relationship with the external independent of the audit engagement team: auditors including their appointment: no work being undertaken that would remuneration: re-appointment: removal: require the auditors to act in a capacity as the monitoring of their independence and an advocate: and objectivity particularly having regard to the supply of any non-audit services by the no aspect of the audit engagement partners auditors: and performance being assessed on the level of non-audit fees charged to the Company.
receive internal control reports from the external auditors and meet with them in Taking account of the above the Committee the absence of management at least once a acknowledges that on occasion it is necessary year to discuss their remit and any issues to appoint the auditors to perform non-audit arising from the audit.
work in view of their specialist knowledge of such matters as the financial modelling of In addition the Committee periodically reviews Private Finance Initiative PFI projects.
There the arrangements for, and the effectiveness of, is a limited number of other professional the Groups whistleblowing policies details of services firms with appropriate PFI project which are set out on page 33 of the Business knowledge and they are often engaged by review.
other parties to the projects.
They would therefore be unable to act for the Company The Committee pays particular attention due to conflicts of interest.
this has been a to the independence and objectivity of particular issue for the committee and the the auditors having regard to the Auditing Company over the last year because it has Practices Boards ethical standards.
been considered appropriate to engage the Periodically a review of the provision of auditors on a number of waste PFIs for the external audit services is undertaken in reasons stated above.
In addition as reported accordance with guidance issued by the last year, the auditors provided non-audit Committee.
The last review was undertaken financial advice in connection with the Greater in 2006 when the current auditors were Manchester waste PFI which reached financial appointed following the carrying out of a close in April 2009.
The fees due for successful detailed competitive tender process.
the completion of circa 1.2 million are included in Committee also has an established policy for note 7 to the financial statements on page 74. the engagement of the auditors for non-audit the auditors are also being considered for work by the Group.
This involves the Group other non-audit work during 2010 11.
Director of Finance setting out in a report to the committee reasons for appointing P. 50 | Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010 CORpORaTE GOVERnanCE anD InTERnaL COnTROL
