Strategy The right strategic direction Our objective is to be the leading national housebuilder, building homes ranging from small affordable starter homes to large premium family homes and selling to both the private market and housing associations.
Our strategy to achieve this objective is set out below.
Continued focus on cash generation Improving margins Appropriate capital structure Lower build costs Reduce finance costs Re-plan existing sites 1 2 Good flexibility Acquisition of new land at attractive prices Pull through of strategic land at enhanced margins The housing market continues to be constrained by Our business requires in depth knowledge of local the lack of mortgage availability which affects markets in order to engage subcontractors, plan housing demand throughout the country.
Our sites in accordance with local demand, anticipate strategy of cash generation, which was very customer taste and to assess the regulatory successful during 2010, will continue to reduce our environment.
Our divisional structure is designed debt, maintain liquidity and an appropriate capital toutilise our local market expertise.
structure for our balance sheet.
We continue to review our business processes Our current landbank represents over six years tocontrol costs and rebuild our operating margin.
Our strategy is to continue to optimise the Wehave dual branded our regional housebuilding scale of our landbank to a size that supports the operations with both Persimmon Homes and level of trading achievable within the current market.
Charles Church brands tocapture best working We consider that a landbank equivalent of c. five practices and economies of scale.
years supply would align our landbank with We have a very strong and diverse supply chain expected future customer demand for our homes.
and we ensure we are not dependent on a single The planned optimisation of our landbank will supplier or subcontractor for the construction release capital, reduce debt and improve our return ofour new homes.
We maintain efficient operations by utilising standardised materials available from a variety of sources and suppliers, thereby lowering our build costs.
We continue to re-plan our existing sites to maximise sales opportunities.
10 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information Selective new site acquisitions Build sustainable homes Increased southern exposure Reduce costs and improve the energy efficiency of our homes More traditional site layouts 3 4 Support site production rates to overcome With the right product any potential labour shortages Invest in Space4 We reduce our exposure to local market volatility by In order to meet increasing sustainability maintaining operations across markets throughout requirements for our new homes and improved the UK to enhance our sales potential.
operational efficiency, we will continue to invest in our closed panel timber frame manufacturing facility We acquire new sites in locations where our at Space4.
market experience confirms good levels of customer demand for new homes.
Space4s new Eco-housing range will reduce costs and improve the energy efficiency of our homes.
We will acquire new land at attractive prices from The strategy of using modern methods of the promotion of our strategic landbank and construction will continue to support site production selectively acquire land that will deliver enhanced rates and overcome any potential labour shortages.
Space4 will continue to work closely with our social We will undertake selective new site starts closely housing division, Westbury Partnerships, to supply controlling our working capital expenditure to affordable, sustainable, energy efficient new homes ensure that we have the right product availability into the public sector housing market.
inthe right locations across the UK.
Directors Report: Business Review Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 11
