Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information Other Disclosures retired from the Board on 22 April 2010.
None of the Directors have Principal activities any contracts of significance with the Company.
Details of the Persimmon Plc the Company is the holding company of the executive Directors service contracts are given in the Remuneration Persimmon Group of companies the Group and is a public Report on page 39. company, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activity The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors and their of the Group is housebuilding, which is carried out within the United connected persons in the shares of the Company at 31 December Kingdom and is unchanged from last year.
The Groups main trading 2010 and as at the date of this report are disclosed in the companies are Persimmon Homes Limited and Charles Church Remuneration Report on page 43.
Details of the interests of the Developments Limited.
The Group trades under the brand names executive Directors in share options and awards of shares can be ofPersimmon Homes, Charles Church, Westbury Partnerships found on pages 42 and 43 within the same Report.
The subsidiary undertakings which principally affect the profits and Qualifying third party indemnity provisions and assets of the Group are listed in note 31 to the financial statements.
qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions The Company has not issued any qualifying third party indemnity Business review and Corporate Governance provision or any qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision.
Statement In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Significant agreements Business Review section of this Directors Report, on pages 6 to 27 The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the of this Annual Report contains a review of the development and counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a performance of the Groups business during the year and the position change of control of the Company: at the end of the year with analysis using Key Performance Indicators.
The Business Review is the management report for the purpose of Under the Forward Start Facility dated 27 February 2009 disclosed DTR 4.1.
in notes 20 and 22 of the financial statements all amounts become due and payable under the terms of the facility if any person or A description of the Groups future prospects, research and group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company.
development, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and details of the Groups use of financial instruments are also Under the private placement of senior loan notes detailed in notes contained within the Business Review.
Details of the financial risk 20 and 22 to the financial statements the Loan Notes, the holders management objectives and policies of the Group and associated of the Loan Notes have an option, within five business days of being risk exposure are given in note 22 to the financial statements.
notified by the Company of the change of control, to require the Company to prepay the Loan Notes held by each holder.
If the The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 30 to 34 also forms holders exercise this option, the amount of prepayment is the part of this Directors Report.
principal amount of the Loan Note together with interest accrued thereon to the date of the prepayment.
The date of prepayment Results and dividend payment must be within 65 days of the change of control.
The Groups revenue was 1,569m and its profit before taxation Control has the same meaning as section 450 of the Corporation was153.9m.
Tax Act 2010 and acting in concert has the meaning given to it in the An interim dividend of 3.0p per share was paid to shareholders on City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Change of control is deemed 14December 2010 and it is proposed to pay a final dividend of 4.5p to occur if at any time any person, or group of persons acting in per share on 14 June 2011 to shareholders on the register at the concert, acquires control of the Company.
close of business on 6 May 2011, making a total for the year of 7.5p The Company does not have agreements with any employee per share 2009: nil.
A dividend reinvestment plan, which enables including Directors that would provide compensation for loss of shareholders to invest their dividend in ordinary shares, is available in office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions respect of the final dividend and the final date for receipt of elections of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards is 23 May 2011.
Further details are available from our Registrars, granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
whose contact details can be found on page 89.
Details of compensation payable to Directors if their employment is summarily terminated in breach of contract are provided in the Going concern Remuneration Report on page 39.
After completing a full review, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to fund its Essential contracts or arrangements operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other toadopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
arrangements which it considers are essential to its business.
The Further details are provided in note 2 to the financial statements.
Group has a wide range of suppliers for the production of new homes.
Whilst the loss of or disruption to certain of these Directors and Directors interests arrangements could temporarily affect the Groups business, none are considered to be essential.
The Group is not dependent upon The Directors of the Company during the whole of 2010 and their particular customers for the sales of its products as a significant biographical details are shown on pages 28 and 29.
Hamish Leslie majority of its sales are to private individuals.
Melville was also a Director of the Company during 2010 until he Directors Report: Other Disclosures Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 35 Other Disclosures continued Supplier payment policy Acquisition of own shares It is the Groups policy to agree payment terms with its trade creditors At the AGM held on 22 April 2010 shareholders granted the and other suppliers on an individual contract basis at the time the Company authority to purchase up to an aggregate of 30,043,725 goods and services are ordered rather than following a standard ofits own shares.
No shares have been purchased to date under code.
The policy is to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the thisauthority and therefore at 31 December 2010 the authority terms of payment and to abide by the agreed terms once satisfied remained outstanding.
This authority expires on 21 April 2011 and that the goods or services have been provided in accordance with aresolution to renew the authority will be put to shareholders at the the contract terms and conditions.
The Companys average creditor forthcoming AGM.
payment period at 31 December 2010 was 24 days 2009: 21 days.
At 1 January 2010, the Company held 2,154,179 shares in treasury 0.72% of the issued ordinary share capital at that date excluding Employee involvement treasury shares which had previously been purchased under The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its authorities granted by shareholders.
During 2010 734,671 of these employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters shares representing 0.24% of the issued ordinary share capital affecting them as employees and on the various financial and excluding treasury shares with a nominal value of 73,467.10 were economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Each of transferred to Directors and employees to satisfy the exercise of share the Groups operating businesses maintains employee relations and options or awards under the Groups various share schemes, for a consults employees as appropriate to its own particular needs.
At 31 December 2010 the Internal Group magazines are published twice a year and distributed Company held 1,419,508 shares in treasury, representing 0.47% of to all employees to ensure that they are kept well informed of the the issued share capital of the Company at that date, excluding Groups operations.
In addition, information concerning the financial treasury shares.
performance of the Group is sent to each operating business for circulation.
Further information can be found in our Sustainability Annual General Meeting Report at www.
The AGM will commence at 12 noon on Thursday 21 April 2011 at The Company makes various benefit schemes available to York Racecourse, The Knavesmire, York YO23 1EX.
The notice of the employees, including a Save As You Earn Scheme which encourages meeting and an explanation of the ordinary and special business is the involvement of employees in the Groups performance.
All given in the accompanying circular.
permanent employees are encouraged to participate, subject to having six months service at the date of invitation.
Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of the auditor KPMG Audit Plc will Equal opportunities be proposed at the AGM.
The Companys policy is to have equal opportunities for training, career development and promotion for all employees regardless of Audit statement race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, sex, gender, sexual The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report orientation, marital status, age or disability.
Applications for confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit employment by disabled persons are always fully considered with information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that appropriate regard to the aptitude and abilities of the person each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a concerned.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled every Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of continues, that appropriate training is arranged and any reasonable that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted adjustments are made to their working environment.
It is the Groups in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies policy that the training, career development and promotion of Act 2006. disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Directors responsibility Charitable and political donations The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and The Group has made donations of 93,000 2009: 79,500 to regulations.
Further details are provided on page 44. charitable organisations during the year to support the community bydonating to cancer charities and to the training of apprentice By order of the Board stonemasons at York Minster.
Further details of the Companys community involvement and charitable activities can be found Neil Francis in the Sustainability Report on our website at www.
No political donations were made 28 February 2011 during the year.
Persimmon Plc Company Registration Number: 1818486 36 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Other Disclosures
