Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors John White Mike Farley bsc hons.
mciob Mike Killoran ba hons.
aca Group Chairman age 59 Group Chief Executive age 57 Group Finance Director age 49 John White was appointed Group Mike Farley was appointed Group Chief Mike Killoran joined the Company in 1996 Chairman in April 2006, previously having Executive in April 2006.
He joined and was appointed to the Board in been Group Chief Executive for 13 years.
Persimmon in 1983 and was appointed January 1999.
A chartered accountant He has spent all his working life in the to the Board in 1989.
Mr Farley is a byprofession, Mr Killoran worked in housing industry.
member of the Chartered Institute of manufacturing, distribution and retail Building.
He was responsible for sectors before joining the Group.
Mr White was appointed to the Board establishing Persimmon Homes Wessex in1986 and is currently Chairman of He took over his present role in April 1999 and for developing the Groups operating theNomination Committee and the and is a member of the Risk Committee.
businesses in the Midlands before RiskCommittee.
becoming Chief Executive of the original Mr White has announced he will be South Division.
retiring from the Company at the AGM Mr Farley is a member of the Risk and is not standing for re-election.
Non-executive Directors Nicholas Wrigley David Thompson Neil Davidson cbe Non-executive Director age 55 Senior Independent Director age 56 Non-executive Director age 60 Nicholas Wrigley is an Executive Vice David Thompson is Chairman of Neil Davidson is Chairman of Wisden Chairman of Rothschild London and a Marstons PLC and Chief Executive of Cricketer Publishing Ltd and a Director of member of its Global Investment Banking Anglia Maltings Holdings Limited.
He is Emerging Media Ltd and Competition Committee and Global Management also a non-executive director of Caledonia Law Process Management.
He has over 25 years Investments Plc.
previously Chief Executive of Arla Foods mergers and acquisitions experience at UK PLC until he retired in June 2005.
He Appointed to the Board on 10 August Rothschild and is a qualified accountant.
1999, he is the Senior Independent Mr Wrigley will be appointed Chairman at Director, and a member of the Audit, He is Chairman of the Corporate the AGM following John Whites retirement.
Nomination and Remuneration Responsibility Committee and a member Committees.
of the Nomination and Remuneration Mr Wrigley was appointed to the Board Committees.
on 1 February 2006 and is currently Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
28 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Board of Directors Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information Jeff Fairburn North Division Chief Executive age 44 Jeff Fairburn joined the Group in 1989.
He was promoted to Managing Director of the Groups North East operating business in 2000 and became North Eastern Regional Chairman in 2005, before assuming his current role of North Division Chief Executive in 2006.
Mr Fairburn was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2009 and is a member of the Risk Committee.
Richard Pennycook Jonathan Davie Non-executive Director age 47 Non-executive Director age 64 Richard Pennycook was appointed to the Jonathan Davie was appointed to the Board on 14 March 2008.
He is accountant and graduate of Bristol non-executive Chairman of IG Group University, he has been the Group Holdings Plc and First Avenue Partners Finance Director of Wm Morrison LLP.
Mr Davies previous roles include Supermarkets PLC since 2005.
Previous Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse, CEO of roles include Group Finance Director of BZW Global Equities and non-executive RAC plc, Finance Director of J D Director of Credit Suisse UK Private Bank.
Wetherspoon plc, CEO of Welcome Mr Davie is a member of the Audit and Break Holdings PLC and non-executive Remuneration Committees and will Director of Richer Sounds plc.
become Chairman of the Remuneration Mr Pennycook was appointed to the Committee when Mr Wrigley becomes Board on 14 March 2008 and is the Company Chairman following Chairman of the Audit Committee and a theAGM.
member of the Nomination Committee.
Directors Report: Board of Directors Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 29
