60 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Health, safety, security and integrity assurance Ensuring... Our Asset Integrity Review Board met The safety of our people, monthly to review plant integrity.
The Board customers and operations is chaired by our Offshore Engineering & Operations Managing Director and our is our highest priority.
HSSEIA Director and involves operations managers from all operated sites.
The In 2010, we continued to focus on two meetings help anticipate potential issues areas: and provide a forum for peer review and support.
In 2010, we improved the technical integrity of the plants we the metrics we use to measure asset design, build and operate, to minimise integrity performance and analyse trends.
the risk of major accidents, such as fire Each operation reports against around and explosion 30 measures covering plant reliability and condition, the management of maintenance the prevention of occupational safety risks, and assurance activities and organisational to help prevent personal injury matters such as competence assurance.
Plant integrity Following recent events in the Gulf of During the year, Petrofac reinforced Mexico, we acted to confirm that our the importance of robust asset integrity operations are protected against major management with an internal education incidents and, in the event they do and awareness-raising programme.
We occur, that we respond effectively.
designated 2010 as the Year of Integrity and Our programme included: Quality across our engineering businesses, and created supporting e-learning modules, an assessment of oil spill response The circumstances were also separately DVDs of case studies and customised capability at all oil & gas production facilities reviewed by the executive management team.
Technical integrity was the theme of our annual safety seminar, review of emergency response Notwithstanding this deeply regrettable which was attended by 90 senior managers, arrangements incident, our safety performance which we including our Group Chief Executive, Group measure according to Occupational Safety Chief Operating Officer and Petrofacs seven a technical safety review of five major and Health Administration rules was business unit managing directors.
We also facilities maintained at a similar level to 2009.
Our created the role of Director of Integrity to recordable incident frequency rate was champion best practice.
new group standards for oil spill response 0.18 per 200,000 man-hours 2009: 0.36 and integrity management and our lost time injury frequency rate was 0.026 2009: 0.020.
There were 13 major a revision to our standards for emergency potential incidents 2009: 23.
Potential is 77 million km response and crisis management the key word here the criteria for reporting We drove 77 million km or almost is the potential for harm, so although very 2,000 times around the world.
few of these incidents actually resulted in We continued to work with the wider personal injury or damage, all were reviewed industry to reduce risk.
Petrofac Training Driving Incident Frequency Rate in great detail.
Services is a leading emergency response incidents per million km driven trainer, while our UK Emergency Response Safe driving is one of our eight golden rules Service Centre in Aberdeen provides a 0.29 of safety and, in 2010, was the focus of a 24-hour integrated response capability.
During 0.22 are members of the UK Oil Spill Prevention the year, our vehicles travelled more than and Response Advisory Group and actively 77 million km between locations or on support the UK oil & gas industry safety project sites: equivalent to driving almost initiative, Step Change in Safety, and its 0.03 2,000 times around the globe.
incident frequency rate, which records 08 09 10 major or serious vehicle incidents, fell A safe working environment from 0.29 incidents per million km driven We strive to ensure that all our people have in 2009 to 0.03.
Whilst this improvement is a safe and secure workplace.
encouraging, we continue to regard driving as one of our biggest areas of risk and will Sadly, in 2010, a fatal accident occurred at not slacken our efforts to improve further.
our El Merk project in Algeria.
The incident was investigated fully and the results of the We investigate all incidents and accidents, investigation were reviewed at our quarterly circulate guidance from lessons learnt and group Incident Review Board, which follow up actions.
Our aspiration is to have is a senior level review attended by all no recordable incidents of any kind and the business unit managing directors, to were pleased that many sites achieved make sure that lessons learned from any this during the year.
significant incident are effectively shared.
Corporate social responsibility 61 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility Man-hours worked million man-hours completed by employees and subcontractors 76 70 67 08 09 10... our people have a safe Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per 200,000 man-hours working environment 0.067 0.057 Staff health and welfare In 2010, our recently appointed Group Head High standards of staff health and of Security implemented a security audit 0.033 0.026 welfare are both good employer practice of all our facilities.
This rolling programme 0.020 and essential to efficient operations.
complements the security review and We provide health and fitness checks preparations we carry out before for senior managers and comprehensive commencing all new projects.
During 06 07 08 09 10 medical assessments for those at risk, the year, we carried out a comprehensive particularly when located offshore and review in Turkmenistan and our move abroad.
Exercise and recreational facilities into Iraq and Nigeria involved particularly Recordable Incident Frequency Rate are provided at most sites to encourage intensive security provisions.
per 200,000 man-hours personal fitness and medical teams are based at most facilities.
Occupational We monitor intelligence about changing 0.41 health support is also available.
security situations and keep our staff 0.36 0.35 0.32 informed, for example, by sending out Security weekly travel and security guidance.
0.18 The hazardous nature of our work is We act quickly to protect our people heightened in some countries by political when conditions deteriorate: in 2010, instability or civil unrest.
To meet such we evacuated a number of staff from challenges, Petrofac invests a great perceived trouble-spots.
06 07 08 09 10 deal of effort in protecting the security of our people and of our physical assets.
