8 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Expansion into new regions...
Developing our marketplace In our geographical expansion, as in other International expansion is core to Petrofacs areas of development, we are advancing in growth strategy.
Moving into new countries a measured and well-planned way.
We are does much more than boost our short-term remaining focused on our core markets of income.
New territories offer the opportunity the UK Continental Shelf, the Middle East and to build new relationships, develop additional Africa, the Commonwealth of Independent capabilities and establish new teams: all of States and the Asia Pacific region and, above which help to generate future growth.
all, quality of execution remains our key priority.
Overview 9 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Nigeria In November, we achieved a local presence in Nigeria by acquiring a 15% interest in Seven Energy, a Nigerian production and development company, whose production, processing and transportation assets we will help develop.
Turkmenistan In December we began the US$3.4 billion EPC phase of the South Yoloten gas field development for Turkmengas in Turkmenistan.
opens up opportunities for future growth Romania In July, we secured our first production enhancement contract, for the Petrom-owned Ticleni oilfield in Romania.
Our offering includes: drilling management, production engineering, facilities upgrade and training and we are paid a tariff per barrel of oil produced including an enhanced tariff Iraq for incremental production.
We established operations in Iraq in mid-2010 and began working for an international oil company to undertake the engineering, procurement, fabrication and construction management services for an early production system, which we hope will lead to a larger contract in the future.
10 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Building long-term relationships...
Generating value for all our stakeholders The value of our creative approach to both Our broad range of competencies allow customers and our shareholders has been us to offer an integrated range of services demonstrated in Malaysia, where we are across the entire life cycle of oil & gas assets: working on a number of important projects providing customers with the reassurance with PETRONAS, the national oil company.
and consistency of having one trusted partner for many of their needs.
We aim to demonstrate how the integrated delivery of our services can add significant value for resource holders, where they retain full ownership of their resources and our returns are linked to project delivery, to create perfect alignment with their objectives.
Overview 11 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 In December, PETRONAS awarded us a contract for the development of the SEPAT offshore early production system on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia.
The award marks our first major offshore... by delivering engineering, procurement, construction, installation and commissioning contract.
creative solutions to customers and partners In early 2011, we won a risk service contract to lead the development and operation of the Berantai field, offshore Peninsular Malaysia.
Our payment is linked to performance against such measures as costs, timing to first gas and sustained gas delivery.
As a result Petrofac is now responsible for more than US$2 billion of offshore projects in Malaysia.
Creative relationships at Cendor During 2010, we secured approval for our field development programme for the second phase of the development of the Cendor Block, offshore Peninsular Malaysia.
Since 2004, Petrofac has been a partner, holding a 30% interest within a production sharing contract, with PETRONAS, Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company KUFPEC and PetroVietnam.
