50 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Senior management team 1 2 3 4 5 1 Robin Pinchbeck 3 Marwan Chedid Petrofac, Bill spent eight years at Halliburton Group Director of Strategy and Corporate Managing Director, Engineering & and its subsidiary KBR, as a senior vice Development Construction Ventures president and corporate officer and his Robin joined Petrofac in 2002.
After 23 years Marwan joined Petrofacs Engineering & responsibilities included membership of the with BP, he moved to the oil services sector Construction business as a project manager KBR Executive Leadership Team, Global and from 1995 to 1998 was managing when the business was first established Operations and Maintenance.
Bill spent his director of Atlantic Power & Gas, a leading in Sharjah in 1992 and was subsequently earlier career with Mobil North Sea and Shell.
North Sea operations services provider and promoted to regional director at the He is a chartered engineer and graduated pioneer of the contractor Duty Holder model.
same time as becoming a member of the with a first in Engineering from Heriot Watt Atlantic Power & Gas was sold in 1998 to Engineering & Construction board.
Petroleum Geo-Services ASA, which was Marwan was appointed chief operating subsequently purchased by Petrofac in officer of the Engineering & Construction 5 Gordon East 2002.
Robin established Petrofacs facilities International business with day-to-day Managing Director, Production Solutions management business now known as responsibility for the successful delivery of Gordon joined Petrofac in 2006 as managing Offshore Engineering & Operations.
In January 2009, he was director of Petrofac Facilities Management is a graduate of Imperial College, London appointed managing director of Engineering now Offshore Engineering & Operations.
Marwan previously He now leads the Production Solutions worked for a major civil and mechanical business which works with customers to 2 Richard Milne construction business based in the Gulf and increase production and improve reservoir Group Director of Legal the Middle East for 12 years and has more recovery, covering specialist consultancy, and Commercial Affairs than 28 years experience in the oil & gas technology applications and large scale Richard joined Petrofac in 2004 with overall sector.
He holds a degree in Mechanical production enhancement projects.
Prior responsibility for advising on the legal and Engineering from the American University to joining Petrofac, Gordon spent more commercial aspects of the groups activities.
Age 50. than 20 years with ConocoPhillips in various Richard was heavily involved in Petrofacs leadership and management roles throughout successful admission to listing on The 4 Bill Dunnett the upstream business worldwide.
He has London Stock Exchange in 2005 and in Managing Director, Offshore Engineering also held non-executive roles in the DTI developing the groups governance and & Operations and Cabinet Office.
Gordon has an MA compliance framework.
As a member of the Bill has over 26 years experience in the in Engineering from Cambridge University groups senior management team, Richard oil & gas industry and now leads the Offshore and an MSc in Petroleum Engineering from participates in the groups risk review process Engineering & Operations business.
Age 47. and advises on corporate matters as well as joined Petrofac Energy Developments in on all commercially significant issues affecting 2007 with responsibility for asset development the group.
Prior to joining Petrofac, Richard and production, which included leading the spent some 15 years in corporate finance project management and operation of the after working in the insurance brokerage greater Don Area Fields in the United Kingdom industry.
Richard is a graduate of Oxford Continental Shelf, and the Chergui Field University and qualified as a solicitor.
Prior to joining Business review 51 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Senior management team 6 7 8 9 6 Paul Groves 8 Subramanian Sarma 9 Rajesh Verma Managing Director, Training Services Managing Director, Engineering & Managing Director, Engineering Services Paul joined Petrofac in June 2009.
As Construction Rajesh joined Petrofac Engineering & managing director of Petrofacs Training Subramanian joined Petrofacs Engineering Construction in 1992 as a project manager Services business, Paul has overall & Construction business as a project when the business was first established responsibility for developing and running manager in 1997 and has held various in Sharjah.
During his tenure he has been the groups global training and consultancy positions since then.
In 2007, he was responsible for executing a number of EPC activities.
Paul previously worked with promoted to the position of executive vice projects and subsequently been in charge Shell from 2001, where he held a number president, projects & deputy chief operating of Technical Services for the E&C business.
of business development-led roles within officer of Petrofac International, with He has also been responsible for a number the organisation.
A Chartered Engineer responsibility for the delivery of EPC projects of strategic initiatives for the Company and Scientist, Paul started his career as in the Middle East, North Africa and Caspian including setting up design offices in Mumbai a lecturer of physics at Oxford University regions.
Subramanian now heads Petrofacs & Chennai in India.
Rajesh now leads the before moving into a number of management Engineering & Construction business with Engineering Services business which brings and development roles in organisations overall responsibility for the current operation together Petrofacs operations in Woking, such as Alcan Aluminum Limited and and its continued growth.
Prior to joining Mumbai & Chennai.
He has more than British Gas BG PLC.
Petrofac, Subramanian worked for Kvaerner 39 years experience in the oil & gas and Jacobs in India and Oman and has more industry and holds a degree in Mechanical 7 Rob Jewkes than 30 years experience in the oil & gas Engineering from the Birla Institute of Managing Director, Energy Developments industry.
He holds an MSc in Chemical Technology and Sciences in India.
Rob joined Petrofac in 2004 with the objective Engineering from the Indian Institute of of building Europe-based engineering Technology.
Age 52. services business at our Woking office, to complement the existing Engineering & Construction business in Sharjah.
In 2009, Rob was appointed managing director of Petrofac Energy Developments.
He has more than 30 years experience in the oil & gas industry, and prior to joining Petrofac, Rob served as chief executive officer of Clough Engineering, the main operating company of the Australian engineering group, Clough Limited.
Rob holds a degree in Civil Engineering from the University of Western Australia.
