58 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Marketplace Delivering... Our business ethics Combatting corruption Ethical conduct is one of Petrofacs five As our Code of Business Conduct states, core values.
We strive to display the highest Petrofac does not permit the giving or standards of transparency and integrity in receiving of bribes.
In 2010, in consultation the way we operate, and to deliver on our with our businesses, we developed a risk promises.
management standard that covers the full remit of bribery and corruption in response As a signatory to the United Nations Global to the UK Bribery Act 2010.
Compact, we are committed to making continuous improvements in our approach In 2011, we will deliver an extensive education to human rights, labour, environment and programme across the group to implement anti-corruption.
In 2010, we submitted our risk management standard and to updates on our progress in the areas of help ensure that we have a consistent the environment and anti-corruption which, and effective risk management strategy for as is customary, were posted on the Global the prevention of bribery and corruption in Compact website.
Our Code of Business Conduct sets out clear Other anti-corruption activities include: standards of behaviour for our entire group and highlights our Speaking Up process commissioning Transparency International whereby employees can raise concerns to review our bribery and corruption risk in complete confidence.
We ask all our management system and attending a employees, partners and sub-contractors number of Transparency International to acknowledge the code.
By the end of sponsored events 2010, around 6,000 employees have now completed a bespoke e-learning module being a signatory of the World Economic on the code.
Forums Partnership Against Corruption Initiative and attending its annual conference in December 2010 Stakeholder survey Human rights In 2010, we undertook a benchmarking In 2010, Petrofac updated its ethical, social exercise with Business in the Community and regulatory risk policy www.
com BITC to assess our strengths and communities to emphasise that it does not weaknesses across the four management 100 engage in any business activities that could areas: marketplace, workplace, community implicate the Company, directly or indirectly, and environment.
We have used the stakeholders completed a reputation in the abuse of human rights.
In 2011, we BITC framework to form the basis of survey on Petrofac in 2010. plan to undertake a review of our exposure to our CSR reporting.
this risk in the countries in which we operate.
As a result we have developed a CSR Engaging with our stakeholders strategy that addresses the most important e-learning in Petrofac We are keen to learn from, and engage with, corporate responsibility issues for Petrofac, others to ensure that we pursue best practice namely: climate change, local content, and focus on the areas of most significance skills and education and road safety.
In 2011, we plan to broaden the dialogue 6, 000 During the year, we undertook our first around our CSR strategy with the involvement stakeholder survey to gauge awareness of, of external audiences, as part of a The approximate number of employees and response to Petrofac.
The survey was stakeholder engagement programme.
who had completed COBC e-learning undertaken on our behalf by a specialist by the end of 2010. third party and around 100 of Petrofacs stakeholders were surveyed on an unattributed basis, including: customers, partners, suppliers, shareholders, analysts, media, industry bodies, NGOs and community groups.
The results were shared with the groups leadership team at the annual leadership conference and will be used a benchmark for future surveys.
Corporate social responsibility 59 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility... the highest standards of transparency and integrity in the way we operate
