96 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Directors statements Directors responsibilities The Company has considerable financial resources together with The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and different geographic areas and industries.
The directors have chosen to prepare the financial directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The directors are also responsible for the preparation of the directors remuneration report, which they The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company have chosen to prepare, being under no obligation to do so under has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Jersey law.
The directors are also responsible for the preparation foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern of the corporate governance report under the Listing Rules.
basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Jersey Company law the Law requires the directors to prepare Responsibility statement under the Disclosure and financial statements for each financial period in accordance with any Transparency Rules generally accepted accounting principles.
The financial statements Each of the directors listed on pages 68 and 69 confirm that to the are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of best of their knowledge: the Company at the period end and the profit or loss of the Company the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a for the period then ended.
In preparing these financial statements, true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit the directors should: of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently taken as a whole make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent the operating and financial review includes a fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation adopted in their preparation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless and uncertainties that they face it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business By order of the Board The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Keith Roberts which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions Chief Financial Officer and as such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 4 March 2011 financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the Law.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors approach The Boards objective is to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, particularly in the annual report, half year report formerly the interim report and other published documents and reports to regulators.
The Board has established an Audit Committee to assist with this obligation.
Going concern The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the business review on pages 16 to 54.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on pages 52 to 54.
In addition, note 33 to the financial statements include the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
