68 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Directors information Directors who served in 2010 1 Rodney Chase 2 Ayman Asfari 3 Maroun Semaan a a Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Operating Officer Rodney became non-executive Chairman Ayman became Group Chief Executive of Maroun was appointed Group Chief of Petrofac in June 2005.
He spent 38 years Petrofac Limited in January 2002.
He joined Operating Officer in January 2009, with at BP plc, including 11 on its board, and the group in 1991 to establish Petrofac overall responsibility for Engineering & was deputy group CEO on his retirement in International, of which he was CEO.
He Construction, Engineering & Construction May 2003.
His other roles at BP included time has more than 30 years experience in the Ventures, Engineering Services, Offshore as CEO of the exploration & production and oil & gas industry, having formerly worked Engineering & Operations and Training marketing and refining divisions.
Rodney is a as managing director of a major civil and Services.
He joined the group in 1991 to non-executive director of Computer Sciences mechanical construction business in Oman.
Previously, Corporation, Nalco Company and Tesoro He is a member of the board of trustees of the he managed oil & gas pipeline, process Corporation.
He is a former board member American University of Beirut.
Ayman is 52. facilities and civil works construction of Tesco plc, BOC plc and Diageo plc.
contracts in Oman and Bahrain, with the Rodney is 67.
He is a member of the board of Rodney is stepping down from the Board trustees of the American University of Sharjah at the 2011 AGM.
and a founding member of the board of trustees of the Arab Forum for Environment and Development.
4 Kjell Almskog Senior Independent Director, a b c d Non-executive Director Kjell joined the Petrofac Board in March 2005.
He was chief executive of Kvaerner from 1998 until its merger with Aker in 2001.
Before this, he spent 13 years with the international ABB group, including time as deputy group CEO and head of the oil, gas & petrochemicals division.
Kjell is non-executive deputy chairman of Kverneland Group ASA, non-executive board member of Equinox Offshore Accommodation Limited and a senior adviser to the Taylor Group.
Kjell will retire from the Board at the 2011 AGM.
1 2 3 4 Governance 69 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Directors information a Member of the Nominations Committee 5 Keith Roberts 7 Thomas Thune Andersen a b d Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director b Member of the Audit Committee Keith joined Petrofac as Chief Financial Thomas became a non-executive director c Member of the Risk Committee Officer in March 2002.
He spent 32 years at the d Member of the Remuneration Committee managing director and operating committee A. P. Mller-Mrsk group with an international member of corporate finance advisory career ending as CEO and president of firm Hawkpoint Partners.
His previous Mrsks Oil & Gas A S. He also served experience includes roles in commercial on Mrsks main board and its executive banking with Standard Chartered Bank committee from 2005 to 2009.
He is a and County Bank, the merchant banking non-executive director of Scottish & Southern subsidiary of National Westminster Bank.
Energy plc, chairman of the Lloyds Register He is a former non-executive director of group board of trustees, chairman of the the Peacock Group plc.
British Danish Chamber of Commerce and a non-executive director of VKR Holding.
6 Rijnhard van Tets 8 Stefano Cao a b c a c d Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Rijnhard became a non-executive director Stefano became a non-executive director in 2007.
He is general partner of Laaken in May 2010.
He is CEO of Sintonia SA, Asset Management NV.
Rijnhard advised a holding company owning infrastructure the managing board of ABN AMRO between assets, including toll roads, airports and 2002 and 2007, having previously served telecoms.
Stefano has 33 years experience as a managing board member for 12 years.
From 2000 to 2008, At ABN AMRO, his roles included that he was COO of Enis exploration & production of chairman of the wholesale clients and division.
Before which he spent 24 years investment banking group.
He is nonat Saipem SpA, the international oil & gas executive chairman of Arcadis NV, Euronext services group, holding such senior roles Amsterdam NV, Euronext NV and Equity Trust as CEO, chairman and COO.
He is a former Holdings SARL, and a non-executive director independent director of Telecom Italia SpA.
of IFF Europe, NYSE Euronext Inc, Stichting Stefano is 59.
Administratiekantoor Bhrmann NV and of various charities.
5 6 7 8 70 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Directors information Directors appointed in 2011 9 10 11 9 Norman Murray 10 Roxanne Decyk 11 Andy Inglis e f Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chief Executive, Energy Developments and Norman joined the Petrofac Board as a Roxanne joined the Petrofac Board in Production Solutions non-executive director in March 2011 with March 2011 having retired from The Royal Andy joined Petrofac in January 2011 and the intention that he will succeed Rodney as Dutch Shell Group after 11 years.
She held was appointed to the Board in March 2011.
He is chairman a number of roles at Shell including head He spent 30 years with BP, most latterly as of Cairn Energy plc and a non-executive of global government affairs and corporate CEO of its exploration & production business.
director of Greene King plc and Robert affairs director and was a member of Shells Andy was an executive director on the BP plc Wiseman Dairies plc.
Prior to his portfolio executive committee from 2005 to 2009. board between 2007 and 2010.
He started career, Norman spent 25 years in the venture Prior to joining Shell, Roxanne had various his BP career as a project engineer on various capital industry.
He co-founded Morgan roles at Amoco Corporation and Navistar North Sea projects, followed by commercial Grenfell Private Equity Limited and was International.
She is an independent and operating roles in BPs upstream also a director of Morgan Grenfell Asset director of Snap-on Incorporated and business.
He became executive vice Management Limited.
He is a former Alliant Techsystems Inc. She is a former president and deputy chief executive chairman of the British Venture Capital director of Logica plc and Material Sciences of BP exploration & production in 2004.
Association and a past president of the Corporation.
He is a former non-executive director Institute of Chartered Accountants of of BAE Systems plc.
Norman is 63. e Norman Murray will be appointed Chairman of the Nominations Committee after the 2011 AGM subject to shareholder approval f Roxanne Decyk will be appointed to the Nominations, Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees after the 2011 AGM subject to shareholder approval
