Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Gold Market Summary There is often a positive correlation between demand for gold and risk aversion and since uncertainty was a key theme throughout much of 2010, it is no surprise that gold prices retained a strong upward momentum throughout most of the year.
who benefited from higher levels of discretionary income as their 2010: year in gold economies rebounded, purchased gold jewellery as a luxury item Gold appreciated 29% during the year, closing at US$1,406 on and also as a store of value.
The average gold price for the year, as based The consumer electronics industry also experienced rising gold demand on the London PM fix, was a record US$1,225, up 26% on 2009 due to consumer demand for televisions, computers, mobile devices US$973.
Gold outperformed the major global indices, including and in other appliances which use gold, due to the unique properties the DAX 16%, S&P500 13%, DJIA 11%, FTSE100 9%, of the metal.
On the financial markets front, while some investors continued to Gold price in 2010: economic drivers make use of exchange traded funds ETFs to achieve exposure to the price of gold, overall total global year-on-year ETF demand Key economic factors which helped to drive the gold price higher decreased markedly as some investors began to take profits towards in 2010 were: the end of 2010, possibly due to the appreciation of gold price.
A fragile economic recovery amongst developed countries and Nevertheless, the worlds largest ETF, SPDR Gold Shares, experienced the risk of a double-dip or a prolonged recession: an inflow of 4.7Moz in 2010, up 13% on 2009.
Activity in gold futures The possibility of sovereign default and accompanying contagion and the over-the-counter markets saw a decline on the record numbers for example, in Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain : witnessed in 2009, although it is worth remembering that activity Rising inflationary pressure, particularly in emerging market in 2010 was still above long-term historical levels.
economies for example, in China, India and other parts of Asia : Private investors continued to acquire gold bars and coins enthusiastically Negative real interest rates are a stark reality in many economies in 2010, particularly in China and India.
This was primarily to shield where gold serves as a store of value and as a hedge against loss against currency devaluation, to preserve capital and to hedge against in purchasing power: potential loss of purchasing power.
Risk of currency debasement, particularly the US Dollar and the Euro, as markets tend to look to gold as an alternative monetary asset: Throughout 2010, governments and central banks around the world, Concern over the future impact of substantial quantitative easing particularly in emerging market economies, continued to diversify their programmes: and foreign exchange reserves and rebalance their portfolios to include the Negative investor sentiment and elevated levels of risk aversion.
purchase of gold, in part challenging the status of the US Dollar as a reserve currency.
Demand in 2010 Supply in 2010 In addition to the economic factors mentioned above, the gold price was also supported by strong jewellery demand in 2010.
The jewellery The supply side is dependent on the quantity of gold recovered from industry accounts for approximately one half of overall global gold mining, sales by central banks and recycling.
Demand from this segment of the market was particularly Overall gold supply increased marginally during 2010.
Mine supply resilient amongst Indian and Chinese consumers, notwithstanding increased as companies responded to the increasing gold price by record prices.
Industry reports indicate that buyers from these nations, ramping up existing operations and accessing deposits previously 26 27 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 29% Gold appreciated by 29% in 2010 US$1,253 Group average gold price received deemed economically unfeasible.
Consumers continued to supply the their wealth out of gold and into income-yielding assets such as equities recycling part of the equation due to greater awareness about the value and bonds.
Gold is also vulnerable to a sharp correction, if investors of gold.
Interestingly, whilst central banks have historically been sellers look to exit the market in large numbers due to its speculative nature of gold, 2010 witnessed a reversal of this trend as supply from the official and the amount of money invested in gold and related securities.
sector turned negative for the first time in two decades and central banks However, studies have indicated that there is also the realistic possibility became net buyers of the commodity.
This is considered to be an that inflationary pressures are beginning to surface, in part due to loose important development for the overall supply equation, since central monetary policy, and will continue to accelerate if the economic recovery banks have traditionally been a significant source of supply to the market.
takes hold and fiscal imbalances continue.
Currency devaluation remains a possibility, as gold continues to advance against the major currencies.
Furthermore, investors well versed in the metals appeal as What does the future hold for gold?
an investment may well choose to add to their holdings on occasions Looking ahead, the demand for gold may continue to be strong.
when there is a reduction in the price of gold, providing a degree of Gold has a long history of serving as a wealth preservation vehicle support on the demand side.
and as an effective diversification tool, as the precious metal has a low In short, gold may stand to benefit as a hedge against the unknown, correlation with other assets.
regardless of how the world develops and we believe many investors Gold is considered to be at an important juncture.
Should a global will continue to see value in gold throughout 2011. economic recovery be underway, interest rates may have to rise to help Source: World Gold Council prevent excessive inflation, prompting some investors to rotate some of Gold appreciated by 29% in 2010...
Source: The London Gold Market Fixing Limited.
Data provided for information purposes only... and by 412% over the last decade Source: The London Gold Market Fixing Limited.
Data provided for information purposes only
