Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Our Assets Albyn: key facts Albyn and Tokur Mine type: Hard-rock gold deposit, proposed open pit Location: North-east Amur region, c. 150 km east from Malomir Ownership: Licence owned by 100% Group subsidiary LLC Albynskiy rudnik 2 Total licence area: 1,006km Commercial start-up: Commissioning in the fourth quarter of 2011 Milling Capacity: On-site 2.0Mtpa RIP plant planned grains up to 2mm in size.
The main Albyn zone can be broadly divided into three areas: the Western, Eastern and Central zones.
Each zone Albyn: advanced development project comprises several stacked parallel ore bodies up to 10-15m in size and dipping at 30-45 towards the north.
Mineralisation at Albyn is suitable for free milling and amenable for the relatively low cost and low risk RIP processing technique.
Metallurgical studies conducted at the Groups laboratories and verified by independent experts have indicated that ore at Albyn is easily Albyn treatable with recovery rates by cyanide leach or gravity separation up to 95.2%.
Amur region Reserves and resources The Ore Reserves at Albyn are based on the independently audited geological resource estimates that have been economically optimised using a gold price of US$1,000 oz by WAI.
WAI estimated combined Blagoveschensk Proven and Probable Ore Reserves of 16.7 Mt at an average grade of CHINA 2.01 g t Au.
Development of the open pit will require 365.4Mt of waste to be removed in order to access the ore bodies with an average stripping ratio of 21.8 t t. A full summary of Reserves and Resources for The Albyn licence area was acquired in 2005 as a greenfield site.
Albyn may be found on page 47 of this report.
Six years later, Albyn is scheduled to become the Groups fourth open-pit mine with the commissioning of the first line of the RIP Mining and processing processing plant expected in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Mining at Albyn is planned to be conducted by open-pit methods.
The Albyn licence area is located in the north-eastern tip of the Amur The Group is planning to treat ore from Albyn at an on-site 4.0Mtpa region, approximately 150km north-east from Malomir and 45km RIP plant using direct cyanidation technology.
south-east from the Tokur deposit, in the Selemdja district along the The first of two RIP processing lines at Albyn is expected to be River Kharga.
It is expected that these three assets will form a cluster commissioned in the fourth quarter of 2011.
This will consist of one of north-east assets which will be developed together using the 7.5m x 2.5m SAG mill, two 4.0m x 6.0m ball mills and a sorption and synergies from all of these projects.
The Albyn deposit is located near 3 desorption circuit with 200m tanks.
Upon ramp-up, which the Group an area of previously extensive alluvial mining which took place during th anticipates will be by the beginning of 2012, the total plant capacity for the 20 century.
In addition, the Kharginskiy gold vein deposit, this first processing line is expected to be 2.0Mtpa.
situated 500 metres from the Albyn central ore body and within the current licence, was mined during the 1950s, producing 6.0t of gold.
The Albyn deposit itself was identified as a prospective site in 1970, Work conducted during 2010 during a regional geological survey of the area.
As a result of these The development of Albyn is currently on schedule and on budget previous mining activities near the Albyn site, the Group inherited due to the volume of work conducted during 2010.
This work substantial mining infrastructure when it acquired the Albyn licence, included the construction of on-site accommodation, temporary including access roads and a 35kV power line, which allowed the fuel storage and machinery maintenance facilities as well as the Group to make capital cost savings.
The deposit is located 2km from construction of project infrastructure including a second power line the nearest village, Zlatoustovsk, which has an all-year-round road and on-site roads.
Work also has been conducted to prepare the connecting it to the BAM railway.
site for the start of mining operations.
In addition to this construction work, the Group placed key orders for Geology processing and mining equipment during 2010.
These orders were placed earlier than had previously been planned to make an allowance Similar to other deposits owned by the Group, Albyn is situated within for any potential delays, as was experienced at Pioneer in 2010. the Palaeozoic Mongolo-Okhotskiy fold and thrust-belt.
Mineralisation at Albyn consists of metasomatic rocks associated with low-angle Currently, work at Albyn is focused on the construction of the fractures.
Gold is present in a free state, sometimes as coarse visible processing plant.
40 41 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Tokur: key facts Mine type: Hard-rock deposit at pre-development stage Location: North-east Amur region, c. 45km west from Albyn Ownership: 100% owned by the Group subsidiary, LLC Tokurskiy Rudnik 2 Total licence area at Tokur: 4.8km Outlook Geology The Group is constructing an RIP plant and the first line is expected The Tokur deposit is located 45km west from Albyn within the same to be commissioned at the end of 2011, comprising a 7.5m x 2.5m regional geological belt.
Gold at Tokur occurs in quartz veins cutting SAG mill, two 4.0m x 6.0m ball mills and a sorption and desorption Palaeozoic slates and shales as well as within a mineralised thrust circuit with 200m tanks.
The capacity of this first line is expected sheer structure.
Reserves and Resources A second processing line is scheduled to be installed by the end of 2013, which is anticipated to take the overall plant capacity to 4.0Mtpa.
The Ore Reserves at Tokur are based on Measured and Indicated It is planned that the second line will be of a similar design comprising Mineral Resources that have been economically optimised using a gold one 7.5m x 2.5m SAG mill and two 4.0m x 6.0m ball mills.
WAI estimated combined Proven and Probable Ore Reserves of 4.2Mt at an average grade of 1.45g t Au.
In line with the Groups new approach to forecasting, the decision has Ore extraction requires that 37.6Mt of waste is removed in order to been taken in 2011 not to release anticipated production figures for access the ore bodies.
Albyn for 2011, although the Group has no reason to believe that these will not go ahead smoothly as planned.
Consequently, production from A full summary of the Tokur reserves and resources can be found on Albyn has not been included in the Groups current estimate of 2011 page 47. production of 600,000oz.
First trial operations at Tokur were commissioned by the Group in 2009 to test proposed processing methods for the deposit focused on the re-processing of low-grade stockpiles from the old Tokur underground Tokur: pre-development project mine using new x-ray separation technology.
Gold recovery was 72% and the throughput of the classifier separator complex was 50t of ore per day.
The resulting product yielding 4.5 g t Au suitable for direct mill feed is currently being stockpiled until the industrial scale mining and processing operations commence.
At the end of 2010, a 3.2kt bulk sample of this pre-concentrate was Tokur processed through the RIP plant at Malomir, returning 85% metallurgical recovery and providing the Group with confidence in the selected Amur region development concept.
The ore from the stockpiles bears the same metallurgical characteristics as the principal ore body and this exploration work will be invaluable when designing the future processing plant.
Blagoveshchensk Currently, the Board is reviewing various scenarios for the development of this project and expects the feasibility study for it to be finalised by CHINA the end of 2011.
Tokur was acquired by the Group in 2003 and has subsequently formed an important base for the Group in the area.
Tokur has been th mined at different times during the 20 century.
Consequently, it is well served by local infrastructure and is located in an area of intensive historic alluvial mining.
