Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Our Assets Pokrovskiy occurred during the late Mesozoic period.
The ore bodies consist of gold disseminations that appear to be associated with intense block Pokrovskiy Rudnik: in production since 1999 faulting which characterises the geology of this region.
There is high potential for significant mineralisation yet to be found below the dacite sill, which thus currently forms a floor to the deposit.
Some of the fractures that intersect the dacite sill are mineralised within the sill and may represent the channels through which the hydrothermal mineralising fluids travelled.
Several satellite deposits, termed the Pokrovskiy Flanks, have been identified as a result of extensive exploration work carried out by the Amur region Group.
Of these satellite deposits, Pokrovka-2 is currently in production.
Pokrovskiy Reserves and Resources The Proven and Probable Ore Reserves estimated by WAI at Pokrovskiy under the guidelines of the JORC Code 2004 and using Blagoveschensk a US$1,000 oz long-term gold price as of 1 January 2011, are 26.5Mt CHINA of ore at an average grade of 0.92g t Au economic COG of 0.3g t Au containing 0.8Moz of gold.
This includes 4.4Mt of reserves at stockpiles at an average grade of 0.63g t Au and the remaining open pit reserves Pokrovskiy is an open-pit gold mine located in the western part at both Pokrovka-1 and Pokrovka-2 areas.
Ore extraction will require of the Amur region, approximately 10km from the nearest station 87.6Mt of waste to be removed to access the ore body at a stripping on the Trans-Siberian railway and 35km from Pioneer.
Producing ratio of 3.95t t. A significant further Inferred Mineral Resource exists 144,900oz in 2010, it is one of the largest producing gold mines within the deposit.
A full summary of the reserves and resources for in the Amur region in terms of annual production.
the Pokrovskiy may be found on page 46 of this Annual Report.
The Group acquired the licence to explore, develop and mine the Mining and processing Pokrovskiy deposit in 1994, when it was still at a very early stage of development.
The mine became operational five years later in The current mine capacity is 1.7Mtpa for the RIP plant and 0.7Mtpa for the 1999 when heap-leach facilities were added.
The RIP processing heap-leach facilities.
The heap-leach facilities are used to treat the lower plant was commissioned in 2002 and subsequently expanded grades and operate during the warmer season, typically from April to to its current capacity of 1.7Mtpa in 2004.
To date, the Pokrovskiy November.
Production from Pokrovskiys heap-leach operations accounts mine has produced over 1.6Moz of gold.
for approximately 10% of the total annual production of the mine.
In late 2009, some production commenced from Pokrovka-2, one of the satellite deposits that lie close to the mine.
2010 Production Pokrovskiy Rudnik has excellent infrastructure and facilities, During 2010, Pokrovskiy produced 144,900oz of gold, reaching the including an electricity supply, roads, heating plant, laboratory, upper end of the Groups production forecast for Pokrovskiy for the year accommodation, canteen and offices.
This can be attributed to the mining and comprehensive mining fleet, including trucks, bulldozers, shovels processing of reserve grades that were higher than predicted.
the first half of the year, the majority of production at Pokrovskiy came from lower grade ore bodies at the Pokrovka-1 and Pokrovka-2 deposits.
This allowed the Group to focus on extensive stripping works Geology in the main Pokrovskiy pit in order to access higher grade material of Pokrovskiy Rudnik is located on the south side of the Mongolo- 3.0-3.5g t Au, which was processed during the second half of the year Okhotskiy regional belt, the boundary between two tectonic plates in accordance with the Groups mine plan.
These stripping works also which collided during the early Cretaceous period, approximately allowed the stabilisation of the southern wall of the main Pokrovskiy pit, 150 million years ago.
The Pokrovskiy deposit consists of a set of five which experienced movement in the end of 2009. large, irregular, but mostly flat-lying ore bodies.
Mineralisation at Pokrovskiy is associated with hydrothermal volcanic activity that
