Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Our Assets Pioneer for RIP or heap leach extraction.
High grade primary ore is also suitable for cyanide leaching whereas the lower grade material is refractory and Pioneer: in production since 2008 amenable for recovery by flotation.
Exploration work at Pioneer is still ongoing and there are several prospective exploration sites within the Pioneer licence area.
Reserves and resources The Ore Reserves at Pioneer are based on the Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources independently audited by minerals experts Wardell Armstrong International WAI and have been economically optimised Amur region using a gold price of US$1,000 oz.
The total Pioneer Proven and Probable Ore Reserves are estimated at 67.3Mt of ore at an average Pioneer grade of 1.20g t Au containing 2.6Moz of gold.
Ore extraction will require that 318.2Mt of waste is removed to access the ore bodies at an average stripping ratio of 4.7t t. As a result of successful exploration work conducted during 2010, Pioneers resources increased by Blagoveschensk c. 1.8Moz, representing an increase of 63%, notwithstanding the CHINA depletion of 273,000oz in 2010.
A full summary of the reserves and resources for Pioneer may be found on page 46 of this Annual Report.
Pioneer is one of the largest gold deposits in Russia in terms Mining and processing of ore processed and gold output.
The mine is located in the Mining at Pioneer is conducted using open-pit methods.
The Pioneer Amur region, approximately 35km north-east of the Pokrovskiy mine now consists of five main open pits: Yuzhnaya, Promezhutochnaya, mine and approximately 40km north from the Trans-Siberian railway Bakhmut, Andreevskaya and north-east Bakhmut with four being actively station, Tygda.
The north-east Bakhmut pit was commissioned in 2010 The Group acquired a licence to explore, develop and mine the and contributed considerably to the production for the year.
The mine was commissioned in April 2008 Ore at Pioneer is processed at the on-site 5.0Mtpa RIP plant, with the installation of a 0.7Mtpa milling line.
Since then, the plant which consists of three processing lines: one 5.5m x 1.8m SAG mill, has undergone further expansion to reach the current capacity.
one 3.2m x 5.4m ball mill and a sorption and desorption circuit with 3 In July 2010, the Group was successful in acquiring a licence to 200m tanks, and two larger processing lines consisting of two explore and mine the land surrounding the licence area for the 7.5m x 2.5m SAG mills, four 4.0m x 6.0m ball mills and a sorption 3 Pioneer deposit.
This acquisition resulted in a ten-fold increase in and desorption circuit with 450m tanks.
The Group is planning to 2 the total size of the Pioneer project up to 524.8km.
The Groups commission a flotation unit at the plant in 2013 14 to process refractory geologists believe that Pioneers high grade zones continue into ores simultaneously with direct cyanidation leaching and to ship the this new unexplored territory.
resultant flotation concentrate to the POX plant that will be constructed at the nearby Pokrovskiy mine for further processing and recovery of gold.
Geology The Pioneer mine is located on the south side of the Mongolo- 2010 production Okhotskiy fold thrust line: within the belt of mineralisation associated Out of 230,900oz of gold produced by Pioneer in 2010, 98,500oz was with the collision of the Eurasian and Amur plates.
Gold mineralisation produced in the fourth quarter, representing 45.5% of the Groups total at Pioneer is as a result of hydrothermal activity associated with production for the year.
volcanism during the Mesozoic period.
The Pioneer deposit consists of several steeply dipping ore zones that form the Pioneer structure.
In April 2010, the Group commissioned a third milling line at Pioneer, In addition, the higher grade Andreevskaya zone is located 1.3km to four months earlier than originally planned.
This new line increased the the south-east of the Pioneer structure.
The deposits contain both free overall annual capacity of the plant by c. 80% to 5.0Mtpa.
The increase in milling and refractory gold mineralisation with average grades of the plants capacity, together with the increased tonnage of stripping works, 1.0-2.0g t and up to 20-50g t in high grade areas.
The top 20-50m of significantly enlarged the amount of mining works at Pioneer in 2010 with the mineralised zones are oxidised, containing free gold that is suitable the total amount of material moved increasing by 116%.
