Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Exploration Petropavlovsk is one of the leading explorers in Russia, with an excellent geological exploration team and state-of-the-art laboratories and research centres.
Petropavlovsks strong exploration expertise should enable it to sustain its growth in the coming years.
Exploration is conducted at Petropavlovsks early stage assets to ascertain or clarify their economic viability, or to provide data for Exploration in the Amur region pre-feasibility studies.
At Petropavlovsks producing assets, exploration results have contributed to prolonging the life of the mine.
For example, at Pokrovskiy, successful exploration identified additional reserves in Petropavlovsk key gold mines the main pit, plus a series of satellite deposits the Pokrovskiy Flanks and development projects surrounding the main pit.
In addition, the success of Petropavlovsks Petropavlovsk exploration projects exploration programme has contributed to the optimisation of City town development plans: at Malomir, exploration continues to find further non-refractory resources at Quartzitovoye allowing improvements to the Railway Albyn Zlatostovsk Sugjar Companys mine plan.
Tokur Malomir Osipkan Petropavlovsk conducted a successful exploration programme in Tynda Zeya Sagur-Semertak 2010.
Petropavlovsks exploration programme at its principal assets, Adamikha Solovyevskiy Gar-II predominantly Pioneer and Malomir, and evaluation of Proven and Aprelskaya Pioneer Taldan Probable Ore Reserves at Petropavlovskoye, culminated in a 36% Pokrovskiy increase in gold Ore Reserves in accordance with the JORC Code 2004.
Tygda Oldoiskaya Osezhinskaya Exploration work conducted by Petropavlovsks exploration teams cover different surveying methods, namely mapping, drilling, trenching, Blagoveshchensk modelling and the calculation of reserves and resources.
The geological team is headed by Nikolai Vlasov who, prior to his career with Petropavlovsk, was in charge of the State Mission that evaluated gold resources in the Russian Far East.
The Group has been able to capitalise on his expertise and detailed on the ground knowledge The Amur region, in the Russian Far East, is situated across an to identify new exploration targets.
ancient tectonic plate boundary and was the site of intense hydro-volcanic activity, a combination that resulted in some of the During 2010, the Groups total capital expenditure on exploration was most favourable conditions for the formation of mineral deposits in US$62 million.
Of this figure, US$14 million was spent on Pioneer, the world.
The region has been the historic home of the Group US$12 million was spent on Albyn and US$8 million was spent on since its inception in 1994.
During 2010, Petropavlovsk conducted 290,000m of drilling, 3 1.6 million m of trenching and analysed approximately 250,000 fire Petropavlovsk currently has 62 licences relating to gold-mining assay samples.
The Group calculated the average cost per oz of gold in projects at various stages of development in the Amur region.
50 51 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 2010 exploration highlights: existing projects in the Amur region Pioneer: A series of new, parallel ore zones Malomir: In-fill drilling allowed upgrade of with non-refractory mineralisation have resources: identification of two ore bodies been identified located in the Magnetitovaya zone Pokrovskiy: An increase in reserves has Albyn: In-fill drilling completed in 2010 allowed prolonged the life of the main pit better definition of high-grade zones and improved average grade of the project reserves Pokrovskiy Flanks: Exploration at Pokrovka-2 and resources has identified an additional ore zone Pioneer Pokrovskiy and Pokrovskiy Flanks A series of new, parallel ore zones with non-refractory mineralisation A 24% increase in reserves allows for prolonging of the life of the main were identified during 2010.
These new zones are located to the pit at Pokrovskiy.
Due to the successful exploration conducted by Petropavlovsk, Exploration at and near the Andreevskaya zone identified continuations it is envisaged that once the main pit at Pokrovskiy has been depleted, of the mineralised structures at Andreevskaya, as well as new production will shift to the surrounding satellite deposits, known as sub-parallel zones of mineralisation that are yet to be included in the Pokrovskiy Flanks.
The discovery and exploration of the flanks the Groups gold resource estimate.
have greatly extended the mine life of the deposit.
Considerable exploration has been undertaken at the Nikolaevskaya zone Exploration continued at Pokrovka-2 as well as at a number of in 2010.
This identified 227,557oz of Inferred gold resources in prospective areas at the Pokrovskiy satellite deposits, with a view to accordance with the JORC Code 2004 at an average grade of 0.84g t. increasing the reserves and resources base to replenish the depletion Mineralisation remains open in the on-strike and down dip directions.
of the main pit at the Pokrovskiy mine.
Drilling at Pokrovka-2 confirmed a new mineralised zone.
Towards the end of 2010, a new, prospective area, Borovaya, was Open pit and block resource model acquired.
Exploration of this area will commence in 2011. at Andreevskaya, Pioneer Trenching at Zheltunak East prospect returned promising results with The current outline of the grades of 1.4-6.03g t Au at an apparent thickness of 1.0m-4.0m.
Areas with normal grades Malomir of approximately 1-2g t are indicated in green.
Exploration at Malomir continued on the Quartzitovoye ore zone Areas containing bonanza where confidence in the level of reserves has grown.
grades of 10-100g t are indicated in red.
During 2010, in-fill drilling was completed on the Sukhonyr deposit, which allowed an upgrade of a significant part of previously identified Inferred resources into the Measured and Indicated category that consequently expanded the project ore reserves and the proposed open pit.
Further Inferred resources have also been identified.
The exploration and assessment of the recently discovered Magnetitovaya zone, located in the eastern part of the licence, is ongoing.
Two ore zones underlying the diagonal thrust, striking NE-SW and dipping sub-vertically have so far been identified.
The intersection thickness ranges from 3m to 30m with grades in selected samples of up to 40g t. Mineralisation is similar to the main Malomir deposit.
During 2010, drilling commenced to explore the possibility of a bridge zone between the Malomir and the Ozhidaemoye deposits.
The results are yet to be confirmed.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Exploration continued Left: Gold samples at a Petropavlovsk laboratory.
The Groups geologists have discovered a further mineralised zone, the Zlatoustovskaya ore zone, to the west of the Sukholozhskaya zone.
Malomir Ore Body Extension: Uplift in Reserves Exploration of this zone has indicated the presence of higher grade quartz veins and albetite mineralisation similar to the main Albyn ore zone.
Petropavlovsks geologists believe that the acquisition of the Kharginskoye licence area to the south-east of the Albyn deposit offers the potential to discover a new target of a similar size and nature as Albyn.
In-fill drilling completed in 2010 allowed better definition of the high grade zones and improved the average grade of the projects reserves and resources.
A newly identified gold-bearing zone, located 1km south of the central Albyn zone, was discovered and will be explored more intensively in 2011 in order to establish a mineral resource estimate.
Other Amur region assets Alkagan-Adamovskaya Petropavlovsk acquired the Alkagan-Adamovskaya licence in 2010.
2 The licence area covers 472.8km and is adjacent to the original 88% increase in contained metal is attributable to the south-west Pioneer licence area.
As such, Alkagan-Adamovskaya is being open pit extension and additional ore discovered within 2010 amalgamated into the Groups development plans for Pioneer.
The acquisition of the Alkagan-Adamovskaya licence allows further eastward exploration of the high grade Bakhmut and Andreevskaya Albyn trends.
Exploration at Bakhmut NE has already identified additional zones of mineralisation a new mineralised zone has been discovered The Albyn licence area has strong further exploration potential, c. 1,400m north-west of Bakhmut.
in addition to the currently established reserves and resources.
During 2011, Petropavlovsk is intending to evaluate the soil Exploration established a Sukholozhskaya zone of gold-bearing geochemistry results completed during 2010.
Once this evaluation veins and veinlets, similar to those found at the Kharginskoye deposit, is completed, Petropavlovsk intends to conduct further drilling and which has been traced 500-800m north of the Albyn.
52 53 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 New licences 2 The new Alkagan-Adamovskaya licence c. 3,270km of new licences acquired in 2010 2 472.8km in size surrounding Pioneers initial The highly prospective Kharginskoye licence licence area has been acquired south-east of the Albyn deposit has been acquired Allows further eastward exploration of the highAdditional licences acquired in EAO and grade Bakhmut and Andreevskaya trends Krasnoyarsk, Irkutsk, and Yamal regions Kharginskoye Sagur-Semerotakskya area During 2010, Petropavlovsk acquired the Kharginskoye licence which This is a recently acquired licence area, situated to the south of Albyn, covers an area to the east and south of Albyn and contains geological in a region of significant alluvial mining and within the same geological extensions of the known ore bodies.
Albyns gold-bearing geological formations as at Malomir.
The high grade veins known in the area were structure appears to continue both east and south through the new mined in the past using underground methods with a reported total licence.
The acquisition of the Kharginskoye deposit has opened up production of 3.5t approximately 112,527oz of gold.
720kg the possibility of discovering a second deposit, similar to Albyn.
approximately 23,150oz of gold reportedly still remain in the mine as a historical resource.
Quartz veins mined half a century ago were 0.3-3.2m thick containing 40-60g t Au with some substantial grades Burinda and Topazovskoye Taldan licence area of up to 2,700g t Au.
The Burinda and Topazovskoye prospects are situated in a similar Exploration of the Sagur-Semerotakskya area remains at an early stage.
geological environment to Pokrovskiy and are considered to be highly Exploration is targeting wider zones that are host to high grade veins prospective by the Groups geologists.
and also contain lower grade disseminated gold mineralisation that During 2010, Petropavlovsk continued to explore these assets.
can potentially be extracted using open-pit mining methods.
Grades A number of steeply dipping mineralised bodies were identified with of 1.0-5.0g t Au at a mineable width have been identified so far by a thickness of up to 40m and assays of up to 35g t Au in selected trenching.
Exploration will continue on the area in 2011. samples.
Preliminary metallurgical tests indicate that primary mineralisation is amenable to the direct cyanidation with recoveries Kirovskoye deposit Solovievskaya licence of up to 95%.
Magnetic and geological surveys have identified a 2.5-3.0 northwards extension of the Burinda structure with gold The licence for the Kirovskoye deposit belongs to the Odolgo Joint presence confirmed by samples.
The Group plans to release a Venture.
The Kirovskoye deposit remains a high priority exploration JORC Code 2004 resource estimate for Burinda later in 2011. target for the Groups Odolgo Joint Venture, with drilling continuing to return promising results.
Osezhinskaya Kirovskoye is a significant area hosting numerous gold deposits.
A number of zones containing consistently high grades have This is a new 350km prospective area which was acquired by been identified.
Osezhinskaya is situated south-west of, and almost adjacent to, Taldan, and close to an existing road, power Intersections of up to 60g t Au at an apparent thickness of 2-3m with infrastructure and the Trans-Siberian railway.
a wider surrounding area at a grade of 3-5g t Au were identified at Prirazolmnaya.
The exploration results received at Tsentralnaya are Ozernovskaya is considered by Petropavlovsks geologists to be also encouraging with gold grades up to 14g t. Mineralisation trends highly prospective.
The geology at Ozernovskaya is similar to the seen within the Solovievskaya licence area continue to provide strong geology at Burinda.
Geochemical surveys have identified a number potential for the discovery of further gold resources.
The work of gold anomalies which are scheduled for trenching in 2010. undertaken in 2010 has further demonstrated the importance of the area and continued exploration is warranted.
Preliminary test work Osipkan on oxide samples has shown cyanide leach recoveries of more than Osipkan is located to the south of Albyn and north of Sagur- 95%, indicating that gold within the samples is non-refractory, Semerotakskaya area.
Petropavlovsks geologists consider Osipkan subsequently increasing the prospects at this target.
to be highly prospective and are currently evaluating the best way to realise its potential.
Exploration, including trenching as well as diamond drilling, was conducted in 2009 and 2010 and identified quartz veins as well as stockwork mineralisation.
A sub-horizontal 2.6-6.0m thick mineralised zone with grades between 1.22-1.69g t Au was intersected by drill holes as well as a steeply dipping body with 5.82-7.13g t Au at a thickness of 1.0m-4.2m.
During 2010, a further promising intersection was discovered with a grade of 1.35g t over a thickness of 13m.
The Groups geologists consider Osipkan to be highly prospective and are currently evaluating the best way to realise its potential.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Exploration continued Visokoe Krasnoyarsk region The Visokoe deposit is situated in the centre of the Krasnoyarsk region, in an area that has consistently produced 1.0-1.3Moz of gold per annum over the last 20 years.
The licence area was acquired by Petropavlovsk in 2010.
Visokoe hosts significant gold resources.
Both oxide and primary ore is suitable for direct cyanidation treatment.
The mineralised zone defined to date by drilling and trenching exceeds 1,400m in length with an average width of 40-50m.
The exploration drilling continues with the current stage of exploration due to be completed later this year.
Utilising the drilling results received to date, the Group estimated 500,000oz of gold in Indicated resources and a further 1,500,000oz Krasnoyarsk of Inferred that have been included in the current resource statement.
region Petropavlovsk exploration projects Visokoe The exploration potential of the licence is far from being fully realised, City town and Olenka the main ore body is still open to the depth: a parallel narrow but higher grade structure running 300m to the south-west is also yet to be explored and evaluated.
Krasnoyarsk Petropavlovsk is currently preparing a pre-feasibility study for Visokoe.
Olenka Verhnetisskaya area and Troeusovskaya 2 Olenka is situated 70km north of Visokoe.
The Krasnoyarsk region covers approximately 2,367,000km and stretches across the central part of the Russian Federation.
Petropavlovsk completed a JORC Code 2004 Inferred resource It is one of the largest and oldest gold-producing regions of estimate of 542,000oz for Olenka part of the Verhnetisskaya licence Russia.
The area is rich in various types of mineral resources, area which was included in the Groups current resource statement.
including coal, oil, gas, iron-ore, magnetite, platinum, lead, copper, A summary of Mineral Resources for Verhnetisskaya may be found nickel, graphite and other rare and precious metals and minerals.
Known gold deposits are situated in the centre of the region, Although the full exploration potential of Olenka remains unrealised, including the Olympiada deposit, the largest operating gold mine an internal assessment concluded that Olenka would be most efficiently in Russia.
Petropavlovsk acquired several new licences in the exploited together with further deposits, which Petropavlovsks Krasnoyarsk region in 2010.
2 geologists anticipate to identify within the adjacent 995km Troeusovskaya licence, which is situated to the west of the deposit and believed to offer further exploration potential.
It was therefore decided to focus further exploration efforts on Troeusovskaya during 2010, where several geochemical anomalies of gold, arsenic and antimony are known to exist as a result of both historical and Petropavlovsks own work.
This composition of elements is a well proven geochemical signature of Olympiada-style mineralisation.
The main geological settings at Troeusovskaya are also in many respects similar to those at Olympiada.
An indicative assessment based on the size and intensity of known geochemical anomalies shows an exploration target containing 2.5Moz of gold.
Petropavlovsk plans to conduct prospecting works at Troeusovskaya in 2011.
54 55 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 2010 exploration highlights: Krasnoyarsk region Visokoe deposit: Combined Indicated and Visokoe: A pre-feasibility study is being Inferred Mineral Resources in accordance prepared for Visokoe with the JORC Code 2004 have been Olenka: An Inferred Mineral resource of identified at the Visokoe deposit, infill drilling 542,000oz has been estimated for the is on-going to upgrade current resources to Olenka ore bodies which are located 70km Measured and Indicated category north from Visokoe Other regions EAO During 2010, Petropavlovsk acquired a gold licence in the EAO, a Yamal region south-east of the Amur region.
This new licence area is situated approximately 40km south of IRCs K&S project.
Numerous indications Sob-Kharbeiskaya of gold mineralisation, including a historically mined alluvial deposit, In 2010, Petropavlovsk acquired a new prospective licence for geochemical anomalies and historical trenching results with reported 2 Sob-Kharbeiskaya, an area which covers 407km and is located grades of up to 20g t, have led Petropavlovsks geologists to believe approximately 40km north-west from Petropavlovskoye.
that this area is highly prospective for the discovery of significant gold Initial state-funded gold prospecting was conducted at mineralisation.
Petropavlovsk is scheduled to commence its exploration Sob-Kharbeiskaya between 2000 and 2009.
several geochemical anomalies and concluded that the area has potential gold-quartz sulphide mineralisation.
Petropavlovsk Irkutsk region plans to conduct its own drilling of the area in 2011.
Through the acquisition of Omchak in 2010, Petropavlovsk acquired two exploration licences in Russias Irkutsk region.
These assets are Chita region located in the most significant alluvial gold mining district within the The Chita region is located within the territory of Zabaikalskiy Krai, Eastern Sayan Mountains.
The area can be accessed by off-road Siberia.
The Chita region is a renowned gold producing region in trucks during the summer season when rivers are low from the town Russia where both significant hard-rock and alluvial deposits have of Nizhneudinsk, where the Trans-Siberian railway also passes.
been exploited for more than 100 years.
Petropavlovsk currently Geologically, the prospect is situated within the zone of the Main Sayan owns three assets in the region through its subsidiary, Omchak.
Fault which separates the Siberian platform from the Altay-Sayan belt.
Gold mineralisation is associated with west-east and north-west striking Verkhne-Aliinskoye tectonic zones within Riphean volcano-terrigenic,  is a high grade vein deposit in the north of the Chita terrigeniccarbonate, carbonate and coarse terrigenicgraben formations.
Exploration completed at Verkhne-Aliinskoye in 2010 resulted in Middle-Palaeozoic intrusions are believed to have an important role in an estimation of resources in accordance with the JORC Code 2004, the gold mineralisation of the region.
which are included in the Groups gold resource statement on page 46.
Historical exploration has identified several prospects within the two Verkhne-Aliinskoye has the potential to further increase the Groups licence areas.
gold mineral resources and Petropavlovsk is currently evaluating the best approach to realise this potential.
The deposit remains open to the depth with only the top 200-250m being explored.
Other deposits of this type were proven to have a vertical length of mineralisation of up to 1,000m with some having been mined to a depth of 700m with the resources still existing below this depth.
A number of shallow under-explored veins have also been found within the licence area.
Kulinskoye and Buhtinskoya prospects Kulinskoye and Buhtinskoya are located in the west of the Chita region, close to the Trans-Siberian railway and 500km east of the Pokrovskiy mine.
Both deposits are at a very early exploration stage but offer the potential to discover a high grade narrow vein-type mineralisation similar to that which is found at Verkhne-Aliinskoye.
A trenching programme conducted during 2010 established a potentially valuable mineralised zone with a strike length of 40m and average grade of 7g tAu at a thickness of up to 2.5m.
Other drilling results included a number of high-grade intersections that are currently being interpreted.
