64 65 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 In-House Expertise In line with the Groups strategy, and New Processing Petropavlovsks in-house expertise was engaged in all levels of project support Technologies in 2010.
Regis and Dalgeologiya Kapstroi Regis, based in Blagoveschensk, was established in 1994 and its Established in 2005, Kapstroi has so far carried out most of the acquisition by the Group was completed in 2006.
Regis performs construction work for the Group.
Its General Director, Valery Alekseev, the whole spectrum of geological exploration from initial surveying to has been with the Group since inception and has previous experience of detailed delineation of ore bodies and also the full scope of engineering the construction of world-class mines and production units in Uzbekistan for final feasibility studies.
Dalgeologiya was established in 2006 to and other former Soviet republics.
During 2009 and 2010 Kapstroi was support the Group with surveying and exploration work.
focussed on constructing the third processing line at Pioneer, the plant and facilities at Malomir, facilities at Albyn and the plant at Kuranakh.
Laboratory services Petropavlovsk has a network of laboratories which provide support for its projects.
All laboratories are accredited in accordance with POX Plant Russian standards.
As a result of internal studies conducted during 2010, the Group is Pilot Test Plant planning to install a pressure oxidation POX and hydro-metallurgical In 2009, this network of laboratories was supplemented with a plant processing facility POX plant at Pokrovskiy to process flotation state-of-the-art metallurgical test plant in Blagoveschensk a first concentrate.
It is envisaged that this will centralise the processing of its kind in the Russian Far East.
This project gives Petropavlovsk of refractory concentrates anticipated to be produced at Pioneer the flexibility to test any type of gold recovery process under conditions and Malomir.
As part of this development plan, in Q4 2010 the Group commissioned Outotec Oy to design the POX plant at Pokrovskiy Gidrometallurgiya and flotation concentrators at Malomir and Pioneer.
This design has The Groups expertise in pressure oxidation is principally represented now been finalised and is being reviewed by the Group.
The design by Gidrometallurgiya, a scientific research centre based in St. Petersburg.
3 envisages the installation of six 60m autoclaves, with two vessels It is equipped with state-of-the-art autoclave laboratory facilities.
The for the processing of Pioneer concentrate and four for the processing centre has particular expertise in gold extraction from refractory sulphide of concentrate from Malomir.
The total POX plant capacity will be ores, where it is necessary to use high pressure oxidation technology.
Irgiredmet The design is based on extensive metallurgical tests completed Irgiredmet is one of the largest and most respected gold prospecting Irgiredmet and Gidrometallurgiya.
In conjunction with Outotec, institutes in Russia.
It was founded in 1871 and acquired by Petropavlovsk the Group plans to conduct further tests on larger bulk samples in 2006 2007.
Irgiredmet provides the Group with metallurgical testwork, at its pilot test plant in Blagoveschensk Amur region during the bulk sampling, mine planning, infrastructure design, project evaluation and summer.
The pilot test plant was commissioned by the Group in preparation of feasibility studies.
It has facilities for sample preparation and 2009 in order to test gold recovery processes under conditions leaching, smelting, flotation and purification.
The Group installed a POX facility at the plant in 2010.
PHM Engineering, is drawing up construction PHM Engineering plans in accordance with the Russian Technical Regulations which PHM Engineering was established in 2005 and since then has grown will form the basis for the permitting procedure.
from a small group of experienced engineers into a respected scientific In order to facilitate the projects efficient development, Petropavlovsk institution.
PHM Engineering conducts project work for mining and intends to enter into an agreement with Outotec which will outline both processing enterprises, energy facilities and infrastructure, takes part parties respective responsibilities and roles.
The Group anticipates in preparation of feasibility studies for the new projects and supervises that Outotec will be responsible for the design, procurement and the engineering and building of all industrial units within the Group.
commissioning of the plants, whereas the Group will complete the construction work using its in-house services.
Giproruda Based in St. Petersburg, Giproruda is one of the oldest leading mining On-site preparation work at Pokrovskiy has begun.
Flotation engineering institutes in Russia.
Its scope of work includes the design, plants at Malomir and Pioneer together with a hydrometallurgical coordination of construction and commissioning of quarries and mines, circuit at Pokrovskiy will start processing refractory ores in the including those in challenging geological and climatic conditions.
Giproruda is a subsidiary of IRC, which owns 70% of Giproruda.
