Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Our Assets Malomir Geology Malomir: in production since August 2010 The Malomir deposit is situated along and above a major thrust zone within the Mongolo-Okhotskiy fold and thrust system and is hosted by upper Palaeozoic meta-sediments, mainly carbonaceous shales, which are affected by low-grade regional metamorphism and locally intense metasomatic alteration mainly silification with associated hydrothermal mineralisation.
Since acquiring the licence, the Group has completed significant Malomir exploration at Malomir that has resulted in the identification of substantial Amur region JORC resources and the discovery of the two new deposits, Quartzitovoye and Ozhidaemoye.
The Malomir and Ozhidaemoye deposits are related to a flat-dipping tectonic Diagonal thrust zone, while the Quartzitovoye deposit is a north-eastern extension of this structure, north of the River Malomir.
Malomir and Ozhidaemoye contain refractory ore amenable for flotation and gold recovery by pressure Blagoveschensk oxidation.
Quartzitovoye contains high grade free milling ore reserves CHINA which are currently being mined and processed.
Reserves and resources Malomir is the Groups first large-scale mine located in the north-east of the Amur region.
The Group anticipates that it will The Ore Reserves at Malomir are based on an updated Mineral become the first building block in a cluster of assets located in Resources estimate that incorporates significant results from in-fill close proximity to each other, which will be developed using the drilling which have been economically optimised by WAI using a gold synergies between these projects.
The Malomir deposit consists of the main extensive ore body also referred to as Malomir Central, and two other The development of the Malomir deposit is in two stages: initial deposits, Quarzitovoye and Ozhidaemoye.
This gives combined smaller facilities to treat non-refractory reserves followed by the Proven and Probable Ore Reserves of 117.0Mt at an average grade commissioning of further bulk tonnage milling and crushing facilities of 1.09g t Au.
This includes 241kt of ore at an average grade of and a flotation circuit to process refractory reserves, producing 2.40g t Au at the stockpiles.
Ore extraction will require that 447.8Mt flotation concentrate.
of waste is removed to access the ore bodies.
The RIP plant for the processing of non-refractory ore from the A full summary of the reserves and resources for Malomir may be Quartzitovoye deposit at Malomir was commissioned in August found on page 47.
2010 on schedule and as planned, despite the logistical challenge the project posed to the Group of being located in a new cluster of Mining and processing development, far from the Pioneer and Pokrovskiy mines c. 670km by road.
Mining at Malomir is conducted by open-pit methods and ore is currently being extracted from a single pit at the Quartzitovoye deposit.
The mines The commissioning of Malomir represents a success story current capacity is 0.7Mtpa for the RIP plant.
of Petropavlovsks model of organic growth as the plant was commissioned seven years after the Group obtained a The plant was commissioned in August 2010 on schedule.
licence to explore the Malomir Flanks and five years after The commissioning of this plant for the processing of non-refractory Petropavlovsk obtained a combined licence for the central area ores represents the first stage of Malomirs development.
consists of a 5.5m x 1.8m SAG mill, two 3.2m x 5.4m ball mills and 3 a sorption and desorption circuit with 200m tanks.
