Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 The Russian Gold Mining Industry All of the Groups gold mining operations are located in Russia one of the worlds leading mineral-producing countries and one of the richest in terms of its reserves and resources.
In addition to vast untapped gold resources, Russia possesses a pool of highly-qualified and talented workers and an established culture of mining innovation.
Today, it is a leading precious metals and diamonds research and Gold mining tradition development institute, working for the Group and conducting third-party Russia has a long-established tradition of gold mining dating back more work.
LLC NIZ Gidrometallurgiya, a scientific research centre in th than 250 years.
However, it was not until the first half of the 19 century St Petersburg, was acquired by the Group in 2008 and is researching that hundreds of alluvial deposits were discovered and explored and the new extraction technologies, particularly for the use on refractory ores.
Russian gold mining industry began to flourish.
After the abolition of serfdom in 1861, the alluvial gold mining industry Legal environment began to move from artisanal to industrial production.
By the end Russias long history of mining has led to the development of a stringent th of the 19 century Russia had become one of the worlds leading legal and regulatory framework.
Before exploration or mining activities take place, the law requires The Russian gold mining industry continued to develop during the companies to obtain a licence from the State authorities.
Licences may Soviet period until the collapse of the USSR in 1991.
During the 1990s, be obtained in open auction or tender and entitle the holder to conduct the industry suffered from a lack of investment, which saw a decline in geological studies and or mining within a certain timeframe.
The licence production until 2000, when annual output began to rise.
may be renewed upon expiry with the consent of the licensing authority.
Russias total gold production in 2010, excluding recycling and gold The licence conditions also require the holder to conduct their work in line with certain environmental requirements.
The holder must strictly follow produced as a by-product, was 175 tonnes 5.6Moz, an increase of and operate within the specified licence conditions and submit regular 34% on production in 2000. reports on all exploration and or mining activities conducted and details of environmental monitoring on a regular basis for State inspection.
Cultivating expertise At the end of 2010, Petropavlovsk held 135 licences to conduct Russias strong mining tradition has favoured the development of exploration and or mining.
Petropavlovsk takes its licence obligations scientific and technical expertise which has led to the establishment extremely seriously and to date has not been found to have made any of industry-respected research institutions, dedicated to surveying, material breaches of its licence conditions.
Petropavlovsk conducts its sampling, mine planning and optimising mineral processing.
own monitoring of its licence terms to ensure that it remains compliant Petropavlovsk has capitalised on this culture of expertise to fulfil its with its licence obligations.
strategy of developing projects in-house.
Over the years, Petropavlovsk has acquired some of Russias well-established mining institutions and founded some of its own.
For example, OJSC Irgiredmet was established 140 years ago and acquired by the Group in 2006 2007.
22 23 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Gold mining in Russia: key facts 5.6Moz One of the leading mineral-producing countries Gold produced from Russian Abundance of untapped gold reserves mines in 2010 Strong gold mining tradition and a culture of expertise Stringent legal and regulatory framework 34% Increase in Russian gold production since 2000 Major gold mines and deposits Key gold mines and deposits Areas of gold-bearing alluvial fields Mayskoe Kupol Ametistovoe Kubaka Kvartsevaga Kyuchus Aginskoe Natalka Nezhdaninskoe Novogodnee Monto Khakanja Petropavlovskoye Voro Kurunakh Polyus Mnogovershinnoe Sukhoi Log Vysochaishy Tokur Sovrudnik Zapadnoye Albyn Verninskoye Malomir Albazino Titimukhta Berezitovy Pioneer Blagodatnoye Olympiada Pokrovskiy Vasilevskoe Darasun Kluchevskoe Taseevskoe This relatively late transition to hard-rock mining fundamentally means The development of hard-rock mining that potentially Russia still has many known unexploited major During the Soviet period, alluvial mining continued to be the main hard-rock gold-bearing deposits.
source of gold production due to Russias abundance of alluvial gold During 2010, approximately 81% of Petropavlovsks gold production came deposits.
However, the recent boom in Russian mining has also seen from hard-rock deposits with the rest coming from alluvial production.
an increase in hard-rock mining.
In 2000, approximately two-thirds of gold production came from alluvial deposits and one-third from hard-rock deposits.
By 2010, the situation had almost reversed with the majority of gold produced coming from hard-rock deposits.
