Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Our Assets Yamal projects: key facts Yamal Projects Project type: Various projects at advanced evaluation stage Ownership: OJSC Yamalzoloto 100% owned Group subsidiary : OJSC Yamalskaya Gornaya Kompania 75% owned Group subsidiary : CJSC Sever-Chrom 100% owned by OJSC Yamalskaya Gornaya Kompania 2 Total licence areas for Yamal assets: c. 1,690km During 2010, the Ore Reserves at Petropavlovksoye were audited by WAI using Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources and a gold price Key assets in Yamal: at advanced evaluation of US$1,000 oz.
WAI estimated combined Proven and Probable Ore Reserves of 11.0Mt at an average grade of 1.05g t Au.
Ore extraction will require that 79.5Mt waste is removed to access the ore bodies.
A summary of the reserves and resources for Petropavlovskoye may be found on page 47 of this Annual Report.
In 2010, exploration at Petropavlovskoye concentrated on the deposits flanks, where drilling was conducted on a 80x80m grid and samples were processed and assayed at the Groups fully accredited local Yamal assets laboratory in the nearby town of Harp.
Average grades between 0.68g t and 2.1g t were identified, with individual samples assayed Salekhard up to 10.72g t Au.
The unmineralised overburden rock at both Petropavlovskoye and Novogodnee Monto has suitable properties for use as a building material.
Petropavlovsk is planning to use the overburden rock to produce a high quality gravel for the local market, where demand is high for such products.
During 2004 and 2005, through a series of acquisitions, the Group A feasibility study for the project, taking into account the positive amassed a portfolio of licences covering a significant area on the economic effects of future gravel sales, is being developed.
eastern side of the Polar Urals in the Yamal-Nevets autonomous The development work in 2010 included pre-stripping and stockpiling of district.
The Yamal region is a part of the Tyumen Oblast, a major 3 46,700m of rock to prepare the quarry for industrial gravel production.
centre of Russian oil and natural gas production, which contains A preliminary Environmental Impact Assessment was also conducted.
approximately 90% of Russias natural gas reserves.
The licence areas are west-northwest of the regional capital Salekhard, and are Zapadnoye well serviced with infrastructure.
Zapadnoye is a chromite deposit located in the west of the region, The Group has three projects in the region at an advanced approximately 35km from the nearest railway station in Harp.
development stage: Petropavlovskoye, Novogodnee-Monto and Zapadnoye.
The Sob-Kharbeiskaya licence area, which is at an early The deposit has been extensively explored, with Russian Classification exploration stage, was also acquired in 2010. reserves of 3Mt at 37.5% Cr O approved in 2010.
The chromite ores 2 3 at Zapadnoye are exclusively hosted within dunite intrusive and consist All of the deposits lie within the Arctic Circle where the climate is of NE-SW striking, steeply dipping 80-90 ore bodies, which are open extreme polar continental.
The chromospinelides have been identified as high grade, with an average content of 60% Cr O, which will allow 2 3 production of a high quality concentrate.
Petropavlovskoye and Novogodnee-Monto A prefeasibility study has been conducted for the Zapadnoye project, The Petropavlovskoye deposit lies 1km to the west of the Novogodneewhich outlined the viability of open-pit mining to a depth of 50m over Monto deposit and parallel to it.
Both projects benefit from good a period of three years, followed by underground mining.
infrastructure links as they are located close to the ObskayaBovanenkovo railway line.
Gold at Petopavlovskoye and Novogodnee-Monto occurs in both magnetite skarns and quartz metasomatites.
Extensive metallurgical studies completed by the Group have indicated that gold can be recovered by cyanide leaching, whether by direct cyanidation or by cyanidation of flotation concentrate.
