Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 IRC Limited Deed of Non-Competition IRC Assets The Company and IRC have entered into a Deed of Non-Competition the Deed to ensure that their respective businesses do not compete.
The Deed, dated 22 September 2010, commenced from the date on which IRC was listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and shall continue in force until such time as the shares of IRC Limited cease to be listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong or until the Company controls less than 50% of the issued share capital of IRC.
The Directors Kuranakh confirm that the Company has complied with the terms of the Deed Amur region during the period commencing from the commencement date of the Garinskoye Deed up to the date of this Annual Report.
K&S Kuranakh Blagoveshchensk Kuranakh was commissioned in May 2010, with a formal commissioning CHINA ceremony undertaken by the President of Russia in July 2010.
Commercial sales of iron ore concentrate began in September 2010 under a long-term offtake agreement that prices IRCs product at a formula related to the spot price for iron ore concentrate.
The price IRC is a producer and developer of industrial commodities with achieved rose steadily thereafter, with an average price agreed in projects located in the Amur region, the EAO and north-eastern December of US$131 tonne.
As the sales volume rose, so too did the China.
The IRC assets previously formed the Groups Non-Precious prices achieved, and IRC is currently realising a price closer to the local Metals Division, having been amalgamated into the Group following spot price.
the acquisition of Aricom plc in April 2009.
In October 2010, the Group completed the listing of IRC Limited on the Stock Exchange Location of Hong Kong Limited, which raised proceeds of approximately Kuranakh is located in the north-west of the Amur region.
The mine US$240m, while retaining an interest of 65.6% in IRC.
is directly connected to the BAM railway, which in turn is connected IRCs principal assets are the Kuranakh facility, which produces to the Chinese railway network through the Trans-Siberian railway.
titanomagnetite concentrate and ilmenite concentrate, and K&S, which is an advanced stage construction project on schedule to Geology, reserves and resources 2 commence production of iron ore concentrate in 2013.
IRC projects The 85km Kuranakh licence area contains two major areas of are fully funded for their near term growth plans.
mineralisation, the Kuranakh deposit and the Saikta deposit.
The main ore minerals in the Kuranakh project licence area are ilmenite and Further information on IRC, including its 2010 Annual Report and titanomagnetite.
The main value-adding components include titanium information on its assets, management structure and Board of and iron.
Other components include vanadium, chromium, nickel and Directors may be found at www.
At this stage only vanadium is considered by IRC to be a value-accretive by-product.
Project finance Mineral Resources for Kuranakh have calculated in accordance with the JORC Code 2004.
In December 2010, a subsidiary of IRC entered into a US$340 million project finance arrangement with ICBC and a US$400 million Engineering, Procurement and Construction Contract EPC was Summary of principal IRC Mineral Resources for Kuranakh signed with the CNEEC.
This contract aims to bring K&S into production in 2013.
Cut-off Resource Mineral Grade Project grade category Resources Mt % Fe total Kuranakh 17% Fe Indicated 37.38 31.17 tot incorporating Inferred 5.68 31.55 Saikta Total 43.06 31.22 58 59 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 IRC Limited: key facts 65.6%-owned subsidiary, producing and developing Kuranakh: Began commercial production of iron ore industrial commodities concentrate and ilmenite in concentrate in 2010 Listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited K&S: Expected to start producing iron ore with a market capitalisation of c. US$614 million as concentrate in 2013 at 31 December 2010 Garinskoye: Expected to start production in 2015 Independent management and Board of Directors Joint venture: Expected to start production of Threefold increase of reserves in accordance with the vanadium in 2011 JORC Code 2004 announced by IRC in 2011 IRC projects are fully funded for their near term growth plans Mining and processing Summary of principal IRC Mineral Resources for K&S Mining at Kuranakh is entirely open pit.
The Kuranakh processing facilities were commissioned in May 2010.
The design capacity is 0.9Mtpa Cut-off Resource Mineral Grade titanomagnetite concentrate and 0.29Mtpa ilmenite concentrate.
Project grade category Resources Mt % Fe total K&S 25% Fe Measured 195.66 32.45 Processing at Kuranakh is a two-stage integrated operation: the ore first tot undergoes crushing and magnetic pre-concentration at a plant adjacent Indicated 396.77 32.91 to the pit and then further beneficiation is conducted at the processing Inferred 148.65 32.07 plant, to produce concentrate.
Total 741.08 32.62 2010 production Geology, reserves and resources Production ramped up during the second half of the year with some The K&S project consists of twin deposits, Kimkan and Sutara.
adjustments being needed for the ilmenite circuit.
By December 2010, 2 The total licence area is 49.4km.
the plant was working towards reaching full capacity and producing The Kimkan deposit is divided into four distinct ore zones with the titano-magnetite concentrate with a grade of approximately 62.8% most important being the central zone.
The ore is approximately 63% Fe and ilmenite concentrate with a grade of 47% to 48% TiO.
2 magnetite, approximately 20% haematite-magnetite and approximately The ilmenite circuit has not yet achieved optimal yields due to issues with 17% oxidised martite and haematite-martite and has an average grade of the concentrators.
The supplier of the high intensity electroseparation 35.7% Fe within those parts that have been drilled.
The ore also contains circuits for the ilmenite concentrate has visited Kuranakh to correct the manganese 0.5-1.5%, germanium, vanadium, titanium and gold.
yield issue and will report to IRC shortly.
IRC is also carrying out The Sutara deposit is divided into three ore zones with the most independent testing of the materials and circuit.
important being Yuzhni, which lies on either side of the Sutara river.
The ore is mainly magnetite with some silicate-magnetite and, as at Outlook the current level of exploration, has an average grade of 33% Fe.
Kuranakh has a current estimated mine life of 15 years.
Mineral Resources for K&S have been calculated in accordance with Kuranakh laboratory the JORC Code 2004.
A fully-operational laboratory is located on-site to support all stages of the production process, providing testing and analysis of the geological Work in 2010 samples, balanced samples from the crushing and screening complex During 2010, on site work at K&S focused on preparing the site and process plant and the final product before it is delivered for sale.
This included clearance and construction work.
The first accommodation block and offices were completed and the first 1,000t of test ore was mined.
The results of these tests were K&S satisfactory with negligible impurities found.
K&S is an advanced stage development project which is currently Other projects on track to commence production of iron ore concentrate in 2013.
IRC owns licences to explore and mine the Garinskoye iron ore deposit, Location which is located in the Amur region.
IRC plans to commission this Located in the EAO, K&S is approximately 40km from the Chinese project in 2015 and estimates that Garinskoyes full design capacity will border.
It is connected to the Trans-Siberian railway and the Federal be 7.3Mtpa of iron ore pre-concentrate.
In addition, IRC operates three Highway, both of which are linked to routes into China.
The site is also early-stage development assets, Kostenginskoye 100%, located in the connected to local electricity and water supplies, which it uses in EAO, Bolshoi Seym 49%, located in the Amur region, and the addition to its own facilities.
Garinskoye Flanks, which surround the main Garinskoye project.
IRC is developing a 46%-owned joint venture with Jianlong Steel Planned development and outlook to produce 6,000tpa of vanadium pentoxide.
IRC expects this to K&S is designed to comprise a 10Mtpa mining operation at two open commence production in 2011. pits.
The total mine output will be processed on site, and is expected to yield 3.2Mtpa of c. 65% iron ore concentrate.
K&S has a current estimated mine life of 25 to 40 years.
