Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Petropavlovsks In-House Expertise Petropavlovsk uses its in-house expertise to support each stage of project development, to advance greenfield assets cost-effectively and efficiently into successfully producing mines.
This strategy has progressed the Group from a developer of a single deposit to one of the largest gold producers in Russia.
Developing Greenfield Sites Exploration Technological Support Petropavlovsk has systems in place Exploration work is conducted by the Exploration work is supported by to develop unexplored greenfield Groups geologists and geophysicists a network of six State-accredited licence areas into producing mines.
and covers various methods including laboratories which operate in All Petropavlovsks hard-rock gold geological mapping, soil geochemistry, accordance with international mines were explored and developed ground and down-hole geophysical practice and Russian standards utilising the Groups in-house surveying, drilling and trenching.
Field data to conduct assaying, metallurgical expertise which covers all stages of is evaluated and interpreted by in-house testing and analysis of samples to mine development from early stage specialists in order to prepare reserves establish the gold grade, forms in exploration to commissioning and in and resources estimates.
The geological which gold occurs and to decide turn, production.
Petropavlovsk is team is also responsible for grade control on the most suitable method of able to draw on the extensive local at the Pioneer, Pokrovskiy and Malomir extraction.
The Groups laboratories knowledge of its geological teams to mines.
Petropavlovsks geological and also assay samples from its operating identify highly prospective acquisition exploration teams operate through mines to control the production targets for its portfolio.
specialist subsidiaries, Regis and process and for environmental Dalgeologiya, and are led by Nikolai monitoring purposes.
The Group Vlasov, Chief Geologist at CJSC operates several research and Management Company Petropavlovsk, development centres and a test who has over 30 years experience of gold processing plant, which researches exploration and mining in the Amur region.
optimal and cost-efficient methods of ore processing and gold extraction, particularly for refractory ores.
18 19 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 In-house expertise to support all stages 3 of development, from greenfield site to Gold mines developed in-house gold production from early-stage projects 135 Licences belonging to more than 30 gold projects across Russia Project Development, Mining & Processing Gold Production Engineering & Construction PHM Engineering is a subsidiary of Mining at the Groups three hard-rock, In 2010, the Groups total the Group specialising in technical and open-pit gold mines is conducted in attributable gold production feasibility studies and in designing and accordance with a pre-determined was 506,800oz, making the supervising the construction of many of mine plan and gold is extracted on-site Group one of the top three gold the Groups industrial facilities.
In addition using cyanide based resin-in-pulp or producers in Russia.
Gold to PHM Engineering, the Groups research heap leach technologies.
Petr opavlovsks extracted at the Groups institute, OJSC Irgiredmet, operates its historical approach has been to expand operations is smelted into 16kg own design centre.
Construction work the processing facilities in stages or 25kg dor bars.
These are is carried out by the Groups subsidiary, following the initial commissioning.
then securely sent along the LLC Kapstroi, which was established in This approach enables minimum Trans-Siberian and BAM 2005 in order to meet the Groups pre-production capital costs and railways to a refinery in construction needs and to streamline allows Petropavlovsk to focus on early Krasnoyarsk, Central Siberia costs.
Since then, Kapstroi has been cash flow.
In addition to its hard-rock and Ryazan region.
The Group responsible for completing all major assets, the Group runs a number of sells all the gold it produces at construction work for the Group.
alluvial operations either directly or with a London fix price excluding its joint venture partners.
sales commission to Russian and Western banks.
