Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Board of Directors Peter Hambro Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Brian Egan Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Mr Hambro is a founding shareholder of the Dr Maslovskiy is a founding shareholder of the Mr Egan is Chief Financial Officer of the Company Company and has been Chairman of the Group Company and has been Chairman of OAO having previously been CFO of Aricom plc, which he since its formation in 1994.
He is non-executive Pokrovskiy Rudnik, the subsidiary of the Group joined in July 2007.
Prior to joining Aricom, he was chairman of Sundeala Limited and a member of which holds the Pokrovskiy and Pioneer licences, Chief Financial Officer of Gloria-Jeans Corporation, the Board of several family companies.
Dr Maslovskiy is a director of several a leading Russian apparel manufacturer and retailer.
started his banking career with his family bank, other Group subsidiary companies, including the He has more than 16 years experience in senior became Joint Managing Director of Smith St. Aubyn management division, MC Petropavlovsk.
He is a financial roles with Associated British Foods Plc, Holdings Limited before joining the Mocatta Group non-executive director of IRC Limited.
Prior to Georgia-Pacific Ireland Limited and Coca-Cola HBC.
as Deputy Managing Director of Mocatta & Goldsmid embarking on his business career, Dr Maslovskiy He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Limited and Group Marketing Director.
was an Associate Professor of Metallurgy at the Accountants in Ireland.
Andrey Maruta Dr Alfiya Samokhvalova Martin Smith Finance Director, Russia Strategic Director Technical Director Mr Maruta was appointed Finance Director, Russia, Dr Samokhvalova was appointed to the Board as Mr Smith was appointed Technical Director in in January 2011.
Mr Maruta qualified as a Chartered Strategic Director in January 2011.
He was appointed by Aricom plc Certified Accountant at Moore Stephens in 2001 and this role, she heads the Groups communications as Technical Director in 2006 and became Group joined the Group in 2003 as Group Chief Accountant.
department, a position she has held since 2002.
Head of Technical Services in 2009.
Mr Smith has He was appointed Deputy Finance Director in 2005 Dr Samokhvalova holds a Masters in Investment more than 30 years operational and corporate and Finance Director in 2006 before the merger with Management from CASS Business School, management experience in the global natural Aricom plc in 2009.
London and a PhD in Economics from the Moscow resources industry.
He began his career as a mining International High Business School.
In addition to engineer at Anglo American Corporation, South her roles at Petropavlovsk PLC, Dr Samokhvalova Africa and has led projects for Kier International, is a Non-Executive Director of the Russo-British Costain Mining and Shell International.
28 29 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Dr Graham Birch Lord Guthrie Sir Malcolm Field Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Dr Birch was appointed to the Board in 2010 and General the Lord Guthrie of Craigiebank GCB LVO Sir Malcolm Field was previously a non-executive became Senior Non-Executive Director in January OBE DL was appointed to the Board in 2008.
He is director of Aricom plc, a position he had held since 2011.
He is also vice-chairman of Rothamsted also a director of Colt Defense LLC, an independent 2003, and was appointed to the Board in 2009 upon Research.
Dr Birch was formerly a director of member of the House of Lords, a board member of the merger with Aricom plc.
Sir Malcolm is also the BlackRock Commodities Investment Trust Plc the Moscow School of Policy Studies, a Visiting senior independent director of Hochschild Mining Plc.
and manager of BlackRocks World Mining Trust Professor and Honorary Fellow of Kings College He was formerly CEO of WH Smith Plc and a and Gold & General Unit Trust.
Dr Birch worked London, Colonel of the Life Guards and Gold Stick non-executive director of Scottish & Newcastle, at Kleinwort Benson Securities and OrdMinnett to The Queen.
He was formerly a director of NM MEPC, The Stationery Office and Evolution Group Fleming OrdMinnett before joining Mercury Asset Rothschild & Sons Limited, Chief of the Defence Staff Plc.
He was previously chairman of the Civil Aviation Management in 1993.
Dr Birch holds a PhD in and the Principal Military Adviser to two Prime Authority and Tube Lines Limited.
mining geology from Imperial College, London.
Ministers and three Secretaries of State for Defence.
Sir Roderic Lyne Charles McVeigh Peter Hill-Wood Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Sir Roderic Lyne was previously a non-executive Mr McVeigh III joined the Group as Non-Executive Mr Hill-Wood joined the Board in 2003.
He has been director of Aricom plc, a position he had held since Director in June 2009.
He is the chairman of chairman of Arsenal Football Club since 1982 and 2006, and was appointed to the Board in 2009 upon Citigroups Corporate and Investment Banking Global was formerly vice-chairman of Hambros Bank and the merger with Aricom plc.
Sir Roderic served as Wealth Management Partnership and a director of chairman of its Investment Division.
Mr Hill-Wood British Ambassador to Russia from January 2000 EFG-Hermes and Savils Plc and the Landmark Trust.
is currently on the board of advisers of the Russian until August 2004.
He is Chairman of the Board of He was formerly President of the American Chamber Technology Fund.
Governors of Kingston University and a member of of Commerce and was on the boards of London the Council of the Royal Institute of International Stock Exchange, LIFFE and Witan Investment Affairs.
In 2009, Sir Roderic was appointed as a Company Plc.
member of the Committee of the Iraq Inquiry.
