Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 The Amur region Petropavlovsk is the leading gold producer in the Amur region.
The Amur region has offered Petropavlovsk an excellent base since the Group was founded in 1994 due to its location, established mining tradition, good infrastructural links and abundance of hard-rock and alluvial deposits.
Area of rich mineralisation Petropavlovsk in the Amur region In production terms, the Amur region is the third-largest gold mining Petropavlovsk is the leading gold producer in the Amur region.
region in Russia and contains an abundance of resources thanks to In 2010, total gold produced from mines in the Amur region was favourable geological conditions.
19.81 tonnes approximately 636,855oz, of which approximately 71% 458,500oz was attributable to the Group.
One of the worlds major belts of mineralisation, the Mongolo-Okhotskiy zone, lies across the middle of the Amur region.
This zone is the result Currently out of the 135 licences held by Petropavlovsk, 62 are in of a collision of the Amur and Eurasian tectonic plates during the relation to assets located in the Amur region.
Petropavlovsks licences 2 Jurassic early Cretaceous period, which was approximately 150 million in the Amur region cover approximately 15,000km.
In addition, hydrothermal mineralisation occurred before, Petropavlovsk is continuing its expansion into areas in the region where during and after the plate collision when ocean water seeped into its geologists believe significant mineralisation may have occurred that the earths crust and mantle and subsequently resurfaced, depositing would be economically suitable for mining.
In 2010, Petropavlovsk minerals and heavy metals.
These extremely favourable geological acquired additional licences in the region, which in total cover an area conditions left the region with an abundance of alluvial and hard-rock 2 2 of approximately 1,400km, including the c. 425km licence area around gold deposits.
Although alluvial gold was first mined in the Amur region in 1867, it was Petropavlovsk is one of the largest employers in the region and one of only relatively recently that hard-rock deposits have been explored and the largest taxpayers.
Where possible, the Group aims to employ local mined on a large scale.
people, and has invested heavily in local education schemes to ensure that it is able to continue to employ the very best people.
As part of Climate this initiative, Petropavlovsk founded a mining college close to the Pokrovskiy mine in 2008.
Upon satisfactory completion of its courses, The climate in the Amur region is characterised by long, cold winters graduates are offered employment within the Group.
In January, the average temperature is -27C.
By contrast, the average summer temperatures range from 12C in Petropavlovsks subsidiary business, IRC, operates the Kuranakh the mountains and 42C in the south.
titanomagnetite ilmenite concentrate production facility in the north-east of the Amur region and has other development assets in the region.
Despite these climatic variations, Petropavlovsks hard-rock mines operate throughout the year.
Petropavlovsk has been given guarantees by suppliers of its key mining equipment that the equipment will remain fully operational in temperatures as low as -40C.
The Groups alluvial operations are seasonal: they typically only produce gold from the end of April until mid-October each year.
24 25 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Amur region: key facts c. 636,855oz Located in the Russian Far East, bordering China Total gold produced in the Amur One of the leading gold-producing regions in Russia region in 2010 Site of ancient tectonic plate collisions and hydrothermal mineralisation Location of Petropavlovsks hard-rock mines and several important 71% exploration and development projects Percentage of gold produced in the Amur region in 2010 which is attributable to the Group The Trans-Siberian and Baikal-Amur BAM railways cross the Amur region and pass close to the Groups gold mines.
The Pokrovskiy mine, for example, is approximately 10km from Tygda, the nearest station on the Trans-Siberian railway.
For IRC, the railway provides convenient commercial access to the Chinese market which borders the south of the region.
Amur region The Amur region is located approximately Petropavlovsk key gold mines 8,000km east of Moscow and covers an and development projects 2 area of approximately 361,600km, making it Petropavlovsk exploration projects roughly the same size as Germany.
City town The population of the region is approximately 1 million, of whom approximately 210,000 Railway live in Blagoveschensk, the regional capital in the south, leaving the vast majority of the region under-populated.
The region boasts two major railways Albyn Zlatostovsk the Trans-Siberian and the BAM, Sugjar Tokur all-weather roads, including the MoscowOsipkan Malomir Vladivostok highway, and four regional Sagur-Semertak airports.
The River Amur flows across the Tynda regions southern boundary, separating the Adamikha region from China.
Zeya Sobvyersky Gar-II Aprelskaya Pioneer The region has two hydro-electric power Taldan Pokrovskiy stations.
In addition to mining, the Amur Osezhinskaya Tygda regions key industries are agriculture Oldoiskaya and forestry.
Left: Map indicating Petropavlovsks key assets in the Amur region.
The region straddles the central part of the  Okhotskiy line, an ancient tectonic plate boundary which forms one of the worlds major mineralised belts.
