06 In November 2009 we announced further manufacturing The water market has improved in the period posting 5% volume investment plans and restructuring of both our operating platform growth and 2% value growth this performance has gained and supply chain.
These plans include a 10m investment at momentum across the year.
the Cumbernauld site in production capacity, the outsourcing of a portion of our primary supply chain and the consequential closure The soft drinks category has once again demonstrated its ability of our Mans eld site.
Following extensive employee consultation we to deliver growth in volume and in value terms despite dif cult have now commenced the investment programme which will stretch macro economic conditions.
The landscape remains competitive across 2010 11 and into early 2011 12.
As a consequence of this we but consumers continue to respond well to both existing brands are recognising signi cant exceptional costs of 2.9m related to this and products and to well executed innovation.
plan in our 2009 10 financial performance.
In addition we have a further 0.5m of exceptional charges outwith the Mans eld position.
Strategy Our platform for sustained pro table growth is based on the The board has proposed a final dividend of 16.85p which following key areas of strategic focus which remain consistent represents an increase in the total dividend of 10% on the previous with prior years: year re ecting the continued financial strength of the business and our continued con dence in the future.
Core brands and markets Portfolio development The Market Route to market The U. K. soft drinks market, in contrast to the prior years volume Partnerships decline of over 2%, increased by 1% in volume terms and by Ef cient operations 2% in value terms in the 52 week period ending 23 January 2010.
People development The dif cult economic environment appears to have had limited Sustainability impact on the overall soft drinks market and carbonates in particular have continued to show good growth across the year.
Underpinning our excellent financial performance in the last 12 months has been our drive to build momentum across our key Consumers have continued to purchase a wide repertoire of brands.
We have grown revenue by improving sales fundamentals soft drinks and have maintained a preference for established through our many sales channels and have continued to develop product groups that deliver both quality and value.
Retailer brands that are differentiated and have growing levels of appeal branded soft drinks have not increased their share of the market, to increased numbers of consumers.
All of this has been achieved perhaps re ecting the competitive nature of pricing and promotion by delivering quality, service and value both to our customers across the category as a whole.
Category growth has continued to be driven by the strong The development of our sustainability and social agenda has performance of carbonates.
All sectors within carbonates continued across the year with much work throughout the Company performed strongly with the fastest growth coming from the to eliminate waste, improve recycling and to develop products energy sector.
Still sports drinks have recovered some ground and packaging which have a reduced impact on the environment.
with volume up 2% but at the expense of value, which has Of particular note has been our continued reduction in PET usage declined by 3%, re ecting the increasingly competitive price in our bottles which has reduced by 6% on average removing the environment in this sector.
requirement for around 300 tonnes of PET per annum.
In addition we are now utilising 25% recycled PET in all our Strathmore bottles.
This drive towards increased sustainability which we see as simply good business will continue to be at the heart of our future plans.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010
