05 Business Review This strong financial In the 52 week period ending 30 January 2010 A. G. BARR has substantially outperformed the U. K. soft drinks market.
performance re ects the The combination of signi cant growth in our existing core business and a full 12 months of accelerating sales in the continued drive to deliver Rubicon brand have delivered full year sales revenue of 201.4m.
This equates to growth, taking out the impact of the top line sales growth at the 53rd week in 2009, of 21.0%.
Stripping out the further effects of the Rubicon acquisition, like for like sales grew by a very same time as strenuous healthy 10.6% in the period.
efforts are made to control The business has gained signi cant momentum over the past 1 2 months building on the solid foundations set over past years.
and reduce costs across Pre-tax pro t, excluding exceptional items, increased by 20.8% to 27.9m from 23.1m.
This strong financial performance re ects the business.
the continued drive to deliver top line sales growth at the same time as strenuous efforts are made to control and reduce costs across the business.
This consistent approach in combination with the positive impact of the Rubicon business has increased operating margins by 1.2% in the period.
The Rubicon business has been successfully integrated over the course of the last financial year.
I am pleased to report that the integration was successfully delivered with only 0.1m of exceptional restructuring costs which is well below our original expectations.
Importantly during this integration process we have maintained sales momentum in both core Barr brands and in Rubicon.
The acquisition of Rubicon has to date exceeded all of our pre-acquisition expectations.
The net debt position of the Group has continued to improve and as at 30 January 2010 stood at 22.1m, a reduction of 29.5% on the prior year end position.
This position re ects our continuing effort to improve cash management and capital ef ciency across the business.
201.4m revenue for the year Business Review
