08 In 2008 09 we saw the BARR Range of avoured carbonates start Rubicon has added signi cant weight and diversity to our still to gain some momentum and last year that growth accelerated portfolio which has grown considerably and it now represents with sales revenue increasing by 33%.
This was driven by a signi cant share of our total sales revenue.
The wider still brands solid performance in existing outlets and further signi cant rises have continued to make very good progress with Simply and in distribution delivered across the year.
New avour additions St. Clements juices and juice drinks jointly increasing revenue by and additional pack formats also delivered excellent incremental 6%.
Simply Fruity in particular which plays to the value conscious growth and our first signi cant piece of above the line marketing shopper has continued to deliver strong growth.
investment in sponsorship of STV teatime programme The Hour cemented our position in the core Scottish market.
Further growth The water category has recovered some ground over the through the Barr brand in England and Wales is anticipated in the course of 2009, the second half of the year especially saw future.
The total regional range continues to grow and develop and growth with improved late summer weather in the south of will continue to feature strongly in our commercial growth plans.
Strathmore revenue adjusting for the 53rd week in 2008 09 was broadly at, although encouragingly the second The Rubicon brand following our integration efforts is now rmly half performance was 5% ahead of the prior year.
Our continued established within our core brand portfolio.
The brand in both still support of and focus on the brand as well as our move back into and carbonated formats has performed strongly across the year.
avoured waters has helped maintain performance despite our The integration process was delivered without disrupting sales decision to exit from some low margin contracts in the period.
momentum and the bene t of placing the Rubicon brand into our We are delighted to have renewed our contractual position with sales system and under our commercial management has delivered Matthew Clarke in late 2009.
This contract was originally struck sales growth ahead of our initial expectations.
The addition in 2006 in conjunction with the Strathmore business acquisition of the new watermelon avour and the upweighting of consumer and reached the end of its three year duration in 2009.
We remain marketing activity including signi cant sampling and PR around optimistic regarding the category and Strathmores position within Mango W eek have built on the already strong growth momentum.
it and anticipate building on the momentum of the second half As we progress with the development of the Rubicon brand into next year.
and begin to develop the consumer marketing plans we believe there is signi cant further opportunity to grow and develop this exciting brand.
Rubicon has added signi cant weight and diversity to our still portfolio which has grown considerably and it now represents a significant share of our total sales revenue.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Sam 13 loves the taste of Guava Rubicon, its his current favourite!
