07 Core Brands and Markets The development of our core brands and markets received much of our focus across 2009 10.
Over the period we have seen excellent growth across our key brands as we look to appeal to more people, more often, in more areas across the market.
Our two major reporting segments are: Carbonates Still drinks and water Both of these segments outperformed the market.
Still drinks W orld Record Breaker and water, which has historically been the smaller segment within In support of Homecoming Scotland our business, made some signi cant progress over the financial year 2009 10.
The year on year underlying growth in this segment the IRN-BRU Can Clan Event held on was boosted by the addition of Rubicon stills volume.
Our still 1 3 September 2009 staged live music and drinks and water business now represents 22.4% of our total sales mix.
a spectacular, world record breaking cancan by a crowd of 9,600 fans at Glasgow Green.
Carbonates has also continued to grow strongly, recording a 10.1% year on year increase in value, well ahead of the market.
Within the carbonates segment, IRN-BRU, which is lapping an incredibly strong prior year revenue performance 8%, continued to deliver strong growth of 5%.
Particularly encouraging is the performance in England and Wales where we have grown volume share by 20% in the period.
This growth has been driven by improvements in distribution and is evenly spread across the territory and in a number of channels.
S pot the Difference The growth of the IRN-BRU brand was underpinned by substantial marketing investment including sports based sponsorships such A very successful Sugar Free advertising as the Scottish Football League and Rugby League in England.
campaign helped to drive a positive In tandem with sponsorship we have increased marketing spend above and through the line with the main creative execution in performance for Diet IRN-BRU with the the period being the IRN-BRU Musical TV advert.
We continued campaign being awarded three advertising our focus towards value added promotional activity with a further IRN-BRU free glass campaign in the summer in addition to awards including best outdoor campaign.
numerous on-pack promotional activities across the year.
IRN-BRU continues to grow and develop as a brand and continues to offer signi cant further growth opportunities.
Of cial Soft Drink IRN-BRU is the Of cial Soft Drink of Rugby League and Rugby Super League.
An estimated 2 million fans attend the games with a further 5 million viewing the IRN-BRU sponsored coverage on Sky Sports.
4 total sales mix represented by our still drinks and water business Business Review
