28 We recognise that the talent and skills of our workforce are vital to the Companys continuing success.
29 Procurement Driver education continues to play an important part in delivering We operate a consistent, clear and ethical purchasing improved driving characteristics and reduced miles per gallon strategy which has been developed in accordance with MPG.
This is supported by the programme of vehicle replacement professional purchasing standards of integrity, professionalism, which will roll on into 2010 with the delivery of at least 17 new transparency and fairness.
vehicles, providing reduced emissions and improved MPG.
We continue to search for improvements and ef ciency gains Purchasing staff act in accordance with the personal ethical across logistics.
We are trialling an electric vehicle based at code of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply.
our Walthamstow site which is helping to set the potential future direction, as well as contributing to a 4.9 tonnes reduction in CO2 We seek to execute best practice in our supplier relationships, emissions across the fleet.
including encouraging and developing supplier operations to meet high standards.
A substantial review of our Company car provision in 2009 has seen us move from capital purchase to contract hire and has led Continuity of material supply remains a key objective and to setting a CO2 emissions upper limit signi cantly lower than the developing strong working relationships with our supply base previous policy, a change that has already delivered a 7% reduction is paramount in delivering this.
Our supply strategy has been in the CO2 emissions related to these vehicles.
evolved carefully with appropriate consideration of risk for key materials and services where sole supply positions exist.
Quality Our sites continue to be monitored through certi cation to the Our auditing programme focuses on both large and small Quality Management System, BS EN ISO 9001, and the British suppliers and continues to provide assurance of their compliance Retail Consortiums Global Food Standard is applied at all our to our standards both technically and in terms of ethical and production sites, demonstrating our commitment to food safety.
Our requirements, in order to comply with both of these standards, and those of the Environmental Management Standard, BS EN Our supplier approval process focuses upon the attainment ISO 14001, are documented in a single integrated system.
of recognised quality and environmental standards as well as development of robust disaster recovery plans and appropriate All food safety and quality systems depend upon identifying human rights and labour standard policies.
the risks and potential hazards.
Our HACCP Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point system ful ls this role.
It provides clear We continue to require our suppliers to maintain the GM-free guidance as to what needs to be speci ed, measured, monitored status of our raw materials.
These speci cations and on-line measurement data are audited daily and retained until past the end of the products Marketplace shelf lives.
Health and Wellbeing All our soft drinks can be enjoyed as part of a balanced diet and We maintain a trained auditing team at each production site a healthy lifestyle.
A. G. BARR provides a comprehensive range to ensure quality is maintained.
In addition to internal audits, of soft drinks to offer a wide choice of drinks for all ages.
an annual supplier audit schedule is prepared and the team carries out detailed audits to provide an extra level of control.
This allows our consumers to enjoy the soft drink that suits their individual needs and tastes.
Our soft drinks are available in a After five years of continued reduction of our index of complaints wide range of pack sizes both for their convenience and to help per million units produced, this year has seen an slight increase exercise portion control.
in this key performance indicator KPI.
A thorough root cause analysis of the events behind this increase has been undertaken, The deployment of GDA Guideline Daily Amount labelling and the system improvements implemented have strengthened on our packs provides information to consumers on the content our product release procedures providing the con dence that of our drinks, enabling them to make informed choices.
we will reverse the increase in 2010.
Advertising A. G. BARR fully complies with both the letter and the spirit of the codes of practices set out by the Advertising Standards Authority ASA in the Broadcast Committee of Advertising Practice BCAP codes for broadcast advertising and the Committee of Advertising Practice CAP code for non-broadcast advertising.
Corporate and Social Responsibility 30 Workplace Reportable Accidents We recognise that the talent and skills of our workforce are vital The year to January 2010 has seen a slight increase in the number to the Groups continuing success.
We aim to attract, retain and of reportable accidents to 17, with two of the accidents related develop high calibre people, promoting a culture in which they are to the extreme weather conditions at delivery points.
The safety motivated to succeed and their performance is both recognised programmes agreed for all sites have ensured that the severity of and rewarded.
Health and Safety is a key priority for the Group, reportable accidents continues to drop and was within the severity ensuring that our employees are provided with a safe and healthy target set for the year.
Number of Reportable Accidents: Health and Safety Safety is led from the top with the A. G. BARR board of directors 2009 10 17 monitoring Company performance.
The Safety Executive, chaired by the Finance Director and advised by the Health and Safety 2008 09 15 Manager, develops safety policies and strategy.
The Management Safety Committee implements and reviews compliance with 2007 08 19 policies and procedures and the local safety committees ensure local implementation of Company safety procedures and practices.
2006 07 27 A. G. BARR Health and Safety structure Reportable Accident Severity Rating: A. G. BARR Board 2009 10 23 Safety Executive 2008 09 29 Management Safety Committee 2007 08 39 Site Safety Committees 2006 07 67 To complete one of our key safety initiatives at the main site at Cumbernauld a bespoke safety DVD was produced this year for the manufacturing operation.
We now have a set of safety DVDs highlighting the hazards and control measures in place for the manufacturing, logistics and delivery operations.
The DVDs will complement our comprehensive safety induction to ensure we remain proactive in accident prevention.
Reportable Accident Cause: Slips 6 34% Manual Handling 3 18% Contact Injury 4 24% Trips and Falls 4 24% The main type of accidents in 2009 10 were due to slip, trip and fall accidents.
Although none of these types of accidents had a high severity our safety inspector and risk management process has continued to address these hazards.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010
