03 Prospects Shareholders will be well aware of the current dif cult economic It remains clear that to maintain and develop our competitive climate and the resultant challenges such an environment brings.
position we need to continue to invest in our major assets of I believe it is a great tribute to our management teams that I people, brands and operating infrastructure and we are doing am able to report, in my first year as chairman, continuing strong so in each area.
Extra resources are being provided to enhance growth and a real momentum for the future.
our long standing commitment to training and development and we are also benchmarking our performance against the Investors The financial performance of the business, as described in detail in People standard.
in the business and financial review, has been driven by strong revenue growth with turnover in the year increasing by 18.7% to The development of our brands is an ongoing and vital focus 201.4m.
Like for like sales excluding the impact of the Rubicon of attention.
We are also extending and strengthening the sales acquisition and the 53rd week in 2008 09 increased by 10.6%.
execution effort in support of that.
Continuing focus on costs and ef ciencies produced a pro t before tax, before exceptional items, of 27.9m, an increase of 20.8%.
During the year we announced a further investment of 10m in production capacity at Cumbernauld and the planned closure The Rubicon acquisition in 2008 was partially funded by debt.
Rationalisation is always dif cult and in this Good trading and diligent cash management have reduced net case will result in the loss of a number of jobs staffed by people debt from 31.3m last year to 22.1m at the end of January 2010. who have many years service with the Company.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
Within primary logistics we are planning a new approach which During the year a one for two share split was approved.
After will improve our exibility and overall operational performance.
adjusting for the share split, basic earnings per share increased by 5% to 46.8p 2009: 44.6p.
The new financial year has started well with sales ahead of last year.
Our enthusiasm has to be tempered with caution, however, Consequently the board is pleased to recommend a final dividend given the challenging overall economic and consumer outlook.
of 16.85p to give a total dividend of 23.1p an increase of 10% on the prior year.
I know that the strong results for the year to January 2010 were built on a solid base and I am con dent that we are well placed to maintain the momentum in the business into the future.
R. G. Hanna Chairman 27.9m pro t before tax excluding exceptional items and impairment charges Chairmans Statement
