a model business ARM has developed a business model designed to deliver sustainable long-term growth.
COO Graham Budd describes why the model is increasingly relevant in todays semiconductor industry.
In 1990, as a small company with This business model is an efficient and The business model is also financially great microprocessor technology and a scalable way for a small company to get a efficient for the semiconductor handful of engineers, but with few other return from its investment in technology companies.
They pay ARM only a resources, ARM needed an innovative without the expense of developing fraction of the cost that they would business model to get this technology to manufacturing capability.
The upfront have incurred had they developed the market and help fund the investment in licence fees enabled continued R&D technology themselves.
Some of this the next generation of processors.
So we investment for a sustainable technology cost saving is reinvested in their own developed a model based on partnership roadmap, while the royalty opportunity R&D innovation and enables faster time with chip companies in long-term incentivises ARM to work with our to market, whilst some of the saving business relationships, to create a shared customers and build the ecosystem is passed on to the consumer.
As the reward for success.
The chip companies required to help them succeed over the technology gets more complex and the pay an upfront licence fee to access the 3-5 years it takes to get their chips into ecosystem around it gets ever richer, processor design and then pay a royalty volume production.
these cost savings continue to increase.
on every chip that they sell containing our technology.
18 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 20 20 vision For the OEM companies designing Looking to the future, design complexity ARM has also extended the business end-products using ARM-powered chips, continues to rise, impacting development model to cover new technologies, such the business model enables flexibility by cost, execution risk and time to market.
as our 3D graphics and physical IP encouraging multiple suppliers.
It also This is driving increased outsourcing products.
Each of these technologies encourages supplier innovation and of technology development by the generate new licensing opportunities differentiation, while still providing the semiconductor industry, and the ARM and additional royalty streams from software reuse and scalability benefits business model scales to support this.
Combined with of working with the industry standard More companies are choosing a broader processor technology, ARM is already processor architecture.
Our business range of ARM technology, feeding receiving multiple royalties from the sale approach has always included building through into more ARM-powered end of advanced chips into some mobile relationships directly with the OEMs.
In 2010, ARM processor computing and digital TV applications.
This helps ARM to better understand technology could be found in 28% of Built around the principles of partnership future technology requirements for the digital electronic chip shipments, but and shared rewards for success, ARMs end product markets, and creates pull design wins in the pipeline suggest that business model continues to play an from the OEMs to the chip companies our market penetration will be higher important part in enabling sustainable incorporating ARM technology.
business growth as the pace of innovation The business model is very flexible and in digital electronics accelerates.
continues to work well as new types of devices and applications emerge, and different types of companies want access to ARM technology.
Although semiconductor companies remain our biggest customers, we also provide ARM technology to OEMs and Operating System OS vendors, startups and well established companies and universities and technology institutes.
As the worlds engineers develop their products around ARM technology this will help to drive our long-term licensing and royalty revenues.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 19
