Governance Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Board of directors Board members biographies which outline the experience they bring to the team.
Doug Dunn age 66 Warren East age 49 Tudor Brown age 52 Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Chairman Chief Executive Officer President Committees Committees Committees Nomination Committee Chairman None None Current directorships Current directorships Current directorships ST Microelectronics N. V. Non-Executive fide La Rue plc Non-Executive Director and ANT plc Non-Executive Director Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Expertise Soitec S. A. Non-Executive Director Expertise Tudor Brown was one of the founders of TomTom N. V. Non-Executive Director Warren East joined ARM in 1994 to set up ARM.
Before joining the Company, he was ARMs consulting business.
He was Vice at Acorn Computers where he worked B E Semiconductor Industries N. V. President, Business Operations from February on the ARM R&D programme.
In October 2000 he was appointed to the board in 2001 and became President Expertise the board as Chief Operating Officer and in in 2008 with responsibility for developing Doug Dunn joined the board as an October 2001 was appointed Chief Executive high-level relationships with industry partners independent non-executive director in Officer.
Before joining ARM he was with Texas and governmental agencies and for regional December 1998 and became non-executive Instruments.
He is a chartered engineer, development.
His previous roles include Chairman on 1 October 2006.
He was Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Engineering Director and Chief Technology previously President and Chief Executive Technology, Fellow of the Royal Academy Officer, EVP Global Development and Chief Officer of ASM Lithography Holding N. V. until of Engineering and a Companion of the Operating Officer.
He is a Fellow of the his retirement in December 2004.
Institution of Engineering and Technology.
joining ASML, he was Chairman and Chief He currently sits on the UK Government Executive Officer of the Consumer Electronics Asia Task Force.
Division of Royal Philips Electronics N. V. and a member of the board.
He was previously Managing Director of the Semiconductor divisions of Plessey and GEC and held several engineering and management positions at Motorola.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 41 Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Tim Score age 50 Mike Inglis age 51 Simon Segars age 43 Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Chief Financial Officer EVP and General Manager, Processor Division EVP and General Manager, Physical IP Division Committees Committees Committees None None None Current directorships Current directorships Current directorships National Express Group plc Non-Executive Pace plc Non-Executive Director SOI Industry Consortium Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee EDA Consortium Expertise Expertise Expertise Mike Inglis joined ARM in 2002 and became Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Financial EVP and General Manager of the Processor Simon Segars joined the board in January Officer and director in March 2002.
Before Division in July 2008, having previously been 2005 and was appointed EVP and General joining ARM, he was Finance Director of EVP, Sales and Marketing.
Before joining Manager of the Physical IP Division in Rebus Group Limited.
He was previously ARM, he worked in management consultancy September 2007.
He has previously been EVP, Group Finance Director of William Baird plc, with A. T. Kearney and held a number of Engineering, EVP, Worldwide Sales and latterly Group Controller at LucasVarity plc and Group senior operational and marketing positions EVP, Business Development.
He joined ARM Financial Controller at BTR plc.
at Motorola, Texas Instruments, Fairchild and in early 1991 and has worked on many of the BIS Macintosh and gained his initial industrial ARM CPU products since then.
He led the experience with GEC Telecommunications.
He development of the ARM7 and ARM9 Thumb is a chartered engineer and a Member of the families.
He holds a number of patents in the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
field of embedded CPU architectures.
Kathleen ODonovan age 53 Philip Rowley age 58 Mike Muller age 52 Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Senior independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Chief Technology Officer Committees Committees Committees Audit Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman None Nomination Committee Audit Committee Current directorships Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Linaro Limited Current directorships Current directorships Expertise Invensys Pension Trustee Ltd Chairman HMV Group plc Non-Executive Director Mike Muller was one of the founders of Prudential plc Non-Executive Director Misys plc Non-Executive Director ARM.
Before joining the Company, he was International Rescue Committee UK NonLivestation Limited Chairman responsible for hardware strategy and the Executive Director development of portable products at Acorn Promethean World plc Non-Executive Director Computers.
He was previously at Orbis Trinity Mirror plc Non-Executive Director and Expertise Computers.
At ARM he was VP, Marketing Chairman of the Audit Committee Philip Rowley joined the board in January from 1992 to 1996 and EVP, Business Expertise 2005.
He was Chairman and CEO of AOL Development until October 2000 when he was Kathleen ODonovan joined the board in Europe, the interactive services, web brands, appointed Chief Technology Officer.
Previously she was a internet technologies and e-commerce 2001, he was appointed to the board.
non-executive director and Chairman of the provider until February 2007.
He is a qualified Audit Committees of the Court of the Bank chartered accountant and was Group Finance of England, Great Portland Estates plc, EMI Director of Kingfisher plc from 1998 to 2000 Group plc and a non-executive director of and Deputy CEO and CFO of the General O2 plc.
Prior to that, she was Chief Financial Merchandise Division until 2001.
Prior to that, Officer of BTR plc and Invensys plc and before his roles included EVP and Chief Financial that she was a partner at Ernst & Young.
Officer of EMI Music Worldwide.
42 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Young Sohn age 55 John Scarisbrick age 58 Andy Green age 55 Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Independent non-executive director Non-executive director Independent non-executive director Committees Committees Committees Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Current directorships Current directorships Current directorships Netronome Systems, Inc. Executive Logica plc CEO Chairman Cymer, Inc. Non-Executive Director Expertise Innovative Silicon, Inc. Non-Executive Director Inphi Corporation Inc CEO Andy Green joined the board in February Expertise 2011.
He has been CEO of Logica plc, a Expertise 3.7 billion business and technology service John Scarisbrick joined the board in August Young Sohn joined the board in April 2007.
He company employing 39,000 people, since 2001.
He was CEO of CSR plc from June has extensive experience in the semiconductor 2008.
He is a former CEO of BT Global 2004 until October 2007 and previously industry both in Silicon Valley and in Asia.
He Services and a former CEO of Group Strategy worked for 25 years at Texas Instruments is an adviser to Panorama Capital, a Silicon and Operations at BT plc and was CEO TI in a variety of roles including as Senior Valley-based venture capital firm.
He is Chair of e-Skills UK Vice President responsible for TIs $5 billion he was President of the semiconductor the UK Sector Skills Council for Business ASP chip business, President of TI Europe products group at Agilent Technology, Inc. and and Information Technology, is on the board and leader of the team that created TIs DSP Chairman of Oak Technology, Inc.
Prior to that, and the Presidents Committee of the CBI business in Houston, Texas.
Before joining he was President of the hard drive business and is a Companion of the Chartered TI, he worked in electronics systems design of Quantum Corporation and, before that, Management Institute.
roles at Rank Radio International and Marconi Director of Marketing at Intel Corporation.
Space and Defence Systems in the UK.
Janice Roberts age 55 Larry Hirst age 59 Responsibilities Responsibilities Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Committees Committees Audit Committee Audit Committee Current Directorships Remuneration Committee Mayfield Fund Current directorships RealNetworks, Inc. MITIE Group plc Non-Executive Director Expertise Expertise Janice Roberts joined the board in January Larry Hirst joined the board in January 2011.
She has been a Managing Director He is the former Chairman of IBM Europe, at Mayfield Fund since 2000, a Silicon Middle East and Africa.
He retired from IBM in Valley-based venture capital firm with 2010 having previously held a wide range of approximately $3 billion under management, senior positions since joining the company in where she focuses on the mobile, wireless, 1977.
He is also a Commissioner at the UK communications and consumer technology Governments Commission for Employment industries.
Prior to that, she held various and Skills and Chairman of the UK Trade and executive positions at 3Com Corporation Investment Executive Board, responsible including President Palm Computing, for driving the UKs trade and investment President 3Com Ventures and Senior Vice objectives in the telecoms and IT sectors.
President, Business Development and Global He was awarded a CBE in 2007.
She is a director of several private Lucio Lanza retired from the board on technology companies.
14 May 2010 and Jeremy Scudamore retired from the board on 31 January 2011.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 43
