Overview Introduction How ARM makes money ARMs strategy Our strategy for long-term growth ARMs strategy is for our technology to gain market share in long-term structural growth markets, such as mobile phones, consumer electronics and embedded digital devices.
How we increase market penetration ARM has achieved more than 95% penetration in some markets, such as chips for mobile handsets.
As ARMs technology becomes increasingly applicable, this same level of market penetration is possible in other application areas.
These include digital TVs, hard disk drives and microcontrollers.
ARM has been at the centre of the We gain share as semiconductor To gain share in markets such as development of smarter mobile companies increase the use of hard disk drives, digital TVs and phones and the introduction of our technology in their chips.
They microcontrollers we are nurturing mobile computers such as tablets.
utilise our technology because it new ecosystems and developing The majority of these chips are is cheaper for the semiconductor new partnerships.
It took ARM ten based on our technology, and ARM manufacturer and their customers years to gain a high penetration is already licensing processors for to use ARM technology in their in mobile phones and although future generations of computers.
chips than to develop their own the rate at which each market will Over the last decade, ARM has proprietary processor and to adopt ARM technology may be also developed processors that are maintain their own ecosystem.
different, the underlying market suitable for a wide range of digital ARM is now developing new dynamics are similar.
devices, and influential market leaders technology and a richer ecosystem are making long-term commitments so that semiconductor companies to use our technology in a broadening will continue to choose our range of end-markets.
KPI KPI KPI Building the base of licences Growing the number of Increasing ARMs penetration that will drive future royalties ARM processor-based chips in target end-markets See page 07 See page 08 See page 10 4 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 Overview ARMs growth drivers We focus on three drivers to deliver long-term and sustainable revenue growth: Increase penetration Increase the value to Extend ARMs business in markets where ARM ARM per consumer model to additional types technology is particularly product by maximising of technology, generating applicable, gaining royalty the number of ARM multiple royalty streams revenue from chips used in processor-based chips from each chip.
ARMs financial discipline balances the need for continued investment to generate long-term future growth, whilst increasing todays profitability and shareholder returns.
How we increase the How we are extending How we are balancing ARM value per device the business model to investment in our business additional technologies with growing profits As consumer products become and cash smarter they often contain multiple To generate multiple royalty streams ARM processor-based chips, each associated with each chip, ARM ARM specialises in designing chip providing additional royalty has introduced a series of new innovative technology and revenue.
A typical smartphone can technologies which we believe are developing a sophisticated contain 3-4 ARM processor-based suitable for R&D outsourcing and community of partners to help chips, and as chips in a smartphone can command an upfront licence bring that technology to market.
tend to be more expensive than in a fee and an ongoing royalty.
Over the Our people are our strength.
They simple phone, ARM can receive six last few years ARM has introduced are the ones who design the next times more royalty per smartphone two major new technologies that fit generation of technology, and compared to a voice-only phone.
these criteria: build and maintain the partnership.
As smartphones are continuing to ARM invests in our employees Physical IP provides the building get smarter, more connected and through hiring both highly educated blocks for developing systemcapable, even more functionality is graduates and seasoned industry on-chip implementations prior to being introduced to each handset.
We develop and nurture manufacturing: and ARM is working at the forefront them, helping them to maximise Media processors provide of this R&D to ensure that we are their capability and potential.
specialist on-chip components developing the right technology to In the medium term, we believe for accelerating 3D graphics and further increase the number and that we can grow our revenues at efficiently encoding decoding value of ARM processor-based about twice the rate of our costs.
This financial discipline will lead to ARM is now licensing these As other consumer electronics increases in our profitability and technologies to leading products become smarter and more free cash flow with excess cash semiconductor companies.
connected they may also contain distributed to shareholders.
KPI KPI KPI Increasing the value that Developing new technology Investing in ARMs product ARM gets for every mobile to generate additional royalty development capability and handset sold streams operational execution KPI Growing normalised operating margin, EPS, cash generation and dividends See page 9 See page 11 See page 12 and 13 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 5
