Overview Introduction How ARM makes money ARMs strategy How ARM makes money ARM is the worlds leading semiconductor intellectual property IP supplier.
The technology we design was at the heart of many of the digital electronic products sold in 2010.
ARM has an innovative business times, ARM spreads the R&D costs How ARM creates value model.
We licence our technology to over the whole industry, making digital ARM endeavours to recover its costs a network of Partners, mainly leading electronics cheaper.
from the licence revenues of each semiconductor manufacturers.
These Technologies that are suitable for technology, leaving the majority of Partners incorporate our designs the ARM business model royalties as profits.
Over the medium alongside their own technology term, we expect royalties to grow ARMs licensing business started in to create smart, low-energy chips faster than licence revenues, and the early 1990s with the development suitable for modern electronic devices.
we expect that revenues will grow of our first processor.
The processor Why semiconductor companies faster than costs, making ARM is like the brain of the chip: it is where use ARM technology increasingly profitable.
the software runs and controls the ARM designs technology that once functionality of the product that As our customers are the worlds was developed by our Partners R&D the chip is in.
ARM designs each largest semiconductor manufacturers, teams, but it is cheaper for them to processor to be applicable to a broad their regular royalty payments have licence the technology from ARM.
range of end-markets to maximise become a highly reliable cash flow.
The design of a processor requires the number of companies that can ARMs business model is strongly a large amount of R&D investment licence each processor.
We estimate that every years ARM introduces 2-3 new generated 180 million of cash.
semiconductor company would need processor designs.
Since 2004, ARM has returned to spend about $100 million every year over 400 million of cash to Recently, ARM has developed other to reproduce what ARM does.
This shareholders through a combination technologies suitable for a licensing represents an additional $20 billion of share buybacks and dividends.
and royalty business model, such of annual costs for the industry.
By as graphics processors and physical designing once and licensing many IP components.
ARM business model 2-3 years 3-4 years 20 years The companies who choose ARM technology pay an up-front licence fee to gain access to a ARM research Partner chip Multiple applications design.
They incorporate the ARM technology and development development development and sales into their chip a process that often takes 3-4 years.
When the chip starts to ship, ARM receives a royalty on every chip that uses the design.
Typically our royalty is based on the price of the chip.
Each ARM processor design Licence Royalty is suitable for a wide range of end applications Cost incurred revenue revenue and so can be reused in different chip families $ $ addressing multiple markets.
Each new chip family generates a new stream of royalties.
An ARM processor design may be used in many different chips and may ship for over 20 years.
2 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 Overview ARM licences by region People ARMs global presence Over the last 20 years ARM processor ARM added net 179 employees in 2010: licences have been signed mainly over 90% were engineers.
by companies in North America and Asia.
UK 1% UK 41% Europe 15% Europe 11% Given our broad base of Partners, North America 45% North America 27% end-markets and geographies, ARM is not overly reliant on any one company, Asia Pacific 39% Asia Pacific 21% consumer product or country for its future profits and cash.
