Governance Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility report Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report The directors present their annual report and audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Description of operations, principal activities and and range of potential customers for its technology.
review of business The Group intends to enter into licence agreements with new customers and to increase the range of new The principal operations and activities of the Group and technology supplied to existing customers.
Relationships its subsidiaries are the licensing, marketing, research and will continue to be established with third-party tools and development of RISC-based microprocessors, fabric IP, software vendors to ensure that their products will operate video processors, physical IP and associated systems IP, with the Groups products.
As a result of its position in the software and tools.
The nature of the global semiconductor semiconductor industry, the Group is presented with many industry is such that most of its business is conducted opportunities to acquire complementary technology or overseas and, to serve its customers better, the Group has resources and it intends to continue to make appropriate sales offices around the world.
These include six offices investments and acquisitions from time to time.
in the US and offices in Shanghai, Shenzhen and Beijing, Going concern PR China: Shin-Yokohama, Japan: Seoul, South Korea: Taipei, Taiwan: Kfar Saba, Israel: Paris, France: Munich, After dividend payments of 34.3 million in 2010, the Germany and Bangalore, India.
Design offices are based highly cash generative nature of the business enabled the in Cambridge, Maidenhead, Sheffield and Blackburn, Group to increase its cash, cash equivalents, shortand UK: Sophia Antipolis and Grenoble, France: Grasbrunn, long-term deposits and marketable securities balance to Germany: Trondheim, Norway: Sentjernej, Slovenia: Lund, 290.1 million net of accrued interest of 1.7 million at Sweden: Austin, Texas, Olympia, Washington and San the end of 2010 from 141.8 million at the start of the year.
Jose, California in the US and Bangalore, India.
More After reviewing the 2011 budget and longer-term plans, information about the business, its operations and key the directors are satisfied that, at the time of approving the performance indicators are set out in the overview and financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going business review on pages 1 to 29, the financial review concern basis in preparing the financial statements of both incorporating a section on principal risks and uncertainties the Group and the parent company.
on pages 30 to 37, the Chairmans statement on corporate Dividends governance and corporate responsibility on pages 38 to 40 and the corporate responsibility report on pages 52 to The directors recommend payment of a final dividend in 54.
The Groups statement on corporate governance can respect of the year to 31 December 2010 of 1.74 pence be found in the corporate governance report on pages per share which, subject to approval at the AGM on 44 to 51 of these financial statements.
The principal risks 12 May 2011, will be paid on 18 May 2011 to shareholders and uncertainties section of the financial review and the on the register on 3 May 2011.
This final dividend, corporate governance report form part of this directors combined with the interim dividend of 1.16 pence per report and are incorporated into it by cross reference.
share paid in October 2010, makes a total of 2.90 pence per share for the year, an increase of 20% on the total Future developments dividend of 2.42 pence per share for 2009.
The Groups stated objective is to establish a global Share buyback programme standard for its RISC architecture, physical IP and other products in the embedded microprocessor and No share buybacks were undertaken in 2010 and no semiconductor markets.
The directors believe that, in order shares have been re-purchased to date in 2011.
The rolling to achieve this goal, it is important to expand the number authority to buy back shares given by the shareholders at ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 55 Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility report Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Net cash generation m Dividend pence 06 1.00 06 52.2 07 60.2 07 2.00 08 2.20 08 95.3 09 2.42 09 86.1 10 179.9 10 2.90 ARM has a progressive dividend policy, growing the dividend Net cash at the end of 2010 was 290 million.
licences and robust royalties deliver a reliable cash ow.
the AGM in May 2010 remains in place and a resolution to ARM employees are encouraged to offer their time and authorise the directors to make purchases in appropriate expertise to help charities and other groups in need.
circumstances will be proposed at the 2011 AGM.
The Group operates a gift matching system for individual employees fundraising efforts.
The Group does not Research and development R&D make any political donations.
The Group invested R&D is of major importance and, as part of its research 2.5 million in an interest-free charitable bond with Future activities, the Group collaborates closely with universities Business, as described in more detail in the Corporate world-wide and plans to continue its successful Responsibility Report.
Key areas of product Directors in the year development for 2011 include the development of further energy efficient, high-performance engines for both data The following served as directors of the Company during and control applications such as ARM cores based on the year ended 31 December 2010: symmetric multiprocessor and superscalar technology.
Doug Dunn OBE Chairman The Group is investing in future physical IP development Warren East Chief Executive Officer including low-power, low-leakage technologies for both bulk Tim Score Chief Financial Officer CMOS complementary metal oxide semiconductor and Tudor Brown President SOI silicon on insulator processes to ensure leadership in Mike Muller Chief Technology Officer this market.
In addition, the Group will continue to develop Mike Inglis General Manager, Processor Division and deliver tools, graphics and video processors and Simon Segars General Manager, Physical IP Division fabric IP to enable its customers to design and programme Lucio Lanza independent non-executive director systems-on-chip SoCs.
retired 14 May 2010 The Group incurred R&D expenses of 139.8 million Kathleen ODonovan independent non-executive director in 2010, representing 34% of revenues, compared and financial expert with 112.2 million in 2009.
R&D expenses have been Philip Rowley independent non-executive director and charged to the income statement since the requirements financial expert for capitalisation were not met.
The requirements for John Scarisbrick Non-executive director capitalisation are considered in more detail in note 1 Jeremy Scudamore Senior Independent non-executive to the financial statements.
director retired 31 January 2011 Young Sohn independent non-executive director Donations Kathleen ODonovan became Senior Independent nonDuring the year the Group made donations for charitable executive director on 31 January 2011 following the purposes of 37,834 2009: 34,292.
The total amounts retirement of Jeremy Scudamore.
given for each such purpose were: Election and re-election of directors Medical research 11,595 Janice Roberts and Larry Hirst joined the board as Local charities 9,025 independent non-executive directors on 25 January 2011 Relief of poverty 6,626 and Andy Green joined the board as an independent nonexecutive director on 25 February 2011.
All will be standing Other 6,586 for election at the 2011 AGM.
In line with the provisions of Promotion of education 4,002 56 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Charitable donations Percentage of issued ordinary share capital Medical research 11,595 Janus Capital Management 5.9% Local charities 9,025 Thornburg Investment Management 5.0% Relief of poverty 6,626 FMR 5.0% Other 6,586 Legal and General Investment Management 3.8% Promotion of education 4,002 the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, all directors will There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares stand for election or re-election annually.
in ARM other than: See pages 41 to 43 for the biographies of the directors at restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by the date of this report.
laws and regulations for example, those relating to market abuse and insider dealing : The interests of the directors in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, all of which were beneficially held, restrictions that may be imposed pursuant to the Listing are disclosed in the remuneration report.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority under which certain employees of ARM require the approval of the Share capital Company to deal in shares: As at 31 December 2010, ARMs share capital comprised restrictions on the transfer of shares that may be imposed a single class of ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each and under article 61.2 of ARMs articles of association or there were 1,344,055,696 ordinary shares in issue 2009: under Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, in either case 1,344,055,696 of which 21,624,158 ordinary shares were following a failure to supply information required to be held in treasury 2009: 60,321,361.
The rights attached disclosed following service of a request under section 793 to treasury shares are restricted in accordance with the of the Companies Act 2006: and Companies Acts.
The rights attached to ordinary shares restrictions on transfer of shares held under certain of the are as follows: Companys employee share plans while they remain 1 on a show of hands at a general meeting, every subject to the plan.
shareholder present in person or, in the case of a Substantial shareholdings corporation, present at the meeting by way of a representative and entitled to vote shall have one vote The directors are aware of the following substantial interests and every proxy present who has been duly appointed in the issued share capital of the Company as by a shareholder entitled to vote on the resolution has at 25 February 2011: one vote: Percentage 2 on a poll, every shareholder present in person or in the of issued ordinary share case of a corporation, present at the meeting by way of capital a representative or by proxy and entitled to vote shall Janus Capital Management 5.9% have one vote for every ordinary share held: Thornburg Investment Management 5.0% 3 shareholders are entitled to a dividend where declared FMR 5.0% or paid out of profits available for such purposes: and Legal and General Investment Management 3.8% 4 shareholders are entitled to participate in a return of capital on a winding-up.
Save for the above, the Company has not been notified, as The notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for exercising at 25 February 2011, of any material interest of 3% or more voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in or any non-material interest exceeding 10% of the issued relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy share capital of the Company.
votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on ARMs website after the meeting.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 57 Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility report Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Appointment of directors Qualifying indemnity provision ARM shareholders may by ordinary resolution appoint any Article 139 of the Companys articles of association person to be a director.
ARM must have not less than two provides for the indemnification of directors of the Company and no more than 16 directors holding office at all times.
against liability incurred by them in certain situations, and ARM may by ordinary resolution from time to time vary the is a qualifying indemnity provision within the meaning of minimum and or maximum number of directors.
Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, at Change of control the 2011 AGM and future AGMs all directors will present All of ARMs equity-based plans contain provisions relating themselves for re-election if eligible unless the directors to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options have agreed otherwise.
would normally vest and become exercisable on a change The directors may appoint a director to fill a casual vacancy of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance or as an additional director to hold office until the next AGM, conditions at that time.
who shall then be eligible for election.
There are no significant agreements to which ARM is a party Articles of association that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
ARMs articles of association may be amended only by a Disabled persons special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The Group has a strong demand for highly qualified staff Directors authority and disability is not seen to be an inhibitor to employment or career development.
In the event of any staff becoming The directors are responsible for the management of the disabled while with the Group, their needs and abilities business of ARM and may exercise all powers of ARM would be assessed and the Group would, where possible, subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the seek to offer alternative employment to them if they were no articles of association.
longer able to continue in their current role.
At the 2010 AGM, the directors were given authority to buy Employee involvement back a maximum number of 126,012,000 ordinary shares at a minimum price of 0.05 pence each.
The maximum As the Group is an IP enterprise, it is vital that all levels price was an amount equal to 105% of the average of of staff are consulted and involved in its decisionthe closing mid market prices of ARMs ordinary shares making processes.
To this end, internal conferences and as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official communications meetings are held regularly which involve List for the five business days immediately preceding the employees from all parts of the Group in discussions on day on which such ordinary shares are contracted to be future strategy and developments.
This authority will expire at the earlier of the share ownership is encouraged and all employees are able conclusion of the 2011 AGM or 30 June 2011. to participate in one of the Groups schemes to encourage Accordingly, resolution 21 will be proposed as a special share ownership.
The Group has an informal and delegated resolution at the 2011 AGM to give ARM authority to organisational structure.
It does not presently operate any acquire up to 134,508,636 ordinary shares following collective agreements with any trade unions.
expiry of the current authority.
The directors will use this Information about the Groups employees and policies authority only after careful consideration, taking into account are contained in the remuneration report, the corporate market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment responsibility CR report and the corporate governance opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall report.
Information about environmental matters, social and position of ARM.
In particular, this authority will be exercised community policies and their effectiveness is contained in only if the directors believe that it is in the best interests of the CR Report.
shareholders generally and will increase earnings per share.
Policy on payment of creditors Resolution 19 to be proposed at the 2011 AGM will The Groups policy is to pay suppliers before the end of the authorise the directors generally to allot up to 221,939 month following the month of receipt of the invoice, unless in nominal amount of ordinary shares and, in addition, will terms have been specifically agreed in advance.
This policy authorise the directors to allot up to a further 221,939 in and any specific terms agreed with suppliers are made nominal amount of ordinary shares in connection with a known to the appropriate staff and to suppliers on request.
rights issue as defined in resolution 19.
Further, resolution Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2010 were 20 will authorise the directors to allot ordinary shares or sell equivalent to 16 days purchases for the Group 2009: treasury shares for cash i otherwise than in connection nine days and nil days for the Company 2009: nil.
with a pre-emptive offer as defined in resolution 20 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 33,627 or ii in Financial instruments connection with a pre-emptive offer up to an aggregate The Groups financial risk management and policies and nominal amount of 33,627, or iii in connection with a exposure to risks in relation to financial instruments are rights issue up to a further nominal amount of 33,627, detailed in note 1c.
in each case as if section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to such allotment or sale.
The period of authorisation will in each case expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the 2012 AGM or on 30 June 2012.
58 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Essential contracts The directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority to There are a large number of contracts in place with the include a report containing a fair view of the business and a Groups Partners which are described in more detail in the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business review.
There are no parties with whom the Group Company and the Group.
These are set out in the financial has contractual or other arrangements which are essential review on pages 30 to 37. to the business of the Group.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate Annual General Meeting AGM accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain The AGM will be held at 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable CB1 9NJ, UK, on 12 May 2011 at 2.30pm.
A presentation accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company will be made at this meeting outlining recent developments and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group in the business.
All voting at the meeting will be conducted financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 on a poll where every shareholder present in person or by and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company proxy will have one vote for each share of which they are the financial statements and the directors remuneration report owner.
The Group will convey the results of the poll on the comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also website after the AGM.
Shareholders are invited to submit responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company written questions in advance of the meeting.
Questions and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for should be sent to The Company Secretary, ARM Holdings the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
plc, 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK.
The directors are responsible for ensuring the maintenance A resolution to reappoint  LLP as and integrity of the Groups website.
Legislation in auditors to the Group will be proposed at the AGM.
Details the United Kingdom governing the preparation and of other resolutions to be proposed at the meeting are set out dissemination of financial statements may differ from in the Circular and Notice of AGM 2011 which will be made legislation in other jurisdictions.
available to all shareholders together with a proxy card.
Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual Each of the directors whose names and functions are report, the directors remuneration report and the Group described in the biographies on pages 41 to 43 confirm and the parent company financial statements in accordance that to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: with applicable law and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the directors to prepare financial IFRS as adopted by the EU UK GAAP for the Company, statements for each financial year.
Under that law the give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial directors have prepared the Group financial statements in position and profit of the Group and Company: and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the directors report and the financial review on pages IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the 30 to 37 include a fair review of the development and parent company financial statements and the directors performance of the business and the position of the remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and Company and the Group, together with a description United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Under company Disclosure of information to auditors law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of In the case of each of the persons who are directors at the the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and time when the report is approved, the following applies: of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit In preparing those financial statements, the directors are information of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
required to: Each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought select suitable accounting policies and then apply them to have taken in his or her duty as a director in order consistently: to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors make judgements and estimates that are reasonable are aware of that information.
and prudent: By order of the board state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent company financial statements, that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Patricia Alsop prepare the Group and parent company financial Company Secretary statements on the going concern basis unless it is ARM Holdings plc inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue Company Number: 2548782 in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 59
