eco friendly The ARM partnership is an ecosystem of hundreds of companies that have built their business around ARM technology.
Ian Drew, EVP of Marketing, explains how ARM develops this ecosystem and why it is so important to ARMs long-term success.
The ARM business model requires A strong partnership also strengthens multiple companies to work together to ARMs competitive position.
Any new deliver power efficient products to the entrant into a market will have to make a industry and ultimately to consumers.
huge investment to create an ecosystem as Our ecosystem is a connected community rich and diverse as the ARM partnership.
of hundreds of companies developing The ARM partnership is vital to their products and services around ARM ARMs long-term success.
These companies include creating and maintaining a thriving semiconductor manufacturers, design ecosystem is for all our Partners to see an automation and tools providers, and opportunity to succeed, so that we can all operating system and application software benefit together.
It is the quality and breadth of these companies that determine ARMs ability to rapidly penetrate new markets.
In 2010 we have expanded the geographical reach of our partnership to include the most talented and innovative companies in countries such as Brazil and Russia, as well as expanding within more established regions, such as Europe, USA and China.
Whenever we enter a new market, we identify the partnerships needed to create a supporting ecosystem.
My marketing team spends much of its time building and maintaining these partnerships, ensuring that everyone sees the opportunity from which we can all benefit.
For example, the success of mobile internet-connected devices has extended the range of Partners that ARM works with to include major browser and plug-in developers, gaming companies and tools vendors.
Im always pleased to see the latest generation of tablets, smartphones and smartbooks come to market combining ARMs advanced processors and physical IP with our Partners latest technology.
20 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 20 20 vision ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 21
