to create the best technology, its better to be lucky and smart Founder and Chief Technical Officer Mike Muller explains how serendipity combined with the power constraints of a battery has led to ARM developing smart, low-power processors that are now suitable for a broadening range of consumer electronics.
16 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 20 20 vision The original ARM processor was P Performance of the processor PPA equation.
This requires the type developed for a low-cost computer in required to deliver the desired of ongoing innovation that has always the late 1980s.
You make a chip lowfunctionality and capability.
cost by designing the processor with the P Power consumed by the chip, both We have introduced techniques for least number of transistors to keep the during peak operation and when idle.
running separate areas of an ARM chip small and with high software code processor at different frequencies and density to reduce the amount of memory A Area of silicon, which equates to the voltages reducing dynamic power needed.
Both of these characteristics eventual cost of the chip.
consumption, and even shutting down have the added bonus of making the chip Getting the PPA balance right has been part of the processor when they are not very low-power.
When I presented our the key to ARMs success in mobile, being used to further reduce power.
new technology at the Microprocessor but has become just as important in Forum in 1992 an engineer from ARMs advanced processors are now other applications: Texas Instruments was in the audience combined with optimised physical and was looking for a smart and lowMobile computers, such as tablets, need IP to deliver a predetermined power processor for applications from advanced processors that can browse PPA for a particular processor automotive to mobile phones.
the internet but have similar power process combination.
This improves constraints as mobile phones.
performance, lowers power Mobile phones have always been very Microcontroller chips in washing consumption and reduces time sensitive to the power used by every machines and toys are very cost to market for our Partners.
However, sensitive, each costing less than $1 consumers and operators want smarter Getting the PPA balance right is unlikely each, but still need to be smart.
mobile devices without compromising to get easier, but every problem is an Servers consume huge amounts of battery life.
ARM has worked closely opportunity.
We are now developing energy.
Some of our Partners are with semiconductor manufacturers, new technologies to manage process working on ARM technology-based OEMs and service providers to get variability across an individual chip chips which they believe can reduce the correct balance between: to further save power and increase energy by more than half.
Each innovation we create Building smart, low-power computers is makes ARM technology increasingly getting harder.
Shrinking geometries used attractive to a wider number of to bring smaller size, faster speed and semiconductor companies who are lower power but below 65nm designers having to battle increasing cost and have to work much harder to balance the complexity in their chips.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 17
