the ideas lab ARMs ability to create value comes from its employees developing and delivering IP that is useful to its customers.
Tudor Brown, founder and President, explains how a shared vision and mission helped ARM to become the world leader in semiconductor IP and are still at the heart of the company today.
ARM has become the world leader in semiconductor IP because we have some of the most creative and innovative people, who also have the vision and drive to develop and deploy the best technology.
The ARM team is bound together by a set of principles and behaviours by which we operate.
These principles and behaviours evolved as the company was formed, and still hold true today.
Shared behaviours We consider the following as essential elements of the behaviour of an ARM employee in whatever discipline they work: teamwork and selflessness: constructive proactivity: partner and customer focus and responsiveness.
In addition we encourage all employees to take pride in innovation and in their own self-development.
26 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 20 20 vision related: from engineers sitting at their R&D and partnership focus Global vision work-stations designing next generation The focus of our business model is to The initial vision to make ARM a technology to sales and marketing teams create products that are well suited for Global Standard clearly required an closing the next licence.
Investing in many Partners to use in a diverse range international focus, and so from the early more people can only be justified by the of markets.
The innovation of our days we set about marketing and selling opportunity for more sales.
employees therefore rests in the ability to ARM technology in countries outside the understand and optimise the common UK.
Today that global focus remains and We have retained this approach, even as essential requirements from a range we now have 30 offices in 14 countries the company has grown, through careful of inputs.
In this way ARM achieves a with less than 50% of the workforce recruitment, induction of new employees high hit rate of successful products.
These offices and in-house training.
We generally try By listening to many parts of the ARM range from simple sales representations to promote and rotate people internally network such as our semiconductor to support and marketing organisations to develop and extend their skill-base.
In partners, OEMs, our own research through to R&D development sites.
addition to this we regularly appraise all and University research we are able We have a strong culture of encouraging employees to review our adherence to the to create a pipeline of truly innovative internal communication and interworking principles and behaviours above and to and leading products.
From the beginning assess training needs.
we believed strongly in spending time Nearly two-thirds of ARMs employees These shared principles and behaviours with customers at their locations, so are engineers, specifying and inventing have evolved over the last 20 years as many ARM employees, at all levels, are new technology to be licensed.
ARMs the ARM team has increased to provide frequent international travellers.
non-engineering employees focus on technology to the growing ecosystem of the deployment of this technology: Careful ongoing investment Partners.
They still guide us today and marketing and sales maintain the essential I am confident that they will help the We have always run the business to be relationships with our Partners, legal and ARM team to continue to develop lean and mean, believing that keeping licensing teams support negotiations, and to create and licence technology resources tight maintains a focus on infrastructure teams provide the delivery for years to come.
the most critical tasks, and balances mechanisms, finance teams manage investment with generating profits and the money and HR teams support the cash.
Most of ARMs costs are peopledevelopment of the whole team.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 27
