20 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic Overview: Strategic Focus Strategic Focus 2: Profitable growth through web development and the multichannel approach The web is no longer just a basic tool to place an order.
The trends which we all see in the consumer space impact Premier Farnells marketplace too, and the speed with which that impact is felt is increasing rapidly.
The challenges which EDEs in particular are facing mean and data they need to create a design.
And with the that they need to leverage every available tool to improve information they require being increasingly user generated their efficiency.
We have developed industry leading for example peer reviews, advice and problem solving solutions that increase the efficiency of the buying the time EDEs are spending searching the web for the process.
These include multi-channel order history information they require is actually growing.
which shows a customers history with Premier Farnell, This pointed us to a clear market-leading opportunity to no matter which channel they have previously used: create a new type of site element14 bringing together eQuotes, an online quoting tool that provides fast and everything the EDE needs in one website.
The element14 accurate quotes and easy access to converting the quote online community was launched globally in June.
into a purchase order: iBuy, an eProcurement solution for Recently we took another evolutionary step with the our small and medium customers, giving them flexibility launch of an element14 store, exclusive to the US market.
over their purchasing procedures: DesignLink, a CAD The introduction of the store provides our US customers software interface that provides our EDE customers with a new web distribution channel and by combining with a seamless link between our transactional websites element14s technical portal and online community with a and their CAD environment.
commercial website we have created a truly collaborative While customer needs are global, local language and workspace for EDEs.
We have 29 local language, The community itself has been well received by local content websites, and are able to communicate customers, suppliers and the media.
Despite only with our customers in whichever language they prefer.
launching in June, by December element14 crossed In China and India, at our specialist Global Technology the milestone of one million inbound links and achieved Centres we have a dedicated team of technical experts a Google page rank of five.
This is a measure of the creating content for our global websites.
Up to three importance and relevance of element14 which ultimately gigabytes of information is available on each of our determines how well the site is ranked in Googles search 400,000 products, this is a combination of proprietary results.
It is clear that our customers need for remote and information developed in-house, together with key data immediate access to our services is growing rapidly and, from our supplier partners.
with the development and launch of element14 Apple iPhone and Google Android mobile applications, we have The web has not only changed the way that our ensured that our customers can access element14 at any customers work, but it has also allowed us to further our time, from any location.
own understanding of their needs.
Web analytics tools, such as Gomez or Ominiture, allow us an unprecedented Rather than coming to us to purchase components, we view of our customers preferences and needs, allowing have created a place where our customers come to us to us to adapt our product offering, customer experience do rich work.
Ultimately as we introduce further innovative and online capabilities based on what we are seeing.
EDE tools, we will build an online place of work where customers come each day designing, collaborating and EDEs are frustrated by the amount of time they spend purchasing product, all on element14.
having to visit multiple online locations for the information Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Strategic Overview: Strategic Focus Strategic goals for 2010 Launch our community site for EDEs globally.
Expand the launch of our various innovative, self-service web tools to our global websites, Develop innovative design tools to assist small ensuring our global customers have access and medium design firms with their efficiency.
to the same tools irrespective of where they are in the world.
Continue to make investments in our search engine marketing and search engine optimisation in order to attract new customers to our high service proposition.
Achievements in 2010 Successful launch of the multi-lingual element14 Global deployment of new tools to meet the needs of online community globally.
our customers, including eQuotes, an online quoting tool, and iBuy, an eProcurement tool and 24 5 online Development and launch of DesignLink, a CAD technical support.
coupling interface and the release of the element14 iPhone and Android applications.
Launch of two new local language websites in Russia and Turkey and the re-launch of our Brazilian local Over 3.4 million visits per month to our websites, with language website.
those customers spending 700,000 hours online.
Priorities for 2011 Leverage the convergence of our element14 Enhance our web platform in all regions to ensure community and transactional store in the US to capacity and performance for the future, while drive market share and attract EDEs to our online expanding our virtual global footprint through environment.
the launch of local language websites.
Continue to develop innovative design and purchasing Gain deep insightful and perceptive information from tools that can be accessed online and used to assist element14 to help us define future business decisions small and medium design companies with their and offer a valuable new service for our supplier efficiency, no matter where they are in the world.
partners to complement our distribution of both product and information on their behalf.
Improve search engine marketing performance, as it increases in importance as a customer Combine in-house technical and environmental acquisition vehicle.
information with suppliers information to create a repository of design information that can accessed by EDEs across within our online environments.
For more about our strategy please go to page 35 of the business review or visit our website www.
com 22 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic Overview: Strategic Focus Strategic Focus 2: Profitable growth through web development and the multi-channel approach element14 Enabling Innovation as a social networking site, build profiles, communicate Electronics design is changing with colleagues and view the latest industry vacancies.
at a pace never seen before.
EDEs Specific groups have been created and promoted by Premier Farnell to support the launch of latest are facing extreme pressure to get technologies.
Alteras Cyclone IV, Microchips NanoWatt products to market while meeting XLP and Cypress Semiconductors PSoC 3 are examples of new-to-market technologies that have launched to performance, time, cost and power the industry through element14.
Altera have gone even further by holding virtual meetings to inform EDEs of budgets.
One of the easiest ways to the benefits of using the Cyclone IV family.
meet these budgets is to use the latest Users are also encouraged to form interest groups to suit their own professional and personal interests.
products, but to do that, engineers The most popular user created groups at the moment must have access to product and include Power Management and Embedded Electronics, with both featuring a high level of professional user design information, as well as a method participation from both EDEs and suppliers.
Groups can be public and open to all, or private for internal use.
of getting quick answers from peers Many users have taken the opportunity to create these private groups to improve communications within their and suppliers about how to integrate own companies and campuses.
The discussions, opinions, guidance and advice that are shared within these groups generate pools of Electronics companies often use design teams that are conversations that provide perceptive trends into spread across the globe, which means they require a new technologies as well as highlighting key emerging secure and efficient means of collaboration that bridges markets and sectors.
These conversations, together with multiple geographical boundaries.
To be effective a members ability to personalise their web browsing these teams must have immediate access to the environment, create a snowball effect in the amount of same information as their virtual colleagues who are data trails and trends that provide insightful and valuable working on the same project.
Quick, clear and concise information.
This information can be used to shape communication is also vital to these distributed teams.
day-to-day business decisions and suppliers are This is just one example of how new working methods increasingly appreciative of how such valuable within the electronics industry have added to the needs intelligence can help evolve their business, whether and requirements of design engineers.
It is these needs it be pinpointing desirable technologies or identifying that Premier Farnell aimed to service with the launch of high growth product segments.
As both a technology portal and a Since its launch element14 has continually grown and community site, element14 provides a single website expanded, with the site receiving over 70,000 page views where engineers can communicate and collaborate, per week and design engineers spending up to 3,000 as well as access a vast library of legislative, design, cumulative hours a week researching and conversing application and product information, emulation tools within the community.
The take up has been encouraging and design resources.
EDEs can also use element14 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Strategic Overview: Strategic Focus Strategic Focus 2: Profitable growth through web development and the multi-channel approach element14 is a great portal for the engineer.
It has everything an engineer needs to get their job done.
Customer Design Engineer Krypton Solutions With element14, Premier Farnell is thinking big, providing an innovative customer resource and breaking new ground for the industry.
Supplier Director of Distribution Support & Customer and membership is varied between EDEs and research Engagement Tyco Electronics and educational institutions.
Recently element14s collaborative proposition took another evolutionary step with the launch of our element14 store in the US.
This new transactional web environment, which is As a business, we are leaders in innovation focused towards meeting the product needs of EDEs, combines element14s unique technical portal and which gives me the confidence to be online community with a commercial website that offers creative and innovative with my own teams.
a wide range of esoteric EDE products.
With this launch comes the creation of truly collaborative workplace for Employee EDEs in the US, something we will look to embrace the Ishani Mangila, Business Contact Centre Manager world over as the interaction and collaboration within Farnell Australia element14 increases.
Premier Farnell is fully committed to continuing to build and grow element14.
Over the next year the content within the site will develop as suppliers, in-house technical and environmental experts and our EDE customers themselves all continually add to the amount of design information that is available on element14.
There will also be new features added to the site such as a virtual workspace.
This workspace will allow EDEs to have their own personal space that can be used to store and share information and communicate easily with other members.
In addition, element14s fully customisable interface will allow this virtual working environment to be personalised for every individual.
Next year is set to be an exciting year for element14 on its journey to become the place of work that meets every need of EDEs across the globe.
