16 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic Overview: Strategic Focus Strategic Focus 1: Profitable growth through focusing on EDEs globally The world in which we live is changing rapidly.
Electronics are ubiquitous across all aspects of our daily lives and this is driving ever increasing pressures on our core EDE customer group.
Time-to-market for new products has reduced radically.
These environmental concerns are not only evident in the Designs have to work first time and comply with latest consumer market.
It is clear that harnessing energy from legislation as well as reflecting market focus on alternate, environmentally friendly and renewable sources miniaturisation, green technology and the demands of will inevitably have a huge impact on the electronics aesthetics.
In this climate the needs of the EDE go beyond design industry.
Over the coming year we will lead our the component: in addition to needing the latest new industry in the provision of green technology.
products in stock delivered quickly, they also require a EDEs are now more connected than ever.
They use the wealth of data and information, design tools, software web as their primary resource, staying connected for longer and, increasingly, access to a global peer network periods of time and relying on web technology to keep pace where they can work collaboratively and solve design with their needs.
The speed of search on our global challenges.
And of course the ideal is that all needs are websites is best-in-class and we are continually evolving our met in one place online, saving valuable time.
That is search functionality to accurately reflect how our customers where the opportunity lies for us, and the climate that led want to work.
In element14 we have brought together a us to develop element14, bringing together commerce, vibrant online community with an extensive library of community and rich content.
technical, environmental and legislative product information Fundamentally we believe, and are seeing, that by meeting and design tools.
element14 includes the latest information EDE needs in this holistic way we can take market share from over 100 of the worlds top electronics suppliers and and help to ensure customer loyalty.
Our acquisition of content created by our in-house technical experts in our two CadSoft, a German-based developer of Computer Aided Global Technology Centres GTC written by an engineer Design CAD software, now allows us to provide our for an engineer.
customers with the software a fundamental tool for all Once a customer has completed their research and EDEs.
This was another step towards being able to offer selected the products they want, they need to have engineers more than just product and meet all their confidence in the supply chain.
As a franchised distributor needs no matter what stage of the design cycle they of more than 2,500 suppliers globally, the integrity of our are at.
Providing such services that go beyond product supply chain is of the utmost importance.
distribution is something we will accelerate over the coming year.
With the pressure on time-to-market described above, EDE customers depend on the high service model to get We anticipate consumer expectations of electronics to them their products to their desks exactly when they need continue to increase we all want aesthetically pleasing them.
Our delivery service is best-in-class, with 99.6% of products that are fast, have huge capacities for storage, our orders delivered either the same day or the next day perform more functions, are smaller than their previous supported by our distribution facilities located in seven version and are more affordable.
These expectations, different locations around the world.
combined with legislation and the worlds environmental agenda, is leading to the redesign of electronic devices We understand the demands our customers are facing as well as a significant increase in the global demand today and into the future, and we also understand how we for innovative electronic solutions.
can meet all of their needs.
EDE customers have broadly similar needs regardless of their location in the world and we are uniquely positioned to meet those needs globally.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 Strategic Overview: Strategic Focus Strategic goals for 2010 Launch our community website to the EDE population Invest further to ensure that we have the in-house around the world and begin to further enhance our expertise to provide dedicated support to our proposition.
Work with suppliers to ensure we have the latest, most Develop a line of innovative tools for EDE customers specialised products that our customers demand for that enables a seamless environment of design their designs.
Ensure efficient and cost effective stocking processes Review and monitor developments in environmental are in place and leverage our purchasing power around regulations coming into effect to ensure that we the world.
remain a market-leader in this area.
Achievements in 2010 Initial launch in June of the element14 eCommunity, Continued investment in technical support and our followed by the addition of CAD tools and design GTCs, with over 200 technically qualified engineers interfaces, with up to 3,500 customers a day in the business.
The strategic acquisition of CadSoft in September, Added 44,000 new EDE products to our stocked and their award-winning EAGLE CAD design software, portfolio and an additional 31 new suppliers, including immediately allowing us to begin widening our offer suppliers in specific technology areas aligned to to EDEs.
First and only high service distributor to make Developed global purchasing practices to ensure product-specific REACH data available online for we recognise the financial benefits associated with its engineering customer base.
Priorities in 2011 Leveraging the powerful intersection of our EDE and Provide our supplier partners with rich insights to web strategies to evolve our element14 community, deep customer understanding from our global online building on existing success with new partners, environment as we seed the market with their latest networks and site content to create a truly technology.
Ensure efficient and cost effective stocking processes Focus on customer acquisition, supported by lifetime are in place, purchasing products around the world, loyalty programmes which encourage them to remain making the most of Premier Farnells global footprint.
with us throughout their careers, specifically in the Continue to invest in technical skills, software and worlds developing markets where the number of new services to build a global brand with EDEs.
engineering graduates is particularly high.
Engage with customers and suppliers to find new Develop design services that go beyond just product ways to reduce our environmental footprint.
distribution to increase our competitive differentiation.
Drive specific focus on high growth product areas, particularly the green technology space.
For more about our strategy please go to page 35 of the business review or visit our website www.
