24 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic Overview: Strategic Focus Strategic Focus 3: Profitable growth through internationalising our business model Three years ago when we evaluated our markets for strong growth opportunities, we decided to invest in the developing markets of China, India and Eastern Europe.
Through the recession these territories have continued to deliver for us and now provide a solid platform for further growth.
At the beginning of our strategy we had limited, subWe will more than double our inventory capabilities in distribution operations in these markets, predominantly the region and develop a logistical network that will focused on the MRO sector, but the growth opportunity provide us with a significant competitive advantage.
in the EDE sector was clear.
In China alone it is estimated Throughout 2010 we have continued to expand and that 300,000 engineers graduate each year.
attract new customers in China everyday.
We have a Three years on we have transformed our businesses strong management team, experienced in the region, into a truly international organisation.
In our developing who understand the market and the customer and international markets we now have physical offices supplier dynamics.
We now have the capability to deliver in 18 different locations, including three local distribution next day to 130 cities across the country, touching centres.
Asia Pacific is thriving, with over 500 employees customers in a wide variety of end market segments, and sales levels that are significantly above where they designing both for export and local consumption.
As we further internationalise our business Over 66% of our Chinese business now comes from we will look to increase our exposure and presence in the EDEs.
In the coming year, we will be focused on those faster growing, fragmented electronic component markets technology sectors that will benefit from growth due to in South Korea, Thailand and Taiwan.
the Chinese governments economic stimulus package.
These include green energy, transportation and Our local approach to each market tailors our offering to telecommunications and wireless infrastructure.
meet the specific needs of the region, while continuing to leverage our global network of expertise and best practice Our business in India is small but growing at pace and to deliver exactly the proposition required in each country.
capitalising on the opportunities that exist in the market.
As a consequence of this individual approach our In two years we have accomplished a lot with a firmly developing markets accounted for 19.8% of our total established management team.
Our dedicated local Group sales in 2010 and 21.6% in the fourth quarter.
currency Indian website and catalogue attracted over 2,000 new customers during the year and the Additionally, 80% of our market is serviced by small development of the business EDE product portfolio and medium-sized businesses, and this fragmentation has driven accelerated sales growth in technologies represents a large opportunity to us.
In Asia Pacific supplied by Texas Instruments and Tyco Electronics.
much of the fragmented market is dominated by electronic component bazaars.
As the demand for Eastern Europe has performed above expectations, design information on electronic components increases despite the recession, with new customer acquisition and the web becomes more and more pervasive these growing 45.6% on the prior year with customers now retailers are seeing the barriers to entry increase.
In short, located across 19 countries in the region.
Together with they can no longer provide their customers with what organic growth in customer numbers, driven by strong they need the right products, with accurate design multi-channel marketing we have over 10,000 active information, that are in stock and delivered the next day, spending customers in Eastern Europe.
To support all from the comfort of their desks.
this we now have 12 websites in the region, all in local languages and as we exited the year eCommerce Over the course of the next year we will invest in our represented 97.4% of the business.
Over the next indigenous proposition in Asia that was born from our 12 months we will continue to leverage our virtual internationalisation strategy.
footprint and build on our scalable business model to expand our reach into new Eastern European markets.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 Strategic Overview: Strategic Focus Strategic goals for 2010 Invest in the necessary products, tools and services Continue to invest in our EDE inventory position for that support the needs of customers in higher the Indian market: ensuring customers across this growth sectors.
fast growing region have access to our high service, next day delivery.
Ensure that we continue to evaluate our segmentation work to appropriately target the faster growing sectors Fully integrate our acquisition in Eastern Europe to of our markets, particularly inline with government ensure a smooth transition for customers to our high investment programmes recently announced in service proposition.
China and the United States.
Continue to identify new international markets for our Industrial Products Division IPD.
Achievements in 2010 Introduced 2,200 products into our Optoelectronics Acquisition of Microdis fully integrated, leading to product range globally and launched technical Eastern Europe acquiring 7,700 new customers over journals focused on communications, multi-media, the year.
transportation and security and identification in Added 22,000 new EDE products which are in stock recognition of the high growth in these market sectors.
and available for next day shipment to our customers We have researched, evaluated and started to plan a in India.
segmentation strategy around the green energy market, Our IPD businesses have developed 19 new product reflecting the worlds shift in focus towards reducing lines targeted towards the international markets, which carbon emissions.
accounted for approximately 10% of the Divisions total sales.
Priorities for 2011 Launch a new APAC regional brand with an enhanced Increase our regional footprint in Asia by leveraging proposition that is focused towards the EDE customer our web capabilities to enter the electronics markets segment and an accelerated transition to the web.
in South Korea, Thailand and Taiwan.
Major focus on customer acquisition in China, India Drive towards the three-year target of our developing and Eastern Europe, all regions where the engineering international markets accounting for 30% of total community is growing rapidly.
More than double our locally stocked inventory in Asia and enhance our shipping capabilities to provide a significant competitive edge.
For more about our strategy please go to page 35 of the business review or visit our website www.
com 26 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic Overview: Strategic Focus Strategic Focus 3: Profitable growth through internationalising our business model The Opportunity in Asia It is estimated that 26,500 engineers graduate from Taiwan is one of the most university each year in Taiwan, nearly all of whom enter the nations vast electronics industry.
However, the technologically advanced nations in integrity and reliability of the supply chain, and product the world.
Its developed economy is access and availability all lag in their ability to fully service the rapidly developing electronics industry.
forecast to grow 4% in 2010 and at the The strength of Premier Farnells high service proposition heart of the countrys technology driven and the integrity of our global supply is not something that can be replicated easily.
With the challenges and economy is its electronics industry, pressures imposed on EDEs in Taiwan set to increase, our proposition is becoming increasingly well suited to the nations biggest export.
meet both the product and logistical demands of this vibrant design engineering community.
Examples like the nations emphasis on green energy, an industry which saw product revenues of US$4.7 billion in 2008, a figure projected to grow to US$14 billion by 2012, are likely to drive technology advancements to new highs, transforming Taiwan into an international hub for the research and design of electronics.
Taiwan is not alone in its focus towards technology driven industries and there are a number of other nations in Asias electronics heartland where similar focus can been seen.
It is this heartland that presents a significant opportunity for Premier Farnell and its internationalisation strategy for the future.
The superior internet infrastructure of Taiwan ranks the nations broadband penetration as the worlds fifth highest.
To place this into context Australia has a broadband penetration that is ranked 44th in the world.
This landscape is an increasingly important factor when considering the future of distribution within a country that has high web penetration and internet adoption levels.
The importance of the World Wide Web as a distribution channel has grown significantly in recent times and has been a major factor in raising the barriers to entry for the smaller, local distributors, who do not have the resources to compete in the ever evolving and pervasive web world.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27 Strategic Overview: Strategic Focus Strategic Focus 3: Profitable growth through internationalising our business model Premier Electronics is our strategic supplier for shortages, NPI, and low volume business.
Customer Sourcing engineer TT electronics IMS Farnell is one of our few preferred short At Premier Farnell our commitment to investing in both the content and customer experience of our web lead-time and NPI partners.
They have environments is unwavering.
Such dedication provides a wide range of great products and us with a significant competitive advantage that can be leveraged to take market share and drive accelerated services.
Customer customer acquisition from the small and medium-sized Supply Chain Manager Fabrinet Co local distributors across Asia who are finding it increasingly difficult to compete.
Taiwans electronics industry and web landscape provides a good example of why three years ago I feel fortunate to work with such a strong Premier Farnell began to develop a strong EDE web-centric business in Asia.
Over the next 12 months mix of talented people from different we will build upon our unique and indigenous proposition backgrounds and for a company that already in place in Asia, more than doubling our local inventory capabilities and offering an industry leading is committed to investing for the future.
Though leveraging the power of the Employee web we will launch new local language websites in the markets of South Korea, Thailand and Taiwan all Kitty Liu, Customer Service Manager markets that have attractive landscapes in terms of their Premier Electronics Shanghai broadband penetration and the scale of their electronics industries.
This next year is set to see Premier Farnell strengthen its position as a supply chain partner for Asias burgeoning EDE communities, providing them all with the products and services they require to design and grow.
