10 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic Overview Strategic Overview Laurence Bain, Chief Operating Officer Premier Farnells strategy has proven itself through the recession.
It is the simple and powerful framework which has drawn together the organisation and delivered increased market share.
After rigorous review we believe it also represents the right framework to take us forward profitably into the next three years.
At the core of the business is our ethos of high service distribution: delivering a vast range of products quickly and reliably from stock without minimum order quantities, accompanied by an array of value added services which earn the loyalty of our customers.
Increasingly we will expand that proposition with new-to-market products, information, software and technical solutions, but all grounded on our core service expertise.
At the heart of our strategy are four foundational pillars Now that those pillars are in place, we can augment our that are focused towards driving profitable growth: customer proposition with innovative and differentiating additions like element14, our online community for design The key Electronic Design Engineering EDE customer engineers.
The assumptions which we made three years ago, at the Our transformation to a web-centric business.
inception of the strategy, have proved even more relevant in recession: the EDE market sector has outperformed the Expansion into the worlds rapidly growing developing MRO market sector and is now recovering with greater international markets.
pace: the web is the channel of choice for our key Continuing focus on the profitable Maintenance, Repair customer segments with both a low cost to serve and and Operation MRO market segments.
a huge opportunity to add value and the developing international markets remain our fastest growing.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Strategic Overview With more than two million customer contacts in 156 Our community website element14 which has received industries and with over 3,500 suppliers, we service a extensive media coverage, has opened new opportunities diverse range of end market segments, reducing our for us both in brand and in our customer relationships.
exposure and allowing us to focus the execution of our Together with the acquisition of CadSoft, and web strategy on market growth opportunities.
innovations like iBuy, our innovative eProcurement tool, and eQuotes, our service that provides online quotes in As the time-to-market for new designs quickens, and a timely manner, we are carving out true competitive our customers have to respond to legislation and global differentiation.
This was most recently manifested in the competition, they are looking for a supplier partner who US launch of an element14 online store to accelerate our understands and anticipates their needs.
Ultimately our growth in the EDE market sector.
customers want a partner that can genuinely help them right the way through the design cycle, from the initial Our strategy was developed in order to realise growth stages of concept to final prototyping and small volume opportunities in specific markets, and although we production, providing everything they need in one place.
primarily discuss it in relation to our Marketing and Our proposition increasingly meets these needs and, Distribution Division MDD which accounts for 90% through a deep customer understanding, we have of our revenue, we have seen our Industrial Products pioneered new solutions, online and off.
Division IPD adopt some of its elements.
Akron Brass and TPC, which constitute our IPD division and both of which are located in North America, continue to perform well and are leaders in their respective markets.
Globally our transactional websites The businesses have faced a challenging year as a result of the downturn in the North American economy.
receive an average of 32.5 million page However, they continue to diversify not only their product views per month.
offering but also their end markets.
Akron Brass has recently expanded into China and Dubai, and TPC has introduced new products to access new market segments.
We are a high service, high performance business and our employees are central to that performance.
The strength and clarity of our strategy, and focus on We continually evaluate our structure to ensure that it is executing on each element, ensures that all employees appropriate to support growth, developing talent from understand their role in delivering our continued within or hiring in the best skills from the market, but all business success.
the while focused on engaging our teams in our strategy.
In our annual all-employee survey, more than 82% of respondents said that they understand the strategy and believe that it is the right one to strengthen our organisation for the future, and nearly 1,000 of our people from around the globe were involved in reviewing our strategy for the next three years.
As part of our transformation, we have continued to invest in our proposition, strengthening our offering to better meet the needs of our customers and drive market share gains.
Through the first three years of the strategy we have added 233,000 new products to our portfolio, 122 new suppliers and we now have over 200 in-house technical specialists to support the unique needs of EDE customers.
We have 29 local language websites, with the most recent being launched in Russia and Turkey, and globally our transactional websites receive an average of 32.5 million page views per month.
