Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Business review: Strategy strategy As the world entered recession, our strategy was At the inception of our strategy three years ago reviewed by the leadership team and the Board on we completed a full strategic review to identify the a regular basis but, unlike many organisations, we activities and opportunities that we would target concluded that while some reshaping of our business was necessary, the underlying strategy was absolutely for profitable growth.
This work identified the key right to optimise available growth and market share customer segment of EDEs, the migration of the through challenging market conditions.
EDE sales business online, geographic expansion with declined far more slowly than MRO, our online business allowed for efficiency savings, and we continued to grow particular focus on China, India and Eastern in key emerging markets.
As we have begun to emerge Europe, and a continuing focus on the profitable from recession, sales growth in the EDE market sector core of our historic MRO business.
Over the has returned more quickly and we are positioned to quickly adapt to the new climate and leverage available course of the last three years we have continued opportunities.
to execute our strategy, within a volatile economic The assumptions which underpin our strategy, together climate, and deliver on our commitments.
We have with continued execution provide our business with a communicated both regularly and transparently on high level of resilience, which is manifest in our stable our progress against our objectives and metrics, gross margin and strong profitability.
Through monthly governance forums and quarterly business reviews the full to both our internal and external stakeholders.
Premier Farnell Leadership Council PFLC will continue to assess our strategic progress and plans against prevailing market conditions and new opportunities.
A full strategic review took place in the second half of 2009 to plan forward into the next three years, leveraging internal expertise nearly 1,000 employees participated in various ways external advice from suppliers, investors, customers and extensive work on our economic macro trends.
The resultant strategy combines the continuity of the first three years, with the same four pillars underpinning everything we do, with carefully chosen new focus areas: customer loyalty and lifetime partnerships: using information as the valuable asset it is: developing a holistic green technology proposition and finally providing our customers with design related services that go beyond our current product offering.
All of these areas are fully integral and complementary to our underlying proposition and begin to really differentiate Premier Farnell to drive increased market share.
36 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review: Strategy Strategy continued Focus on EdE We set a goal for this part of the strategy that we will achieve 50%70% of our MDD revenue via eCommerce Central to the strategy is Electronic Design Engineering by the end of financial year 2010.
21 regions are already an attractive market which offers above average gross trading over this target, with some as high as 99.5%.
margin and growth rates when compared to the MRO Globally we exited the year at 41.5%.
Through providing an industry leading high service proposition together with an increasingly rich The web will continue to be a major focus and our target is offering of design solutions, EDEs truly appreciate the for more than 70% of our business to be accounted for by value of our service and reward us with loyalty and high eCommerce by the end of our next three-year period.
IntErnatIonalIsIng our ModEl The global EDE market consists of customers involved in the design of electronic products and components.
Despite the period of deep recession, China, India and EDE customers have similar service requirements much of Eastern Europe continued to deliver growth for wherever they are located around the world a broad us, reinforcing that they were the right territories to enter product offering, latest technology, technical support, at the beginning of the strategy.
accurate design and legislative information and reliable The Chinese market for small volume electronics is and prompt delivery which means we can leverage our estimated at over 1 billion annually and growing at a global organisation to meet those needs.
rate faster than Chinese Gross Domestic Product GDP.
An important part of the proposition is the product range This highly fragmented market offers a significant growth that we offer to EDEs.
At the beginning of our strategy, opportunity and potential for us to achieve market we announced that we intended to accelerate our new leadership.
Our Premier Electronics business in China, product introduction and over the three-year period we focused on the local design community and supported have added approximately 233,000 before deletions by local inventory and next day delivery, now serves products into stock and have made many more products 130 Chinese cities.
Sales growth in 2010 was 24.8%, available on an as-needed basis.
We set a goal for this driven by strong customer acquisition programmes.
part of our strategy that 50% of MDD revenue would The expansion of the European Union and the highly come from EDE customers by the end of financial year fragmented nature of these new markets also offer growth 2010 and in many regions we have exceeded that goal.
Our operations in Eastern Europe have For the year, sales to EDE customers accounted for progressed strongly and with full year sales growing 49.8% of total MDD sales.
With a clear focus on embedding Through the next three years EDE sales will continue to our strategy and acquiring new customers, we now have increase as a percentage of our business as we will target a strong and scalable virtual footprint in the region which more than 50% of our business to come from the EDE provides customers in 19 different geographies with market sector.
access to more than 400,000 products.
Our Indian business has grown strongly since the EnhancE our WEB and EcoMMErcE PlatForMs acquisition of Hynetic Electronics in January 2008.
This part of our strategy is intended to provide design With over 3,500 engineering colleges and an estimated engineers, maintenance and repair engineers and 450,000 engineers graduating in India each year, the purchasing professionals with a fast and efficient channel growth opportunity within the Indian market is significant, to access the solutions that they seek an online place and this year sales in India grew 97.6% on the prior year.
of work that combines access to products, information, We have made good progress in our focus towards software and technology solutions.
The web is acquiring new customers, with our active customer base increasingly the only channel to meet effectively the in India growing 47.0% this year.
information needs of EDE customers and, as well as This part of the strategy was targeted to exit the first offering them an efficient solution, it is how they interact three years at 20% of the Groups revenue and in the with the broader technical community.
This provided us final quarter of 2010 we achieved 21.6%.
In the next with the opportunity to launch our element14 brand in three years this is targeted to grow to 30% with around June as a unique EDE community.
50,000 new customers acquired in China and India alone The web also offers Premier Farnell a lower cost to serve supported by a strengthened regional proposition.
channel compared with more traditional sales channels.
We clearly recognise the importance of this in an uncertain market recovery and have programmes in place to enhance our web further and accelerate its adoption by our customers.
Our aim is to provide eCommerce solutions that offer our customers unique efficiency benefits and enhance our multi-channel end-to-end customer experience, which appeals broadly across our customer base EDE, MRO and their associated purchasing teams.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Business review: Strategy InItIatIvEs to drIvE oPEratIonal KEy PErForMancE IndIcators and cash EFFIcIEncIEs Over the past three years we have transformed Premier Farnell with the intention of delivering increased It was our intention that as part of our transformation we shareholder value and developing strong strategic would start to transact more of our business through foundations on which we can continue to grow as we electronic channels, predominantly the web.
We have evolve our business.
This has been achieved through the seen that the web is becoming the preferred transactional continued execution of the Groups core strategic pillars channel for our customers.
Accordingly, we have EDE, the web, internationalisation and profitable MRO.
continued to invest in the infrastructure to support this The economic headwinds faced this year have further channel, an example being the introduction of one touch demonstrated the relevance of our strategic focus, with order processing that ensures web orders are sent many of the assumptions on which we built our strategy directly from the point of order to the distribution facility continuing to be validated.
where they are picked, packed and shipped to customers.
Concurrently, we have been shaping and aligning our Our past year achievements relative to our key organisation to ensure that we have our resources performance indicators KPIs are discussed in more appropriately aligned to support the volume of activity detail on pages 14 and 15 of this report.
We accelerated this drive in 2009 with actions are the KPIs used as performance benchmarks for the that delivered a permanent 4 million reduction on our past year.
Also outlined is how these existing KPIs will be cost base.
During the course of the first three quarters revised and built upon to ensure we continue to provide of this year, we have taken further actions in both Farnell clear performance metrics for our business partners over Europe and Newark, which on an annualised basis will the next three years.
deliver a further 12 million of permanent cost reductions in our cost base.
This completed the necessary actions The metrics described comprise both strategic and needed to permanently reduce our operating expenses financial metrics.
The strategic metrics are those that are as a percentage of sales by two percentage points used to track our success in executing the building blocks approximately 16 million.
The full benefit of these of our strategy and the financial metrics measure the actions will be delivered in 2011.
The costs of the 2010 outcomes of those strategies in conjunction with the actions have been reflected in the 2010 income statement.
successful performance management of our core business prior to the execution of the strategy.
The benefit of these actions plus the other efficiency programmes that we continue to drive and the inherent benefit of the continued change in transactional activity to lower cost channels underpin the target operating margin as a percentage of sales of at least 12.0%.
In order to finance the first three years of our strategy, we instituted a number of programmes to reduce our working capital before the impact of currency movements including, more flexible arrangements with certain suppliers, purchasing products for our global distribution centres in the lowest cost regions, and enhanced product life cycle management.
We committed to reducing working capital as a percentage of sales by two percentage points from 27.1% to 25.1%, a saving which would pay for the required incremental investment.
We ended 2010 with a working capital to sales ratio of 25.2%, just outside our target as we continued to invest in inventory to support our increasing level of sales.
Having achieved a working capital to sales ratio of 25.2% on sales which are considerably lower than last year, we believe that there is further opportunity to reduce this ratio and release further cash over the course of the next three years.
Accordingly, the target ratio by the end of financial year 2013 is for a sales to working capital ratio of 22%.
This will be achieved through a combination of the existing programmes which will deliver further benefits as sales recover, through new programmes and from efficiencies that are anticipated from the system investments that we are making.
For more about our strategy please go to pages 10 and 11 or visit our website www.
com 38 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review: Strategy Strategy continued 2010 MEasurEs nEW and rEvIsEd MEasurEs For 2011 Sales per day growth focus on the faster Critical to our continued success is our ability to ensure all growing EDE market sector and operating in the faster of our stakeholders are aware of our performance metrics growing regions of the world should deliver revenue and that the metrics are consistently communicated growth in the range of 6%8%.
We will continue to use the metrics above to measure our progress.
However, as the shape of our Sales via eCommerce channels % this content rich business changes it is imperative we track certain other and lower cost to serve channel is expected to become metrics as well and increase the targets within some the primary channel for customers around the world, of our original metrics.
Clearly defined below are the with 50%70% of orders placed via eCommerce changes to our metrics based on how we envisage channels.
the shape of our business will change over the next three years.
Sales from developing markets % developing markets are continuing to grow and produce good opportunities, Sales via eCommerce channels % having identified with a target of 20% of revenue from these international growing trends in both the way EDEs work and the and developing markets, the Group is committed to importance of information we will target 70% of our continue investing in the areas where we see growth.
business globally through eCommerce channels.
Employee engagement as a service business, our Sales from developing markets % growing our results are achieved through our people.
Parts of our business in the worlds emerging markets will be critical investments in the strategy have been used to ensure to the future success of the Group and by 2014 our goal that we have the right people in our business and that is that 30% of our total revenue will come from our employees are actively engaged.
Gross margin % a stable gross margin reflects the Customer acquisition the growth of our active continued value that our customers attribute our customer base is at the core of our ability to deliver on proposition whilst also providing a key platform to many of our business objectives and for the next three deliver operational gearing.
years we will target a 6% per annum growth rate in our active customer base.
Return on sales % this is a function of both the gross margin stability and the success of efficiency Return on sales % through the accelerated programmes as well as reflecting the multi-channel transformation of our business and together with the cost to serve impact of our strategy.
continued success of our efficiency programmes over the next three years we will target a return on sales Return on net operating assets % this is an overall greater than 12%.
measure of the effectiveness of managements investment in operational assets.
We have set a target Working capital as a % of sales we will continue with of 30% for the Group.
our successful programmes to drive improved cash efficiency.
With this in mind our target for the next three Free cash flow to sales % this is a combined measure years will be for working capital to be less than 22% of of both the improved profitability and cash flow targets total sales.
We have set as a goal that we will achieve a free cash flow to sales ratio of 6%.
carBon FootPrInt Working capital as a % of sales this is a measure of We are aware that all businesses have an impact on the success of our cash efficiency programmes.
the environment in which they operate.
As part of the evolution of our strategy, we will seek to help the global focus on reducing carbon emissions through becoming the industrys leading distributor for green technologies.
In addition we will remain committed to ongoing initiatives aimed at reducing the environmental impact of the Groups existing business.
The actions being taken to address our carbon footprint are outlined in our new comprehensive Corporate Social Responsibility Report which can be found online at www.
com annualreport2010 csr, of which a summary is printed on page 58 of this report.
