18 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic Overview: Strategic Focus Strategic Focus 1: Profitable growth through focusing on EDEs globally Electronic Design Automation PCB layers available, otherwise the features in each For Premier Farnell to continue to version are exactly the same.
offer the highest levels of service and Offering versions with varying restrictions means that we are able to meet the varying needs and expertise of the support to the EDE requires us to move design engineering community.
For instance, some closer to the EDE and be an integral designers may just use the software for hobby purposes, where others may be involved in highly complex design part of the design cycle earlier than projects that require CAD environments with greater scope for designing more complicated PCBs.
By providing a straightforward path for the software to be upgraded, designers who have previous experience An EDEs design process involves much more than with the software, but at a less complex level, do not product selection and physical design prototyping.
In fact need to be heavily trained to use the same software that these two stages of design are towards the end of the just has fewer limitations, which saves on time and cost.
The design concept could have first come to fruition as long as 18 months prior to the product selection phase The inclusion of this highly popular and award winning of design, although in todays world it is more likely to be EAGLE software as part of our proposition has produced 18 weeks.
At this earlier end of the design cycle an EDEs immediate benefits to our revenue stream and customer first priority is to test the viability of the concept.
To do this acquisition programmes.
However, longer term it provides EDEs visualise and virtualise their designs by using CAD us with the opportunity to continue to develop the software to create a computer-generated model that software especially for the worlds emerging markets, represents the physical and sometimes electrical where the choice and variety of available CAD tools is properties of their design.
It is this commitment to the development of EAGLE that has recently led to us introducing a new The use of software, and CAD software in particular, has free version of EAGLE called the freemium edition.
always been an important aspect of the EDEs job.
CAD This version of the software can be trialled for 60-days tools allow EDEs to design and optimise printed circuit at no cost and has a level of capability that is between the boards PCBs, which are populated with the components Lite and the Standard editions of EAGLE that are already we sell.
The complexity of todays electronic systems and in the market.
This provides engineers with a sample of the rapid rate of new component introductions have made the software before giving them the option to purchase getting the right information about components and their a full licence.
attributes vital to minimise time-to-market pressures.
With the acquisition of CadSoft, Premier Farnell has The variety of CAD tools available to the EDE range from the ability to meet the design needs of the EDE at the fully featured commercial offerings to free shareware beginning of the design cycle and, combined with our versions developed by hobbyists.
CAD tools automate superior product portfolio, we can go on to be an EDEs the process of designing todays highly complex partner right up until the product goes into volume PCBs and are a vital part of the design process for any production.
These tools were the logical place for Premier Farnell to move into the infancy of the Another challenge often faced by EDEs is the time it design process, and in September we acquired takes to populate virtual designs with the desired CadSoft Computer GmbH.
components that will be needed to build a physical prototype.
This challenge is only set to get worse in CadSofts EAGLE CAD software is popular with todays time sensitive and often highly pressurised professionals, students and hobbyists.
The software electronic design environments.
In recognition of this has been developed over 20 years and there are currently Premier Farnell has developed a CAD coupling interface, three versions of EAGLE software: Lite, Standard and DesignLink.
The only differences between the three versions are the limitations in PCB size and number of Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Strategic Overview: Strategic Focus Strategic Focus 1: Profitable growth through focusing on EDEs globally Commitments have been made to put our customers at the heart of all that we do.
Employee Essie Rogers, Director, Financial Operations Newark North America This coupling interface was created as a bridge to The arrival of dynamic technical links to facilitate the transfer of information between CAD software and Premier Farnells transactional websites.
our CAD software tools via DesignLink, An EDE needs to be sure that the components that are has helped us gain precious time on required for a design are available immediately with the relevant design information, and if not, what the our projects.
Customer alternatives are and what implications these would have Chief Executive Officer on the design project.
DesignLink helps to automate this Anthemis Technologies Group time-consuming activity by providing EDEs with access to device parameters, local stock status and pricing, datasheets and legislation compliance information on over 400,000 parts in Premier Farnells product portfolio, while they are still working within their Having worked with Premier Farnell for CAD software.
By allowing EDEs to access critically over 15 years now, we have noticed important details without having to leave their CAD environment, we have dramatically reduced the a progression of their commercial strategy amount of time our EDE customers spend manually inline with our sector in the electronic populating their computer models with all the necessary information needed to complete this industry.
Customer phase of the design.
Purchasing Manager Systech Premier Farnell has been proactive in identifying the needs of our primary customers and shaping our business to fulfil those needs.
The acquisition of CadSoft, combined with the launch of DesignLink, has put us at the forefront of our market and this is just the start as we look to leverage such services to increase both our customer base and market share.
These two initiatives bring Premier Farnells proposition closer to the EDE than ever before, directly from CAD environments, and in EAGLEs case, in the software itself.
