74 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance: Directors Report Directors report prinCipal aCtivities and Business revieW sHare Capital A detailed review of the Groups activities and the Details of the changes in the issued, ordinary share and development of its business, together with an indication preference share capital of the Company during the year of likely future developments, the main trends and factors are set out in notes 15 and 19, respectively, to the likely to affect future performance and a description of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Preference shares are principal risks and uncertainties it faces, are set out on not classified as equity for financial reporting.
pages 28 to 63 which constitutes the business review and At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company forms part of this report.
Information about environmental will be seeking authority to purchase its ordinary and matters, employees and social and community issues preference shares.
Authorities were previously granted appear on pages 58 to 63, with more detail provided at the Annual General Meeting in 2009, but expire at the in the Companys Corporate Social Responsibility close of the forthcoming meeting.
During the year, the Premier Farnell Executive Trust acquired 3,829,933 of the Companys ordinary shares for The principal activity of the Group remains unchanged a total consideration of 5.0 million, in order to meet future and is the distribution of electronic, electrical and obligations under the Premier Farnell Performance Share industrial products to the design, maintenance and Plan.
The Trust waives its right to dividends on the shares repair sectors.
As described in the Business Review, the Group does not have significant reliance on any individual customer or direCtors supplier and therefore there are no contractual or other The names and biographical details of the Directors arrangements that are essential to the Groups business.
who held office at the date of this report appear on pages 64 and 65. profit and dividends In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association The Groups operating profit for the financial year Laurence Bain, Mark Whiteling and Andrew Dougal will from continuing operations was 71.4 million 2009: retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the 85.4 million.
Excluding restructuring costs of 7.6 million Company and offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, 2009: 3.4 million and a net one-off income from the Board has agreed that the Chairman will seek changes to the Groups North American pension plans of re-election annually at the Annual General Meeting.
6.3 million 2009: nil, the Groups operating profit was A formal evaluation process has been carried out 72.7 million 2009: 88.8 million.
The Groups profit for during the course of the year in respect of Laurence, the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders Mark, Andrew and Sir Peter, and their performance was 37.5 million 2009: 51.7 million.
continues to be effective and all continue to demonstrate The Directors recommend that a final dividend of commitment to their roles.
5.2 pence 2009: 5.2 pence per ordinary share be paid As announced on 18 March 2010, William Korb will on 23 June 2010 to those shareholders on the register retire from the Board with effect from the close of the of members at the close of business on 28 May 2010.
Companys Annual General Meeting in June 2010.
An interim dividend of 4.2 pence per ordinary share was paid on 14 October 2009, making a total for the year of During the financial year ended 31 January 2010 the 9.4 pence 2009: 9.4 pence per ordinary share.
Company provided indemnities to each of its Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Companys The Premier Farnell Executive Trust holds ordinary shares Articles of Association providing for the indemnification in the Company acquired in the market in order to meet of Directors out of the assets of the Company to the obligations under the Premier Farnell Performance Share extent permitted by law.
These indemnities constitute Plan or to provide similar employee benefits.
The trustees qualifying third-party indemnities for the purposes of the have waived the right to receive dividends in respect of Companies Act 2006 and remain in force at the date of the ordinary shares held by the Trust.
Additional information relating to Directors remuneration, post BalanCe sHeet event service contracts and interests in the Companys shares Since the year end the Group has entered into a is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 87.
US$75 million private shelf agreement with a US private The details of Directors interests in the Companys shares placement investor.
The agreement allows the Group form part of this report.
to issue private placement notes on a bilateral basis.
The issuance period extends two years from the date of the agreement 31 March 2010, and the maturity of each shelf note issued shall be no more than ten years from the date of issuance.
Pricing of the notes is subject to an acceptable rate from the purchaser at the time of issue.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 75 Governance: Directors Report sHare Capital and Control finanCial instruMents Details of the Companys issued share capital are set Information on the Groups financial risk management out in notes 15 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial objectives and policies and on the exposure of the Group Statements.
The Companys authorised share capital to relevant risks in respect of financial instruments is set comprises ordinary shares of five pence each nominal out under the heading Treasury Operations on page 50 value and cumulative convertible redeemable preference and in note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
shares of 1 each nominal value.
As at 31 January 2010, the ordinary shares and preference shares represented supplier payMent poliCy 82.2% and 17.8% respectively of the Companys total The Groups operating companies are responsible for share capital.
agreeing terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
Payments The rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms, and its preference shares, in addition to those conferred provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys and conditions.
At 31 January 2010, the amount the articles of association the articles, a copy of which Group owed its suppliers represented 36 working days can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
The Company is a A summary of the rights attached to the preference holding company and does not have any trade creditors.
shares appears in note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
produCt researCH and developMent The articles contain certain restrictions on the transfer The Groups product research and development activities of ordinary and preference shares and on the exercise are restricted to the development of new or enhanced of voting rights attached to them, including where the products for Akron Brass and are not significant in the Company has exercised its right to prohibit transfer context of the Group as a whole.
Akron Brass is part following the omission of their holder or any person of the Groups Industrial Products Division.
interested in them to provide the Company with In addition, the Group is constantly striving to provide information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of new and improved solutions to customer service.
Holders of preference shares The advances in our web offering, such as eQuotes and are entitled to receive notice of, but not attend or vote iBuy, the development of the element14 eCommunity at general meetings of the Company other than in limited allowing EDEs access to colleagues, suppliers and circumstances.
experts globally, our Global Technology Centres and our Rules about the appointment and replacement of Innovation Lab are good examples of this.
During the year Directors are set out in the articles.
Changes to the the Group expensed 2.9 million 2009: 2.0 million in articles must be approved by shareholders passing a these areas.
The Directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation and by the articles.
CHaritaBle and politiCal donations The Directors authority to effect purchases of the In the US, the Group has an ongoing policy of donating Companys shares on its behalf is conferred by resolution certain items of stock to charitable organisations.
of the shareholders and renewed annually at the In addition, during the year the Group made charitable Companys Annual General Meeting.
There are no agreements between any Group company Further details of the Groups charitable activities and any of its employees or any Director of the Company appear in the Corporate Responsibility section of the which provide for compensation to be paid to the Business Review on page 61 and in the Companys employee or Director for termination of employment or online CSR Report.
for loss of office as a consequence of a takeover of the The Groups policy is not to make contributions to Company, other than provisions that would apply on any political parties.
The Companys multi-currency bilateral bank facilities contain provisions allowing the lending banks to terminate the facilities in the event of a change of control.
The trustees of the Premier Farnell Executive Trust an employee benefit trust may vote or abstain from voting shares held in the trust in any way they see fit.
76 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance: Directors Report Directors Report continued eMployMent Working in close co-operation with elected representatives The Group places great emphasis on optimising the from its European operating companies, the Groups contribution made by employees at all levels around the European Works Council The Premier Farnell European world.
A Group-wide Performance Review process is in Forum is in its tenth year of operation.
The Forum its eleventh year of operation, now online and accessible provides an arena for the exchange of relevant and to almost all employees globally.
The Group continues appropriate information and constructive dialogue to invest in the development of its employees and has between management and employees on European carried out a review of leadership skills and development issues.
which has led to the introduction of tailored training The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications programmes for first line supervisors, managers and for employment from disabled persons, with regard to leaders of people which includes 360 degree feedback.
their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to Specific employee development programmes are continue the employment of those who become disabled always designed on the basis of identified individual during their employment.
Training, career development and organisational needs to underpin a culture of high and promotion are, as far as practicable, identical for performance.
In addition, all employees are now entitled all employees according to their skills and abilities.
to spend an hour every week on personal development The Group consistently seeks to recruit, develop and activities.
The content available through the Groups employ throughout the organisation suitably qualified, online learning centre includes customised internal course capable and experienced people, irrespective of age, material and access to a wide range of external materials race, gender, religion or sexual orientation.
delivered in partnership with a leading business school.
A comprehensive induction module forms part of every Employees participation in the Groups performance new employees introduction to the Company.
A formal is encouraged through the Groups UK savingsjob grading system exists across the Group to assist related share option scheme, other share related remuneration practices as well as career development reward schemes, and by the provision of cost-effective and organisational planning processes.
There is further information on leader and employee environMent development as well as on the Companys other initiatives The Group recognises the importance of responsible to attract, retain, motivate and engage its employees, environmental management and its obligation to protect on page 54. the environment.
The Group therefore gives high priority Employees are informed of the performance of the Group to all environmental matters.
Further information appears and a structured communication programme allows in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the factors affecting their employment to be discussed.
Business Review and more detail is provided in the All employees attended kick-off meetings at the Companys Corporate Social Responsibility Report beginning of the financial year which provided them available at www.
com with the opportunity to understand their individual role annualreport2010 csr.
in delivering the Companys strategy.
A comprehensive cascade process ensures that information on the suBstantial sHareHoldinGs Companys performance is made available to coincide At 12 April 2010 the Company had been notified, pursuant with its quarterly results announcements.
Cyber cafs to the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and have been installed in many of the Companys locations Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting around the world to allow access to the Groups intranet rights in its ordinary share capital: for those who do not normally work using personal % computers.
An all employee engagement survey was Blackrock 11.92 again conducted during the year, providing a mechanism for detailed feedback on many aspects of what it is like Fidelity International 11.73 to work for the Company.
The survey results showed Prudential plc 8.16 encouraging progress in all aspects of employee UBS Global Asset Management 7.03 engagement and there are further details of the results of this survey on page 57.
Artemis Investment 6.76 During the year a wide cross-section of the workforce Newton Investment 4.97 had the opportunity to participate in the implementation Legal and General plc 4.03 of the Groups business strategy through participation in the Premier Farnell Leadership Council.
This forum consists of quarterly meetings at which the strategy and key issues related to its implementation are discussed.
As well as the permanent members of the Council, each meeting is attended by individuals invited to contribute as subject matter experts or because of their high performance and potential.
