Governance Directors report Political donations Directors report No political donations were made during the year 2009: nil.
The directors present their report and audited financial statements of The Group has a policy of not making donations to political the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010. organisations, independent election candidates or incurring political expenditure as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Business review Referendums Act 2000.
A review of the Groups business, activities, performance during the year, financial position at the end of the year and an indication of Charitable donations the likely future developments of the business are provided in the During the year the Group made charitable donations to the following sections of the annual report and are incorporated in this following charities: the Royal British Legion 101,088 and the directors report by reference: National Grocer Benevolent Fund 20,000.
Total charitable donations during the year amounted to 166,555 2009: 167,000. l Our business pages 1 to 17 : Further information on charitable giving can be found on page 43. l Business review pages 18 to 47 : l Environmental, employee, social and community issues pages Directors and directors interests 36 to 43 : Biographies of the current directors are found on pages 48 to 49. l Risk management and risk factors pages 44 to 47 : and Details of the directors who resigned within the year can be found l Group key performance indicators KPIs pages 18 to 19. on page 54.
The corporate governance report forms part of this report and is Details of the directors interests in the share capital of the Company incorporated into it by reference.
as at 31 December 2010 are set out within the remuneration report on pages 69 to 71.
Principal activities Premier Foods plc 5160050 is a public limited company incorporated Statement of directors responsibilities for the annual report in England and Wales with its registered office at Premier House, The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, Centrium Business Park, Griffiths Way, St Albans, Hertfordshire, the remuneration report, and the Group and Company financial AL1 2RE.
The principal activities of the Group are food manufacturing, statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Further information can be found within the overview of our business on pages 1 to 17.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared Financial statements the Group financial statements in accordance with International The audited financial statements are presented on pages 74 to 125.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable Profit and dividends law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice The results of the Group for the year are set out in the consolidated UKGAAP.
Under company law the directors must not approve the income statement on page 76.
The loss on ordinary activities before Group or Company financial statements unless they are satisfied tax for the year ended 31 December 2010 was 98.3m 2009: that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 41.8m profit.
The directors do not recommend the payment of a Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Research and development Applied research and development work continues to be directed l Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them towards the introduction of new and improved products, the consistently: application of new technology to reduce unit and operating cost and l Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable to improve service to customers.
Research and development costs and prudent: of 10.6m 2009: 3.7m were incurred in continuing operations l State whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the EU have during the year.
been followed in the Group financial statements and whether applicable accounting standards have been followed in Land and buildings the Company financial statements, subject to any material The directors are of the opinion that there is no significant difference departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: between the book and market value of the land and buildings of and the Group.
l Prepare the Group and Company financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
indd 51 09 03 2011 11:26:04 Directors report continued The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting % of records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Ordinary issued Nature and Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy Shareholder shares capital of holding at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group Warburg Pincus LLC 378,847,258 15.84% Indirect and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Franklin Resources Inc 282,830,605 11.79% Indirect remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 the Act Paulson Europe LLP 269,049,683 11.22% Indirect and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS AXA SA 116,326,874 4.85% Indirect Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Legal & General the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps Investment Management 90,236,848 3.76% Indirect for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Share capital and control The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock of the Companys website www.
All of the ordinary shares rank equally with respect to be noted that legislation in the UK governing the preparation and voting rights and the rights to receive dividends.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled, amongst other rights, to receive the Companys annual reports and accounts: to attend and Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and speak at general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies: and Transparency Rules to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on share transfers, Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed limitations on the holding of any class of shares or any requirement on pages 48 to 49, confirms that, to the best of each persons for prior approval of any transfer.
No shares in issue have any special knowledge and belief: rights, including in respect of voting, dividends or distributions on a winding-up.
l The Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, and the Company financial The Group has two offshore and one UK employee benefit trusts statements, prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, give a true which are discretionary trusts for the benefit of Group employees.
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit As at 31 December 2010 these trusts held 1,159,956 shares.
or loss of the Group and the Company: and The voting rights in respect of the shares held in these trusts are l The business review section in the annual report contains a fair exercisable by the trustees.
There are no known agreements or review of the development and performance of the business restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights other than as and the position of the Group and the Company, together with a disclosed in contractual relationships below.
Shares acquired description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
through Company share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The directors of the Auditors and the disclosure of information to auditors Company have general powers to manage its affairs in accordance The Act requires directors to provide the Groups auditors with with the Companys articles of association the Articles and every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever applicable legislation.
inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
The directors, having made At the AGM 2010 shareholders authorised the directors to make appropriate enquiries, confirm that: market purchases of ordinary shares.
Any ordinary shares so purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury.
This authority will l So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit expire at the conclusion of the AGM 2011 at which further authority information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and will be sought.
No share purchases were made during the year.
l Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant Changes to the Articles must be approved by the shareholders in audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
Directors may be appointed or removed in accordance with the Substantial shareholdings legislation in force from time to time, the relevant provisions of the Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Articles and as disclosed in contractual relationships below.
Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the The Company does not have agreements with any director or Companys website.
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a successful takeover bid except that As at 7 March 2011, the Company has been notified in accordance provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause with DTRs of the following interests of 3% or more in the ordinary options and awards granted under such schemes and plans to vest.
shares of the Company: 52 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF BACK.
indd 52 09 03 2011 11:26:04 Governance Contractual relationships Creditor payment policy The Group has contractual arrangements with many parties including The Company had no amounts owing to trade creditors at directors, employees, suppliers, customers, trade mark owners and 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
The Groups creditor days banking groups.
The following are considered significant in terms of outstanding at 31 December 2010 were 68.8 days 2009: 64.0 their effect on the business of the Group as a whole.
days of purchases, based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year.
The Group has a Term and Revolving Facilities Agreement originally for 2.1bn entered into in 2006 and a Receivables Purchasing The Group has standard payment terms of end of the month Agreement and guarantee dated 30 December 2007. plus 60 days.
Our terms and conditions are available on the Companys website www.
Payment terms for The Group entered into a Relationship Agreement with Warburg purchases under major contracts are agreed as part of the contract Pincus LLC in March 2009 setting out the terms and conditions negotiations.
under which Warburg Pincus have the right to appoint a director to the Board and also governing the retention of its shareholding Financial instruments in the Company and the purchase of further shares.
Under the The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, Relationship Agreement, Charles Miller Smith was appointed to the and its exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk are set Board on 16 June 2009. out in note 22 to the Group financial statements.
The Group entered into a Pensions Framework Agreement with the Post-balance sheet events trustees of Premiers UK Defined Benefit Plans on 5 March 2009.
Details of post-balance sheet events are set out in note 32 of the Group financial statements.
The Group has a licence for certain Cadburys trade marks in connection with ambient packaged cakes and baking mixes for Independent auditors a period to expire not earlier than mid 2013.
The Group also has  LLP PwC has indicated its willingness to an exclusive worldwide licence to use the Loyd Grossman name continue as auditors: accordingly, the reappointment of PwC and on sauces, oils and dressings, accompaniments, toppings and the setting of their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM 2011. marinades for a term lasting until 2026.
Going concern These agreements include change of control provisions which in the The directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have event of a change of control could result in the agreements being adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the renegotiated or terminated.
For this reason they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
On 24 January 2011, the Company entered into an agreement with Exponent Private Equity LLP for the sale of the entire issued share AGM 2011 capital of Marlow Foods Ltd, the owner of the Meat-free business, The AGM of the Company will be held at Haberdashers Hall, for an aggregate consideration of 205m, on a cash and debt free 18 West Smithfield, London, EC1A 9HQ on 28 April 2011 at basis.
This disposal was approved by shareholders on 3 March and 10.00 am.
The Notice convening the AGM will be issued separately, completed on 7 March 2011.
As part of the disposal the Company together with details of the business to be considered and full and Exponent have entered into an agreement for certain transitional explanations of each resolution that is being proposed.
services to be provided by the Group to the Exponent Group, and vice versa, for a period following closing.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Finance, Nomination and Remuneration committees are normally available at the AGM to take any relevant On 7 February 2011, the Company entered into an agreement with questions, and all other directors are expected to attend.
All Princes Ltd a wholly owned subsidiary of Mitsubishi Corporate of directors attended the AGM 2010.
Japan for the sale of the East Anglian canned grocery operations and related assets for an aggregate consideration of 182.2m payable in By order of the Board cash on closing and subject to adjustments in respect of stock and a normalised level of debtors and creditors.
Closing is conditional upon obtaining shareholder consent and antitrust competition clearance.
As part of the disposal the Company and Princes have entered into an agreement for certain transitional services to be provided by the Group to the Princes Group, and Suzanne Wise General Counsel & Company Secretary vice versa, for a period following closing.
7 March 2011 Employment policies A summary of the Groups employment policies and the actions to involve employees is set out on pages 40 to 43.
Health and safety policy A summary of the Groups health and safety policy, risks and controls and actions taken is set out on pages 40 to 42.
