Growing the business through branded sales So what is a consumer insight?
Much of the last few years since the acquisition of the RHM There are many textbook definitions but what is common to them all and Campbells businesses has been focused on managing the is that a good consumer insight requires a deep understanding of a restructuring the business.
With this completed we are now moving consumers needs and behaviours that will in turn offer competitive to focus on our key strategic priority of growing the business advantage.
The word deep is highlighted as it is very easy to through branded sales.
observe what is on the surface but the job of an insight practitioner is to ask why, and why again to get under the skin of what a In-depth understanding of the British consumer consumer is saying or doing.
If we are to achieve this it is essential that all our activities and initiatives are based on understanding the behaviours and needs The Consumer and Shopper Manifesto of our consumers and shoppers.
This is the step change that is The Consumer and Shopper Manifesto was first published in the underway that will ensure that Premier Foods achieves its goals 2009 Annual Report and is a good example of broader level insights.
The Manifesto was conceived with a view to answering the simple question, what are the things that are most important to consumers It is the role of the Consumer Insights team at Premier Foods and shoppers of food today?
On reading the manifesto most of to know exactly what those behaviours and needs are and to those things would appear to obvious, such as Looking and Taste make sure the business understands them better than any of our Delicious, Offer Genuine Value for Money and Be Natural and competitors.
Part of their role is to articulate specific consumer Wholesome, but it can be easy to forget the big important things insights which can feed into a number of activities such how when focusing on the day to day running of a business.
are brands are positioned in the market, how we communicate through advertising or packaging design, what areas we need to be innovating in, how our products should be tasting and so on.... good consumer insight requires a deep understanding of a consumers needs and behaviours that will in turn offer competitive advantage.
16 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.
indd 16 09 03 2011 11:27:58 Our business The products are only made from natural ingredients and are Natural and Wholesome: Consumer insight in action Loyd For One By addressing food waste and with less packaging they Do The The Consumer and Shopper Manifesto has proved most powerful, Right Thing: where one or more of the principles have combined with brand level They Focus on the Nations Favourite Food as they are in the consumer insights.
Loyd For One cooking sauces which launched in most popular flavours: 2010 is a good example of this.
They Look and Taste Delicious only using the finest ingredients: They are Genuine Value for Money, partly because of the One of the Manifesto principles Make Food Easy urges us to think competitive price point but also because there is no waste: about whether we have the right size packs for the consumers who The pouch is a different size and shape to the rest of the use them.
Our data shows that meals where four or more people category which is in jars and so they Shine In Store: and are present are three times more likely to be prepared using a Finally its launch TV advertising helps the product and brand to cooking sauce than a meal where only one person is present.
also know that the number of single person occupied households is increasing rapidly and busy family lives means that even within larger The result is a phenomenal rate of sale for the range and after less households eating alone is becoming more commonplace.
than a year in the market, this part of the Loyd Grossman range is already bigger than some other competitor brands in their entirety.
Armed with this information the Loyd Grossman team set about launching a product specifically for one person.
Loyd For One has already gained a 5% value share of the 1 Premium Italian sector.
We found that the main reason that people eating on their own Contributed to second half sales growth of 16.7% across the Loyd were less likely to use cooking sauces is that invariably, despite Grossman range delivering total sales of 45m for the year.
current jars being re-sealable, half a jar would be used and after a few days the remainder of the sauce would be thrown away.
Outlook for the future We also know from data that Loyd Grossman consumers This is just one example of how understanding the consumer and specifically are far more likely to be environmentally aware than shopper can help ensure success.
However, this is just the starting other consumers and avoiding food wastage is very important point: all Premier Foods employees are now being encouraged to to them.
think about the consumer and shopper.
Finally, we know that typical Loyd Grossman consumers are foodie people who like to know what is in their food and where Over the year every member of the Group Executive has spent a day is comes from.
meeting a consumer in their home and accompanying them around a store and have seen consumer insights in action by attending As a result Loyd For One was launched addressing all of these focus groups.
There are plans to roll out this kind of activity needs.
The portion size is perfect for one we researched this too!
using high quality premium ingredients with nothing artificial added as with all of our cooking sauces, packed in lightweight packaging a pouch is approximately 95% less packaging in weight than a glass jar in the flavours that we know our consumers love the most.
Whilst the original inspiration for Loyd For One was the Make Food Easy principle, in reality every one of the other seven Consumer and 1 Source: Kantar 4 w e 19 Feb 2011.
Shopper Manifesto principles were employed: Stock code: PFD www.
