Focused strategy to grow leading market positions Portfolio of great British brands and reduce debt brands See Chief Executives See Our markets See Our brand 12 14 08 Statement on page on page portfolio on page We are the UKs largest branded Premier has a large portfolio of over Our business strategy is: ambient grocery manufacturer.
to grow branded sales faster than their respective markets by We are the UKs largest vertically More than 99% of all UK households investing in and strengthening integrated bread baker and flour consume a Premier Foods product our brands and their relevance to miller.
todays consumers: We operate across 15 food Our brands have stood the test of to gain competitive advantage categories and hold #1 positions in time our oldest brand Sarsons has through consumer insight 11 of them.
been in existence since 1794. and scale to deliver value to Our focus on the UK market makes With such a large portfolio of brands customers and work more us different and means we have no it is important we focus our effort in effectively with suppliers: and directly comparable competitors the right places to maximise growth when looking at either major and profitability.
to deliver efficiency benefits such multinationals or other UK food that supply chain costs and We have a clear strategy to focus on companies.
overheads are held flat or decline the categories and brands where we while volumes grow.
can grow the fastest and where we Our financial strategy is: will invest the most.
to focus on cash generation to reduce average debt to EBITDA Drive to 3.25 or less: to derisk the swap portfolio and Core pension arrangements: and to diversify our sources of funding.
Defend We believe that the successful execution of these strategies will in turn deliver shareholder value.
06 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.
indd 6 09 03 2011 11:27:20 Our business Consumer insight and Benefits of scale Robust and stable business innovation See Consumer See See Financial 16 18 30 insight on page KPIs on page review on page Our scale gives us many advantages.
We have a wide customer base Our scale and focus on the UK market gives us greater insight on It enables us to: supplying all the top retailers, the behaviours and needs of UK convenience and independent stores.
to work with customers over a consumers and shoppers.
We use wide range of categories: We also supply the foodservice, this to help us decide: catering and milling channels.
to consolidate our supplier base, how brands are positioned in the building stronger relationships We have demonstrated our ability to market: with suppliers and driving lower pass on cost inflation as witnessed by how we communicate through per unit input costs: the recent increases in wheat prices.
advertising: and Our business is stable and robust to consolidate our manufacturing even under the recent challenging how products should look and footprint creating fewer, larger economic conditions.
facilities: We have implemented a new to drive efficiencies in The business generates strong free organisation structure which will: manufacturing: cash flow and this in turn allows us to pay down our debt.
establish a Group marketing to reduce administrative function facilitating the sharing of overheads: and consumer insight and maximising to use this to increase our profit value from marketing spend: and margin.
concentrate more resources behind innovation in our Drive and Core brands leading to a greater contribution from new and improved products.
