Board of directors and senior management Executive directors.
Robert Schofield Aged 59 Jim Smart Aged 51 Tim Kelly Aged 53 Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive Officer Date of appointment: October 2009 Date of appointment: October 2008 Date of appointment: January 2002 Experience Experience Experience Prior to joining the Group, Jim served as Chief Financial Tim joined the Group in March 2007 following the Robert joined the Group in 2001 taking responsibility for its Officer of Friends Provident plc between 2006 and 2008 and Companys acquisition of RHM plc, where he was Chief branded business.
He was appointed Chief Executive Officer before that was Chief Financial Officer at Alliance Boots plc.
Operating Officer, Cakes & Customer Partnerships.
Robert has extensive manufacturing and Jim started his career at Abbey National plc where he spent December 2007 he assumed additional responsibility for operational experience gained at United Biscuits plc where 15 years holding a number of senior finance and operational the Groups Hovis division and in January 2011 took on he ultimately served as Managing Director of United Biscuits UK, directing both the McVities and KP Foods businesses.
roles including Group Financial Controller, Group Personnel the new role of Chief Operating Officer which combines all and HR Director and Corporate Resources Director.
He of the brands and commercial operations within both the Previously he spent eight years with Nestl International in the Far East.
Robert served as Chairman of Burtons Foods was trained as an Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand and Grocery and Hovis divisions.
Tim originally joined RHM in is a Member of the Chartered Institute of Public Finance 2002 and prior to that served as Chief Operating Officer at Group Ltd between 2003 and 2005.
He graduated from the University of East Anglia and completed postgraduate & Accountancy, the Chartered Association of Certified Constellation Brands, Inc.
He previously held a number of Accountants and holds an MBA.
senior marketing and sales roles at Diageo plc and Cocastudies at IMD in Switzerland in 1994.
Cola Schweppes Beverages Ltd. Other appointments Other appointments Robert currently has no external appointments.
Jim was previously a non-executive director of F&C Asset Other appointments Management plc.
Tim was until December 2010 a non-executive director and Committee appointments Remuneration Committee Chairman of CPP Group plc.
Robert is a member of the Finance Committee and regularly Committee appointments Jim is a member of the Finance Committee and attends Committee appointments attends meetings of the other Board committees by invitation.
meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
Tim regularly attends Board committee meetings by invitation.
Board contribution Board contribution Jim is responsible for overseeing the financial operations of Board contribution As Chief Executive Officer, Robert is responsible for formulating the Groups objectives and strategy for approval the Group and setting its financial strategy in conjunction with During the year Tim was responsible for the day-to-day the Finance Committee and the Board.
He also oversees the operations of the Hovis and Chilled divisions including by the Board.
Working with the CFO he sets the annual budget and medium-term plan and is responsible for overall framework for financial forecasting, planning, analysis marketing and sales and for reporting progress on and reporting.
Since joining the Group, Jim has undertaken a performance to the Board.
Tim is undertaking a review of reporting performance against plan to the Board.
Robert also plays a key role in identifying and executing acquisitions review of the financial strategy of the Group.
This has resulted brand strategy for the Group following his appointment as in the successful restructuring of the Groups swap portfolio Chief Operating Officer in January 2011. and disposals.
and the obtaining of a credit rating.
Suzanne Wise Aged 49 General Counsel & Company Secretary Committee Memberships: Date of appointment: January 2008 Experience Audit Committee Nomination Committee Suzanne joined the Group in January 2008.
Ms Wise has Ian McHoul Chair Ronnie Bell Chair extensive in-house legal experience gained within the listed company environment and joined the Company from David Beever David Beever Gallaher Group plc where she held the position of Group David Felwick David Felwick Head of Legal.
Prior to Gallaher, she was solicitor in a private Ian McHoul practice.
Suzanne qualified as a solicitor with Lewis Silkin Remuneration Committee Louise Makin and was admitted to practice in 1987.
She graduated from Louise Makin Chair Charles Miller Smith the University of East Anglia.
David Beever Ronnie Bell Finance Committee Suzanne also has responsibility for the internal audit, David Felwick David Beever Chair communications and CSR functions.
She chairs the Risk Ronnie Bell Review Group and Policy Steering Group committees.
Ian McHoul Other appointments Charles Miller Smith Suzanne currently has no external appointments.
Robert Schofield Jim Smart Committee appointments Suzanne is Secretary to the Board and its committees.
Board contribution Suzannes key responsibilities are to assist the Chairman with the management of the Board and to ensure that it operates in accordance with corporate governance best practice.
As General Counsel Suzanne also provides legal advice on the key operational and strategic issues facing the Group.
48 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF BACK.
Ronnie Bell Aged 60 Charles Miller Smith Aged 71 David Felwick CBE Aged 66 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Deputy Chairman Senior independent director Date of appointment: October 2010 Date of appointment: June 2009 Date of appointment: July 2004 Experience Experience Experience Ronnie spent a 30 year career with Kraft Foods Inc, the Charles is a senior advisor at Warburg Pincus LLC and David served as Deputy Chairman and General Inspector worlds second largest food company.
During this time prior to this was an International Adviser at Goldman Sachs of John Lewis Partnership plc between 2002 and 2004, he gained extensive experience in marketing, business International from 2001 until 2005.
Charles worked with having served as a Managing Director of Waitrose and development and general and international management.
Unilever plc for over 30 years, the last five years of which Director for Trading Food for the John Lewis Partnership Ronnie assumed his first country general management he served as a Director of Finance.
He held a wide range of from 1991.
He joined Waitrose in 1987 as Director of Selling role, for the UK and Republic of Ireland, in 1990.
He then financial and general management positions in the United having originally joined the John Lewis Partnership in 1982 widened his responsibilities geographically to include 16 Kingdom, the Netherlands and India.
Charles was Chief as a Senior Management Trainee.
Prior to that David was European countries following his appointment as President Executive Officer and then Chairman at ICI plc from 1994 in the Royal Air Force, from which he retired as a Wing of Kraft Foods Europe, a position he held for five years.
to 2001 and served as Chairman of Scottish Power plc Commander.
He was awarded a CBE for services to the In this role he was responsible for all the Groups coffee, between 2000 and 2007. retail industry in January 2004. chocolate and grocery brands in the region.
Other appointments Other appointments Other appointments Charles other appointments include senior adviser to David previously served as Chairman of the British Retail Ronnie is currently non-executive Chairman of Milk Link Ltd Deutsche Bank RREEF Infrastructure and to Defence Consortium, Product of the Year Ltd, and Leckford Estate and non-executive director of Ansell Ltd and The Edrington Strategy & Solutions.
Member of the international advisory Ltd.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Grocery Distribution.
He was previously a non-executive director of council for Principal Financial in the USA and also Chairman Committee appointments Northern Foods plc and Gallaher Group plc.
of Firstsource Solutions UK Ltd. Committee appointments David is the Companys senior independent director and Committee appointments also a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Ronnie chairs the Nomination Committee and is a member of the Finance and Remuneration committees.
Charles was appointed as Deputy Chairman in October committees.
2010 and is a member of the Finance and Nomination Board contribution Board contribution committees.
Ronnie has extensive marketing and sales experience within David has significant marketing and commercial experience Board contribution within the UK food industry.
As senior independent the UK and international food industry.
He is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring it operates in an As Deputy Chairman Charles is responsible for assisting the director he has responsibility for meeting with the other Chairman in performing his duties and where appropriate non-executives to review the Chairmans performance effective manner.
As Chairman he is responsible for setting Board agendas and ensuring sufficient time is available for deputising in his absence.
Charles has extensive commercial and is available to shareholders to discuss their concerns.
experience both as an executive director of a number of During the year David led the process for the selection of discussing key strategic issues.
He is also responsible for promoting constructive relations between the executive multinational companies and also in advising a range of the Companys new Chairman.
David will step down as a financial organisations.
director at the AGM in 2011. and non-executive directors and ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
David Beever Aged 69 Ian McHoul Aged 51 Dr Louise Makin Aged 50 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Date of appointment: January 2008 Date of appointment: July 2004 Date of appointment: October 2006 Experience Experience Experience After qualifying as a Chartered Engineer, David has Ian is currently Chief Financial Officer of AMEC plc.
Ians Louise is currently Chief Executive Officer of BTG plc, an spent most of his career in the financial sector.
He was international specialist healthcare company.
Louise was earlier career was spent in the brewing industry where he a Vice-Chairman of S. G. Warburg where he handled spent ten years with Courage Ltd and its parent company appointed CEO in October 2004 and has led the turnaround, many corporate finance transactions for major UK and strategic positioning and growth of the company.
Previously, Fosters Brewing Group in a variety of roles and served as International companies.
He was later a Board Member General Manager of Strategy of Fosters Brewing Group and Louise was President of the Biopharmaceuticals Division of KPMG and Chairman of Corporate Finance.
Earlier he of Baxter Healthcare Europe, after having joined Baxter in executive director of Strategy and Planning of Courage Ltd worked for several years at 3i Group plc.
He was Finance and Strategy Director 2000 as Vice-President, Strategy & Business Development Chairman of a number of listed and other companies Europe.
Prior to Baxter, Louise spent 13 years with ICI of the Inntrepreneur Pub Company Ltd from 1995 to 1998. including Volex Group plc and London and Continental Ian then served at Scottish & Newcastle plc between 1998 plc and English China Clay.
Louise holds an MA in Natural Railways plc, builders of the Channel Tunnel Link.
He was Sciences and a PhD in Metallurgy from the University of and 2008 and holding the position of Finance Director from also a non-executive director of JJB Sports plc and Paragon 2001.
Ian qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG Cambridge, and an MBA.
Other appointments Other appointments Other appointments Louise currently has no other appointments.
David is currently Deputy Chairman of Royal Holloway Ian currently has no other appointments.
Committee appointments College and a Member of the Board of Trustees, University Louise is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a Committee appointments of London.
Ian is Chairman of the Audit Committee and also a member member of the Nomination Committee.
Committee appointments of the Finance and Nomination committees.
Board contribution David is Chairman of the Finance Committee and also Board contribution Louise has significant commercial and management a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination expertise within the Healthcare industry.
She chairs the Ian has extensive financial experience and expertise which committees.
is utilised by the Board in his capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee which over the year has reviewed Board contribution and approved a major review of executive remuneration Audit Committee and also as a member of the Finance David has a wealth of experience within the finance industry Committee.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for involving consultation with shareholders and investor bodies.
and provides advice and counsel to the Board on major monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting strategic financial issues as Chairman of the Finance systems, financial controls and the effectiveness of the Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
the year the Finance Committee has reviewed the Groups financial strategy, swap portfolio and pension investment strategy.
David will be appointed as senior independent director following David Felwicks retirement in April 2011.
indd 49 09 03 2011 11:25:57 Board of directors and senior management continued Group Executive.
Brian Carlton Aged 54 Mark Hughes Aged 50 Bob Spooner Aged 56 Paul Kitchener Aged 55 Group HR Director Group Procurement Director Group Operations Director Group Technical and Innovation Director Experience: Experience: Experience: Brian joined the business in 1994 as Mark joined Premier Foods and the Group Bob joined Premier Foods and the Group Head of Personnel for the Canned Foods Experience: Executive in 2007 following the acquisition Executive in April 2007.
His responsibilities have since been Paul joined Premier Foods and the Group of RHM.
Mark Hughes joined RHM in Bob was Group Supply Director for Northern extended to embrace all HR activities Executive in September 2010 as Group 2003 as Divisional Services Director Foods plc and Managing Director of across the Group.
He was appointed to the Technical and Innovation Director.
Paul Bread Bakeries and became a member Northern Foods Pastry Products business Group Executive in October 2006.
Prior to has extensive operational and commercial of the Bread Bakeries Division Executive and prior to that held senior operational joining Premier Foods, Brian held HR and experience within the UK Food Industry and in 2004, and was Group Procurement and and supply chain roles with ICI Paints, and Operational roles in Chrysler UK, K Shoes, was previously Chief Executive of Burtons Logistics Director and a member of the Sara Lee.
Metal Box and Smurfit Packaging.
Prior to this Paul was UK Chief Group Executive of RHM in 2006.
Mark was Executive of Brakes Foodservice and before previously director at Archer Daniels Midland Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: that he held a number of senior supply chain Milling UK and has held a number of senior These include responsibility for operations These include leadership development, roles within United Biscuits.
positions with Associated British Foods plc.
strategy for the Group including line talent management, remuneration, management responsibility for all resourcing and employee relations Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: manufacturing, logistics, health and safety, management across the business.
These include managing all food safety, Control and risk management of over Group engineering and environmental regulatory and compliance testing as well 1.5bn of spend on ingredients, packaging, management.
as factory and supplier audits: leading the energy, machinery, facilities, engineering, new product development technical teams: marketing and all corporate spend.
These and developing and embedding the Group include ensuring the Group remains innovation process.
competitive and well placed within a changing market through the provision of innovative procurement processes, policies, stakeholder engagement and external supplier relationship management.
Ian York Aged 51 Mark Vickery Aged 56 Jon Goldstone Aged 43 Group Sales Director Group IS & Change Director Group Marketing Director Experience: Experience: Experience: Ian joined Premier Foods in 1994 as General Mark joined the Group in early 2005 as Jon was appointed Group Marketing Sales Manager for the Canned Foods Director of IS & Change Management.
Prior to this Jon division.
He now has responsibility for all Following the acquisition of RHM he was Marketing Director for the Hovis division UK sales activities throughout the business assumed the role of Group IS & Change having joined Premier Foods in 2008.
Prior having been appointed Group Sales Director Director.
Mark started his career at Unilever to this he was with PepsiCo UK where he in 2001.
Previously, Ian held a variety of plc where he spent 17 years working in a was Marketing VP for the Walkers Snacks positions in the UK grocery market with number of businesses and geographies.
Quaker Oats Ltd, Associated British Foods then moved to United Biscuits as IS Director plc and Blue Crest.
prior to joining Premier Foods.
Key responsibilities: These included responsibility for setting Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: group marketing strategy, improving These include responsibility for developing These include managing the Information marketing process and capability and strategy, tactics, sales plans and profit Services function and delivering operational ensuring excellence in marketing execution.
targets: identifying and reporting on services and projects to the Group: business opportunities in target markets: programme director for the major system and working towards achieving targets for and change programmes in the business: revenue, profitability and sales growth.
and leading approaches change and project management for the Group.
50 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF BACK.
