Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 42 Remuneration Report continued Matters considered by the Committee during its 2010 meetings 2010 Standing agenda items Other agenda items January Determination of 2009 annual bonus plan award Policy for treatment of fide-listed companies in TSR Determination of vesting of 2007 AEP awards comparator group calculation of Equity Pool Early vesting of outstanding deferred share awards and 2010 bonus plan design change to forfeitable share structure metrics and performance conditions 2010 LTIP award grant levels under equity pool and Performance Share Awards performance conditions: selection of Total Shareholder Return TSR group for Performance Shares and Matching Shares March Determination of vesting of 2007 AEP awards Consideration of initial advice on senior executive calculation of Asset Pool pensions Confirmation of 2007 Matching Award May Approval of 2010 LTIP awards Consideration of Indonesian employee incentive Review of executive remuneration strategy arrangements Consideration of funding level of pension scheme August Review of progress against 2010 annual Review of senior executive pensions policy bonus metrics Consideration of approach to capping payments under Review of progress against long-term the 2008-2010 cycle of AEP and for policy going forward incentive plan performance metrics Review of senior executive remuneration strategy management received advice from PwC October Update of progress against 2010 annual bonus Consideration of policy in relation to capping 2008-2010 metrics and outstanding LTIP and matching AEP awards and policy going forward share awards Conclusions drawn form review of executive remuneration policy November Additional meeting to discuss matters outside Conclusions drawn from review of senior executive normal standing agenda items pensions policy Finalisation of proposed changes to remuneration policy for 2011 Finalisation of proposal in relation to capping 2008-2010 AEP awards and policy going forward Consideration of draft shareholder consultation letter regarding changes to remuneration policy Consideration of appropriate remuneration benchmarking comparators Hewitt New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon Corporation is the independent adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
Neither Hewitt New Bridge Street nor any other part of Aon Corporation provided other services to the company during the year.
During the period under review, the Committee sought the assistance of the Chairman and the Chief Executive on matters relating to directors and senior managements performance and remuneration.
During the year the Committee also took advice from Capita Hartshead in relation to pension policy.
Part A: Remuneration policy for 2011 Summary of Premier Oils remuneration policy for 2011 Fixed remuneration Performance linked remuneration subject to payout caps and clawback provisions Base salary Annual bonus Long Term Incentive Plan 100 per cent of salary max Performance shares TSR Benefits: e. g. private medical KPI scorecard based Share of equity growth share price cover, life assurance Share-based deferral above Matching shares TSR 50 per cent of salary Up to six-year performance period overall Pension: final salary based Minimum shareholding requirement of 200 per cent of base salary for Chief Executive and 100 per cent of salary for other executive directors Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 43 Part A: Remuneration policy for 2011 continued The companys remuneration policy for executive directors is to provide remuneration packages which reward employees fairly and responsibly for their contributions and aims to deliver superior remuneration for superior performance.
Remuneration packages are intended to be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the quality required to achieve the groups objectives and thereby enhance shareholder value.
The Committee takes account of the level of remuneration paid in respect of comparable positions in similar companies within the industry, as well as broadly similar sized companies by market cap in the FTSE 250 index, and also pay and conditions throughout the remainder of the group.
The main components of executive directors remuneration are basic salary, an annual bonus scheme with cash and deferred share elements, benefits, eligibility to participate in the companys long-term incentive schemes and all employee share schemes and pension provision.
The company seeks to strike an appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related elements.
In respect of its senior management, the approach is that the greater part of total remuneration should be delivered through performance-related incentives and, in particular, long-term share-based incentives.
These incentive schemes are designed to align the interests of executives with those of shareholders and establish a clear link between pay and performance.
The chart below illustrates the average mix between the fixed and variable elements of remuneration of the executive directors at on-target and maximum performance.
Target performance assumes 60 per cent bonus payout and a fair value of long-term incentive awards calculated using an options pricing model.
Stretch performance assumes all bonus, performance share and matching awards vest in full with share price growth of 15 per cent per annum compound.
This shows the significant level of gearing in the package towards stretch performance targets: Average mix of executive director remuneration for on-target and maximum performance On-target Long-term incentives On-target bonus Stretch Fixed remuneration In line with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee ensures that the companys remuneration policy will not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour e. g. one of the important factors in determining bonus performance is the achievement of specific HSE targets.
More generally, the Committee ensures that the overall remuneration policy does not encourage inappropriate operational risk.
The Committee has recently conducted a review of the companys remuneration arrangements which concluded that the current remuneration arrangements were broadly appropriate but that some correctional changes should be made to the salaries of the executive directors and the operation of the LTIP.
The company has also introduced clawback provisions into the annual bonus and LTIP arrangements and shareholding guidelines for the executive directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Prior to implementing these changes the Committee consulted with major shareholders.
Base salary The Committee aims to position the base salaries for the executive directors at a mid-market level for comparable positions in similar companies within the industry and the FTSE 250 taking into account the performance of the company and the performance of the individual.
In this regard the policy has changed compared to prior years, where the policy had been to position salaries between median and upper quartile.
The companys policy for all other employees is to target salaries at the upper quartile of comparable positions within the industry.
The Committee believes that this positioning is appropriate given the competitive marketplace that exists within the industry in which it operates.
While the Committee does not slavishly follow market data it has been aware that Mr S C Locketts salary has been below its assessment of a mid-market level for some time.
Recognising the outstanding track record of performance of the individual and the company, the Committee has decided that it is now time to correct this anomaly and intends to increase his salary to a broadly mid-market level over the next two years.
The increase of 14.9 per cent for 2011 represents a significant step toward achieving the Committees desired positioning.
Awards of between 3.3 per cent to 6.3 per cent for the other executive directors reflect the level of increases for the wider workforce and the performance achieved.
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 % of total maximum remuneration Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 44 Remuneration Report continued Base salary continued The salaries of the executive directors as at 1 January 2011 are as follows: Salary Percentage increase Position from 2010 S C Lockett Chief Executive 500,000 14.9 R A Allan Director Asia 310,000 3.3 A R C Durrant Finance Director 340,000 6.3 N Hawkings Operations Director 310,000 3.3 A G Lodge Exploration Director 310,000 3.3 Annual bonus scheme Executive directors and other employees are eligible to participate in non-pensionable discretionary bonus arrangements.
The Committee sets targets for executive directors which are based on the achievement of challenging corporate targets.
Bonuses for executive directors are subject to a maximum of 100 per cent of base salary.
Other employees can earn an annual bonus payment of up to a maximum of 45 per cent of base salary based on the achievement of corporate and personal targets.
The Committee sets targets on the basis of a balanced scorecard comprising KPIs and other corporate objectives.
The main elements of the scorecard for 2011 are described in the table below: Metric Objective HSES Achieving improvement in our HSE performance relative to the previous year as measured by total recorded injury frequency rate and high potential occurrences Production and development Deliver projects on time and on budget moving toward the medium-term target of 100,000 boepd Exploration and exploration Make a material exploration success and deliver new ventures to replenish the portfolio of reserves new ventures as measured by resource additions Finance and business Acquire new assets to build the core business and improve the quality of our core business whilst development maintaining a healthy balance sheet as measured by value creation Organisation Continue to improve the HR and the business-related systems within each area of the business and improve succession and competency planning The balanced scorecard is used as a guide for the Committee, which reserves the right to override the formulaic outturn based on a broader assessment of overall company performance.
For the 2010 annual bonus plan 50 per cent of any bonus was deferred in shares for three years.
With effect from 2011, the Committees policy for executive directors and other senior executives is that any bonus earned up to 50 per cent of salary is payable immediately in cash.
The balance of any bonus earned above 50 per cent of salary must be deferred in shares and will remain subject to a bad leaver provision such that deferred shares will lapse in the event that an executive were to leave to join a competitor.
From 2011, the annual bonus plan will also be subject to a clawback provision in the event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, gross misconduct or error in the calculation of performance conditions.
The Long Term Incentive Plan The company currently operates an all employee Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, a Share Incentive Plan and a Save As You Earn Scheme for UK-based and expatriate employees only.
Details of the Share Incentive Plan and the Save As You Earn Scheme are set out in Part B of this report.
The LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
The first awards were made in 2009 and will mature at the end of 2011.
Further awards were made in 2010 and will mature at the end of 2012, and it is intended that awards will be made in 2011, which will mature at the end of 2013.
The Committee believes that the operation of a long-term incentive in which all of the companys employees participate encourages a focus on longer-term performance and alignment with shareholders.
The performance conditions provide alignment between the interests of shareholders and employees and the emphasis on relative TSR performance against peers ensures that the company has delivered competitive returns when compared to the companys competitors over the performance period, irrespective of general market conditions and movements in the oil price.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 45 The Long Term Incentive Plan continued Awards under the LTIP comprise three elements: Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards that vest after the expiry of a three-year performance period, and a potential Matching Award that vests at the expiry of a further three-year performance period, commencing at the end of the three-year performance period for Equity Pool and Performance Share Awards.
The schematic below helps explain the operation of a single award under the LTIP: Growth in market Equity Pool capitalisation of 10%-20% pa 50% of shares vest right to a share of the creates pool of 1%-2.5% pool created from growth of growth in market capitalisation delivered in shares 50% of shares Deferred deferred shares vest Performance Shares Relative TSR compared to 150% of salary for Chief oil companies Executive, 125% for other executive directors, vesting Matching shares Relative TSR Matching based on stock market 2.5 : 1 of deferred compared to shares vest performance shares oil companies 3 years 3 years Equity Pool The Equity Pool element of the long-term incentive policy is designed to ensure that the long-term incentive policy is aligned to the returns generated for shareholders, through rewarding absolute growth in market value in excess of a challenging growth range.
A pool of value is created based on a percentage of the growth in market capitalisation over three years.
Individuals are allocated a pro rata entitlement to the pool at the start of the performance period.
The Equity Pool is created as follows: The Equity Pool Award is created on the basis of the compound annual growth in the companys market capitalisation over the performance period being at least 10 per cent.
If growth meets or exceeds this level, a pool of value is created as follows: Notional pool of value created as a percentage of the increase Compound annual growth in market capitalisation in the compound annual growth Less than 10 per cent 0 per cent 10 per cent 1 per cent More than 10 per cent but less than 20 per cent Between 1 per cent and 2.5 per cent on a straight-line basis 20 per cent or more 2.5 per cent In determining the size of the Equity Pool, in addition to the above formula the Committee must be satisfied that the growth in market capitalisation is reflective of the underlying financial and operational performance of the company and may scale back the size of the Equity Pool accordingly if this is not the case.
In making their assessment of whether to scale back the pool size, the Committee will take account of, amongst other things: return on invested capital: reserve replacement: cash flow: earnings per share: and health and safety.
Individual entitlement to the Equity Pool is determined as follows: Each employee is allocated a pro rata entitlement to the Equity Pool based on seniority expressed as a number of participation points at the start of the three-year performance period.
For 2011 the Chief Executive will be granted an entitlement to 6 per cent of the Equity Pool, with other executive directors granted an entitlement to 4.25 per cent of the Equity Pool.
The value of an individual entitlement is then calculated after three years and delivered in shares.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 46 Remuneration Report continued The Long Term Incentive Plan continued Individual entitlement to the Equity Pool is determined as follows continued : Where growth in market capitalisation is such that the value of the individual entitlement is higher than 100 per cent of salary, there is a cap to the value of the individual entitlement to an amount equivalent to 100 per cent of salary.
The Committee has discretion to lift the 100 per cent of salary cap potentially up to the full value of the individual entitlement provided it is satisfied that, notwithstanding the growth in market capitalisation achieved, there has been a long-term underlying improvement in the performance of the company.
The factors which the Committee might take into account when assessing whether or not to increase the cap include the same factors described above in relation to the Committees assessment of the Equity Pool.
To add further rigour to the process it has been decided, following consultation with institutional shareholders, that the Committee may increase the 100 per cent of base salary cap on payouts on the following basis: for growth in market capitalisation between the level of growth at which the 100 per cent of salary cap is first reached and 15 per cent pa growth, the Committee has discretion to increase the cap from 100 per cent to no higher than 200 per cent of salary on a straight-line basis: and for growth in market capitalisation between 15 per cent pa and 20 per cent pa or more, it has discretion to increase the cap from 200 per cent of salary up to the full value of the individual entitlement i. e. as if no cap applied on a straight-line basis.
The Committees deliberations in relation to determining the size of the pool or the lifting of the 100 per cent of salary cap will be disclosed fully to shareholders in the following years Annual Report.
The company operates an appropriate hedging strategy under which the likely number of shares required to satisfy awards is considered from time-to-time and the Employee Benefit Trust funded with shares as required and or headroom is set aside within our dilution limits for new issue shares.
Performance Share Award The Performance Share Award is over a number of Ordinary Shares in the company, with a value on grant of up to 150 per cent of salary, and is subject to a TSR performance condition.
For 2011 the Chief Executive will be awarded a performance share award worth 150 per cent of base salary.
Performance shares will not vest unless the companys TSR performance over the three-year performance period is at least at the median of a comparator group comprising approximately 33 listed companies in the oil and gas sector excluding the oil majors whereby the shares subject to the Performance Share Award will vest as follows: TSR position of the company relative to the comparator group Percentage of shares which vest Below median 0 per cent Median 25 per cent Between median and upper quartile Between 25 per cent and 100 per cent on a straight-line basis Upper quartile or above 100 per cent Matching Award 50 per cent of the total number of shares vesting out of an employees Equity Pool Award and Performance Share Award will be transferred to the employee while the balance will be deferred the Deferred Award.
For executive directors and certain other members of senior management the deferral period is three years and in return a Matching Award over further shares is made.
For all other employees the Deferred Award will vest six months after grant, unless the employee elects to defer the vesting for three years in return for a grant of a Matching Award.
Deferred shares are eligible for a potential match of up to 2.5 : 1 dependent on the TSR performance of the company against the same comparator group used for Performance Share Awards.
However, full vesting will only occur if the companys TSR is at or above the upper decile.
The shares subject to the Matching Award will vest as follows: TSR position of the company relative to the comparator group Percentage of shares which vest Below median 0 per cent Median 25 per cent Between median and upper decile Between 25 per cent and 100 per cent on a straight-line basis Upper decile or above 100 per cent Clawback Effective from 2011 a clawback provision will be attached to LTIP awards in the event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, gross misconduct or error in the calculation of performance conditions.
Details of the awards granted to executive directors under this plan are set out in Part B: Outstanding long-term incentive awards.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 47 Shareholding guidelines The Committee has established formal shareholding guidelines which will encourage the Chief Executive and other members of the Executive Committee to retain no less than 50 per cent of the net of tax value of shares vesting under the companys deferred bonus and long-term incentive arrangements, until such time as they have achieved a holding worth 200 per cent of base salary in the case of the Chief Executive and 100 per cent of salary in the case of other members of the Executive Committee.
The table below shows the level of share ownership as at 31 December 2010, based on the share price on that day.
This shows that the value of the executive directors current shareholdings is higher than the minimum threshold.
Percentage of base salary Actual share ownership Guideline on level Guideline met currently as at 31 December 2010 of share ownership Y N S C Lockett 1,215% 200% Y R A Allan 1,125% 100% Y A R C Durrant 929% 100% Y N Hawkings 655% 100% Y A G Lodge 138% 100% Y Includes value of Deferred Awards under the annual bonus and AEP where performance conditions have been achieved and such awards are subject to a holding period.
Executive directors contracts of service Details of the service contracts of the executive directors of the company are as follows: Unexpired term Contract date Notice period of contract Potential termination payment S C Lockett 9 December 2003 12 months Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits R A Allan 9 December 2003 12 months Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits A R C Durrant 1 July 2005 12 months Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits N Hawkings 23 March 2006 12 months Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits A G Lodge 20 April 2009 12 months Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits The service contract of each executive director may be terminated on 12 months notice in writing by either side, in accordance with current market practice.
In such an event, the compensation commitments in respect of their contracts could amount to one years remuneration based on base salary and benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period.
In line with normal market practice, an individual may receive an annual bonus for the proportion of a financial year worked before cessation of employment but there will be no right to any bonus for any period of notice not worked.
There are provisions for termination with less than 12 months notice by the company in certain circumstances.
If such circumstances were to arise, the executive director concerned would have no claim against the company for damages or any other remedy in respect of the termination.
The Committee would apply general principles of mitigation to any payment made to a departing executive director and would consider each case on an individual basis.
External appointments Executive directors are entitled to accept non-executive appointments outside the company providing that the Boards approval is sought.
Mr A R C Durrant held one external non-executive directorship with Clipper Windpower plc up to 13 December 2010 and is entitled to retain the fees earned connected therewith 2010: US$69,000 and 2009: US$64,860.
Non-executive directors Non-executive directors have letters of appointment, which are all effective for a period of three years subject to reappointment by the members in General Meeting, all of which have a notice period of three months.
Date of Director appointment letter Notice period Unexpired term M W Welton 23 September 2009 3 months 18 months J R W Orange 23 September 2009 3 months 15 months Professor D G Roberts 23 September 2009 3 months 15 months J Darby 1 September 2010 3 months 29 months I J Hinkley 1 September 2010 3 months 29 months D C Lindsell 17 January 2011 3 months 33 months M Romieu 17 January 2011 3 months 33 months
