Continued growth through commitment and responsibility Premier is committed to applying the high ethical standards necessary to maintain our reputation as a world-class operator in oil and gas.
Our reputation for doing the right thing enables us to access new licences, enter new countries, build lasting relationships with local communities and ultimately secure the licence to operate.
We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our investment and operational decisions take appropriate account of the impacts that might arise from our activities.
This last year saw the implementation and communication of a new health, safety and environment policy at all Premier operations worldwide.
Highlights in 2010 We have a responsibility to ensure our operations cause no harm to It is our policy to support social investment that contributes people or the environment.
This to the sustainable development goals of the communities remains a priority equal to our and countries where we operate.
In 2010, Premier spent other key business objectives.
US$800,000 on community investment in the vicinity of our operations and joint ventures in Indonesia, Pakistan, the UK North Sea and Vietnam mainly in the areas of improving local Simon Lockett infrastructure and disaster relief Chief Executive Premier has been certified to OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 since 2004 for global drilling and since 2006 for our Indonesian production operations.
With our Balmoral operation recently achieving OHSAS 18001, all of our operated activities are now certified to both standards Our operated greenhouse gas emissions intensity in 2010 was 185 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production.
This is a slight increase from 2009 due to the inclusion of our UK North Sea assets for the first full calendar year Average oil in produced water declined significantly from 19 parts per million ppm in 2009 to 11 ppm in 2010.
This reduction is attributed to improvements in the treatment process that lead to increased removal of oil from produced water before discharge We have taken additional steps to strengthen our process for preventing and responding to oil spills.
This includes regular pollution prevention audits and an independent review of our Anoa oil spill contingency plan.
We maintain oil spill contingency plans for each of our operations and have ongoing contracts with oil spill response specialists to provide support in the unlikely event of a major incident
