Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 26 Board of Directors Robin Allan, Joe Darby, Tony Durrant, Neil Hawkings Jane Hinkley, David Lindsell, Simon Lockett, Andrew Lodge John Orange, Professor David Roberts, Michel Romieu, Mike Welton Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 27 Robin Allan 51, joined Premier from Burmah Oil in July 1986, working initially as a geologist.
After technical and new venture roles he spent six years in South East Asia, initially managing Premiers Asian existing and new venture business and later becoming Premiers Country Manager in Indonesia.
He became a member of the Premier Board in December 2003 as Director of Business Development.
Mr Allan returned to Asia in 2009 as Director Asia, and manages the Asian portfolio from the Singapore office.
Joe Darby 62, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in September 2007.
Mr Darby has over 40 years of experience in the energy sector, including eight years with Shell Petroleum before becoming Managing Director of Thomson North Sea Ltd.
He has held a number of senior roles, including Chief Executive, with LASMO plc.
Mr Darby is a non-executive director of Nordaq Energy Inc and Alkane Energy plc, and has held non-executive roles at British Nuclear Fuels plc, Mowlem plc and Centurion Energy Inc.
He was Chairman of Mowlem plc 2005-2006 and Faroe Petroleum plc 2003-2007.
Mr Darby is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Tony Durrant 52, joined Premier in June 2005.
After qualifying as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen, he joined Lehman Brothers in London, initially as an oil sector analyst.
He joined the investment banking division of Lehman in 1987 and from 1997 was a Managing Director and Head of the European Natural Resources Group.
In this role, he managed both client relationships and numerous transactions for a variety of European and North American clients.
He joined the Premier Board in July 2005 as Finance Director.
Neil Hawkings 49, joined Premier in May 2005 after more than 20 years with ConocoPhillips where he worked in a variety of engineering, commercial and management roles around the world, undertaking assignments in the UK, Dubai and Indonesia.
He joined the Premier Board in March 2006 as Operations Director.
Jane Hinkley 60, joined Premiers Board in September 2010 as a non-executive director.
Ms Hinkley is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
She is a qualified chartered accountant with executive experience primarily in international shipping.
She has held managing directorships at Navion Shipping AS and Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corporation.
She has been an independent director on the board of Teekay GP LLC, an international provider of marine transportation services for LNG, LPG and crude oil, since 2005 and also previously held the position of non-executive director of Revus Energy ASA, a Norwegian exploration and production company.
David Lindsell 63, joined Premiers Board in January 2008 as a non-executive director.
He was a partner at Ernst & Young LLP for nearly 30 years and has extensive experience across a range of industry sectors, with a strong knowledge of the oil and gas sector.
Mr Lindsell is currently a non-executive director of Drax Group plc and Gartmore Group Ltd and is Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Mr Lindsell is the Chairman of Premiers Audit and Risk Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Simon Lockett 46, Chief Executive, joined Premier in January 1994 from Shell and has worked in a variety of roles for Premier, including the management of investor relations, as Commercial Manager in Indonesia and as Country Manager in Albania.
He became a member of the Premier Board in December 2003 as Operations Director.
He was appointed Chief Executive in March 2005.
Mr Lockett is a member of Premiers Nomination Committee.
Andrew Lodge 54, has been Exploration Director of Premier since April 2009.
Prior to joining Premier, Mr Lodge was Vice President Exploration at Hess, where he was responsible for Europe, North Africa, Asia and Australia for nine years.
Previously, he was Vice President Exploration, Asset Manager and Group Exploration Advisor for BHP Petroleum, based in London and Australia.
Prior to joining BHP Petroleum, Andrew worked for BP as a geophysicist.
John Orange 68, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in February 1997.
He held a variety of senior international management and legal posts during his 30 years with the BP Group.
Mr Orange was Chairman of Exile Resources Inc from 2009 to 2010 and is currently a director of Vostok Energy, an independent upstream gas and oil exploration, development and production company.
He is Premiers senior independent non-executive director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Risk and Nomination Committees.
Professor David Roberts 67, joined Premier in June 2006 as a non-executive director.
Professor Roberts has over 30 years experience in all aspects of exploration worldwide and extensive knowledge of deep water areas, sedimentary basins, stratigraphy and prospect assessment.
He spent 22 years with BP in a number of technical roles, including Global Exploration Adviser and Distinguished Exploration Adviser.
Professor Roberts is a non-executive director of GETECH plc and Medserv plc and has established his own geoscience consultancy.
He is a visiting professor and fellow of Royal Holloway, University of London, the University of Southampton and IFP School in Paris.
Professor Roberts is a member of Premiers Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Michel Romieu 71, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in January 2008.
Mr Romieu has over 30 years experience in the international energy sector, including 25 years with the Elf Group, where he held several senior positions including Chief Executive of Elf UK and the groups gas division.
He was elected President of the UK Offshore Operators Association for the year 1995, and held the position of Director for Gas of CRE, the French energy regulator, from 2000 to 2003.
He has established his own consultancy specialising in providing advice to the gas industry, and is a lecturer at the French Petroleum Institute.
Mr Romieu is also President of Uprigaz.
He is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk and Nomination Committees.
Mike Welton 64, joined Premiers Board in June 2009 as a non-executive director and became Chairman in October 2009.
Mr Welton is also Chairman of Southern Water Services Ltd and a director of Morrison Utility Services and High Speed Two, the government-owned LLC set up to examine high speed rail connections between London and the West Midlands.
He sits on the advisory board of Montrose Associates.
Mr Welton was previously Chairman of Hanson plc 2005-2007, the Turkish British Business Council and the UK Governments Railway Sector Advisory Group.
He was also Chief Executive of Balfour Beatty plc 1999-2004.
Mr Welton is the Chairman of Premiers Nomination Committee.
