Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 37 Report of the Directors The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the group, together with the audited group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 28 to 31 forms part of this report.
Results and dividends The groups net profit for the year amounted to US$129.8 million 2009: profit of US$113.0 million.
A dividend is not proposed 2009: US$nil.
Principal activities The principal activities of the group are oil and gas exploration, development and production.
The group operates through subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures, details of which are shown in note 10 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Business review The company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the group during the financial year ended 31 December 2010 and of the position of the group at the end of the year the business review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: Chief Executives Review Financial Review Company Risk Factors Key Performance Indicators Environmental, employee, social and community matters, within the Social Performance Review The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and the Financial Review also include details of expected future developments in the business of the group.
Annual General Meeting AGM The companys 9th AGM will be held on Friday 20 May 2011 at 11.00am.
The Notice of the AGM, together with details of all resolutions which will be placed before the meeting accompanies this report.
Directors The directors who served throughout the year except as noted were as follows: 3 Mr Mike Welton Chairman Mr Robin Allan 4, 5, 6 Mr Joe Darby Mr Tony Durrant Mr Neil Hawkings 4, 6 Ms Jane Hinkley appointed 1 September 2010 2, 4, 6 Mr David Lindsell 6 Mr Simon Lockett Chief Executive Mr Andrew Lodge 1, 5, 6 Mr John Orange senior independent non-executive director 4, 6 Professor David Roberts 5, 6 Mr Michel Romieu Notes: 1.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 3.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 4.
Member of the Remuneration Committee 5.
Member of the Audit and Risk Committee 6.
Member of the Nomination Committee Biographical details of all directors can be found in the Board of Directors section set out on pages 26 and 27 of this report.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 38 Report of the Directors continued Directors election In accordance with best practice for FTSE 350 companies as published in the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, directors will stand for annual re-election by shareholders.
Mr J R W Orange, who will be retiring from the Board at the forthcoming AGM, will not stand for re-election.
Ms I J Hinkley, having been appointed by the directors since the last AGM, will step down at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer herself for election by shareholders.
All other directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The powers of directors are described in the Corporate Governance Report and in the Matters Reserved for Board Decision, a copy of which can be found on the companys website www.
The companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a General Meeting of the shareholders.
The beneficial interests of the executive directors include personal shareholdings together with Share Incentive Plan Partnership Shares and any Matching Shares held for more than three years.
The beneficial interests of the non-executive directors comprise personal shareholdings.
This includes 1,444 Ordinary Shares held by Mr J R W Oranges wife.
This includes Ordinary Shares held by Mr N Hawkings wife nil Ordinary Shares held as at 1 January 2010, 14,991 Ordinary Shares held as at 31 December 2010 and 34,604 Ordinary Shares held as at 23 March 2011.
Directors interests in share options, deferred bonus shares, Deferred and Matching Share Awards under the Asset and Equity Plan, Performance Share Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Share Incentive Plan entitlements are shown in the Remuneration Report together with details of the remuneration of all directors who served during the year.
Directors indemnities The company has granted an indemnity to all of its directors under which the company will, to the fullest extent permitted by law and to the extent provided by the Articles of Association, indemnify them against all costs, charges, losses and liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their duties.
Share capital Details of the issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
The company has one class of Ordinary Share which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at General Meetings of the company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 19.
The voting rights in relation to the shares held within the Employee Benefit Trust are exercisable by the trustees.
Details of the number of shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 58.
No person has any special rights of control over the companys share capital and all issued shares are fully-paid.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 39 Substantial shareholders At 23 March 2011 the company had received notification from the following institutions, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of interests in excess of 3 per cent of the companys issued Ordinary Shares with voting rights: Notified Notified number of percentage of Nature of 1 Name of shareholder voting rights voting rights holding BlackRock Inc 11,224,700 9.790 Indirect AXA S. A.
& group companies 7,498,283 9.130 Indirect Ameriprise Financial Inc 4,028,672 5.076 Indirect Schroders plc 5,781,636 4.970 Indirect Aviva plc 3,859,897 4.870 Direct Legal & General Group plc 4,586,471 3.990 Direct Bear, Stearns International Trading Ltd 2,552,847 3.109 Direct Note: 1.
Where the nature of the holding is both direct and indirect, the larger holding has been quoted.
Supplier payment policy The groups policy in respect of its suppliers is to establish terms of payment when agreeing the terms of business transactions and to abide by the terms of payment.
The groups normal payment terms are four weeks.
Hedging and risk management Details of the groups policy on hedging and risk management are provided in the Financial Review.
A further disclosure has been made in note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements related to various financial instruments and exposure of the group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk.
Subsequent events Post balance sheet events are disclosed in note 26 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Charitable and political donations During the year the group made charitable contributions amounting to US$708,614 2009: US$231,337.
No political contributions were made during the year 2009: US$nil.
Significant agreements change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees share plans.
None of these is considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the group as a whole.
Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any agreements between the company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Statements confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board S C Huddle Company Secretary 23 March 2011
