Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 41 Compliance This report has been prepared in accordance with schedule 8 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The report has been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Part A of the report is not subject to audit.
Part B contains information which has been audited.
As required, this report is being put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM for an advisory vote.
Throughout 2010 the company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code regarding best practice on the design of performance-related remuneration.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee the Committee normally meets at least four times a year 2010: six scheduled meetings and determines the remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and senior management.
The Committee is composed entirely of non-executive directors and comprises Mr J R W Orange, who chairs the Committee and is the companys senior independent non-executive director, Ms I J Hinkley and Messrs J Darby, D C Lindsell and Professor D G Roberts.
The Board considers that the membership of the Committee is compliant with the Code recommendations.
Mr M W Welton, the companys Chairman, is not a member of the Committee, but attends meetings by invitation.
Mr S C Lockett is not a member of the Committee but attends meetings by invitation, except when his own remuneration is being discussed, to ensure that the Chief Executive is fully aware of discussions concerning remuneration policy and the remuneration packages of its most senior management.
No director of the company is involved in determining his own remuneration.
The determination of the remuneration of the nonexecutive directors is a matter reserved for Board decision.
The Committee acts within its agreed written terms of reference and complies with the relevant provisions of the Code in implementing its remuneration policy.
The terms of reference are published on the companys website www.
The role of the Committee includes: considering and determining the remuneration policy for the Chairman, executive directors and senior management: within this agreed policy, considering and determining the total compensation package of each executive director of the company: considering and advising on the general principles under which remuneration is applied to employees of the company: considering the design of the annual bonus plan for senior executives: determining the quantum and performance conditions for awards to be made under the companys long-term incentive schemes: and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments to directors and senior management.
