Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 9 North Sea and West Africa Building upon the acquisition of Oilexco in 2009, Premier has passed significant milestones in growing its North Sea business.
These included achieving project sanction on Huntington, the successful Catcher and Varadero exploration wells Premier 35 per cent, which discovered a significant quantity of high-quality oil reserves, and the West Rochelle boundary well which confirmed the extension of the Rochelle discovery into Block 15 26b.
We continue to pursue actively new assets that are capable of delivering near-term production in the North Sea.
This included 7,100 boepd 2009: 5,000 boepd from our fields which utilise the Balmoral facilities and other material contributions from the Scott Telford, Kyle and Wytch Farm fields.
The lower overall production in 2010 was largely due to unplanned maintenance requirements on the Balmoral, Scott and Wytch Farm areas, although oil revenues increased due to the higher oil price which averaged US$79 bbl across all fields.
2010 average production was also affected by the earlier than planned permanent cessation of production on the Shelley field.
However, there was notable production success in the Scott field from the J39 infill well drilled in January, successful workovers of wells J33 and J24 in March, and the re-perforation of well J37Y in June.
Premier commissioned a gas compression upgrade on the Balmoral floating production vessel FPV in February to facilitate the production performance of Premier-operated oil fields Brenda and Nicol.
These fields and the non-operated Kyle field delivered strong consistent production throughout the year.
The Burghley field was successfully tied back to the Balmoral FPV in October.
The Burghley third party oil production will contribute pro rata to the FPV shared operating costs, which will lower the costs allocated to the Premier oil fields that are tied back to the vessel.
Premier completed the purchase of an additional 0.80 per cent in the Telford field on 23 December, thereby increasing our equity in Telford to 1.59 per cent.
The Telford operator successfully completed two infill wells which will start up in 2011.
The Huntington field Premier 40 per cent progressed to the development phase following joint venture and DECC approval of the Huntington FDP.
The FPSO charter party agreement has been executed and upgrade work on the FPSO has commenced at the yard in Norway.
Long lead items for the topsides and key subsea equipment are on order.
A drilling rig contract has been awarded and development drilling is planned to commence in April 2011.
Installation activities are planned for summer 2011, with the FPSO due to arrive in the field late in the third quarter or early in the fourth quarter.
First oil is planned for early 2012.
Reservoir modelling and pre-development engineering conceptual studies were funded during 2010 for the Ptarmigan and Caledonia fields.
Economic screening has indicated that it may be commercially feasible to develop Caledonia North by subsea tie-back to the Premier-operated Balmoral FPV.
The Caledonia redevelopment opportunity may be enhanced by the Premier-operated Bluebell prospect, which will be drilled in 2011.
Ptarmigan concept studies have been completed based on a subsea tie-back to the Balmoral FPV and are currently being evaluated.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 10 Chief Executives Review continued Premier actively pursued business development opportunities in 2010 leading to two new potential field developments: the Solan and Fyne fields.
Premier paid US$1.5 million to Chrysaor Ltd to fund pre-development conceptual studies for the Solan field in exchange for an option to farm-in to a portion of Chrysaors 100 per cent equity.
The field is located in the west of Shetlands in Block 205 26a, to the south of the Schiehallion field.
Post year-end, a conditional agreement has been signed with Chrysaor for Premier to take a 60 per cent working interest in the development, in exchange for funding Chrysaors share of development costs.
Premier will also pay US$20 million in consideration.
Full development sanction for the Solan field is anticipated for mid-2011.
Premier paid US$2 million to Antrim Energy to fund pre-development conceptual studies for the Fyne field in exchange for an option to farm-in to acquire 40 per cent of the Fyne area on Block 21 28a.
Antrim currently owns 75 per cent equity and operates the block.
Work continues on reviewing field development options in the area.
Norway In Norway, Premier has made further progress on two significant pre-development assets: Fry Premier 50 per cent and Bream Premier 20 per cent.
At Blbaer Premier 15 per cent, hydrocarbons were discovered in the Lower Jurassic Cook formation: this discovery has the potential to tie-back to the adjoining Jordbaer development.
On the Fry field, the joint venture has continued to mature a stand-alone concept for development.
In particular, the joint venture has evaluated an improved drainage strategy with use of water and gas injection.
Further studies carried out in the second half of 2010 looked at three third party fields in the Fry area as potential tie-back volumes.
The results of these studies indicate that the tie-backs are feasible, though further work is required to complete viable commercial arrangements.
Given successful outcomes from the current work programme, the joint venture will be in a position to achieve project sanction later in 2011.
The Bream field development has been advanced during 2010, with a tender exercise for an FPSO being completed and a contractor vessel being shortlisted.
Work on the FPSO and subsea well concept has progressed well, and a project sanction decision is expected to be taken during the second half of 2011.
Mauritania In Mauritania, 2010 working interest production from the Chinguetti field averaged 700 boepd 2009: 950 boepd, higher than earlier expectations.
The operator continues to assess and optimise production performance from the field.
The joint venture partnerships continue discussions with the Mauritanian Government to extend the existing PSCs covering the remaining potential in the area, with the aim of concluding these discussions in 2011.
Partners have been undertaking gas development studies for the Banda and Tevet fields, whilst in parallel they have been evaluating the further exploration potential of the areas.
