Business review Driving our strategy forward Our business Punch Taverns is one of the UKs leading pub companies with a portfolio of 6,770 managed and leased pubs.
Each operating business has a clearly focused Our vision strategy designed to maximise shareholder value To be the pre-eminent pub and realise synergies across the estate, in terms group in the UK: lean, innovative of negotiating better value supplier deals and and dynamic, constantly striving in transferring knowledge and skills.
to provide a great service to our pubs, our Partners and our colleagues, driven by a passion for excellence in everything we do.
Our objective To continue to maximise the long term shareholder value of the Group, through developing the best quality estate in the industry, building successful long term Punch Partnerships Punch Pub Company partnerships and delivering Punch Partnerships is our leased division, Punch Pub Company is our managed great guest experiences in our comprising 5,967 pubs nationwide.
Over the last 12 months, the leased The managed business includes some managed pubs.
business has made significant progress of the best quality managed pubs and on its Pathway to Partnership business emerging concepts in the UK.
Throughout change programme, at the heart of which the year we have focused on rolling out is our commitment to build successful, our investment programme to develop lasting relationships as we endeavour to strong consumer brands and offers whilst become The Most Trusted and Best Value embarking on a major cultural change Pub Partnership Business in the UK.
journey to Put the Guest at the Heart of our Business.
com For more information visit: www.
com Group strategy What we said What we did Strengthen operational Management actions have focused on stabilising business management performance and on building trading momentum Stabilise operating We delivered improved trading momentum in the final quarter performance of the financial year Improve cash flow We delivered a strong free cash flow of 314m Reduce debt We have made good progress in strengthening our balance sheet, reducing gross debt by 684m 3 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 RecRuiting and Retaining a HigH dRiving calibRe team OpeRatiOnal peRfORmance tRansfORming OuR business fOR tHe futuRe Business review Business review Overview Market overview Success for the pub sector is still being determined by its ability to respond at pace to the changing market conditions and deliver The sector continues great guest experiences and value.
In response to these continuing challenges, we refocused our plans so that we are best placed to quickly evolve our consumer offers, improve service standards and combat competitor activity.
to face a number Consumers The consumer landscape continues to change at pace and we of challenges, both have been quick to respond to changing consumer behaviour.
Competition within the eating out and leisure sector remains intense and we have adapted both our approach to Partner support and our managed marketing strategies to ensure in terms of consumer that we cater to changing needs.
In our managed business, we have focused on developing new confidence and in concepts to meet consumer needs whilst updating our marketing activity with a heavier focus on online media.
Within our leased business we continue to work closely with our Partners to diversify Government legislation their businesses into new areas including village shops and Post Offices.
At the same time, we have helped Partners to build their food skills with the expertise of eight specialist Catering Executives and the rollout of a number of easy to deliver food and taxation.
solutions ranging from Coffee and WiFi to Table Top.
A snapshot Economic downturn Consumers Market overview The UK on-trade has experienced The consumer landscape significant beer volume declines continues to change at pace and in each of the last two years we have been quick to respond as a result of the smoking ban to ensure that we cater to and counter productive tax and changing needs.
com Government legislation The industry Punch Taverns plays a key role in representing the 5,967 small Over the last 12 months, the pub industry has taken positive businesses that we work in partnership with.
These small steps to collectively influence the political agenda, to shift businesses are at the heart of the communities they serve perceptions, and to demonstrate its continued commitment and we take our responsibilities seriously in ensuring that they to responsible retailing.
continue to trade with the minimum Government interference and tax constraints possible.
We recognise that we have to work in partnership with the rest of the industry to speak with one voice on common issues.
We We continue to urge the Government to recognise the important remain active members of the British Institute of Innkeeping BII, role that pubs play in their local communities and to push for the All Party Parliamentary Beer Group APPBG, the British Beer positive measures to reduce the administrative and legislative and Pub Association BBPA and the Association of Licensed burden that our General Managers and Partners face.
Multiple Retailers ALMR and we maintain ongoing dialogue with other licensee groups.
We have actively participated in consultation on a number of measures ranging from the Mandatory Code to the Licensing Act.
Through our industry body membership we actively seek to influence Government thinking and to represent the views of our Partners so that we minimise legislation and make operating a responsible pub as simple as possible.
Regulation Responsible retailing We continue to urge the We believe that the vast majority Government to recognise the of pubs already provide a well important role that pubs play regulated environment for the in their local communities.
5 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business review
