Governance Board of Directors Ian Dyson Phil Dutton Roger Whiteside Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Managing Director Punch Partnerships Mike Tye Peter Cawdron Tony Rice Managing Director Punch Pub Company Independent Non-executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-executive Director Ian Fraser Mark Pain Ian Wilson Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Senior Management Ed Bashforth Karen Caddick Neil Griffiths Company Secretary Director of Human Resources Property & Development Director 30 www.
com Ian Dyson Chief Executive Officer Tony Rice Senior Independent Ian Wilson Independent Non-executive Director Ian Dyson, 48, was appointed Chief Executive Non-executive Director Ian Wilson, 52, was appointed as an Officer of Punch Taverns in September 2010.
Ian Tony Rice, 58, was appointed as an Independent Independent Non-executive Director in was previously with Marks & Spencer plc where Non-executive Director in December 2007.
December 2007 and has over 20 years he was Group Finance and Operations Director Tony moved up to Senior Independent experience as a corporate lawyer and investment and prior to that Group Finance Director.
He was Non-executive Director in March 2010 and banker.
Ian was an Elected Partner at Baker & formerly Finance Director of The Rank Group plc brings with him many years experience at board McKenzies Sydney office in 1986 where he and Financial Controller of Hilton Group plc.
level with some of the UKs leading companies.
specialised in corporate finance and taxation.
Ian was appointed a Non-executive Director He spent 16 years with BAE Systems formerly From there he had 14 years at UBS Australasia, of Betfair Limited in February 2010.
British Aerospace where he had various roles initially as Executive Director Private Equity from from 1986 to 2002, culminating in the role of 1986 to 1993 before moving on to become Phil Dutton Finance Director Group Managing Director of Commercial Aircraft Deputy Chairman and Managing Director Phil Dutton, 49, was appointed Finance Director responsible for the UK Airbus and commercial in UBS Australia NZ Corporate Finance operations in September 2007 after previously holding the aircraft business.
He then spent three years at from 1993 to 2000.
Ian is currently Strategic position of Non-executive Director of Punch Tunstall plc as Chief Executive from 2002 until Development Director of Amcor Ltd, the Taverns.
Phil was Finance Director of Matalan plc its sale to Bridgepoint in 2005.
Tony is Chief Australia based leading global speciality plastics where he had been since 2002.
Prior to this he Executive Officer of Cable and Wireless packaging company, where he has been had worked in various finance and IT roles at Communications where he is responsible for the responsible for overall strategic development Asda, joining them in 1990.
Phil is a member international business consisting of 38 telecoms of the Group since 2000.
He has also been of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in companies in various locations around the world.
Chairman of Amcor Flexibles Europe A S since England and Wales.
Tony was also a Non-executive Director and 2002 and Chairman of TMF-Group BV, the Chairman of the Audit Committee at Cable & Amsterdam based administrative services is Roger Whiteside Managing Director Wireless from 2003 to 2006 and at Telewest outsourcing business, from 2005 to 2008 and Punch Partnerships from 2000 to 2003. is currently Managing Director of TMF Group Roger Whiteside, 52, was appointed to the Holdco B. V. Executive Board of Punch Taverns in November Ian Fraser Independent Non-executive Director 2008 as Managing Director of Punch Ian Fraser, 53, was appointed as an Independent Ed Bashforth Company Secretary Partnerships.
Roger has approaching 30 years Non-executive Director in September 2004.
Ed Bashforth, 36, is responsible as Company experience in retail, notably with Marks & He started his professional career with Deloitte Secretary for ensuring that the Company meets Spencer plc 1979 to 2000, Ocado and Thresher.
in Glasgow and Paris, qualifying as an all its legal and regulatory requirements as a plc.
Roger has considerable experience in leadership accountant in 1981.
From this he moved to Ed is a member of the Institute of Chartered roles having sat on the Marks & Spencer UK hold various financial positions with Esmark, Accountants of England & Wales and is also the Operating Board as Head of Food and he was Schlumberger and ADT before joining Safeway Head of Corporate Finance for the Group.
Prior Joint Managing Director at Ocado from 2000 to Stores in the UK in 1989 as a member of the to joining Punch Taverns in early 2007 Ed worked 2003.
Most recently, Roger joined the Thresher commercial team.
Following several senior in the Hospitality & Leisure Transaction Advisory Group where he was CEO from 2004 until 2007 positions Ian was appointed as Buying Director Services team for Ernst & Young LLP.
during which time he led the strategic review of Safeway in 1994.
In 2000 he joined Orange that culminated in the restructuring and UK to lead the Retail and Distribution Division Karen Caddick subsequent successful sale of Thresher.
In and was appointed Chief Operating Officer Director of Human Resources addition, Roger is a Non-executive Director of of the UK Group in 2003.
In February 2005 he Karen Caddick, 41, joined Punch Taverns in Greggs plc.
was appointed by CVC as CEO of Kwik Fit, a role October 2006 and leads the HR function across he continues following the successful sale to PAI.
Karen started her career with Royal & Mike Tye Managing Director Ian is a graduate of the University of Glasgow, Sun Alliance in 1993 and performed several Punch Pub Company a member of the Institute of Chartered HR roles including Head of HR for More Th n. Mike Tye, 56, was appointed to the Executive Accountants in Scotland and a Fellow of the Karen then moved to Barclays as Head of Board of Punch Taverns in July 2008.
Mike has Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Employee Relations & HR Policy.
She also led the spent over 20 years working in many different Manufactures and Commerce.
He was also HR functions at Channel Five Broadcasting and areas of the leisure business, mainly with invited to become a Keeper of the Quaich in 1997.
The Financial Times prior to joining Punch Whitbread, Forte and Aramark.
Karen is a Graduate of the Chartered he has been Managing Director of Costa Coffee: Mark Pain Independent Non-executive Director Insurance Institute and a Fellow of the Institute Managing Director of Premier Travel Inn where Mark Pain, 49, was appointed as an Independent of Personnel & Development.
he led the acquisition and integration of Premier Non-executive Director in December 2007.
Lodge to Travel Inn : and David Lloyd Leisure, Mark brings with him a wealth of experience Neil Griffiths Property & Development Director where he led the business turnaround and sale as a FTSE 100 main Board Director, covering Neil Griffiths, 49, was appointed Property & of the Company.
He has spent a number of a range of sectors, including retail and wholesale Development Director with effect from June years working in the retail pub and casual dining banking, consumer finance, life assurance and 2005, and is responsible for the strategic markets, after an early career in managing general insurance.
Mark served as Chief Financial development of the estate, maximising FMCG brands and running his own wine and Officer of Barratt Developments plc from 2006 profitability through acquisition, disposal, spirit retail and wholesale business.
He was previously at Abbey National investment, rental growth and alternative use where he held a number of senior executive and development.
Neil joined Punch Taverns in 2001 Peter Cawdron group board positions including Group Finance and has been responsible for building the Independent Non-executive Chairman Director, from 1998 to 2001 and Customer Sales Groups industry leading transactional team.
Peter Cawdron, 67, was appointed Director from 2002 to 2005.
Mark is a Fellow of Neil was previously with Warner Brothers Non-executive Chairman in January 2007, having the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
where he was International Property Director joined Punch Taverns as a Non-executive Director responsible for pan European multiplex cinema in May 2003.
He retired from the Board of Grand development.
Prior to that, Neil held senior Metropolitan plc in 1997, where he had held the positions with Bass plc including Head of position of Group Strategy Director for 10 years Property and he was a board member of and Group Planning Director for four years.
Bass Leisure Entertainments as Commercial Previously, he had spent six years in the United Development Director.
States as Chief Financial Officer of DArcy MacManus & Masius Worldwide, Inc. the international advertising agency business based in New York and seven years at S. G. Warburg & Co. Ltd in London.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1966 at Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
He is also Chairman of Spice plc 31 and a Non-executive Director of ProStrakan plc and BUPA.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance
