Directors indemnity The environment In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, the Group The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral On 26 February 2006 a subsidiary company within the Group: to its business operation.
It is also committed to introducing Punch Taverns PGE Limited granted indemnity cover for the measures to limit any adverse effects its business may have benefit of the Groups Directors and officers.
The indemnity is on the environment and will promote continuous improvement uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities in accordance with best available techniques.
which they may incur to third parties in the course of acting as a Director or officer of the Group and was in effect during the Employee involvement financial year and continues to date.
Neither the indemnity nor The total number of employees at the end of the period was insurance cover provides cover in the event that a Director or 17,784.
The Group recognises the value of its employees and officer is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
seeks to create an energetic, dynamic and responsive environment in which to work.
It places considerable importance on Substantial shareholdings communications with employees which take place at many levels As at 11 October 2010, being the last business day prior to the through the organisation on both a formal and informal level.
publication of this report, the Company has been notified of the following substantial interests representing 3% or more in the Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company and ordinary shares of the Company.
the Group operates an HMRC Approved Share Incentive Plan SIP which is open to all employees of the Group including the Shareholding made up of: Executive Directors.
Currently, 704 eligible employees participate Total Ordinary Contracts for Total return Shareholder holding shares difference swaps in the SIP which provides employees with the opportunity of purchasing 1,500 of shares per annum out of pre-tax salary Glenview Capital either as a one-off amount or on a monthly basis partnership Management 15.04% 2.00% 13.04% shares and the Company awarding additional shares on D. E. Shaw 7.02% 1.86% 5.16% a 1:1 ratio matching shares.
The partnership shares are held HSBC 5.68% 5.68% in trust, using an Employee Benefit Trust EBT for a period of Schroders 5.05% 5.05% three years at the end of which the matching shares will normally Norges Bank 5.01% 5.01% be released provided that the partnership shares have been Standard Life 4.94% 4.94% retained and that the employee is still employed by the Group GLG Partners LP 4.71% 3.36% 1.35% at this time.
During this time the shares are beneficially owned by employees, attract voting rights and are eligible for dividends.
Legal & General 4.23% 4.23% The voting rights in respect of these shares are exercised by the Barclays plc 3.97% 3.97% trustees of behalf of the employees.
If after three years, the Maverick Capital 3.08% 3.08% employee elects to keep the matching shares in the EBT for a further two years i. e. after a total period of five years the Political and charitable contributions matching shares are released to the employee free of tax and During the period the Group made charitable contributions of National Insurance.
The Company also operates a Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSB Disabled employees for certain senior employees.
When applicable, 25% of the senior The Group is committed to promoting diversity across the Group.
employees bonus is awarded in shares bonus shares which are To this end, the Group is committed to providing equal held in an EBT for a qualifying period and attract full dividend opportunities in recruitment, promotion, career development, and voting rights which are exercisable by the employees should training and reward to all employees without discrimination.
In the event of an offer being made to acquire the Group gives full consideration to applications for employment partnership shares or bonus shares, the employees are entitled from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be to direct the trustees of the EBT to accept an offer in respect of adequately fulfilled by such persons.
The Group continues to be the shares held on their behalf.
supportive of the employment of disabled persons in accordance with their abilities and aptitudes, provided that they can be Creditor payment policy and practice employed in a safe working environment.
Where existing It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between practicable to provide continuing employment under normal the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms terms and conditions.
and conditions have been complied with.
At 21 August 2010 the Company had nil 2009: nil days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Financial instruments The Groups policy on the use of financial instruments is set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
33 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Governance Directors report continued Significant agreements General meetings The Company is party to certain non-material agreements At a general meeting of the shareholders, the Companys Articles including trust deeds relating to the Companys employee of Association may be amended by special resolution.
Also at share incentive plans that contain change of control provisions a general meeting of the Company on a show of hands every in the event of the takeover of the Company but these are not member who is present in person and proxy entitled to vote shall considered to be significant on an individual basis.
On a poll every member who is present in person and proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the Additional information for shareholders holder.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in At 21 August 2010, the Companys issued share capital relation to their holdings provided that each proxy does not vote comprised a single class of shares known as ordinary shares.
in relation to the same shares.
The Notice of Meeting sent to The share capital note on page 91 of this report contains full shareholders with this report gives full details of deadlines for details of shares allotted and provides an explanation of the exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to movements in share capital, during the period.
Only partnership vote in relation to resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
shares, in respect of the Companys SIP, were purchased by the Company during the period.
Post balance sheet events Subsequent to the year end the Group has repurchased At the last AGM, held on 16 December 2009, the Company 21.3m of the nominal value of outstanding debt.
obtained shareholder authority to buy back up to 64,236,955 shares representing approximately 10% of the Companys Directors statement as to disclosure of information ordinary shares in issue as at 30 October 2009.
It was made to auditors clear that this authority would only be exercised by the Directors The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is after they had given due consideration to the effects on earnings no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware per share and the benefits for shareholders.
During the period, and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make the Directors did not exercise their right to buy back any of the themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to Companys shares currently in issue.
This authority is due to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
expire at the conclusion of the Companys next AGM where new authority to buy back up to 64,283,678 shares representing Auditors approximately 10% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys as at 1 November 2010 will be sought.
auditors will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
Authority will also be sought at the forthcoming AGM for By order of the Board of Directors Directors to allot up to 214,278,927 shares in the Company representing approximately one-third of the Companys ordinary Ed Bashforth shares in issue excluding treasury shares as at 1 November 2010 Company Secretary and up to 428,557,854 equity securities representing approximately 11 October 2010 two-thirds of the Companys ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares as at 1 November 2010.
This will replace the authority granted by shareholders at the Companys previous AGM.
The Board will also seek authority to disapply pre-emption rights over 32,141,839 shares representing approximately 5% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue as at 1 November 2010.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise any of the above authorities except to satisfy the allotment of shares under the Companys employee share incentive plans.
Further details of the above resolutions are contained within the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders with this report.
There are no restrictions on transfer of shares in the Company other than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations for example under the Market Abuse Directive and the Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
In addition, there are no people holding securities that carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Directors and persons discharging managerial responsibility PDMRs of the Company require prior approval from the Company to deal in the Companys securities, and are prohibited from dealing during the Close Period.
