32 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Board of Directors Executive Directors: Independent Non-executive Directors: Manchester Business School.
Professor Alex Kanellis Richard Harvey age 60 Arnold is currently Chairman of the Group Chief Executive age 45 Mr Harvey was appointed a Non-executive Co-operative Performance Committee Mr Kanellis has a Phd in mechanical Director of PZ Cussons Plc in January of Co-operatives UK, a Director of the engineering.
He joined PZ Cussons 2010 and took up the position of NonGreater Manchester Chamber, Chairman in 1993.
He was appointed Managing executive Chairman on 1 July 2010. of Feelgood Theatre Productions and Director of the Groups business in A Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, an academic adviser to Ashridge and to Thailand in 1998 before becoming Mr Harvey became Group Chief Executive IBS-ISCTE Business School in Lisbon.
Managing Director of Indonesia in 2001.
Officer of Norwich Union plc in 1998 and Professor Arnold is Chairman of the Audit He was appointed to the Board in 2003 as subsequently Group Chief Executive of Committee and the Group Risk Committee Regional Director of Asia becoming Chief Aviva plc, initially branded CGNU, after the and a member of the Nomination and Executive in June 2006.
Mr Kanellis is a merger of Norwich Union with CGU.
member of the Nomination, Group Risk has worked extensively overseas in both and CSR Committees.
mature and emerging markets and was Simon Heale age 57 Chair of the Association of British Insurers Mr Heale was appointed a NonChris Davis from 20032005.
Since retiring from Aviva executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc Commercial Director age 48 plc in 2007, Mr Harvey has spent time in in January 2008 and is Chairman of the After working in senior Sales & Marketing Africa supporting charitable initiatives CSR Committee and a member of the roles for various Consumer Goods and has also worked on other projects Nomination, Remuneration and Audit companies, Mr Davis joined PZ Cussons to accelerate business development Committees.
A chartered accountant, from the BTR Nylex Group in 1993 in Africa, including work for the Africa Mr Heale has worked in a variety of senior and became Managing Director of the Progress Panel and the World Bank.
He is positions for multi-national companies in Groups business in Australia in 2001. a Non-executive Director of Jardine Lloyd America and the Far East and spent five He was appointed to the Board in 2006 Thompson Plc.
Mr Harvey is the Chairman years as Chief Executive of the London as Regional Director of Africa and became of the Nomination Committee and a Metal Exchange.
Mr Heale is a NonGroup Commercial Director in 2008. member of the CSR Committee.
executive Director of The Morgan Crucible Mr Davis is a member of the Group Risk Company Ltd, Kazakhmys plc, Marex and CSR Committees.
Derek Lewis age 65 Financial, interim Non-executive Chairman Mr Lewis has been a Non-executive of Panmure Gordon & Co Ltd and a trustee Brandon Leigh Director of PZ Cussons Plc since June of Macmillan Cancer Support.
A retired solicitor and former partner Mr Leigh qualified as a chartered of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, Mr Lewis James Steel age 50 accountant with Deloitte & Touche in specialised throughout his professional Mr Steel has been a Non-executive 1996.
He joined PZ Cussons in 1997 and career in advising on corporate and Director of PZ Cussons Plc since October was appointed to the Board as Group commercial matters.
Mr Steel is currently Managing Finance Director in 2006.
Mr Leigh is Senior Non-executive Director and a Director of Corporate Finance at Arbuthnot a member of the Group Risk and CSR member of the Nomination, Remuneration Securities Ltd.
a Managing Director of European investment banking at Citigroup and a John Pantelireis Professor John Arnold age 66 Director in the corporate finance division Supply Chain Director age 56 John Arnold is Emeritus Professor of of Schroders which he joined in 1986 after Mr Pantelireis was appointed an Executive Accounting and Financial Management qualifying as a chartered accountant.
Director of PZ Cussons Plc in 2005 and at Manchester Business School and Mr Steel is Chairman of the Remuneration is a member of the Group Risk and CSR has been a Non-executive Director of Committee and a member of the Committees.
He has worked in a variety PZ Cussons Plc since January 2007.
of senior positions for PZ Cussons both in chartered accountant and Chairman of Nigeria and the UK and spent three years Manchester Business School Incubator as Supply Chain Development Director Limited, his previous experience includes prior to his appointment to the Board.
spending 12 years as Director and Dean of
