Directors Report Governance Other statutory information Principal activity The rights of ordinary shareholders are set out in the Articles of QinetiQ Group plc is a public limited company, listed on the London Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive Stock Exchange and incorporated in England and Wales with the Companys reports and accounts, to attend and speak at General registered number 4586941.
Meetings of the Company, to exercise voting rights in person or by appointing a proxy and to receive a dividend where declared or paid QinetiQ Group plc is the parent company of a Group whose principal out of profits available for such a purpose.
activities during the year were the supply of technical advice to customers in the global aerospace, defence and security markets.
The Special Share is held by HM Government through the Secretary Customers include government organisations, such as the UK MOD of State for Defence and it confers certain rights under the Articles of and the US DoD and commercial customers around the world.
Association which are detailed in note 32 on page 84.
These include the right to require certain persons with a material interest in QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares on the grounds of Research and development national security or conflict of interest.
The Special Share may only be One of the Groups principal business streams is the provision of held by and transferred to HM Government.
At any time the Special funded research and development R&D for customers.
The Group Shareholder may require QinetiQ to redeem the share at par and if also invests in the commercialisation of promising technologies wound up the Special Shareholder would be entitled to be repaid across all areas of business.
Any variation of the rights attaching to the Special Share requires the written approval of the MOD.
The majority of R&D-related expenditure is incurred on behalf of customers as part of specific funded research contracts.
R&D costs are included in the income statement and R&D income is reflected Change of control significant agreements within revenue.
In the financial year, the Group recorded 425.6m The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling 2009: 468.5m of total R&D-related expenditure, of which 418.3m the counter parties to require prior approval, exercise termination, was customer-funded work 2009: 457.0m.
alteration or other similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company or if the Company no longer remains a UK company: In the year to 31 March 2010, 7.3m 2009: 11.5m of internally funded R&D was charged to the income statement.
70.6m 2009: the Combined Aerial Target Service contract is a 20-year contract 0.2m of late-stage development costs were capitalised and 3.0m awarded to QinetiQ by MOD on 14 December 2006.
The terms of 2009: 2.4m of capitalised development costs were amortised in this contract require QinetiQ Limited to remain a UK company which the year.
is incorporated under the laws of any part of the UK or an overseas company registered in the UK and that at least 50% of the Board of Directors are UK nationals.
The terms also contain change of control Policy and practice on payment of suppliers conditions and restricted share transfer conditions which require The policy of the Group is to agree terms of payment prior to prior approval from HM Government if there is a material change in commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms the ownership of QinetiQ Limiteds share capital, unless the change based on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
At 31 March relates to shares listed on a regulated market, with material defined 2010, the trade creditors of the Group represented 28 days of annual as being 10% or more of the share capital.
are restrictions on transfers of shares to persons from countries appearing on the restricted list as issued by HM Government: and Political and charitable contributions QinetiQ does not make political donations to parties as that term the Long-Term Partnering Agreement is a 25-year contract which would be commonly recognised.
The legal definition of that term QinetiQ Limited signed on 28 February 2003 to provide test, is, however, quite broad and may have the effect of covering a evaluation and training services to the MOD.
This contract contains number of normal business activities that would not commonly be conditions where the prior approval of HM Government is required perceived to be political donations, such as sponsorship of events.
if the contractor, QinetiQ Limited, ceases to be a subsidiary of the These may include legitimate interactions in making MPs and others QinetiQ Group, except where such change in control is permitted in the political world aware of key industry issues and matters under the Shareholders Agreement to which MOD is a party.
affecting QinetiQ, which make an important contribution to their understanding of QinetiQ, the markets in which it operates and their The Company is party to a 500m Revolving Credit Facility with constituents work.
During the last financial year this expenditure Lloyds TSB Bank plc as agent expiring 19 August 2012.
Under the amounted to no more than 15,000. terms of the facility, if either 1 the MOD ceases to retain in its capacity as Special Shareholder its Special Shareholders Rights: Charitable donations during the year across the Group amounted or 2 there is a change of control of the Company, any lender may to 114,100 2009: 133,500. request by not less than 90 days notice to the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding amounts be repaid to that lender at the expiry of such notice period.
Share capital As at 31 March 2010 the Company had allotted and fully paid share On 6 December 2006, QinetiQ US Holdings, Inc. formerly known capital of 660,476,373 ordinary shares of 1p each with an aggregate as QinetiQ North America, Inc as Borrower and the Company as nominal value of 6.6 million including shares held by employee Guarantor entered into a Note Purchase Agreement to issue $135m share trusts and one Special Share with an aggregate nominal 5.44% Senior Notes due 6 December 2013 and $125m 5.50% Senior value of 1.
Under the terms of the agreement, if either 1 the MOD ceases to retain in its capacity as Special Details of the shares issued during the financial year are shown Shareholder its Special Shareholders Rights: or 2 there is a change in note 32 on page 84. of control of the Company: and 3 in either case where there has been a rating downgrade, or where there are no rated securities unless a rating of at least investment grade is not obtained within 90 days of the change of control, the Notes must be offered for prepayment by the Company within 21 days of the change of control.
The prepayment date would be no later than 45 days after the offer of prepayment by the Company.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 On 5 February 2009, QinetiQ US Holdings, Inc. formerly known QinetiQ seeks to utilise a range of communication channels as QinetiQ North America, Inc. as Borrower and the Company as to employees in order to involve them in the running of the Guarantor entered into a Note Purchase Agreement to issue $62m organisation.
This is done using various media, including in-house 7.13% Senior Notes due 5 February 2016 and $238m 7.62% Senior Notes magazines, intranet, regular newsletters, bulletins, management due 5 February 2019.
Under the terms of the agreement, if either 1 the briefings, trade union consultation, the newly created QinetiQ MOD ceases to retain in its capacity as Special Shareholder its Special Employee Forum and widespread training programmes.
Shareholders Rights: or 2 there is a change of control of the Company, the Notes must be offered for prepayment within 21 days of the Employee Share Scheme change of control.
The prepayment date would be no later than Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited acts as trustee in respect of all 45 days after the offer of prepayment by the Company.
ordinary shares held by employees under the QinetiQ Group plc Share Incentive Plan the Plan.
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited will Major shareholders send a Form of Direction to all employees holding shares under the At 24 May 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to the Plan, and will vote on all resolutions proposed at general meetings issuance of this report, the Group had been notified of the following in accordance with the instructions received.
In circumstances where shareholdings of at least 3% in the ordinary share capital of the Group: ordinary shares are held by the corporate sponsored nominee service, Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited will send a Proxy Form to all shareholders utilising such corporate nominee service, and will vote Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb, Inc. 11.26% on all resolutions proposed at general meetings in accordance with Lansdowne Partners Ltd UK 9.05% the instructions received.
BlackRock Investment Management Ltd UK 8.93% Artisan 5.04% Auditor Fidelity International Ltd UK 4.97% KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.79% auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the Legal & General 3.98% Annual General Meeting.
AXA Investment Managers UK Ltd 3.56% Statement of disclosure of information to auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Allotment purchase of own shares report have confirmed that, so far as the Directors are aware, there At the Companys AGM held in August 2009, the shareholders passed is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is resolutions which authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities unaware: and the Directors have taken all the steps they reasonably up to an aggregate nominal value of 4,403,174 2,201,587 pursuant ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any only to a rights issue, to disapply pre-emption rights up to 5% of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys the issued ordinary share capital and for the Company to purchase auditor is aware of that information.
ordinary shares up to 10% of its ordinary share capital.
Equivalent resolutions will be laid before the 2010 AGM.
Annual General Meeting During the year, the Company provided funding to the trustees The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday of its employee share schemes to make market purchases of the 29 July 2010 at 2.00pm at The Auditorium, JP Morgan Cazenove, Companys ordinary shares to cover future obligations under 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
Details of the business to be outstanding share-option and other share-based awards.
Further proposed and voted upon at the meeting is contained in the Notice details are disclosed in note 32 on page 84. of the Annual General Meeting which is sent to all shareholders and also published on the Companys website www.
Restrictions on transfer of shares By order of the Board As outlined in Note 32 on page 84, the Special Share confers certain rights under the Companys Articles of Association to require certain persons with an interest in QinetiQs shares which exceed certain prescribed thresholds to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares on grounds of national security or conflict of interest.
Articles of Association Lynton Boardman Company Secretary Save in the respect of any variation to the rights attaching to the Special Share, the Company has not adopted any special rules 85 Buckingham Gate relating to the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association London SW1E 6PD other than as provided under UK corporate law.
2 June 2010 Employees The Group is an equal opportunities employer, upholds the principles of the UK Employment Services Two Ticks symbol and is accredited by Investors in People.
Every possible consideration is given to applications for employment, regardless of gender, religion, disability or ethnic origin, having regard only to skills and competencies.
This policy is extended to existing employees and any change which may affect their personal circumstances.
The policy is supported by strategies for professional and career development.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43
