Directors Report Governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1.
David Mellors Non-executive Chairman 61 Chief Financial Officer 41 Appointed Non-executive Chairman in March 2010: Non-executive Appointed Chief Financial Officer in August 2008.
Director between June 2009 and February 2010.
Member of the Security Committee.
Member of the Remuneration Committee, Compliance Committee David was previously deputy Chief Financial Officer of Logica plc.
David has also held the position of Chief Financial Officer of Logicas Mark was previously General Manager of IBM Europe, Middle East international division covering operations in North America, and Africa and sat on IBMs Worldwide Management Council.
Mark Australia, the Middle East and Asia and, prior to that, he was the currently serves as a Non-executive Director on the boards of Reed Group Financial Controller.
Earlier experience included various roles Elsevier Group PLC in respect of which he is also Chairman of the with CMG Plc, Rio Tinto plc and Price Waterhouse.
David is a member Remuneration Committee, Reed Elsevier NV and G4S plc.
The Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
considers that Marks extensive experience in the technology services sector, both in the US and Europe, coupled with his exposure to a variety of industry sectors on the boards of FTSE listed companies, 4.
Sir David Lees is a valuable asset to the Group in terms of leadership and addressing Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent the strategic issues affecting the Group.
Non-executive Director 73 Appointed Deputy Chairman and SID in August 2005.
Leo Quinn Chairman of the Compliance Committee and Nominations Committee: Chief Executive Officer 53 Member of the Audit Committee and Security Committee.
Appointed Chief Executive Officer in November 2009.
Sir David is currently Chairman of the Court of the Bank of England: he has also been a member of the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers Member of the Compliance Committee, Nominations Committee since June 2001.
Sir David joined GKN plc in 1970 and had held the and Security Committee.
position of Group Finance Director, Chief Executive and Executive Leo was Chief Executive Officer of fide La Rue plc between 2005 and Chairman before becoming Non-executive Chairman in 1997 until 2009.
Before that he was Chief Operating Officer of Invensys plcs his retirement in May 2004.
Other notable roles include being a Production Management Division.
Prior to that time, he spent 16 member of the National Defence Industries Council between 1995 years with Honeywell Inc. in a variety of senior management roles and 2004, Chairman of Courtaulds plc from 1996 to 1998, a Nonin the USA, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Leo was formerly executive Director of the Bank of England between 1991 and 1999 a Non-executive Director of Tomkins plc.
and Chairman of Tate & Lyle plc until 2009.
From 2001 to 2006, he was Non-executive Joint Deputy Chairman of Brambles Industries plc and Brambles Industries Limited.
Sir David is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Board considers that Sir Davids detailed understanding of the defence sector, coupled with his extensive experience of corporate governance and the City and its institutions, significantly enhances the operation of the Board.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27 5.
Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani Jr.
US Navy retired Non-executive Director 63 Non-executive Director 62 Appointed Non-executive Director in February 2003.
Appointed Non-executive Director in February 2008.
Chairman of the Security Committee: Member of the Compliance Member of the Compliance Committee.
Committee, Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Between 2005 and 2007, Ed was the second-highest ranking military Colin served as Managing Director of the Cabinet Office from 2003 officer in the United States, having served as the seventh Vice Chairman until his retirement in 2006.
Previously, he was Finance Director of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
A career nuclear-trained submarine of the MOD, with responsibility for QinetiQs privatisation and the officer, Eds distinguished service has also included assignments subsequent investment by Carlyle as part of the PPP Transaction.
as Special Assistant to the CIAs Deputy Director for Intelligence, Colin has extensive experience across the MOD and is currently Senior Military Assistant to the US Defense Secretary and a member of the Foreign and Commonwealth Offices Audit and Commander, US Joint Forces Command.
He also served as NATOs Risk Committee and is on the Board of the Royal Mint, chairing first Supreme Allied Commander Transformation.
After retirement its Audit Committee.
The Board considers that Colins extensive and until October 2009, he served as the Non-executive Chairman knowledge of the development of QinetiQ throughout its publicof the Board of Directors for Alenia North America, Inc.
He currently is private partnership, and his in-depth understanding of the working a Non-executive Director of The Boeing Company, SRA International, of Government, particularly the UK MOD, provides the Board with Inc. and Monster Worldwide, Inc. and serves in a pro-bono capacity a unique insight into the issues facing Government in delivering its on a number of US Government advisory boards and panels.
The procurement objectives and partnering with industry suppliers.
Board considers that Eds extensive knowledge of the US defence and security domain significantly enhances the operation of the Board, as QinetiQ continues to pursue its strategy of developing its US platform in the defence and security technology sector.
Noreen Doyle Non-executive Director 61 Appointed Non-executive Director in October 2005.
Nick Luff Non-executive Director 43 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: Member of the Audit Committee.
Appointed Non-executive Director in June 2004.
Noreen sits on the Board of Credit Suisse Group Zurich and is a Chairman of the Audit Committee: Member of the Compliance Non-executive Director of Newmont Mining Corporation Denver Committee and Security Committee.
Prior to her appointment in 2001 as First Vice President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development EBRD, Nick was appointed Finance Director of Centrica plc in March 2007, Noreen was head of Risk Management.
Previously, Noreen had a having previously served as CFO of the P&O Group.
He trained as a distinguished career at Bankers Trust Company now Deutsche Bank chartered accountant with KPMG and is a member of the Institute in corporate finance and leveraged financing, with a concentration of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Nick joined the in oil, gas and mining.
The Board considers that Noreens extensive P&O Board as Finance Director in 1999.
In October 2000, he became international business experience, particularly in the areas of Chief Financial Officer of P&O Princess Cruises plc on its demerger corporate finance, risk management and banking, is of significant from the P&O Group and returned as Chief Financial Officer of P&O benefit to the Board.
Nick has also served as a Non-executive Director on the board of Royal P&O Nedlloyd NV, the Dutch-listed international container shipping company.
The Board considers that Nicks experience of operating as Chief Financial Officer Finance Director with P&O 7.
David Langstaff and Centrica, coupled with his extensive exposure to a variety of Non-executive Director 55 industrial sectors, provides the rigorous financial and commercial scrutiny required of a FTSE-listed company at Board level, particularly Appointed Non-executive Director in August 2009. in the context of his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee, Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
David was formerly President and Chief Executive Officer of 10.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent Veridian Corporation.
Prior to that, David held positions with First Non-executive Director 60 Boston International, Blyth Eastman Dillon International and the Inverness Group, focused on corporate finance, venture capital and Appointed Non-executive Director in April 2010. mergers and acquisitions.
David currently serves on the Boards of Member of the Compliance Committee, Remuneration Committee TASC, Inc. the US Defense Business Board, SRA International, Inc. and Security Committee.
and The Aspen Institute Business and Society Program.
The Board considers that Davids professional services experience and in-depth Sir James commanded the aircraft carrier HMS Invincible and three understanding of the security market is highly beneficial to the other ships and submarines during a 37-year career in the Royal Navy future development of QinetiQs business.
which culminated in his appointment as Commander-in-Chief Fleet.
In-between operational duties he served in several appointments in the Ministry of Defence and gained cross-Whitehall experience while on secondment to HM Treasury.
The Board considers that Sir James expertise in the Government contracting domain, particularly with the UK MOD and HM Treasury, is highly beneficial in the context of QinetiQs Government sourced operations.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27
