Directors # Philippe Litard D Mark Bristow Non-executive chairman Chief executive Managing director of the Global Natural Resources Fund from Chief executive since the incorporation of Randgold, which was 2000 to 2003.
Prior to July 2000, he was director of the Oil, Gas founded on his pioneering exploration work in West Africa.
Has and Mining Department of the International Finance Corporation.
subsequently led the companys growth through the discovery His experience in corporate and project finance with UBS, IFC and development of world-class assets into a major gold mining and the World Bank extends over 30 years, most of them in business with a market capitalisation of more than US$7 billion.
the minerals business and in Africa.
Now an independent Has also played a significant part in promoting the emergence of consultant and a promoter of mining and energy investments.
a sustainable mining industry in Africa.
A geologist with a PhD He is also a director of CellMark AB of Sweden, the worlds from Natal University, South Africa, has held board positions at largest independent marketer of forest products.
Appointed a a number of global mining companies and is currently a nondirector in February 1998 and chairman in November 2004. executive director of Rockwell Resources International.
Randgold Resources 6 Annual report 2010 from left to right Kadri Dagdelen, Karl Voltaire, Philippe Litard sitting, Graham Shuttleworth, Christopher Coleman, Norborne Cole Jr, Mark Bristow sitting and Robert Israel.
Graham Shuttleworth Kadri Dagdelen Independent non-executive Financial director and chief financial officer A professor and head of the Department of Mining Joined Randgold as chief financial officer and financial director Engineering at the Colorado School of Mines, USA, he began in July 2007 but had been associated with the company since his professional career as a mining engineer at Homestake its inception, initially as part of its management team involved Mining Co now Barrick Gold Corporation and was the in listing the company on the LSE in 1997, and subsequently technical services manager when he left for academia in 1992. as an advisor.
A chartered accountant, he was a managing With a PhD in Mining Engineering and an ME in Geostatistics director and the New York-based head of metals and mining he has been involved in numerous research and consulting for the Americas in the global investment banking division of projects worldwide, also serving on the board of directors of HSBC before taking up his new position at Randgold.
At the Society of Mining, Exploration and Metallurgy in the USA HSBC he led or was involved in a wide range of major mining for six years and chairing other professional societies that industry transactions, including Randgolds Nasdaq listing, support the mining industry.
He joined the Randgold board and subsequent equity offerings.
Norborne P Cole Jr Robert I Israel Senior independent non-executive Non-executive Started working for the Coca-Cola Company as a field Currently the managing partner of One Stone Energy representative in the USA in 1966 and advanced steadily Partners, a private equity fund focused on the oil and gas through the organisation, becoming chief executive of Cocaindustry, he was previously a partner at Compass Advisers, Cola Amatil in Australia in 1994, a position he held until 1998. a transatlantic strategic advisory and private investment firm, Under his leadership, Coca-Cola Amatil grew into the second and before that head of the energy department of Schroder largest Coca-Cola bottler in the world.
He holds an MBA from Harvard and a BA from Antonio, Texas, he serves on the boards of a number of US Middlebury College, and his experience in corporate finance, companies.
Became a director of Randgold in May 2006. especially in the natural resources sector, extends over more than 30 years.
Joined the Randgold board in 1997.
$ Christopher Coleman Independent non-executive $ Karl Voltaire Co-head of banking and a managing director of Independent non-executive NM Rothschild, chairman of Rothschild Bank International in A graduate in mineral resources engineering from the Ecole the Channel Islands and serves on a number of other boards des Mines in Paris, he holds an MBA and a PhD in economics and committees of the Rothschild Group, which he joined and finance from the University of Chicago.
A BSc Econ graduate from the London School career as a mining engineer in Haiti and subsequently spent of Economics, he served as a non-executive director of the 23 years in the World Bank Group in Washington DC, the Merchant Bank of Central Africa from 2001 to 2008.
Was bulk of these at the International Finance Corporation IFC appointed to the Randgold board in November 2008. where his last position was that of director of global financial markets.
Subsequently he was director of the Office of President at the African Development Bank.
He was the CEO of the Nelson Mandela Institution from 2005 to 2009, and is currently a member of the Board of Trustees of the African University of Science and Technology.
Was appointed to the Randgold board in May 2006.
# Chairman of governance and nomination committee Chairman of audit committee Chairman of remuneration committee Member of governance and nomination committee Member of audit committee $ Member of remuneration committee Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 7
