Executives profiles continued from page 10 Luiz Correia Chris Prinsloo General manager Tongon General manager commercial and operations finance A metallurgist with 25 years experience in the gold mining industry, he has Qualified as a chartered secretary and has 37 years experience in a BSc Eng as well as a BCom degree.
He joined Randgold in 2005 and the mining industry including finance, capital projects, administration in 2006 was appointed operations manager responsible for the mining, and supply chain management.
Appointed as commercial manager planning, processing, maintenance and engineering functions at Loulo.
in 2002, responsible for group accounting, supply chain management He was recently appointed general manager of the Tongon mine in Cte plus the risk management and insurance portfolio.
Currently serves on dIvoire, which was commissioned in the last quarter of 2010. the boards of Morila SA, Somilo SA, Tongon SA and Kankou Moussa SARL.
Ted fide Villiers Group general manager mining Rod Quick A mining engineer, he has extensive experience in gold and base metal General manager evaluation and environment mining operations, mining contracting and consulting.
He joined Randgold A geologist with 16 years experience in the gold mining industry, he in December, 2010, with executive responsibility for the groups rapidly joined Randgold in 1996.
He has been involved in the exploration, expanding mining operations and has been tasked with ensuring a evaluation and production phases of the Morila, Loulo and Tongon consistent production stream.
Having served as the Somilo resource manager since 2006, he was given his new responsibilities for all project development and Tania fide Welzim evaluation in 2009.
Group financial manager Tania was appointed group financial manager in April 2009 having served Mahamadou Samak previously as group financial controller.
She is a chartered accountant with General manager West Africa 12 years experience in finance including 10 years in the mining industry.
A professor of company law at the University of Mali, Mahamadou was She is responsible for the groups financial reporting and procedures.
instrumental in writing the Malian labour legislation.
He is the resident executive manager in Mali and is responsible for government liaison David Haddon and legal counsel for the Francophone region.
General counsel and secretary Qualified as an attorney in 1984.
He has overseen the administrative Ngolo Sanogo obligations of Randgold since its incorporation and assumed secretarial General manager Mali responsibility when it listed on the London Stock Exchange in July 1997.
Has a masters degree in economics from the National School of This continued with the subsequent listing on Nasdaq and for the various Administration of Bamako as well as several management, accounting corporate and related activities since then.
He is a director of Seven and financial qualifications.
Qualified as an auditor in 1992 before Bridges Trading and other group subsidiaries.
Appointed material manager in 1998 and Paul Harbidge management accountant in 2001 at the Syama mine.
Following the Group exploration manager sale of Somisy SA in 2004, joined Randgold as Mali financial controller.
A geologist with over 17 years experience, mainly in West Africa, having He was appointed Mali general manager in March 2009. previously worked for Rio Tinto, Anglo American and Ashanti, he joined Randgold in 2000.
He was appointed exploration manager in 2004.
John Steele Technical and capital projects executive Bill Houston Responsible for the successful construction and commissioning General manager human capital and social responsibility of Randgolds Morila and Loulo mines and currently leads the team Has a masters degree in human resources management and 31 years developing the new Tongon mine in Cte dIvoire.
As well as heading experience in HR and organisational development.
Joined Randgold in the capital projects function within Randgold, he continues to provide 1992 as group training and development manager, and headed the group operational oversight at Morila and Loulo as well as supplying human resources function from 1996.
He is a director of Morila Ltd, engineering due diligence expertise to the group.
John is a director of Somilo SA and Seven Bridges Trading and designed and implemented Morila Limited, Somilo SA and Kibali Goldmines SPRL.
the human resources and social systems for Syama, Morila and Loulo.
Samba Toure Willem Jacobs General manager operations West Africa General manager operations Central and East Africa Joined Morila gold mine in 2000 and held various responsibilities, With a BPL Hons and DCom he is a seasoned executive.
Having served culminating in the appointment in 2007 as the mine chief executive.
as a director of listed and private companies in the areas of mining, Under his leadership, the mine was run successfully, delivering on engineering and manufacturing in Southern, Central and Eastern Africa its promises.
In 2010, promoted to group operations GM for West for the past 15 years, he joined the group in January 2010.
With the experience gained in mining during the last 11 years, he is destined to continue adding value to the companys increasing Amadou Konta operations portfolio in West Africa.
General manager Loulo Has a degree in civil engineering as well as several management and Lois Wark project management qualifications.
Was appointed by BHP as mine Group corporate communications manager foreman and superintendent at Syama mine and served as mining A member of the Randgold team since its inception who assumed manager from 1997.
In 2001, was promoted to construction manager management of the cartography department in 1995, she is for Randgold in Mali and then to Loulo general manager in 2004. responsible for the coordination of the groups communication and investor relations programmes as well as for the management of its Victor Matfield South African subsidiary, Seven Bridges.
She holds a diploma in land Corporate finance manager surveying: Cadastral and topographical.
A chartered accountant, he was appointed corporate finance manager in 2001.
Prior to that he served as financial manager of the Syama mine Louis Watum and of the Morila project.
He is a director of Seven Bridges Trading.
General manager Kibali gold project and country manager DRC A metallurgist with 21 years experience in base metals, coal and Philip Pretorius gold processing, he has an MSc in Chemical Engineering.
He joined Human resources executive Joined Randgold in 2008, bringing with him 22 years of human Randgold Resources in 2009 and was appointed general manager and country manager responsible for: Building and leading the Kibali resources experience of which the last 15 years were spent exclusively dealing with the West African gold mining industry.
With a postteam: communicating with the DRC government and local authorities: graduate diploma in management practice, he has been involved in directing and managing Kibali business: and, delivering on strategies, establishing various gold mining projects in Mali.
objectives and the Kibali business plan.
