Report of the independent auditors to the members of Randgold Resources Limited We have audited the accompanying financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed by the European Union and with the of Randgold Resources Limited the company which comprise the statement of financial position of the company requirements of Companies Jersey Law 1991. as of 31 December 2010 and the statement of changes in Separate opinion in relation to IFRS equity and cash flow statement for the year then ended and As explained in note 2 to the consolidated financial consolidated statement of financial position of the company statements, the group, in addition to complying with its and its subsidiaries the group as of 31 December 2010 obligation to prepare consolidated financial statements in and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated has also complied with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
cash flow statement for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the group as Our report has been prepared pursuant to the requirements of 31 December 2010, and of the cash flows and financial of Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for performance of the group for the year then ended in no other purpose.
No other person is entitled to rely on this accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards report unless such a person is a person entitled to rely upon as issued by the IASB.
this report by virtue of and for the purpose of Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 or has been expressly Report on other legal and regulatory authorised to do so by our prior written consent.
Save as requirements above, we do not accept responsibility for this report to The following matters are specific for our review under the any other person or for any other purpose and we hereby Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority: The part expressly disclaim any and all such liability.
of the corporate governance statement that refers to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2008 Directors responsibility for the Combined Code which they are required to comply with.
We financial statements report if the corporate governance statement does not reflect As explained more fully in the statement of directors the companys compliance.
responsibilities, the companys directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial We are not required to consider whether the boards statements in accordance with International Financial statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or Reporting Standards as endorsed by the European Union form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate and with the requirements of Companies Jersey Law 1991. governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The directors have complied with the requirements of rules 9.8.
7A of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority in preparing its annual report.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on these Scott Knight financial statements.
We conducted our audit in accordance Senior statutory auditor with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and BDO LLP perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether Chartered Accountants the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
London 14 March 2011 Scope of the audit of the financial statements BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements and Wales with registered number OC305127 is provided on the APBs website at www.
cfm Opinion In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the company and the group as of 31 December 2010, the cash flows of the group and company and of the financial performance of the group for the year then ended and have been properly Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 97
