The reporting of mineral resources is based on a gold price of US$1 200 oz.
The reporting of mineral reserves is also in accordance with Industry Guide 7.
Pit optimisation is carried out at a gold price of US$800 oz: underground reserves are also based on a gold price of US$800 oz.
Dilution and ore loss are incorporated into the calculation of reserves.
Cautionary note to US investors: The United States Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC permits mining companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proven and probable ore reserves.
Randgold uses certain terms in this annual report such as resources, that the SEC does not recognise and strictly prohibits the company from including in its filings with the SEC.
Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any parts of the companys resources will ever be converted into reserves which qualify as proven and probable reserves for the purposes of the SECs Industry Guide number 7.
See glossary of terms on website at www.
Randgold Resources 58 Annual report 2010 Social responsibility and sustainability We believe that a successful gold mining company must be profitable in order to fulfil its social responsibility of benefiting the countries and communities in which it operates.
We recognise that a successful mining both negative and positive, are clearly company is one which is profitable while communicated.
still meeting its social responsibilities During the early exploration stage our aim is in the countries and communities in to make as small a social impact as possible.
Indeed, profitability Once a target progresses to feasibility, full is a precondition for meaningful social social, medical and environmental baseline responsibility investment.
In addition to studies are conducted, which define the activities such as building schools and pre-mining conditions and are used as clinics in our surrounding communities, we benchmarks while the project develops and make a very substantial contribution to the when it moves into production.
economies of the countries in which we operate through royalty payments and taxes.
During this year public participation A strong partnership with governments of processes PPP and environmental and these countries is essential to ensure the social impact assessments ESIAs were reinvestment of state revenues in the areas undertaken at our Gounkoto and Kibali surrounding our mines.
The Gounkoto ESIA was approved by the relevant Malian authorities.
The For each new development a process Environmental Management Programme of assessment and engagement is was submitted and approved for Kibali undertaken to ensure that the positive by the relevant Congolese authorities effects of an operation are maximised and in 2010.
However, to meet our own the negative impacts minimised.
Strong rigorous requirements, we commissioned local relationships are one of the foundation independent consultants to undertake stones on which the company has been an Environmental and Social Impact built.
Our approach is guided by the IFC Assessment of the Kibali project, which Guidelines on Environmental, Mining and included assessments of the new roads Performance Standards on Social and we have built to Aru and the Nzoro hydroEnvironmental Sustainability.
This ESIA is expected to be 18001, the Occupational Health and Safety completed in the first quarter of 2011.
Advisory Services, occupational health and safety management standards, guide health Medical baseline studies were completed and safety practices on our operations.
All during this year at Kibali and Gounkoto and social and environmental assessments are reports have been submitted to the relevant reviewed by independent parties to ensure authorities.
Prior to the start of construction on each Full environmental and social impact project a community liaison committee, assessments are generated including consisting of traditional, religious and public participation programmes with the elected representatives, is set up to provide local communities where the impacts, a forum for regular, open dialogue where Randgold Resources 60 Annual report 2010 problems can be tabled and mutually acceptable solutions Respect and consult with the communities in the areas found.
Where a Relocation Action Programme RAP is affected by our operations so that these communities required representatives from the affected communities are receive fair treatment and where possible benefit from elected to represent their communities on a Resettlement our activities.
These RWGs, with representation Allocate an annual budget amount for sustainable from religious leaders and local government, complement the community development projects.
The projects PPP process in discussing and explaining all aspects of the are selected and prioritised in consultation with proposed RAP.
communities through liaison and development committees and carried out in cooperation with Randgold is now involved with its sixth such process community members.
at Massawa, where our exploration team has assisted Aim to forge a pact with our employees by having the surrounding villages with potable water provision by respect for fundamental human rights, including installing and repairing pumps, effecting road repairs in the workplace rights, employee development and the need rainy season and helping the gold washer village of Tenkoto for a healthy and safe workplace.
to recover from a fire that destroyed a large proportion of Strive for the highest quality of rehabilitation, waste its houses.
Our exploration team is our first interface with management and environmental protection in the most the community and it is paramount that this is conducted cost effective manner.
in line with our community development strategy, which Strive to optimise the consumption of energy, water the exploration department has helped produce and is fully and other natural resources.
We see this early contact as instrumental in Through the introduction of new alternative, allaying suspicions and conflicts, while building relationships environmentally friendly products and processes, as based on trust between future mines and the community.
they become available, avoid the use or release of substances which, by themselves or through their In an effort to bring environmental and social issues to the manufacturing process, may damage the environment.
forefront of our business, an executive committee, chaired Practice responsible environmental stewardship to by the CEO, meets quarterly to review all environmental and meet the demands of local communities, host country social incidents.
Progress reports regarding action plans government requirements and international standards, from each project mine are presented and reviewed each and strive for continuous improvement of environmental quarter.
A summary of this review is presented at each group performance.
board meeting on a quarterly basis.
GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL OVERSIGhT Policy COMMITTEE Our integrated social and environmental management As highlighted above, the group environmental and social process identifies potentially significant negative and positive oversight committee oversees and drives the companys impacts.
The implementation of sustainable environmental environmental and social policies, in recognition of the and social responsibility strategies aims to minimise negative strategic importance of these areas to our values and impacts and maximise the positive impacts of our activities, business success.
The members of the committee are: the commensurate with our business strategy and with national CEO, the general managers: evaluation and environment, and World Bank standards.
The implementation and human capital and social responsibility: Tongon: Loulo: West effectiveness of these strategies is audited by independent African Operations and the group manager metallurgical external consultants and monitored internally on a quarterly processing.
The committee met four times in 2010 and will basis by the groups environmental and social oversight meet quarterly or more often as required in 2011. committee.
To achieve the aims of our policy, we: Encourage and reward the use of integrated environmental management to ensure that management decision making processes include a sensitive and holistic consideration of environmental issues.
To facilitate this, all projects must include a comprehensive ESIA.
Where appropriate, specialist consultants are employed.
Maintain positive relationships with neighbouring communities, local and national government authorities, NGOs and aid agencies, and the public.
Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 61 Community development and social responsibility Establishing and maintaining good relations with the affected by all our other projects.
In addition, we formed communities at all stages from exploration to post alliances with non-government organisations, our mine closure requires constant and effective two-way contractors, aid agencies, such as US AID and with charities communication.
In pursuit of such relationships we have such as Doc to Dock and CURE to achieve synergies for developed a sustainable community development strategy and increase the impact of our efforts.
Of special note was which includes adhering to world best practice and forms an a charity event organised by our employees and all of our important part of our overall Corporate Social Responsibility major suppliers called the Rallye du Coeur.
It includes setting up and maintaining effective four senior Randgold Resources executives, including Mark two-way communications between community members and Bristow our CEO, riding to all the projects and capital cities of the company, including the election of members and setting the countries in which we operate in West Africa.
During the up of representative community forums and committees.
ride they visited certain communities along the route that had These committees are charged with maximising sustainable been identified by our stakeholders in the different countries economic and social development connected to and as a and making donations and sponsoring community projects spin-off of the wealth creating opportunities our presence with a focus on women, children and other vulnerable groups.
They are empowered, using agreed sustainable development strategic filters, to select US$7 million was contributed to community development and implement development projects and to advise on local projects which focused on basic education, potable water and recruitment.
The filter is also used by us to ensure that all basic health provision, food security and local infrastructure.
our socially related actions, including operational issues such This was more than double the amount spent on community as recruitment and procurement, are tested as sustainable projects in 2009.
This amount excludes the direct community and meet industry, national and international guidelines and and social work undertaken by the group as part of our requirements, before being implemented.
normal operations and capital projects, including the RAPs and related compensation and infrastructure establishment Our community development and other social responsibility such as road building related to the Tongon, Gounkoto and work is funded through our normal business planning Kibali projects, the provision of medical care to villagers living and budgeting processes.
Funds are made available close to our operations, the excellent community work done from Corporate Social Responsibility and community on our exploration sites and the social studies to enhance the development budgets approved at board level.
These funds social economic human rights and other aspects of quality are complemented by charity fund raising events initiated of life for villagers and other stakeholders which dwarf this by our employees, funds made available by our suppliers amount.
Further payments exceeding US$340.0 million and contractors, time and skills donated freely by both our were made to governments, local employees and local employees and our partners, including community members.
The governments received taxes, royalties and Social responsibility personnel operating at project and dividends: employees received salaries while local suppliers mine level are responsible for co-ordinating our community and contractors were paid for goods and services received.
The focus areas for our sustainable community development Our values demand, and we believe, we have achieved a efforts have remained the creation of sustainable employment high degree of success in our social responsibility and opportunities, primary health care, education, food security, community endeavours, and we have formed strong and and potable water provision.
healthy relationships with the communities in which we operate and other host stakeholders.
However, we know Major projects recommended by communities and worked we cannot rest on our laurels and we need to remain on during the year included the following: focused on continuing to improve our efforts and systems in order to meet challenges such as the current crisis in the hEALTh AND PROVISION OF POTABLE wATER Cte dIvoire.
In this regard it is worth noting that despite a Provision of potable water in 2010 including the challenging situation throughout the year we have been able rehabilitation of two dams and the provision of to construct, commission, pour first gold and continue to 15 potable water wells and pumps to villages surrounding our mines.
In addition, villages were produce gold throughout the tense election and post election period there.
Furthermore, during this period, we have sunk assisted or trained to repair and refurbish pumps that equipped refurbished rehabilitated water wells and or dams had stopped functioning and, following studies of water quality, assisted to ensure clean water availability in the villages of Pounbge, Tongon, Sekonkaha, built schools, school extensions teacher houses at Pounbge, Korokara, by introducing procedures to stop contamination of Kofiply, Katonon, Mbengue and Tongon, commenced wells by people and animals.
building and or refurbished clinics at Pounbge, Katonon and Provision of primary medical care to local villagers Tongon and established a market garden for the Association close to our mines and projects, eg construction and of Women at Kationron, among other projects.
refurbishment of clinics, mainly this year, in the villages surrounding the Tongon project but medical assistance was also given across our project areas.
During the year, sustainable development projects identified by the community development committees were also Morila, Loulo and Kibali combined, in partnership with implemented with the cooperation of the communities American charities, to provide medical equipment and Randgold Resources 62 Annual report 2010 supplies to the value of US$2.4 million to clinics and The conclusion of the successful relocation of farmers hospitals in villages and towns in the Morila area, to at Tongon.
Kenieba hospital near Gounkoto and Loulo, and to At Kibali planning for the relocation of approximately three hospitals in Watsa and Durba close to Kibali.
3 500 houses and other structures, including a large church, and 15 000 residents living in the exclusion EDUCATION zone was completed during the year in consultation The following activities centered on improving education with villagers and their representatives in the RWG, levels within the local communities: who were democratically elected and who were Twelve new school classrooms and six teacher houses joined on the committee by church leaders and local were added in the Tongon area government officials.
The people affected included Six additional classrooms, toilets and storage facilities farmers, orpailleurs, small business owners, Sokimo were constructed at schools in villages in the Loulo employees and their families.
This required the area planning, development and implementation of a RAP School furniture and learning resources were delivered that was, like the Tongon and Gounkoto RAPs, fully to villages surrounding our operations at Loulo and aligned with IFC guidelines.
Morila in Mali and to village schools close to Tongon in RAPs at Kibali and Gounkoto, were preceded by an Cte dIvoire Environmental Management Plan and EISA respectively.
In DRC, 5 500 back-to-school packs were presented These were monitored and signed off on by the to schools in the Kibali area by CEO Mark Bristow.
relevant DRC and Mali government departments and representatives of the directly affected communities.
AGRICULTURE AND FOOD SECURITY The resettlement approach that is used in all cases At Morila, work continued on the agribusiness project which was informed by regular consultation with the directly is planned to ameliorate the impact of mine closure on affected people.
Those affected can choose where the local economy by offering alternative employment and their new land and property will be located on a like economic opportunities to the local community.
During the for like or better basis, as required by international year the project, which has now partnered with a number of guidelines.
NGO agencies, progressed to a stage in which pilot poultry, Randgold has been championing the establishment animal husbandry, honey production and fishing projects are of a world class centre of excellence to provide West being initiated to test the viability and sustainability potential Africans and others in Sub-Saharan Africa with the of each activity.
opportunity to study disciplines at the African School of Mines ASM, based in Bamako.
The company is The key next steps in order to roll out the larger project is working in collaboration with the Government of Mali, the the completion of a final comprehensive integrated feasibility Nelson Mandela Institution, the World Bank and several study and business plan along with a solution regarding land leading universities in South Africa, Europe and North ownership issues.
To date Randgold has set aside US$1 million for this purpose and has provided assistance including SPECIAL PROjECTS from the company chairman, Philippe Litard, and the Projects undertaken during 2010 included: Construction of a large road bridge close to Koumantou, chairman of the audit committee, Karl Voltaire.
The near Morila mine, costing US$1.1 million.
Nelson Mandela Institution and the World Bank have Formalised and improved grievance resolution undertaken to provide sufficient funds to build the procedures were introduced at Tongon, Gounkoto and campus and the Malian Government has provided the Kibali during 2010. land for the ASM on which a college will open in 2012.
