Report of the Directors The Directors submit their Annual Report Research and development the business.
All employees have three to five and the audited financial statements for The Group continues to carry out research performance objectives which are directly linked the year ended 31 December 2010 to the and development in the search for new and to their job and their specific contribution members of the Company.
improved products in all its categories and for to the overall performance of the Group.
Direct addition, presentations and videos are given to Principal activities and future expenditure on R&D in 2010 amounted to employees around the Group on publication of developments 125m 2009: 126m.
The principal activities continue to be the manufacture and sale of household and health Acquisitions and disposals The Board encourages employees to become care products.
During the year, the Group The Group announced on 21 July 2010 that shareholders and to participate in the Groups announced the acquisitions of SSL International it had agreed terms for a recommended employee share ownership schemes, should plc SSL and Paras Pharmaceuticals Ltd Paras.
cash offer to be made by its wholly owned they so wish.
Sharesave schemes across the Information on these acquisitions is set out in subsidiary, Reckitt Benckiser plc, to acquire the world give employees the opportunity to the Business Review on page 4. entire issued and to be issued share capital acquire shares in the Company by means of of SSL.
Under the terms of the offer, SSL regular savings.
Audited results for the period are set out on shareholders received an aggregate of 1,171 pages 30 to 71.
Directors pence per SSL share held including SSLs The following persons served as Directors of the In the view of the Directors, the Groups likely final dividend for the year ended 31 March Company during the year: future development will continue to centre 2010.
On 29 October 2010, the offer was on the main product categories in which it declared wholly unconditional and the Group Adrian Bellamy now operates.
subsequently commenced the compulsory Bart Becht acquisition process after receiving valid Richard Cousins The review of the Groups business acceptances in respect of more than 90% of Colin Day The performance of the business is described the SSL shares to which the offer related.
Peter Harf in the Chairmans Statement on page 1, the The acquisition was completed during the Kenneth Hydon Chief Executives Statement on pages 2 to 3 financial year.
Andr Lacroix and the Business Review.
Within the Business Graham Mackay Review, principal risk factors are given under On 13 December 2010, the Group announced Judith Sprieser Relationships and Principal Risks on pages that it has agreed to buy Paras for INR 32.6 Warren Tucker appointed 24 February 2010 6 and 7, details of the key performance billion Indian rupees approximately 460 indicators KPIs are given on page 11 and million from the current shareholders and Full biographical details of the current directors information on the likely future developments further confirmed that the transaction would are set out on page 12. of the Group under Prospects is on pages 10 be financed from existing facilities.
The Group Colin Day, who served on the Board as Chief and 11.
Information regarding environmental expects to complete the Paras acquisition Financial Officer CFO for over ten years, matters, the Companys employees and social during the first half of 2011.
There have been resigned as a Director of the Company on and community issues are given on pages no material disposals during the year.
Liz Doherty joined the 7 and 8.
Information about persons with Employees Company as CFO designate in January 2011 whom the Company has contractual or other During 2010, the Group employed an average and formally joined the Board as CFO and arrangements which are essential to the of 27,200 2009: 24,900 people worldwide, Executive Director on 8 February 2011. business of the Company are given on page 6. of whom 2,700 2009: 2,500 were employed A statement of Directors interests in the share The Groups financial risk management in the UK.
The Group is committed to the capital of the Company is shown in Table 1 at objectives and policies are set out on page 10 principle of equal opportunity in employment: the end of this report.
of the Business Review and in note 24 on pages no applicant or employee receives less 58 to 62. favourable treatment on the grounds of Details of Directors options to subscribe for nationality, age, gender, religion or disability.
shares in the Company are included in Table 3 The information referred to above is The Group recognises its responsibilities to on page 27 in the audited part of the Directors incorporated by reference into, and shall disabled persons and endeavours to assist them Remuneration Report.
be deemed to form part of, this report and, to make their full contribution at work.
Where together with the other information referred Directors insurance and indemnities employees become disabled, every practical to in this report, fulfils the requirements of On 28 July 2009, the Company executed a effort is made to allow them to continue in the business review provisions of s. 417 of the deed poll of indemnity for the benefit of each their jobs or to provide retraining in suitable Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
This individual who is at any time on or after alternative work.
Report of the Directors has been drawn up and 28 July 2009 an officer of the Company and presented in accordance with, and in reliance It is essential to the continued improvement or any company within the Reckitt Benckiser upon, applicable UK company law and the in efficiency and productivity throughout the Group of companies in respect of costs of liabilities of the Directors in connection with Group that each employee understands the defending claims against them and third this report shall be subject to the limitations Groups strategies, policies and procedures.
and restrictions provided by such law.
Open and regular communication with In addition, the Directors have the benefit Dividend employees at all levels is an essential part of the of the indemnity provision contained in the In July 2010, the Directors resolved to pay management process.
A continuing programme Companys Articles of Association Articles.
an interim dividend of 50p per ordinary of training and development reinforces the Directors and Officers liability insurance cover share 2009: 43p.
The dividend was paid Groups commitment to employee involvement.
has been maintained throughout the year at on 30 September 2010.
The Directors are the expense of the Company.
Regular departmental meetings are held recommending a final dividend for the year of where opinions of employees are sought Directors interests 65p per share 2009: 57p, which, together on a variety of issues.
The Group operates No Director had a material interest at any with the interim dividend, makes a total for multi-dimensional internal communications time during the year in any derivative or the year of 115p per share 2009: 100p.
The programmes which include the provision of a financial instrument relating to the Companys final dividend, if approved by the shareholders, Group intranet and the publication of regular shares.
Details of Directors remuneration, will be paid on 26 May 2011 to ordinary Group newsletters.
service agreements and interests in shares shareholders on the register at the close of of the Company are set out in the Directors business on 25 February 2011.
Group incentive schemes reinforce financial and Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 28. economic factors affecting the performance of Reckitt Benckiser 2010 13 Report of the Directors continued Environmental, social and governance potential long-term effects of household and environmental performance of third ESG matters and reputational risk chemicals and OTC over-the-counter party manufacturers and other suppliers.
In line with the requirements of the 2006 Act, drug ingredients on human health and the The Groups Global Manufacturing Standard a rationale has been developed and a review environment.
The Group has comprehensive GMS mandates minimum requirements undertaken to determine what information management processes in place at Group, regarding employment arrangements, to include in this Report as necessary for Area, Regional and National levels to labour standards and health, safety and an understanding of the development, ensure that its products are both suitable environmental management, in line with performance and position of the business of and safe for their intended use in addition to international guidelines, for the Group the Group relating to environmental matters meeting applicable regulatory requirements.
Management processes including the impact of the Groups business Additionally, regulatory compliance and and controls in place include Group, Area on the environment, its employees, and product safety issues are proactively and Regional monitoring and auditing social and community issues.
Much of the addressed by both national and regional of compliance with the GMS and other information required is provided here, and with industry associations of which the Group is requirements including the external audit of regard to employees and internal control in an active member, including those in Europe third party product manufacturers.
this report on page 13 and in the Corporate and North America Australia.
Product quality risks: Failures in product Governance report on pages 19 and 20, with As part of the Groups commitment to quality controls could potentially lead to an overall summary and other information making continual improvements in the damage to the reputation of, and trust provided in the Business Review on pages 7 environmental sustainability of its products in, the Groups brands.
The Group has and 8. and processes, the Group continues to comprehensive quality management control The Board regularly considers and takes progress ingredient removal programmes arrangements in place, including a global account of the significance of ESG matters, above and beyond regulatory requirements quality organisation that oversees and their potential risks to the business of the to systematically remove specific ingredients monitors product quality worldwide and Group and the opportunities to enhance value from its product formulae and packaging has an independent reporting line to the that may arise from an appropriate response device component specifications globally.
including risks relating to environmental For example, recent programmes include: The corporate responsibility section on impacts, employees, society and communities, removal of nitro and polycyclic artificial the Groups website www.
com Ouras well as reputational risks.
musks, and geranyl nitrile, from fragrances: responsibility and its annual Sustainability removal of PDCB paradichlorobenzene from The Board undertakes a formal review of Reports available at www.
com provide toilet blocks: removal of NPEs nonyl phenol ESG matters at least annually.
This includes further information on its policies, systems ethoxylates, APEs alkyl phenol ethoxylates providing oversight to ensure that the Group and procedures for managing ESG matters and monoethylene series glycol ethers from has in place effective policies, systems and and the risks and opportunities that may arise use in household cleaning products: removal procedures for managing ESG matters and from them, including: the extent to which of brominated flame retardants from devices: mitigating significant ESG risks.
Additionally, it complies with those policies, systems and and the replacement of formaldehyde the Audit Committee regularly reviews the procedures: Key Performance Indicators KPIs : preservative.
arrangements for, and effectiveness of, risk and its sustainability programmes, targets management and internal audit including the REACh Registration, Evaluation, and progress.
full range of risks facing the Group such as risks Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals The Board believes that it receives adequate relating to ESG matters, reputational risks and is the framework for the regulation and information and training on ESG matters and risks relating to employees.
management of chemicals in Europe which their potential risks and opportunities to the was formally adopted by the European Union The CEO has specific responsibility for ESG business of the Group.
in December 2006 and entered into force matters.
As part of established management in 2007.
Sustainability and corporate responsibility processes which include performance Information on the Groups management of management systems and appropriate Under REACh, as part of a phased sustainability and corporate responsibility issues remuneration incentives, senior management programme over several years, industry is is provided, in other sections of this report, in reports directly to the CEO on ESG matters on a required to register most substances that are the Corporate Governance report for example regular basis.
manufactured, imported or used in Europe.
on employees and internal control respectively, The first of these phases, pre-registration, Key areas of ESG internal control and in the Business Review and, in the Groups started on 1 June 2008.
For the majority performance, including ESG disclosures, are annual Sustainability Reports, which provide of substances ie ingredients used in the independently reviewed and verified by both information on its policies, programmes, targets Groups products, the responsibility for internal and external organisations, including and progress in this area.
registration will lie with its suppliers who Internal Audit, and their findings regularly manufacture or import the ingredients Policy on the payment of creditors reported to senior management, the CEO, the used.
The Group is fully compliant with It is the Companys policy to follow the CBI Audit Committee and the Board.
the provisions of REACh that have been Prompt Payers Code.
This policy requires the The Board has identified and assessed the implemented to date and the Group Company to agree the terms of payments with range of ESG and associated reputational risks continues to work closely with its suppliers its suppliers and to ensure that those suppliers and concluded that there are limited material to ensure that the ingredients used in its are aware of and abide by those terms.
Copies risks to the Groups long and short-term value products are registered and that its full of the Prompt Payers Code are available from arising from ESG matters, other than potential compliance with REACh is maintained.
The CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, risks common to similarly sized businesses Group has in place an internal REACh Task London WC1A 1DU.
operating in its industry sectors and with Force to ensure that all of its products and similarly well-known brands.
their ingredients remain compliant with REACh as it is implemented over the next The potentially material ESG and reputational several years.
risks identified by the Board include: Supply chain risks: Most product, component Industry sector and product safety and raw material supply chains present regulatory risks.
The household products a number of potential reputational risks and health & personal care sectors have a relating to: labour standards: health, number of potential product and ingredient safety and environmental standards: raw risks relating to ongoing developments in material sourcing: and the social, ethical ingredient regulation and concerns over the 14 Reckitt Benckiser 2010 Charitable donations Corporate Governance statement if granted, expire at the earlier of 30 June The Group has continued its strategy of In compliance with the Disclosure and 2012 or at the conclusion of the AGM of the focusing on the Groups nominated global Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
1, the disclosures Company held in 2012. charity, Save the Children.
During the year, required by DTR 7.2.
7 can be found in A special resolution will also be proposed to donations in the UK amounted to 774,000 the Corporate Governance report on pages 17 renew the Directors power to make 2009: 568,000 of which 610,000 2009: to 20 which is incorporated by reference into non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to a 472,000 was donated to Save the Children.
this Report of the Directors.
nominal amount representing less than 5% of Takeovers Directive Auditors the Companys issued share capital as at the The Company is required to disclose certain The auditors,  LLP, latest practicable date prior to the publication additional information required by s. 992 of the have indicated their willingness to continue in of the Notice of AGM.
2006 Act, which implemented the EU Takeovers office and a resolution that they be reappointed Authority to purchase own shares Directive.
The following sets out disclosures not will be proposed at the AGM.
Shareholders approved a resolution for the covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Share capital Company to make purchases of its own shares The Articles give the Board power to appoint As at 31 December 2010, the Companys at the 2010 AGM.
As at 4 March 2011, the Directors, but also require Directors to submit issued share capital consisted of 725,853,970 Directors had not used this authority and a buy themselves for election at the first Annual ordinary shares of 10p and no shares were held back programme has not been pursued.
This General Meeting AGM following their in treasury.
Details of changes to the ordinary resolution remains valid until the conclusion appointment.
Under the Combined Code and shares issued and of options and awards of this years AGM on 5 May 2011.
The buy the Articles, all Directors are required to offer granted during the year are set out in note 21 back programme continues to be subject to themselves for re-election every three years.
regular review and accordingly a resolution seeking to renew the authority to make market The Board of Directors is responsible for The rights and obligations attaching to the purchases will be put to shareholders at this the management of the business of the Companys ordinary shares are set out in years AGM so that the Directors retain the Company and may exercise all the powers the Articles.
flexibility to reinstate the programme should of the Company subject to the provisions of There are no restrictions on the voting rights they so decide.
This authority will be limited to the Companys Articles.
The Articles contain attaching to the Companys ordinary shares a maximum of 72,600,000 ordinary shares and specific provisions and restrictions regarding the or the transfer of securities in the Company set the minimum and maximum prices which Companys power to borrow money.
Powers except, in the case of transfers of securities: may be paid.
The Companys present intention relating to the alteration of share capital are is to hold shares acquired under such authority also included in the Articles and shareholders That certain restrictions may from time to in treasury to satisfy outstanding awards under are asked to renew such authorities each year time be imposed by laws and regulations for employee share incentive plans.
A copy of the Articles is available example, insider trading laws : and on written request from the Company Secretary Annual General Meeting Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the or from the UK Registrar of Companies.
The Notice convening the fourth AGM of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Company, to be held on Thursday, 5 May 2011 Unless expressly specified to the contrary employees of the Company require the at 11.15 am at The London Heathrow Marriott in the Articles, the Companys Articles may approval of the Company to deal in the Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex UB3 5AN, be amended by a special resolution of the Companys ordinary shares.
is contained in a separate document Companys shareholders.
No person holds securities in the Company for shareholders.
There are a number of agreements that take which carry special voting rights with regard to In accordance with the Shareholder Rights effect, alter or terminate upon a change control of the Company.
The Company is not Directive the Directive which came into of control of the Company following a aware of any agreements between holders of force in August 2009, the Company obtained takeover, such as commercial contracts, bank securities that may result in restrictions on the shareholder approval at the 2010 AGM to the agreements, property lease arrangements transfer of securities or on voting rights.
calling of meetings, other than Annual General and employee share plans.
None of these are Allotment of shares Meetings, on 14 clear days notice.
Prior to the deemed to be significant in terms of their The Directors were granted authority at the implementation of the Directive, the Company potential impact on the business of the Group last AGM held in 2010 to allot shares up to was able to call meetings other than an AGM as a whole.
That on 14 clear days notice without obtaining There are no significant agreements between authority will apply until the conclusion of shareholder approval and, to preserve this the Company and its Directors or employees this years AGM.
At this years AGM on 5 May ability, shareholders will be asked to renew their providing for compensation for loss of office or 2011, shareholders will be asked to grant an approval by passing Resolution 14 at the AGM.
employment that occurs because of a takeover authority to make such allotments up to a Amendment to share plans bid, except that provisions of the Companys nominal amount representing approximately As referred to in the Directors Remuneration share plans may cause options and awards one third of the Companys issued share capital Report on page 22, the Board will seek granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
as at the latest practicable date prior to the shareholder approval for a resolution to be publication of the Notice of AGM.
In line with There is no information that the Company proposed at the AGM to amend the equity guidance issued by the Association of British would be required to disclose about persons dilution limits within the rules of the Companys Insurers, shareholders will also be asked to with whom it has contractual or other employee share plans.
The resolution will also grant an authority to allot shares in connection arrangements which are essential to the seek to extend the expiry date for grants made with a rights issue in favour of shareholders up business of the Company.
under the Companys Senior Executive Share to an aggregate nominal amount representing Ownership Policy Plan.
Further details appear in approximately two thirds of the issued ordinary the Chairmans letter within the Notice share capital of the Company as at the latest of AGM.
practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of AGM.
The authorities sought would, Reckitt Benckiser 2010 15 Report of the Directors continued Substantial shareholdings As at 4 March 2011, the Company had received the following notices of substantial interests 3% or more in the total voting rights of the Company: No of % of total ordinary Nature of voting rights shares holding JAB Holdings B. V. 15.30 111,105,415 Indirect Legal and General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 3.81 27,656,268 Indirect Massachusetts Financial Services Company and or its subsidiaries 3.82 27,710,981 Indirect By order of the Board Elizabeth Richardson Company Secretary Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 103-105 Bath Road Slough, Berks SL1 3UH Company registration number: 6270876 11 March 2011 Table 1 Interests in the share capital of the Company The Directors in office at the end of the year and those in office at 4 March 2011 had the following beneficial interests unless stated otherwise in the ordinary shares of the Company: 4 March 2011 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Adrian Bellamy 19,874 19,874 18,780 Bart Becht 1,410,162 1,410,162 3,610,422 Bart Becht non-beneficial 2,993,821 2,993,821 1,343,821 Richard Cousins appointed 1 October 2009 398 398 84 Colin Day resigned 8 February 2011 203,868 203,868 424,129 Liz Doherty appointed 8 February 2011 n a n a Peter Harf 743,107 743,107 742,770 Kenneth Hydon 4,965 4,965 4,731 Andr Lacroix 1,722 1,722 1,488 Graham Mackay 1,784 1,784 1,550 Judith Sprieser 3,195 3,195 2,957 Warren Tucker appointed 24 February 2010 504 504 n a Notes 1 No person who was a Director or a Directors connected person on 31 December 2010 had any notifiable share interests in any subsidiary.
2 The Companys Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
