Board of Directors and Executive Committee THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Director of Vodafone Group plc in July 2005 Colin Day 55, British and is currently a Non-Executive Director of Chief Financial Officer.
Colin stepped down Adrian Bellamy 69, British # Tesco plc, Pearson plc and the Royal Berkshire from his role on 8 February 2011.
Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the NHS Foundation Trust.
Company in 1999 and became Non-Executive Liz Doherty 53, British Chairman in May 2003.
He is a Director of Andr Lacroix 51, French Chief Financial Officer.
Joined Reckitt The Gap Inc and a Director and Chairman of Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Benckiser in January 2011 and was appointed Williams-Sonoma, Inc.
He was Chairman of October 2008.
He is Group Chief Executive to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on The Body Shop International plc until March of Inchcape plc and Chairman of Good 8 February 2011.
2008 and was formerly Chairman and a Restaurants AG.
He was previously Chairman Amedeo Fasano 49, Italian Director of Gucci Group NV and of The Robert and Chief Executive Officer of Euro Disney, and Executive Vice President, Supply.
has also held positions at Burger King Diageo, Amedeo Fasano joined in 1997 as Supply Colgate, PepsiCo and Ernst & Young LLP.
Bart Becht 54, Dutch # Director Italy.
After the merger with Reckitt Joined the Board in 1999, on his appointment Graham Mackay 61, British South African & Colman he was appointed Manufacturing as Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Director for Central, South Western and He was appointed Chief Executive of February 2005 and the Senior Independent Southern Europe Regions.
In 2002 he became Benckiser Detergents, subsequently Benckiser Director in November 2006.
He is the current Regional Supply Director North America NA N. V. in 1995 and Chairman of Benckisers Chief Executive of SABMiller plc, one of the and in 2003 SVP Supply NA and ANZ Australia Management Board from May 1999.
He holds worlds largest brewers with brewing interests and New Zealand.
In 2007 he took over the no external directorships.
or major distribution agreements in over sixty role of SVP Supply, Developing Markets.
In countries across six continents.
He joined the March 2009 Amedeo was appointed as EVP Richard Cousins 51, British then South African Breweries Limited in 1978 Supply.
Amedeo previously worked for Pirelli Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of and has held a number of senior positions Tyres in multiple supply assignments.
He is Chief within that group.
He joined the Board of Philip Executive Officer of Compass Group PLC, the Rob fide Groot 44, Dutch Morris International Inc in October 2008. worlds largest catering company.
He was until Executive Vice President, North America & 2006 Chief Executive Officer of BPB plc, having Judith Sprieser 57, American # Australia.
After international held a number of positions with that company Was appointed a Non-Executive Director roles in marketing and sales became General since 1990.
He is a former Non-Executive in August 2003 and has been Chair of the Manager The Netherlands, then SVP, Regional Director of P&O plc and HBOS plc.
Director, Eastern Europe and appointed Global She was previously Chief Executive Officer Category Officer, Surface and Dish in 2005.
Colin Day 55, British of Transora, Inc. an e-commerce software Appointed EVP North America & Australia Joined Reckitt Benckiser in September 2000 and service company and Executive Vice in 2008. from Aegis Group plc where he was Group President formerly Chief Financial Officer Finance Director from 1995.
He was formerly Gareth Hill 44, South African of Sara Lee Corporation.
She is a Director of a Non-Executive Director of Vero plc, the Bell Senior Vice President, Information Allstate Insurance Company, InterContinental Group plc, easyJet plc, Imperial Tobacco plc and Services.
Previously Exchange, Inc. Royal Ahold NV, Adecco SA and Cadbury plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Information Systems Director at Arcadia Group Experian plc.
WPP Group plc and AMEC plc.
Prior to Arcadia, Gareth was at IBM UK Ltd, down from his role on 8 February 2011.
Warren Tucker 48, British Rex Trueform Clothing Ltd in South Africa Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in and Arthur Andersen.
He is a qualified Liz Doherty 53, British February 2010.
He has been Chief Financial chartered accountant.
Joined Reckitt Benckiser in January 2011 and Officer of Cobham plc since he joined in 2003. was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Rakesh Kapoor 52, Indian He is a chartered accountant and previously Officer on 8 February 2011.
She was CFO Executive Vice President, Category held senior finance positions at Cable & at Brambles Limited for two years.
Joined in 1987 serving in Wireless plc and British Airways plc.
Brambles, Liz spent seven years at Tesco plc various regional and central marketing roles.
In where she was the number two in the finance Member of the Audit Committee 2001 became SVP, Regional Director, Northern function and Group International Finance Member of the Remuneration Committee Europe and was appointed EVP Category Director.
She joined Tesco from Unilever PLC, # Member of the Nomination Committee Development in 2006.
Rakesh is responsible where she had a 22-year career.
Liz served as for global category management, R&D, media, a Non-Executive Director of SABMiller plc from market research and strategic alliances.
2006 until stepping down from this role ahead Simon Nash 49, British of joining the Company.
Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
Dr Peter Harf 64, German # Joined in July 2009 from Novartis Consumer EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in Health, where he was Global Head of Human Bart Becht 54, Dutch 1999 and is the Deputy Chairman.
He served Resources, based in Switzerland.
Simon started Chief Executive Officer.
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee his international career with Procter & Gamble until June 2004.
He is Chairman of Coty Inc. in detergent manufacturing, before moving Freddy Caspers 49, German and Anheuser Busch InBev and was until into HR with Mars Confectionery in Slough.
He Executive Vice President, Developing May 2007 a Director of the Brunswick moved to New York in 1993 with Kraft Foods Markets.
Joined in September 1997 as EVP Corporation.
He is Chief Executive Officer of International and then on to Chicago as for Eastern Europe.
Previously at PepsiCo and Joh.
HR Head of the office products subsidiary Johnson & Johnson in various roles in Europe, of Fortune Brands Inc.
US, Eastern Europe and Turkey.
Freddy is Kenneth Hydon 66, British # responsible for Asia Pacific, Latin America and Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Africa & Middle East.
December 2003 and Chairman of the Audit Committee in November 2006.
He is a Fellow Salvatore Caizzone 45, Italian of the Chartered Institute of Management Executive Vice President, Europe.
Accountants, the Association of Chartered Joined in 1996 serving several roles in Italy, Certified Accountants and the Association Russia & Baltics.
He was Senior Vice President of Corporate Treasurers.
He was the Senior SVP Africa & Middle East region for eight Independent Director between February 2005 years before he was appointed EVP, Europe and November 2006.
He retired as Financial with effect from 1 May 2010.
