About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow online Redrow continues to lead the way, Our consumer and corporate websites not only in product development and have both undergone major customer service but also in the way our transformations and improvements over homes and our business are marketed.
Redrow TV includes: Redrow website updates include: Video footage of New Heritage Cleaner, fresher pages that are Collection showhomes easy to navigate Films showcasing our Better use of photography and developments and their locations other imagery Easy to follow video guides on the Quick and easy search facilities schemes available to help Different websites for different customers purchase their new audiences but a strong feeling home of family Weekly news bulletins from around the country Whilst returning to our core values of quality, tradition Audience figures are growing steadily and Redrow TV has Searching for a new Redrow home via our consumer employees.
Up-to-date share price information is available and superior styling with The New Heritage Collection, we been shortlisted in the Best Marketing Initiative category website is easy.
Home buyers can search by postcode, city, at a glance and users can subscribe to receive regular have embraced modern technology to communicate with of the 2010 Housebuilder Awards, which recognise county or development name: they can choose to search alerts including trading updates, board changes and our customers, stakeholders and other audiences.
This is innovation and excellence in the industry.
Winners will be from New Heritage Collection developments only or from acquisitions or disposals.
demonstrated by our investment in new-look consumer announced in October.
Redrows entire product range: and they can fine-tune and corporate websites and the new medium of their search to include number of bedrooms and price Our Corporate Responsibility brochure is also available Redrow TV.
Our consumer and corporate websites have both range.
Results can be displayed on a map or by a list view online as a micro site www.
co. uk undergone major transformations and improvements over and, if we dont have a development in their immediate demonstrating our commitment to sustainability, Redrow TV is our own exclusive online film library, believed the last 12 months, to make them cleaner and fresher, search area, we will show them their nearest Redrow investing in our staff, looking after customers, trading to be a first for the UK housing industry.
It is dedicated to with better use of photography, more user-friendly and locations and display its distance away in miles ethically, protecting our heritage whilst building new all things Redrow, keeping customers up to date with the easier to navigate.
communities and playing an active role in the latest news, products and development films.
Once they have identified appropriate developments, communities in which we operate.
We have also introduced a special micro site customers can view individual house designs, including Accessed via the internet, with a direct link from our www.
co. uk to promote our New images and floorplans, site layouts, a development By embracing new technology and online applications in website, Redrow TV is available wherever users get Heritage Collection, which reflects the look and feel of our overview and guide to the area.
Where appropriate they this comprehensive and integrated way we are ensuring broadband at home, at work, even on their mobile o Arts & Crafts influenced new homes.
Visitors to this micro can also view video footage and 360 walkthroughs.
that the Redrow brand, our philosophy and our modus phone.
site can view our TV commercial and be inspired by Everything is designed to provide the customer with all operandi are promoted professionally and creatively to the Since its launch in February 2010, we have invested images and floorplans of our homes, whose exteriors are the information they need at their fingertips and inspire widest possible audience.
heavily in video footage to promote our showhomes, based on time honoured designs of years gone by.
them to visit the development of their choice.
developments and the areas in which they are located, as www.
co. uk well as films explaining different elements of the home There is an easy link through to our main consumer At the same time, our corporate website www.
tv buying process and the help available from Redrow.
co. uk to find the locations where www.
co. uk has also been refreshed and www.
co. uk offer weekly news bulletins tailored for different parts of these beautiful new homes are being built.
updated to provide a clean, concise dialogue with our www.
co. uk the country as well as a national round-up.
investors, business partners, media and potential www.
co. uk Page 4 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 5
