About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Board of Directors & Senior management 1 Steve Morgan, 57 4 Barbara Richmond, 50 Chairman Group Finance Director Steve Morgan founded Redrow in 1974 and led the business Barbara joined the Board of Redrow in January 2010.
Bringing from a small civil engineering contractor to become one of with her a proven track record, with over a decade of the UKs leading home builders.
He floated the Company in experience as Group Finance Director at a number of UK 1994 and eventually stepped down as Chairman in listed companies including Inchcape plc, Croda International November 2000, returning to the helm in March 2009.
She has a strong background in both manufacturing and retail as well as having completed a Steve is also Chairman of the Bridgemere Group of number of major acquisitions and disposals throughout her Companies, which includes Wolverhampton Wanderers, career.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Carden Leisure and Trinity Aviation.
Steve is a Fellow of the Accountants in England and Wales and a graduate of the Chartered Institute of Building and holds four Honorary University of Manchester.
A A 5 Debbie Hewitt, 47 2 Alan Jackson, 66 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Debbie joined the Redrow Board in August 2009.
She has a Senior Independent Director wealth of experience in executive and non-executive roles.
Alan Jackson joined the Redrow Board in August 2009.
He has She is currently the Non-Executive Chairman of Moss Bros a wealth of experience in executive and non-executive roles plc and Non-Executive Director of Mouchel plc, HR Owen plc, and is currently the Non-Executive Chairman of The Luminar plc, NCC plc and Domestic and General.
Restaurant Group plc and Charles Wells Limited.
He is also a Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Director of Playtech plc.
A, B, C, E Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee 6 Paul Hampden Smith, 49 A, B, C, D, E Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Redrow Board in August 2009.
Paul 3 John Tutte, 54 Hampden Smith is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Group Managing Director Accountants.
He has been Group Finance Director of Travis John Tutte joined the Board of Redrow in July 2002.
In Perkins plc since 1996 and was previously Chairman of the September 2009 he was promoted to Group Managing Audit Committee at DX Services plc and Polestar UK Limited.
He qualified in civil engineering and has amassed Chairman of the Audit Committee more than 30 years experience within the industry, having A, B, C, E previously held the position as Chief Executive of Wilson Connolly plc.
7 Graham Cope, 46 A Company Secretary Graham Cope joined Redrow as Head of Legal in November 2002 and was appointed Company Secretary two months later.
He has over 20 years experience in the housebuilding sector, either working in-house or for clients in private practice.
He qualified as a Solicitor in 1989 and is a member of the Law Society.
Committee members key A Main Board member B Member of the Remuneration Committee C Member of the Audit Committee D Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Left to right, Paul Hampden Smith, Graham Cope, Alan Jackson, Debbie Hewitt, John Tutte, Steve Morgan and E Member of the Nomination Committee Barbara Richmond at Cwm Calon, Caerphilly.
Page 26 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 27
