About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Directors report Environment Authority was given to the Directors at last years AGM to allot shareholders for all of their ordinary shares as a result of market unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of purchases by the Company pursuant to the authority to be Redrow recognises its responsibilities to the community as a 5,333,751 equivalent to approximately 33% of the Companys granted by resolution 13. whole and has adopted an environmental strategy which is a core issued share capital.
Further authority was given allowing the part of the Groups objectives.
Further details are provided in the Company to make market purchases of its own shares up to an Corporate responsibility review on pages 21 to 25 and also on our aggregate nominal value of 1,600,125 which was equivalent to Notice Of Annual General Meeting website at www.
10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 June 2009.
As these authorities expire at the forthcoming Pages 82 to 86 set out the Notice of Annual General Meeting and AGM the Directors will be seeking new authorities as set out in details the resolutions proposed together with explanatory notes.
Significant Agreements the Notice of Meeting and as referred to below.
To the extent that the Directors report makes reference to The Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a information contained in other sections of the Annual Report, change of control of the Company.
There are no contractual or Voting and Transfer of Shares such information will be regarded as forming part of the other arrangements essential to the business which require Directors report.
disclosure under the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys Articles of Association do not contain any specific restrictions on the size of a shareholders holding or on the transfer of shares.
By order of the Board Auditors Graham Cope The Company is not aware of any agreements between Company Secretary A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Redrow plc external Auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting securities and or voting rights.
8 September 2010 The Companys Articles of Association do not contain and the Provision of information to auditors: Company is not aware of any restrictions on voting rights In the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors including any limitations on voting rights of holders of a given report is approved, confirm that: percentage or number of votes, deadlines for exercising voting rights and arrangements by which, with the Companys a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: person other than the holder of the securities.
and The voting rights attaching to the shares held by the Companys b he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Employee Benefit Trust are exercisable by Abacus Trust Company Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit Isle of Man, the trustee of the Trust.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Purchase of the Companys Own Shares Capital Structure Resolution 13 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting seeks authority from shareholders for the Company to purchase The Company has an authorised share capital of 480,000,000 up to 30,860,747 ordinary shares, an aggregate nominal amount ordinary shares of 10p each of which 308,607,479 have been of 3,086,075 which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the issued.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2010.
The ordinary rights to dividends subject to the Companys Articles of authority will expire at the end of next years Annual General Association.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general Meeting and the resolution specifies the maximum and minimum meetings of the Company.
prices at which the shares may be bought.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial No person has any special rights of control over the Companys position of the Company will be taken into account before share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
deciding upon this course of action.
The Group successfully completed a 13 for 14 Rights Issue of In addition, the Company will be seeking approval to the waiver 148,586,495 new shares at 105 pence per new share during the granted by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers such that Steve year.
Further details are given in the Financial review on page 16.
Morgan will not have to make a general offer to other Page 46 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 47
