Reed Elsevier Elsevier is the worlds leading provider of scientific and medical information and serves scientists, health professionals and students worldwide.
Its objective is to help its customers advance science and improve healthcare by providing world class information and innovative solutions that enable customers to make critical decisions, enhance productivity and improve outcomes.
Elsevier publishes over 1,800 scientific and medical journals, through ScienceDirect, the worlds largest database of scientific and medical research, used by over 11 million researchers each year.
In 2010, Elsevier published over 2,400 new book titles and clinical reference works both in print and online, as well as offering an extensive portfolio of online information databases and analytics.
LexisNexis content and tools enable legal, risk and other professional customers to make more effective and efficient decisions.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions provides data and analytics that enable its customers to evaluate and manage risks associated with transactions and improve performance.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional provides legal, tax, regulatory and news & business information and analysis to legal, corporate, government, accounting and academic markets.
Reed Exhibitions is the worlds leading events business, with over 450 events in 35 countries.
Reed Exhibitions organises market-leading events that are relevant to industry needs, where participants from around the world come together to do business, network and learn.
Through its portfolio of exhibitions and conferences it serves 44 industry sectors across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Asia Pacic.
Reed Business Information is a provider of business information, data and marketing solutions in multiple formats.
It produces industry critical data services and lead generation tools, and over 100 online community and job sites.
It publishes over 100 business magazines with market leading positions in many sectors.
8 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Change at 2010 2009 constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue Elsevier 2,026 1,985 2% 2% 2% LexisNexis 2,618 2,557 2% 1% 1% Reed Exhibitions 693 638 9% 9% 8% Reed Business Information 718 891 -19% -20% -2% 6,055 6,071 0% -1% 2% Adjusted operating profit Elsevier 724 693 4% 4% 4% LexisNexis 592 665 -11% -12% -12% Reed Exhibitions 158 152 4% 4% 4% Reed Business Information 89 89 0% 0% 4% Unallocated items 8 29 1,555 1,570 -1% -2% -1% Adjusted operating profit is presented as an additional performance measure used by management and is stated before amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill, exceptional restructuring and acquisition related costs, and is grossed up to exclude the equity share of taxes in joint ventures.
Reconciliations between the reported and adjusted gures are provided in note 10 to the combined financial statements.
The percentage change at constant currencies refers to the movements at constant exchange rates, using 2009 full year average and hedge rates.
Underlying change excludes the results of acquisitions and disposals made both in the year and the prior year.
In 2010, Reed Elsevier announced that LexisNexis would be reorganised into two separate risk solutions and legal & professional businesses, with the separation effective from 1 January 2011.
The charts below reect the Reed Elsevier business split of revenue and adjusted operating profit including this separation.
The adjusted operating profit split is a pro forma division of the 2010 LexisNexis adjusted operating profit for the two businesses.
Revenue Adjusted operating profit 6,055m 1,555m Elsevier 34% Elsevier 46% LexisNexis Risk Solutions 15% LexisNexis Risk Solutions 23% LexisNexis Legal & Professional 28% LexisNexis Legal & Professional 15% Reed Exhibitions 11% Reed Exhibitions 10% Reed Business Information 12% Reed Business Information 6% Revenue by format Revenue by geographic market 6,055m 6,055m Electronic 61% North America 55% Face to face 14% UK 8% Print 25% Netherlands 3% Rest of Europe 19% Rest of World 15% Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 9 ADV ANCING SCIENCE 10 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 ELSEVIER IS THE WORLDS LEADING SCIENTIFIC INFORMATION PROVIDER, SERVING OVER 11 MILLION RESEARCHERS Elsevier delivers a wide array of information and workflow tools that help researchers generate valuable insights in the advancement of scientific discovery and improve the productivity of research.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 11 IMPROVING MEDICAL O UTCOMES 12 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 ELSEVIER IS A WORLD LEADING MEDICAL INFORMATION PROVIDER, USED BY HEALTH PROFESSIONALS WORLDWIDE Through its medical journals, books, major reference works, databases and online information tools, Elsevier provides critical information and analysis on which its customers rely to base their decisions, to improve medical outcomes and enhance the efficiency of healthcare.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 13 Elseviers scientific and medical information and tools help its customers improve outcomes in science and health Elsevier is the worlds leading provider of scientific Elsevier also publishes over 700 new science & technology book and medical information and serves scientists, health titles annually, supporting bibliographic data, indexes and abstracts, professionals and students worldwide.
Its objective and review and reference works.
14,000 online books are available is to help its customers advance science and improve on ScienceDirect, with over 600 online books added each year.
healthcare by providing world class information and innovative solutions that enable customers to make critical Other major products include Scopus and Reaxys.
Scopus is the decisions, enhance productivity and improve outcomes.
largest abstract and citation database of research literature in the world, with abstracts and bibliographic information on more than Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2010 were 2,026m.
40 million scientific research articles from 18,000 peer reviewed Elsevier is a global business with principal operations in Amsterdam, journals and over 5,000 publishers.
Scopus also has data on more than 23 million patents.
Reaxys is a leading solution for synthetic Beijing, Boston, Chennai, Delhi, London, Madrid, Milan, Munich, chemists that integrates chemical reaction and compound data New York, Oxford, Paris, Philadelphia, Rio fide Janeiro, St. Louis, searching with synthesis planning.
San Diego, Singapore and Tokyo.
Elsevier is organised around two market-facing businesses: A major challenge facing researchers and institutions is the ever Science & Technology, which serves the scientific and technology growing amount of research and related information but the limited communities, and Health Sciences, which serves the health time to identify and analyse what is most relevant.
Both of these businesses are supported by a global challenge, Elsevier has been developing a suite of new products shared services organisation which provides integrated editorial that signicantly improve the speed at which researchers are able systems and production services, product platforms, distribution, to nd the most relevant information and analyse this information and other support functions.
using the most innovative applications.
In 2010, SciVerse Hub beta was launched providing a single search interface for accessing Science & Technology is the worlds leading scientific information ScienceDirect, Scopus and scientific web content.
It delivers a wide array of information and workow tools 2010, SciVerse Application Marketplace & Developer Network was that help researchers generate valuable insights in the advancement launched in beta enabling researchers and third party developers of scientific discovery and improve the productivity of research.
to build customised applications on top of Elseviers information and Its customers are scientists, academic institutions, research leaders combine this with other data and analytics held by the customer.
and administrators, corporations and governments which rely on Elsevier to: provide high quality content: review, publish, disseminate Elsevier is continuing to develop the SciVal suite of products and preserve research findings: and create innovative tools to help that help academic and government institutions evaluate their focus research strategies and improve their effectiveness.
research performance, determine research strategies and increase institutional efficiencies.
Leveraging bibliometric data, such as Elsevier publishes over 200,000 new science & technology research citations from Scopus, SciVal Spotlight helps institutions and articles each year through some 1,150 journals, many of which governments to identify their distinctive research strengths, are the foremost publications in their eld and a primary point of evaluate performance and increase the focus of their R&D reference for new research.
The vast majority of customers receive investments.
SciVal Funding assists researchers and institutions these journals through ScienceDirect, the worlds largest database in identifying grants that are most relevant in their research areas.
of scientific and medical research, providing access to over In support of this strategy, Collexis was acquired in 2010, a leading 10 million scientific and medical journal articles, used by over developer of semantic technology, which increases the efficiency 11 million researchers each year.
and effectiveness of the evaluation of grant applications by funding agencies.
Journal Citation Reports categories where Growth in Scopus searches Elsevier journals ranked #1 by Impact Factor Increased customer base, Elsevier continues to improve journal growth in available content and 57 2009 quality and relevance to the higher customer usage drives 30% communities they serve through growth in Scopus searches 51 its world class editorial process 2008 and by attracting the highest quality research Copyright Thomson Reuters Impact Factor is the average citation rate of a journals articles over a dened period.
The Journal Citation Reports relate to the 2009 and 2008 edition but were published in 2010 and 2009 respectively 14 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Health Sciences is a world leading medical information provider.
Market Opportunities Through its medical journals, books, major reference works, The science and medical information markets have good long term databases and online information tools, Elsevier provides critical demand growth characteristics.
The importance of research and information and analysis on which its customers rely to base their development to economic performance and competitive positioning decisions, to improve medical outcomes and enhance the efficiency is well understood by governments, academic institutions and of healthcare.
Health Sciences serves medical researchers, doctors, corporations.
This is reected in the long term growth in R&D spend and in the number of researchers worldwide, leading to greater nurses, allied health professionals and students, as well as hospitals, research output and publishing.
Additionally there is growing research institutions, health insurers, managed healthcare demand for tools that allow research to better target and improve organisations and pharmaceutical companies.
the spend and efficiency of the research process.
Elsevier publishes over 700 health sciences journals, including In health, market growth is also supported by demographic on behalf of learned societies, and, in 2010, over 1,700 new health sciences book titles and clinical reference works were published trends, with ageing populations that require more healthcare, rising both in print and through ScienceDirect and other electronic prosperity in developing economies with increasing expectations of platforms such as MD Consult.
MD Consult is a leading online better healthcare provision, and the increasing focus on improving clinical information service with more than 2,200 institutional medical outcomes and efficiency.
Flagship titles include market leading medical journals such as The Lancet, and major medical reference works such as Given that a majority of global R&D and healthcare is funded directly Grays Anatomy, Nelsons Pediatrics and Netters Atlas of Human or indirectly by governments, spending is influenced by governmental Anatomy.
In addition to its local language publishing in many budgetary considerations.
The commitment to R&D and health countries across the world, Health Sciences leverages its content provision does however generally remain high, even in more difficult and solutions into new markets through local language versioning.
Elsevier is a leader in medical education and training resources, Strategic Priorities particularly to the nursing and allied health professions.
From core Elseviers strategic goal is to make valued contributions to the textbooks to virtual clinical patient care, Health Sciences supports communities it serves in advancing science, improving medical students, teaching faculties and healthcare organisations in outcomes and enhancing productivity.
To achieve this, Elsevier is education and practice.
A strong focus is on the further development focused on: building world-class content: deepening its customer of innovative electronic services: the Evolve portal provides a rich engagement to identify how better to help them achieve their desired resource to support faculty and students and now has 2.4 million outcomes more efficiently and effectively: delivering tools which link, registered users: Evolve Reach Health Education Systems Inc. analyse and illuminate content and data to help customers make provides online review and testing tools for students of nursing critical decisions and improve their productivity: increasing its and the allied health professionals: Evolve Teach provides online investment in high-growth markets and disciplines: and continuously resources and solutions to support faculty.
A growing area of focus is clinical decision support, providing online In Science & Technology, priorities are to continually enhance the information and analytics to deliver patient-specic solutions at the quality and relevance of research and reference content and expand point of care to improve patient outcomes.
Gold Standard provides data sets, while adding greater functionality and utility to the newly critical information on drug interactions to assist effective treatment: launced SciVerse, ScienceDirect, Scopus and new tools to assist CPM Resource Center provides a data driven framework to support researcher productivity.
The SciVal suite of performance and nurses in undertaking procedures: Nursing Consult provides nursing planning tools will continue to be expanded to help academic and care guidelines in trauma and disease management: MEDai uses government institutions target their research spend and improve patient data and analytics to help identify areas for improvement research efficiency and economic outcomes.
in clinical practice within hospitals and lower costs for the payers of healthcare through preventative interventions.
In Health Sciences, priorities are similar, particularly with regard to medical research, focusing on the quality and relevance of content Elsevier also provides marketing services to the pharmaceutical and the functionality of electronic platforms and services.
Additionally, industry through advertising and sponsored communications to Health Sciences continues to build out clinical decision support the specialist community it serves.
In 2010, the standalone medical services to meet customer demand for tools that deliver better agency communications business Excerpta Medica was divested medical outcomes and lowers costs for payers, physicians and as part of a restructuring of this business focusing more on the hospitals.
Elsevier is also focused on increasing growth in emerging services which leverage Health Sciences core information and markets through expansion of local publishing and versioning of distribution platforms.
Evolve unique site visits Growth in international MD Consult sessions Evolve site visits grow as more Increasing expansion in international users register and nursing faculties markets outside the US as customers and students increasingly use look to use the online clinical 36% 18% electronic resources information service to access content Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 15
