Reed Exhibitions is the worlds leading events business, with over 450 events in 35 countries Reed Exhibitions portfolio of exhibitions and conferences acquisitions in high growth sectors and geographies: and further serves 44 industry sectors across the Americas, Europe, developing websites, analytics and other online tools to enhance the Middle East and Asia Pacic.
In 2010 Reed Exhibitions the exhibition experience and add to customer return on investment brought together over six million event participants from in event participation.
around the world, generating billions of dollars in business for its customers.
Business Model, Distribution Channels and Competition The substantial majority of Reed Exhibitions revenues are from Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2010 were 693m.
The balance includes conference fees, Reed Exhibitions is a global business headquartered in London advertising in exhibition guides, sponsorship fees and, for some and has principal ofces in Paris, Vienna, Norwalk Connecticut, shows, admission charges.
Exhibition space is sold directly or through local agents where applicable.
Reed Exhibitions often Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Tokyo, Sydney and So Paulo.
Reed Exhibitions works in collaboration with trade associations, which use the events has 2,600 employees worldwide.
to promote access for members to domestic and export markets, and with governments, for whom events can provide important Reed Exhibitions organises market-leading events that are relevant to industry needs, where participants from around the world come support to stimulate foreign investment and promote regional and together to do business, network and learn.
Its exhibitions and national enterprise.
conferences encompass a wide range of sectors, including: broadcasting, TV, music & entertainment: building & construction: Reed Exhibitions is the market leader in a fragmented industry, electronics & electrical engineering: alternative energy, oil & gas: holding less than a 10% global market share.
Other international engineering, manufacturing & processing: gifts: interior design: exhibition organisers include UBM, DMG World Media DMGT, IT & telecoms: jewellery: life sciences & pharmaceuticals: marketing: Informa IIR and Messe Frankfurt.
Competition also comes from property & real estate: sports & recreation: and travel.
industry trade associations and convention centres and exhibition hall owners.
Well represented in the developed world, increasingly Reed Exhibitions is investing in the developing economies.
Reed Exhibitions expanded in 2010 through new launches in the beauty 2010 financial performance and healthcare sectors in China: environment, construction and machinery in Brazil: and security in the UAE.
Reed Exhibitions saw good revenue growth with the net cycling in of biennial exhibitions and a signicantly Market Opportunities moderated decline in annual show revenues.
Growth in the exhibitions market is correlated to business to business marketing spend, historically driven by levels of corporate Revenues and adjusted operating profits were up 9% and profitability, which itself has followed overall growth in GDP, and 4% respectively at constant currencies, or 8% and 4% before business investment.
Emerging markets and growth industries minor acquisitions.
As some events are held other than annually, growth in any one year is affected by the cycle of Underlying revenues, excluding the effect of biennial show cycling, non-annual exhibitions.
declined by 3% compared with a 6% decline in the first half, with stable performance or modest growth in all major markets in the Strategic Priorities second half as conditions progressively improved.
The 2010 shows Reed Exhibitions strategic goal is to provide market leading events have seen overall success, with growing attendances at the majority in growth sectors that enable businesses to target and reach new of annual events and exhibitor numbers up 4% in the top 50 annual customers quickly and cost effectively and to provide a platform for shows.
In the largest market, Europe, underlying revenues excluding industry participants to do business, network and learn.
To achieve cycling were lower by 4% compared with a 16% decline in the prior this, Reed Exhibitions is focused on: developing the portfolio through year.
Particular successes were the World Travel Market in London a combination of new launches, strategic partnerships and selective and InCosmetics and a robust Mapic retail real estate show in France.
Growth in exhibitor numbers Number of event launches The customer value proposition Stepped up new launch of face to face events continues programme including to be strong with exhibitor numbers 14 new events in Asia 4% 35 increasing at top 50 annual events 32 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Change at 2010 2009 constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 693 638 9% 9% 8% Adjusted operating profit 158 152 4% 4% 4% Revenue Adjusted operating profit Revenue Adjusted operating profit % of Reed Elsevier % of Reed Elsevier m m 707 183 693 638 158 152 577 139 522 129 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Reed Exhibitions 11% Reed Exhibitions 10% The US also saw signicantly moderated declines with revenues down by 5% compared to 15% in 2009.
By contrast, the shows in China, Russia, the Middle East and Brazil grew strongly although some of these are joint ventures and are therefore not included in the reported revenues.
Successful shows in emerging markets The worlds entertainment market Worlds platform for sustainable future energy solutions included Salo do Automvel motor show in Brazil, pharmaceutical and aluminium shows in China, and the Intercharm beauty show in Russia.
Reed Exhibitions now operates nearly 100 shows in emerging markets with approximately 40 shows in each of Brazil and China.
Premier global event for the One of the largest and longest standing travel market electronics manufacturing trade events Reed Exhibitions signicantly stepped up its launch programme in China in 2010 with 35 new events of which 14 were in Asia, including the successful Cloud Computing show in Japan, and the PAX East games event in Boston.
The decline in adjusted operating margin primarily reects the International offshore oil & gas Leading international exhibition revenue decline in annual shows and increased spend, including trade show for personal care ingredients on the development of websites, analytics and other innovative online tools to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of events for both exhibitors and attendees, partly mitigated through cost savings.
The reported operating margin, after amortisation of acquired intangible assets, was 18.3%, up from 12.4% in the prior A world leading construction One of the largest business gifts year which included impairment charges on certain minor shows exhibition & home fairs in China and exceptional restructuring costs.
There were no exceptional restructuring costs in 2010.
The outlook is encouraging, with momentum building in annual shows and significant launch activity continuing.
2011 will see The North American jewellery International exhibition of the net cycling out of biennial shows, particularly in the first half.
industrys premier trade event environmental equipment, technology and services Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 33 GAINING BUSINESS INSIGHTS 34 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 REED BUSINESS INFORMATION IS A PROVIDER OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, DATA AND MARKETING SOLUTIONS IN MULTIPLE FORMATS Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 35
