Principal risks continued Risk Mitigation Tax Our businesses operate worldwide and our earnings are subject We have clear and consistent tax policies and tax matters are to taxation in many differing jurisdictions and at differing rates.
dealt with by a professional tax function, supported by external We seek to organise our affairs in a tax efficient manner, taking tax advisors.
We maintain an open dialogue with the relevant account of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
However, tax laws tax authorities and are vigilant in ensuring that we comply with that apply to Reed Elsevier businesses may be amended by the tax legislation.
relevant authorities or interpreted differently which could adversely affect our reported results.
Acquisitions We often acquire businesses to reshape and strengthen our Our acquisitions are made within the framework of our overall portfolio.
If we are unable to generate the anticipated benets such strategy.
We have a well formulated process for reviewing and as revenue growth, synergies and or cost savings associated with executing acquisitions and for managing the post acquisition these acquisitions this could adversely affect our reputation and integration.
This process is underpinned with clear strategic and financial condition.
We closely monitor the performance of acquisitions.
Treasury The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements are expressed The main treasury risks faced by Reed Elsevier are liquidity risk, in pounds sterling and are subject to movements in exchange interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
rates on the translation of the financial information of businesses whose operational currencies are other than sterling.
The US is our Reed Elseviers approach to funding and management of interest most important market and, accordingly, significant uctuations rate and foreign currency exposures is described on pages 48 in the US dollar exchange rate could signicantly affect our and 49.
The approach to the management of financial risks is reported results.
described in note 18 to the combined financial statements.
Macroeconomic, political and market conditions may also adversely affect the availability of short and long term funding, volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates and ination.
Ethics Our businesses operate around the world and we have over Our Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is 30,000 employees.
A breach of generally accepted ethical provided to every employee and is supported by training on business standards could adversely affect our business specic topics.
It encompasses such topics as fair competition, performance, reputation and financial condition.
anti-bribery and human rights and it encourages open and principled behaviour.
We also have well established processes for reporting and investigating unethical conduct.
Our approach to managing ethical risks is set out in our Corporate Responsibility Report available at www.
com cr10 Environmental Reed Elsevier and its businesses have an impact on the We are committed to reducing these impacts by limiting resource environment, principally through the use of energy and water, use whenever possible and by efficiently employing sustainable waste generation and, in our supply chain, through our paper materials and technologies.
We require our suppliers and use and print and production technologies.
contractors to meet the same objectives.
We seek to ensure that Reed Elseviers businesses are compliant with all relevant environmental regulation.
Our approach to managing environmental risks is set out in our Corporate Responsibility Report available at www.
com cr10 52 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance 54 Board Directors 56 Structure and corporate governance 62 Directors remuneration report 81 Report of the Audit Committees Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 53
