LexisNexis Legal & Professional 2010 financial performance The LexisNexis Legal & Professional business saw a small Outside the US, International revenues declined 2% at constant revenue decline of 2% at constant currencies reecting the currencies.
Online legal solutions saw revenues up 6% with strong impact on renewals and print product of the low levels of demand for technology enabled content and new workow tools.
law rm activity and employment.
Corporate, government Market penetration of these services continues to increase across and academic markets were lower.
Print sales declined, particularly in the UK as law rms cut back on spending and place increasing reliance on online US revenues declined 2% at constant currencies, or 1% underlying services.
Electronic revenues now account for more than 50% of before the net effect of small disposals and acquisitions.
compares to a decline of 6% in the prior year.
The decline was largely driven by the continued contraction in corporate, government and Continued good progress is being made in the development of academic markets which saw revenues 5% lower in a challenging the next generation of legal products and advanced operational budgetary environment for customers, impacting in particular infrastructure, which will be progressively introduced over the next sales of the news & business information databases to corporate few years.
US law rm revenues were up 2%: these would however have been down 2% ignoring the effect While law rms, corporations and governments remain cautious in of last years revenue recognition change in Martindale Hubbell.
their spending, new sales continue to be higher and the environment Law rm subscription, print and transactional revenues remained is more stable.
Revenue recovery is expected to be gradual, with the under pressure as contract renewals reected the lower levels of adjusted operating margin broadly at in 2011. law rm activity and lawyer employment than was the case when they were last agreed, typically two to three years ago.
Aside from this late cycle impact on renewals, which by the end of 2011 will be fully reected in the base, legal markets in the US stabilised and good growth was seen in new sales.
Good growth continued in litigation solutions, practice management and other services for law rms.
In December 2010, LexisNexis acquired StateNet, the leading publisher of information on the progress of prospective legislation through the US legislative process.
28 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Change at 2010 2009 constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue US 1,121 1,126 0% -2% -1% International 570 566 1% -2% -2% Total 1,691 1,692 0% -2% -2% Revenue Adjusted operating profit Revenue Adjusted operating profit % of Reed Elsevier % of Reed Elsevier m m 1,692 238 1,691 1,562 2008 2009 2010 2010 Legal & Professional 28% Legal & Professional 15% On a pro forma basis Lexis Lexis for Microsoft 2IFH Lexis Library Unparalleled legal, news and public records Integration of LexisNexis content, open Web LexisNexis UK agship legal online product content for legal professionals search and Microsoft Ofce Matthew Bender LexisNexis Verdict & Lexis PSL Critical legal analysis, checklists, forms, LexisNexis UK legal practical guidance service Settlement Analyzer and practice guides authored by industry Early case assessment tool for researching and experts covering over 50 major practice areas evaluating the risk and opportunity associated with a case SM CaseMap Lawyers.
com Juris Classeur Software allowing litigators to assess Leading website for consumers seeking legal Largest, most authoritative online legal resource and analyse case information information and counsel in France Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 29 FORGING BUSINESS RE LATIO 30 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 NSHIPS REED EXHIBITIONS IS THE WORLDS LEADING EVENTS BUSINESS, WITH OVER 450 EVENTS IN 35 COUNTRIES In 2010 Reed Exhibitions brought together over six million event participants from around the world, generating billions of dollars in business for its customers.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 31
