Business Model, Distribution Channels and Competition In Health Sciences, revenues were at at constant currencies, Science and medical research is principally disseminated on a paid or up 1% underlying before taking account of small acquisitions and subscription basis to the research facilities of academic institutions, disposals.
Modest growth was seen in medical research journal government and corporations, and, in the case of medical and subscriptions revenues, reecting the same academic budget healthcare journals, also to individual practitioners and medical pressures seen in Science & Technology.
Subscriptions to integrated society members.
Advertising and promotional revenues are online solutions and other electronic product sales grew well in derived from pharmaceutical and other companies.
nursing and health professional education, clinical reference and in the majority of clinical decision support.
Growth was tempered, Electronic products, such as ScienceDirect, Scopus and MDConsult, however, by constrained budgets, pending US healthcare reform are generally sold direct to customers through a dedicated sales and moderating enrolment, as career schools adjust to expected legislation affecting student funding.
Pharma promotion and other force that has ofces around the world.
Subscription agents facilitate advertising revenues were lower, with continuing weakness in the sales and administrative process for print journals.
Books are sold through traditional and online book stores, wholesalers and, Europe.
Emerging markets grew well due to the continued expansion particularly in medical and healthcare markets, directly to end users.
of local publishing to meet the increasing demand for medical education and clinical reference products.
Competition within science and medical publishing is generally on a title by title and product by product basis.
Competing journals, books Underlying cost growth was 1%, with increased spend on new and databases are typically published by learned societies and other product development, sales and marketing offset by additional cost professional publishers.
Workow tools face similar competition as savings in offshore production, procurement and the streamlining well as from software companies and internal solutions developed of operations and support services.
The reported operating margin, by customers.
after amortisation of acquired intangible assets, was 31.9%, up 3.5 percentage points reecting in particular that there were no exceptional restructuring costs in 2010.
2010 financial performance Going into 2011, the budget environment remains constrained in Elsevier saw modest growth reecting a constrained many markets but with large variations by geography and customer.
The customer by customer renewal process for 2011 is well progressed.
Good demand growth for electronic tools is continuing.
Revenues and adjusted operating profits increased by 2% and Another year of modest revenue growth for Elsevier is expected.
4% respectively at constant currencies, with the improvement in adjusted operating margin reecting increased cost efficiency.
Science & Technology saw 3% revenue growth at constant currencies.
ScienceDirect and other journal subscription revenues developed much as expected in a difficult academic budget environment.
Content quantity, quality and usage continued to grow, reecting the growth in research activity worldwide.
The Scopus abstract and indexing database performed particularly well with a significant increase in subscriptions.
New content sets and product features were added and Scopus saw much higher usage with a 30% increase in customer searches.
Other specialist databases also grew well as the development of new features and content continued.
In reference and education, in a smaller frontlist publishing year, electronic sales grew well and print revenue decline stabilised.
16 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Change at 2010 2009 constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue Science & Technology 1,015 985 3% 3% 3% Health Sciences 1,011 1,000 1% 0% 1% 2,026 1,985 2% 2% 2% Adjusted operating profit 724 693 4% 4% 4% Revenue Adjusted operating profit Revenue Adjusted operating profit % of Reed Elsevier % of Reed Elsevier m m 2,026 724 1,985 693 1,700 568 1,521 1,507 477 465 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Elsevier 34% Elsevier 46% The SciVerse platform combines content Leading web-based chemical reaction Online clinical information service, including from Elsevier products with a new discovery workow solutions for industrial chemists reference works, journals and drug information hub and community developed applications Science Direct is the worlds largest database Access to history of drug development Online evidence-based content to inform of scientific and medical research articles through unique online platform nursing clinical decisions at the point of care Scopus is the worlds largest scientific Premier life sciences journal with the highest Integrated, online resources that complement abstract and citation database impact factor in cell biology Elseviers nursing textbook content SciVal provides funding intelligence and research One of the worlds leading medical journals Clinical decision support tool to identify areas performance tools for academic institutions since 1823 for improvement in medical practice Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 17 EV ALUATING RISK 18 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 LEXISNEXIS RISK SOLUTIONS PROVIDES DATA AND ANALYTICS TO EVALUATE AND MANAGE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TRANSACTIONS AND IMPROVE PERFORMANCE The identity verification and risk evaluation data and analytics provided by LexisNexis Risk Solutions utilise a comprehensive database of public records and proprietary information, which is the largest database of its kind in the US market today.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 19 ENABLING BETTE R LEGAL DECISI 20 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 ONS LEXISNEXIS LEGAL & PROFESSIONAL IS A WORLD LEADING PROVIDER OF CONTENT AND INFORMATION SOLUTIONS Serving customers in more than 100 countries, LexisNexis provides resources and services that inform decisions and increase productivity.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 21 LexisNexis content and tools enable legal, risk and other professional customers to make more effective and efficient decisions In 2010, LexisNexis comprised the two market facing businesses: Total LexisNexis revenues for the year ended 31 December 2010 were Risk Solutions and Legal & Professional supported by shared service 2,618m.
During 2010, LexisNexis was headquartered in New York functions.
These businesses are described on the following pages.
and at 31 December 2010 had 14,700 employees worldwide.
Change at 2010 2009 constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 2,618 2,557 2% 1% 1% Adjusted operating profit 592 665 -11% -12% -12% Revenue Adjusted operating profit m m 665 2,618 2,557 592 513 1,940 1,594 406 1,570 380 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 financial performance LexisNexis returned to overall revenue growth, with strong The adjusted operating margin declined 3.4 percentage points due to growth in the risk business.
Subscription revenues in the the revenue decline in the legal businesses combined with significant legal business continued to reect the lower levels of law increases in spend on new legal product development, related rm activity and employment.
Adjusted operating margin infrastructure, sales & marketing, and restructuring costs.
This was lower due to the weaker revenues and increased was in part mitigated by continuing cost actions, including further spending in the legal business on new product development, outsourcing of production and engineering activities, supply chain related infrastructure and sales & marketing.
management and operational streamlining in the legal businesses and the further integration within risk solutions.
Underlying cost growth LexisNexis revenues increased by 1% and adjusted operating profits was 6%.
The reported operating margin, after amortisation of acquired declined 12% at constant currencies, both before and after small intangible assets and acquisition integration costs, was 12.4%, down acquisitions and disposals.
0.8 percentage points from the prior year which included exceptional restructuring costs.
There were no exceptional restructuring costs in 2010 other than in respect of acquisition integration.
22 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Effective from January 2011, the LexisNexis business has been markets.
The division of 2010 adjusted operating profit between the split into two separate businesses Risk Solutions and Legal & two businesses is provided in the chart below on a pro forma basis Professional to sharpen the management focus on their respective for information only.
Adjusted operating Revenue profit % 2010 m m Margin Risk Solutions 927 354 38.2% Legal & Professional 1,691 238 14.1% Total 2,618 592 22.6% 2010 pro forma split of adjusted operating profit The adjusted operating margin of LexisNexis in 2010 was 22.6%, In LexisNexis Legal & Professional, the 2008 pro forma adjusted with Risk Solutions at 38.2% and Legal & Professional at 14.1% operating margin is estimated to have been in the low 20s%.
The overall LexisNexis margin has declined decline in adjusted operating margin to the 2010 level of 14.1% over the last two years from 26.4% in 2008. pro forma has been driven by two main factors: first, a decline in revenues of approximately 3.5% per annum 5% decline in 2009 and In LexisNexis Risk Solutions, the ChoicePoint business represents 2% decline in 2010 : and secondly, growth in costs in the business the majority of the revenue.
When it was acquired in 2008 it had of approximately 2% per annum as restructuring savings and other a pro forma adjusted operating margin of 24% and the existing cost efficiencies have been offset by increased spend on product LexisNexis risk business had an estimated operating margin in the development and sales & marketing.
Going forward, the adjusted mid to high 30s%.
Since then, the combined Risk Solutions margins operating margin is expected to remain broadly at in 2011.
In the have benefited from cost efficiencies derived from the leveraging of medium term, margin is expected to recover gradually.
resources across Risk Solutions, LexisNexis and Reed Elsevier in product technology, operations and other shared services to reach the 2010 pro forma 38%.
Management focus on cost efficiencies will continue.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions LexisNexis Risk Solutions provides data and analytics that enable its customers to evaluate and manage risks associated with transactions and improve performance Risk Solutions is a leading provider of workow solutions support functions including compliance and marketing.
A number that combine proprietary, public and third-party information, of transactional support activities, including some financial processes, analytics and advanced technology.
These solutions assist are provided from a shared services organisation managed by the customers in evaluating, predicting and managing risk LexisNexis Legal & Professional business.
The Legal & Professional and improving operational effectiveness, predominantly business also distributes Risk Solutions products into legal markets in the US.
in the US and internationally.
Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2010 were 927m.
Insurance solutions provides the most comprehensive combination LexisNexis Risk Solutions is headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia of data, analytics and software to property and casualty P&C and has principal operations in Georgia, Florida, Connecticut and personal and commercial insurance carriers in the US to improve critical aspects of their business, from customer acquisition and Ohio, and has 4,400 employees.
underwriting to policy servicing, claims handling and performance LexisNexis Risk Solutions is organised around market facing management.
Information solutions, including the USs most industry sector groups: insurance, government, screening, and comprehensive personal loss history database C. L. U. E. help business services including the receivables management, financial insurers assess risks and provide important inputs to underwriting services and corporate groups, of which insurance is the most policy.
Recently introduced products include Data Pre-Fill, which significant.
These groups are supported by a shared infrastructure provides accurate information directly into the insurance workow providing technology operations, data management, and other on customers, potential customers and their auto ownership, and Current Carrier, which identies current or previous insurance as well Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 23 LexisNexis Risk Solutions as any lapses in coverage.
In 2010, the Insurance Exchange was between insurance companies and rising levels of internet quoting launched enabling the sharing of customer application data among and policy binding.
participating insurance agents, brokers and carriers.
The exchange In screening, demand is driven mainly by employer hiring activity is directed at improving the efficiency and transparency of the and, in receivables management, by levels of consumer debt independent agent-based distribution system for insurance products.
defaults and the prospects of recovering those debts: both of these markets are linked to employment levels in the US.
A number of Government solutions provides investigative solutions to US factors support demand for risk solutions in the financial services federal, state and local law enforcement and government agencies market, including new credit originations, fraud losses and regulatory to help solve cases and identify and locate individuals.
Growth in government markets is driven Government solutions helps mitigate risks of fraud, waste and abuse by the increasing use of data and analytics to combat criminal in government programmes.
activity and fraud, and to address security issues.
The level and timing of demand in this market is influenced by government Screening solutions focuses on employment-related, resident and funding considerations.
volunteer screening, with the largest segment being pre-employment screening services offered across a number of industries including Strategic Priorities retail, recruitment, banking, and professional services.
Receivables Risk Solutions strategic goal is to make businesses and government Management solutions helps debt recovery professionals in more effective, through a better understanding of the risks the segmentation, management and collection of consumer and associated with individuals, other businesses and transactions and business debt.
Financial Services provides financial institutions by providing the tools to help manage those risks.
To achieve this, with risk management, identity verication, fraud detection, credit risk Risk Solutions is focused on: expanding the range of products management, and compliance solutions.
These include know your across the insurance carrier workow: leveraging our advanced customer and anti-money laundering products.
The Corporate technology capabilities: delivering innovative new products and group provides risk and identity management solutions for customers expanding the range of risk management solutions across adjacent in retail, telecommunications and utilities.
The Risk Solutions business markets: and completing the multi-year process of integrating also provides identity verication and risk related information to the the ChoicePoint businesses acquired in September 2008. legal industry.
Business Model, Distribution Channels and Competition During 2010, a particular focus has been on developing a pipeline of Risk Solutions products are predominantly sold on a transactional new solutions for select adjacent markets, sectors and geographies.
basis directly to insurance carriers, other corporations and government entities.
The identity verication and risk evaluation solutions provided by Risk Solutions utilise a comprehensive database of public records Risk Solutions and Verisk sell data and analytics to insurance carriers and proprietary information, which is the largest database of its kind but largely address different activities.
Risk Solutions principal in the US market today.
LexisNexis Accurint is the agship identity competitors include Thomson Reuters and First Data Corporation in verication product, powered by the powerful High Performance a number of segments that utilise public records.
Major competitors Cluster Computing HPCC technology.
This technology enables Risk in pre-employment screening are Altegrity and Symphony Solutions to provide its customers with highly relevant search results Technology Group.
swiftly and to create new, low-cost solutions quickly and efficiently.
Market Opportunities Risk Solutions operates in markets with strong long term underlying growth drivers: insurance underwriting transactions: insurance, healthcare and entitlement fraud: credit defaults and financial fraud: regulatory compliance and due diligence requirements surrounding customer enrolment and employment: and security considerations.
In the insurance segment, growth is supported by increasing transactional activity in the auto and property insurance markets and the increasing adoption by insurance carriers of more sophisticated data and analytics in the prospecting, underwriting and claims evaluation processes, to determine appropriate risk pricing, increase competitiveness and improve operating cost efficiency.
Transactional activity is driven by the levels of insurance quoting as consumers seek better policy terms, stimulated by increasing competition Growth in insurance underwriting transactions Growth in background screens Growth in insurance underwriting Strong employee hiring activity, transactions is supported by particulary in the retail sector, increased consumer demand for and share gains have driven the 11% 11% quotes, encouraged by insurance increase in background screens industry promotion and online quoting 24 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Change at 2010 2009 constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 927 865 7% 6% 6% Revenue Adjusted operating profit Revenue Adjusted operating profit % of Reed Elsevier % of Reed Elsevier m m 927 354 865 378 2008 2009 2010 2010 Risk Solutions 15% Risk Solutions 23% On a pro forma basis 2010 financial performance LexisNexis LexisNexis Risk Solutions grew revenues 6% at constant C. L. U. E. Identity Management currencies, with the insurance segment continuing to Most comprehensive US personal Range of solutions to help clients grow strongly and the more cyclical markets, most notably insurance claims database verify that an identity exists and employment screening, returning to growth.
authenticate individuals The insurance solutions business saw revenue growth of 8% driven by high transactional activity in the auto and property LexisNexis Anti-Money insurance markets and increasing sales of data and analytics LexisNexis 'DWD 3UHOO Laundering Solutions products.
The transactional activity growth reects increasing Tool to automate insurance application Content and information for antilevels of insurance quoting as consumers seek better policy terms process providing critical information money laundering compliance, risk stimulated by sustained promotion by insurance companies and the insurers need to quote and underwrite mitigation and enhanced due diligence a policy growth of internet quoting and policy binding.
A continuous pipeline of new data and analytics products also drives growth, ranging from helping insurers better assess underwriting risk to reducing cost LexisNexis LexisNexis and improving the effectiveness of the insurers workow, from initial Insurance Exchange Employment Screening potential customer contact to policy renewal.
Platform for sharing of customer Leading US provider of application data designed to improve pre-employment screening solutions The more cyclical businesses returned to growth as the US economy and enhance ow of application data recovered.
The employment screening business grew 12%, and documents compared to a decline of 22% in the prior year, as major retailers and other employers increased hiring activity.
Business services LexisNexis saw good growth in the financial services segment with increasing Accurint for Collections Resident Screening demand for anti-money laundering and fraud prevention products.
The leading online US solution to help One of the most comprehensive Demand growth in government markets for identity verication and locate debtors quickly and accurately US multi-family housing screening authentication information and analytics was however held back and collections services somewhat by longer sales cycles reecting the uncertainty over government budgets.
Accurint LE Plus Good growth is expected to continue in insurance with high Integrated suite of tools for US law transactional activity and increasing sales of data and analytics.
enforcement investigators A strong pipeline of product initiatives continues across the Risk Solutions businesses.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 25 LexisNexis Legal & Professional LexisNexis Legal & Professional provides legal, tax, regulatory and news & business information and analysis to legal, corporate, government, accounting and academic markets LexisNexis Legal & Professional is a world leading over the next few years LexisNexis will be introducing products of provider of content and information solutions for legal increasing sophistication and depth for specic customer segments and other corporate markets.
Serving customers in more and to perform specic functions across the legal markets.
Earlier than 100 countries, LexisNexis Legal & Professional in the year, LexisNexis introduced Lexis for Microsoft Ofce, which provides resources and services that inform decisions enables lawyers to conduct their Lexis searches within Microsoft and increase productivity.
applications such as Word and Outlook.
Other product introductions included LexisNexis Verdict & Settlement Analyzer, which provides Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2010 were 1,691m.
data and analytics on previous settlements.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional is headquartered in New York and has principal operations in Ohio and New Jersey in the United States, In the business of law, Marketing & Business solutions provides in London and Paris in Europe, Canada, and in several other countries law rms with practice management solutions, including time and in Africa and Asia Pacic.
billing systems, case management, cost recovery and document management services.
LexisNexis assists law rms in their client LexisNexis Legal & Professional is organised through market facing development through Lawyers.
com, showcasing the qualications businesses, the most significant of which are Research & Litigation and credentials of more than one million lawyers and law rms Solutions and Marketing & Business Solutions in the US and in the US and internationally, and providing law rms with LexisNexis Europe, Middle East, Africa & Australasia and LexisNexis website development, search engine optimisation and other Asia together reported as International outside the US.
are supported by global shared services organisations providing platform and product development, operational and distribution LexisNexis also provides its legal and information services to services, and other support functions.
US government, corporate and academic customers, including news and business information and public records.
In addition to research LexisNexis is a leading provider of legal and business information and litigation services, capabilities for these customers include and analysis to law rms, corporations and government throughout specialist products for corporate counsel focused on regulatory the US.
Electronic information solutions and innovative workow compliance, intellectual property management, and management tools, developed through close collaboration with customers, of external counsel.
help law rms and other legal and business professionals make better informed decisions in the practice of law and in managing In International markets outside the United States, LexisNexis their businesses.
serves legal, corporate, government and academic markets in Europe, Canada, Africa and Asia Pacic with local and international In Research & Litigation solutions, the agship product for legal legal, tax, regulatory and business information.
The most significant research is Lexis.
com, which provides federal and state statutes businesses are in the UK, France, Australia and Canada.
and case law, together with analysis and expert commentaries from sources such as Matthew Bender and Michie and the leading LexisNexis is focused across all its geographies on leveraging best citation service Shepards, which advises on the continuing in class content and its market leading international online product relevance of case law precedents.
Through its suite of litigation platform to deliver innovative electronic information services and services, LexisNexis additionally provides lawyers with tools for workow tools to help legal and business professionals make better electronic discovery, evidence management, case analysis, court informed decisions more efficiently.
Penetration of online information docket tracking, e-ling, expert witness identication and legal services is growing and electronic revenues now account for over document preparation.
LexisNexis also partners with law schools to 50% of LexisNexis total revenues outside the US.
provide services to students as part of their training.
In October 2010, LexisNexis launched Lexis Advance for Solos, which is a legal research tool built specifically for the US solo attorney market and is the first product to be launched on the new LexisNexis research platform.
Both the product and the platform are version 1.0 and Growth in Lawyers.
com trafc Growth in international online legal solutions Increase in consumers searching Growth in international outside US for lawyers online and growth in law online solutions and workflow tools rm online marketing drives growth to help lawyers make better informed 12% 6% in trafc to Lawyers.
com decisions more efficiently 26 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information In the UK, LexisNexis is a leading legal information provider Strategic Priorities in its market.
It delivers a wide array of content and services, LexisNexis Legal & Professionals strategic goal is to enable comprising an unrivalled collection of primary and secondary better legal outcomes and be the leading provider of productivity legislation, case law, expert commentary, and forms and precedents.
enhancing information and information-based workow solutions in Its extensive portfolio includes Halsburys Laws of England, its markets.
To achieve this LexisNexis is focused on: building world Simons Taxes and Butterworths Company Law Service delivered class content: developing next generation product platforms, tools through the UKs agship online product LexisLibrary and in print.
and infrastructure to deliver best-in-class outcomes for legal and business professionals with greater speed and efficiency: building Other electronic products include Lexis Legal Intelligence, a resource client development and practice management tools enabling on legal practice for lawyers, and media monitoring and reputation customers to be more successful in their markets: international management tools for the corporate market such as the NexisDirect expansion and growth of online products and solutions: increasing research tool.
Additionally, LexisNexis provides law rms with LexisNexis presence in emerging markets: and improving practice management solutions.
In 2010, LexisNexis continued to build its UK legal practical guidance service LexisPSL, and now has ten practice areas In the US, the focus is on the continuing development of the next including company commercial, dispute resolution and employment.
generation of legal research and practice solutions and a major LexisPSL provides practical guidance on the application of law to upgrade in operations infrastructure and customer service and complement and integrate with LexisNexis authoritative legal content support platforms to provide an integrated and superior customer and commentaries and legal forms and precedents.
experience across US legal research, litigation services, practice management and client development.
Progressive product In France, LexisNexis is a provider of information to lawyers, notaries introductions over the next few years will combine advanced and courts with JurisClasseur and La Semaine Juridique being the technology with enriched content and sophisticated analytics and principal publications, delivered through lexisnexis.
applications to enable LexisNexis customers to make better legal These content sources are, as in the UK, being combined with new decisions and drive better outcomes for their organisations and content and innovative workow tools to develop practical guidance clients.
A further priority is to complete the transformation of the and practice management solutions.
During 2010, LexisNexis client development business from a legal directory business into divested its legal publishing business in Germany as the investment a web marketing services company.
required to build profitable scale was not considered to have adequate prospective returns.
The news and business activities Outside the US, LexisNexis is focused on growing online services in Germany were retained.
and developing further high quality actionable content and workow tools, including the development of practical guidance and practice Market Opportunities management applications.
Additionally, LexisNexis is focusing on Longer term growth in legal and regulatory markets worldwide the expansion of its activities in emerging markets.
is driven by increasing levels of legislation, regulation, regulatory complexity and litigation, and an increasing number of lawyers.
Business Model, Distribution Channels and Competition Additional market opportunities are presented by the increasing LexisNexis Legal & Professional products and services are generally demand for online information solutions and practice management sold directly to law rms and to corporate, government and academic tools that improve the quality and productivity of research, deliver customers on a paid subscription basis, with subscriptions with law better legal outcomes, and improve business performance.
rms often under multi year contracts.
Notwithstanding this, legal activity and legal information markets are also influenced by economic conditions and corporate activity, Principal competitors for LexisNexis in US legal markets are West as has been seen most recently with the dampening impact on Thomson Reuters, CCH Wolters Kluwer and BNA, and Bloomberg demand of the recent global recession and the somewhat subdued and Factiva News Corporation in news and business information.
environment that has followed in North America and in Europe.
Competitors in litigation solutions also include software companies.
Major international competitors include Thomson Reuters, Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 27
