Directors Report: Business review Group Overview Extending our global network What we do We have to constantly evolve to meet our customers needs.
The world of business is constantly property managers and business do best, which is run their business changing and so are we.
Our customers want meetingand work their way.
Every modern we were an innovative provider of rooms, workstations, coffee lounges, international business, large or small, serviced of ces because that was what video-communications facilities and all must be agile, able to make decisions our customers needed.
Yet work today the latest IT and telecommunications quickly, change direction or shift is radically different to the early 1990s.
We provide bookkeeping and resources at short notice.
As a result we have to constantly evolve payroll services, transcription services In todays ever more complex, ever more to meet the ever changing needs of and help our customers purchase a wide unpredictable, ever more interconnected ourcustomers.
range of ancillary business products and world, Regus helps them to do just that.
Sometimes they even want us Yes, we still rent serviced of ces.
But to tell them what they need.
thats an increasingly small part of what we do now.
What we provide is the Above all, we take care of the everyday means the workspaces from which details of running a business so that our our customers can do whatever it is customers, be they the very largest they want to do.
We are facilitators, global corporate or an entrepreneur with concierges, technical support teams, an idea, can concentrate on what they What our customers say Our unrivalled customer service is driven across everything we do.
Juniper Yell CAPCO Health Group Inc The Network Collective Founded in 1996, Juniper Yell is a leading international Toronto-based CAPCO The Network Collective is an currently employs more than directories company that offers Health Group, Inc. a provider independent telecommunications 7,000 workers in nearly 50 quality business leads and of healthcare services in the procurement consultancy.
Since its inception, marketing solution to small North American medical works with major UK and Juniper has been at the forefront and medium sized enterprises insurance community, has multinational organisations to of network innovation providing in the UK, US, Spain and parts been a Regus client since 2000 help them achieve the best solutions that solve the most of Latin America.
and has started to use Regus possible results through complex networking problems.
virtual of ces to pursue new their telecommunications business opportunities.
With Regus we are no longer For as little as a few hundred Our team travels a lot and its With Regus we are far more on the real estate roller coaster dollars a month virtual of ces important for us to have a high cost effective, lower risk, exible where we are constantly allow us to move into additional quality base whilst on the road.
and sustainable but will, over ramping up and ramping down markets such as Mexico and Regus help us be as productive time, increase productivity as our portfolio.
We can now Central America.
as we can in a cost effective way.
less time is spent commuting acquire just what we need, and working in poorly equipped when we need it for as long places such as hotels and cafes.
as we need it without risk or excessive costs.
John Waterhouse, Ernie Gershon, President Coleen Hurley, Director of Simon Taylor, Founder and CEO of and COO of CAPCO corporate real estate, Juniper Head of Property, Yell The Network Collective For more information visit www.
com 02 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
