Directors Report: Corporate Governance Director statements The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Statement of Directors responsibilities of the corporate and financial information included on the in respect of the annual report and Companys website.
The legislation in Jersey and Luxembourg governing the preparation and dissemination of financial financial statements statements may differ from legislation by jurisdiction.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors who held of ce at the date of approval of this and the Group and parent company financial statements in Directors Report con rm that: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys financial statements in accordance with Luxembourg Generally auditor is aware of that information.
Accepted Accounting Practice and applicable law.
These annual accounts have been approved by the Directors Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial of Regus plc.
The Directors con rm that the annual accounts statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair have been prepared in accordance with applicable law and view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and their regulations and that they include a fair review of the development pro t or loss for the period.
and performance of the business and the position of the parent In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial company and the undertakings included in the consolidation statements, the Directors are required to: taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: We, the Directors of the Company, con rm that to the best of our knowledge: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the financial statements prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair For the Group financial statements, state whether they view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t or have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the by the EU: consolidation as a whole: and For the parent company financial statements, state whether The Directors Report, including content contained by applicable Luxembourg accounting standards have been reference, includes a fair review of the development and followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and performance of the business and the position of the Issuer explained in the parent company financial statements: and and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis and uncertainties that they face.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the parent company and Group will continue in business.
By order of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the companies transactions and which disclose with reasonable accuracy Mark Dixon Stephen Gleadle at any time the financial position of the parent company and Chief Executive Of cer Chief Financial Of cer to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with applicable law and regulations.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, a Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
24 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
