Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder and Other Information Directors Report: Corporate Governance Board of directors b, c a, b, c Douglas Sutherland Lance Browne The board has a Chairman Senior Independent blend of experience Douglas was appointed Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director of Regus on 27 August 2008 Lance Browne was appointed a Nondemonstrating and was appointed Non-Executive Executive Director of Regus on 27 August both depth and Chairman on 18 May 2010: he also 2008 and became Senior Independent global perspective serves as Chairman of the Nomination Director on 18 May 2010.
Douglas was Chief Financial Chairman of Standard Chartered Bank Of cer of Skype during its acquisition by China Limited, Chairman of China eBay in October 2005 and was also Chief Goldmines plc, Non-Executive Vice Financial Of cer at SecureWave during Chairman of Earthport plc and Chairman its acquisition by PatchLink in July 2007. of the IMI China Advisory Board.
He was Prior to this, Douglas enjoyed a career previously China Senior Advisor to the City with Arthur Andersen, serving as a of London, Non-Executive Director of IMI Partner with management responsibilities plc and Director of Business Development for over a decade.
Douglas is currently at Powergen International HK.
also a Director of HosCo Kliniken S.. r. l. a, b, c Alex Sulkowski and HosCo Gruppe S.. r. l. Independent Non-Executive Director Mark Dixon Alex was appointed Non-Executive Chief Executive Of cer Director of Regus on 1 June 2010: Chief Executive and founder, Mark Dixon is he also serves as Chairman of the one of Europes best known entrepreneurs.
Alex has over 30 years Since founding Regus in Brussels, Belgium of experience in international finance in 1989, he has achieved a formidable structures, private equity, tax advice and reputation for leadership and innovation.
He is currently the Managing Prior to Regus he established businesses Director of Third Millennium Investments in the retail and wholesale food industry.
SA and serves on the board of Taxand, Recipient of several awards for enterprise, the largest global network of independent Mark has revolutionised the way business tax advisers.
Prior to this Alex enjoyed a approaches its property needs with his career with Arthur Andersen, responsible vision of the future of work.
for the Belgium and Luxembourg tax practices, prior to joining Ernst and Young Stephen Gleadle in 2002 as the Partner responsible for Chief Financial Of cer the Luxembourg tax practice and then Stephen was appointed Chief Financial serving as the Managing Partner of Atoz Of cer of Regus in 2005.
Previously he Tax Advisors from 2004 through 2009. served as Chief Financial Of cer for a, b, c LastMinute.
com plc, Europes leading Elmar Heggen independent online travel and leisure Independent Non-Executive Director group.
Prior to this, he served as Group Elmar was appointed Non-Executive Finance Director and Company Secretary Director of Regus on 1 June 2010 and at Synstar plc, a pan-European provider became Chairman of the Remuneration of IT infrastructure availability services.
Elmar Stephens extensive experience also has extensive management experience and includes financial management positions is currently Chief Financial Of cer and Head at Tarmac plc, NFC plc and Mars of the Corporate Centre at RTL Group, the Confectionery.
He quali ed with leading European entertainment network, Price Waterhouse.
where he has held various roles since 2000.
Elmar is currently responsible for Finance, Legal, Strategy and Business Development, as well as RTL Groups operations in the Netherlands, France radio, Luxembourg, Spain and UFA Sports.
Elmar began his career at the Felix Schoeller Group, becoming Vice President & General Manager of Felix Schoeller Digital Imaging in the UK in 1999.
Notes a Member of the Remuneration Committee b Member of the Nomination Committee c Member of the Audit Committee Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 www.
