Below: Under a new collaboration agreement, Biomet 3i will Below: Renishaw has developed innovative Raman market Renishaw dental scanners, in-lab milling machines spectroscopy technologies and methods to help solve 9 and 3i incise dental CAD software to dental laboratories difficult forensic problems, including the analysis of forged globally, with crown and bridge dental frameworks also documents and investigations of the chemical composition manufactured and supplied through a joint collaboration.
The image shows StreamLine Plus imaging of an Ecstasy tablet.
STAFF I am very grateful to all our employees worldwide for their loyalty and commitment, especially after the unprecedented difficulties and challenges which were successfully overcome last year.
I now look forward to a more stable business environment in which our employees will continue to play a full and important part in generating a prosperous future for the Company.
DIRECTORS In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the directors are standing for re-election at the annual general meeting, with the exception of Joe McGeehan.
Joe has been a director since January 2001 and having completed nine years service, latterly as the senior independent director, will not be seeking re-election.
Joe has contributed enormously to the activities of the Board during his period of appointment and his commitment has been valued greatly.
On behalf of the Board, I should like to thank Joe for his efforts and contribution to Renishaw.
Bill Whiteley has been appointed the senior independent director with effect from 26th July 2010. DIVIDEND Your directors are recommending a final dividend of 13.6p per share, giving a total dividend for the year of 17.6p, compared with 7.76p in 2009 covered 1.8 times by adjusted earnings per share for the year payable on 18th October 2010 to WORLD LEADING EPILEPSY SURGERY CENTRE shareholders on the share register on 17th September 2010.
USES THE neuro | mate SYSTEM FOR THE PROSPECTS IMPLANTATION OF INTRACEREBRAL ELECTRODES It is clear from the strong second half performance that the Epilepsy is a disorder characterised by uncontrolled electric discharges Company is showing real momentum going into the new within the brain that affects up to 1% of the population and is the financial year, highlighted by our record order book for the start second most common cause of mental health disability 1.
In children for whom medical management fails adequately to control the disease, of a new year of 23.3m, compared with 9.7m at the start of the disabling symptoms of the disease, the severe side effects of the the previous year.
medication and the social stigma create considerable challenges to Whilst economic uncertainties remain, we have a robust leading independent and satisfying lives.
international business model that continues to spread its The neurosurgeons at the Claudio Munari Epilepsy and Parkinson Surgery applications into new markets.
Our particular optimism for Centre of the Niguarda Hospital in Milan, Italy, use the Renishaw neuro | mate stereotactic system in  SEEG procedures to further developments in the expanding range of healthcare define the epileptogenic zone, increasing accuracy and reducing surgery time, offerings, together with our continued investment in new with a very low complication rate.
The neuro | mate simplifies navigation and products in our traditional markets, underpins our confidence enables the choice of virtually any trajectory, with a high level of safety.
Dr. Francesco Cardinale is passionate about disseminating his robotic stereotactic technique, Surgery has long been shown in controlled randomized clinical trials to be superior over medical therapy in clinical and psychosocial outcomes 1, not to mention the economic and social impact of a lifetime coping with severe impairment.
Isnt it time that surgery became an early alternative, especially for young children who do not respond satisfactorily to Sir David R McMurtry, CBE, RDI, FREng, CEng, FIMechE one or two antiepileptic drugs?
Chairman & Chief Executive 1 Wiebe S, Blume WT, Girvin JP, Eliasziw M. A randomized controlled trial of surgery for temporal-lobe epilepsy.
The New England Journal of Medicine.
28th July 2010 Annual report and accounts 2010
