Directors report 19 The directors have pleasure in presenting their 37th Annual There has been no change in the above holdings in the period 1st report, together with the audited financial statements for the year July 2010 to 28th July 2010. ended 30th June 2010 as set out on pages 26 to 54.
In the spirit of best practice, and in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code formerly the PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Combined Code, all directors will retire and, being eligible, offer The principal activities of the Group during the year were the themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting AGM design, manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology to be held on 14th October 2010, except for Joe McGeehan who and inspection equipment, and products for the healthcare has been a director for over nine years and is no longer regarded sector, including Raman spectroscopy and dental systems and as independent under the provisions of the UK Corporate neurosurgical products.
Joe McGeehan will retire from the Board with A review of the business and likely future developments is given effect from the AGM.
Biographical details of the directors are in the Chairmans statement and the Financial review.
Segmental shown on pages 4 and 5. information is given in note 2 to the financial statements.
Sir David McMurtry as one party and D J Deer and Mrs M E Deer The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors report to as the other party have entered into an agreement relating to the include a business review.
Certain information that fulfils these way each party would vote his or her shares if requested by requirements and those of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure the other party to do so.
This agreement continues until 25th Rules and Transparency Rules, which require the Annual report May 2013. to include a management report, can be found in the Financial The rules on appointment, reappointment and retirement by review on pages 10 to 14 and the description of corporate social rotation of the directors and their powers are set out in the responsibility activities on pages 15 to 18, as well as in this Companys Articles of Association.
There are no powers given to Directors report.
the directors that are regarded as unusual.
For the purposes of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules which require a corporate governance statement to be included DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS INDEMNITY INSURANCE in the Directors report, the Companys corporate governance Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Companys practices are set out in the Directors corporate governance Articles of Association provide for the directors and officers of report set out on pages 21 and 22, which forms part of this the Company to be appropriately indemnified.
maintains insurance for the directors and officers of the Company for their acts and omissions during the performance of For the purposes of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, their duties.
certain information required to be provided to the shareholders is also contained in the Directors remuneration report set out on SHARE CAPITAL page 23.
Details of the Companys share capital, including rights and obligations, is given in note 21 to the financial statements.
The There are no persons with whom the Company has contractual Company is not a party to any significant agreements that or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the might terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
shareholders authority for the purchase of its own shares was in Further information is also available on the Companys website: existence during the 2010 financial year.
did not purchase any of its own shares during that time.
DIVIDENDS AUDITORS The directors propose a final dividend of 9,899,242 or 13.6p A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the per share 2009 nil which, together with the interim dividend Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
of 2,911,542 or 4.00p per share 2009 2,816,671 or 7.76p per share makes a total amount of dividends for the year of DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The directors who held office at the date of approval of this 12,810,783 or 17.6p per share, compared with 2,816,671 or 7.76p per share for the previous year.
Executive directors holding Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys 36,491,232 shares waived their entitlement to receive the 2009 interim dividend.
auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the The directors who served during the year and their interests in Companys auditors are aware of that information.
the share capital of the Company with the equivalent number of ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING voting rights, at the beginning and the end of the year, were:- The notice convening the AGM and an explanation of the Ordinary shares of 20p each resolutions sought are set out on pages 55 to 58.
At the meeting, 2010 2009 the Company will be seeking shareholder approval for, amongst Sir David McMurtry 26,377,291 26,377,291 other things: D J Deer 12,233,040 12,533,040 i the ability to make market purchases of its own ordinary B R Taylor 10,147 10,147 shares, up to a total of 10% of the issued share capital: and A C G Roberts 5,165 5,165 ii the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association, G McFarland 2,000 - primarily to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 J P McGeehan 900 900 and the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
An explanation of the T D Snowden 5,000 5,000 main changes between the proposed and the existing Articles of Association is set out on pages 57 to 58 Appendix 2 of the T B Garthwaite 3,000 3,000 notice of AGM.
W H Whiteley 3,765 1,690 The directors consider that all the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole All the above holdings were beneficially held with the exception and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of 2,434,411 shares 2009 2,434,411 shares which were nonof the resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their beneficially held by D J Deer but in respect of which he has own holdings.
Annual report and accounts 2010 20 Directors report continued Assistant Chief Executive presents the interim results and final results SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Apart from the shareholdings and corresponding voting rights of respectively, to all such employees following their publication.
Sir David McMurtry and John Deer 36.2% and 16.8% respectively, Employees are encouraged to be involved in the Companys the following voting rights have been notified to the directors, which performance through various methods, including a staff suggestion represent 3% or more of the voting rights attached to issued shares in scheme under which awards are given for innovative suggestions for the Company, as at 28th July 2010: improving the way in which the Company undertakes its business, an % of issued Number inventors award scheme for individuals who are named as inventors share capital of shares on patent applications that are subsequently granted and an annual performance bonus programme which is dependent upon individual BlackRock Inc 5.01% 3,649,103 performance and the performance of the Company.
Capital Research and Employee work forums were set up at each of its UK sites during the Management Company 4.76% 3,465,730 previous financial year and employee work forum representatives were Standard Life Investments elected to liaise with management on employee matters.
4.94% 3,593,580 continue to be active at some of the UK sites.
Further information on employee matters is contained in the description of corporate social responsibility activities set out on pages 15 to 18.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT DONATIONS The Group has a continuing commitment to a high level of research During the year the Group made charitable donations of 47,000 and development.
The expenditure involved is directed towards the 2009 91,000.
The Group organises its charitable donations by research and development of new products relating to metrology, two methods: firstly, by allocating a fund of money to its Charities encompassing computer aided design and manufacturing systems, Committee: and secondly, through direct grants as decided by the and relating to healthcare products, encompassing Raman Board.
The Charities Committee meets at least four times a year to spectroscopy systems, dental systems and certain areas in the consider all applications for donations from local groups in the area.
donations policy is to provide funds to local causes or local branches of CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY national groups, with focus on youth projects.
Further information is set The Company has a variety of payment terms: out on pages 15 to 18.
No political donations were made during the year 2009 nil.
Contracts have been negotiated with a number of suppliers and payments are made in accordance with the terms of these contracts.
Signed on behalf of the Board Payment terms are disclosed on the Companys standard purchase order forms.
The Companys policy is to ensure that all invoices are settled within 60 days of the receipt and agreement of a valid N Tang and complete invoice.
Secretary 28th July 2010 Two payment runs are made each month.
Wherever possible, payments are made using the Bankers Automated Clearing Service.
Renishaw plc Typically, the Company settles all due invoices in the calendar month Registered number.
The number of days purchasing outstanding at the end of June 2010 was approximately 30 days 2009 30 days.
EMPLOYEES The maintenance of a highly skilled workforce is essential to the future of the business and the directors place great emphasis on the continuation of the Companys approved training policy.
Health and safety matters are given special attention by the directors and well established systems of safety management are in place throughout the Group to safeguard employees, customers and visitors.
Employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities irrespective of race, colour, religion, sex, age, disability or sexual orientation.
Proper consideration is given to applications for employment from disabled people who are employed whenever suitable vacancies arrive.
Opportunities are given to employees who become disabled, to continue in their employment or to be trained for other positions.
Regular contact is maintained with all employees based in Gloucestershire through monthly communications meetings and departmental channels.
In addition, in February and August, the Renishaw plc
