4 Directors The board of directors John Deer, Deputy Chairman, age 72, trained as a mechanical engineer and worked for Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, from 1960 to 1974.
He was Managing Director of Renishaw from 1974 to 1989, primarily involved in the commercial direction of the Group, with particular emphasis on marketing and the establishment of the Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries in the USA, Ireland, Japan, Germany, France and Italy.
John and Sir David McMurtry were members of the four-man team of Renishaw engineers honoured with the MacRobert Award in 1987.
John is responsible for group manufacturing and is chairman of the overseas marketing subsidiaries.
Ben Taylor, CEng, FIMechE, Assistant Chief Executive, age 61, has been involved in the field of metrology all his working life, after graduating in mechanical engineering and design from Pennsylvania State University.
Before joining Renishaw Inc as President in 1985, he was the Director of Engineering at Sheffield Measurement, USA.
Ben was appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in 1987 and is responsible for group marketing, international operations, human resources and group quality.
Ben also reports to the board on corporate social responsibility matters.
He serves on various metrology committees and other professional associations and is a Chartered Engineer, a fellow of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers and a Liveryman of The Worshipful Company of Scientific Instrument Makers.
Allen Roberts, FCA, Group Finance Director, age 61, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Before joining Renishaw in 1979, he was employed for 11 years by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
He was appointed a director in 1980.
Allen heads group finance, business systems and Wotton Travel Ltd. Sir David McMurtry, CBE, RDI, FREng, CEng, FIMechE, Geoff McFarland, Group Engineering Director, age 42, has a Chairman and Chief Executive, age 70, was employed by Rollsdegree in mechanical engineering, and is a visiting professor Royce plc, Bristol, for 17 years, latterly holding the positions of at Bath University and an honorary professor at Heriot-Watt Deputy Chief Designer and Assistant Chief of Engine Design of University.
After working in the medical device and electronic all Rolls-Royce engines manufactured at Filton in Bristol.
After manufacturing sectors, Geoff joined Renishaws research inventing the original probe in the early 1970s, Sir David founded facility in Edinburgh in 1994, before moving to Renishaws Renishaw in 1973 with John Deer.
His CBE was awarded for headquarters to become Director and General Manager of the services to Science and Technology and he was appointed CMM product line.
Geoff was appointed to the Board in July a Royal Designer for Industry RDI in 1989.
He heads the group engineering function and is also Professor of Huddersfield University and has been awarded responsible for group IP and patents.
Geoff is a non-executive an honorary Doctorate of Engineering at the University of director of Delcam plc.
Birmingham and honorary degrees of Doctor of Engineering at Heriot-Watt University, the University of Bristol and the University of Bath.
He has also been awarded an honorary fellowship at Cardiff University.
Sir David is a Chartered Engineer, a Fellow of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers, a Fellow of the American Society of Manufacturing Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
In addition to his role as Chairman and Chief Executive, Sir David also has responsibility for group technology and is chair of the Nomination committee.
Joe McGeehan, CBE, FIEE, FREng, non-executive director, Executive board age 64, is Managing Director of Toshiba Research Ltd: In addition to all executive directors with Sir David McMurtry Telecommunications Research Laboratory, Bristol.
After obtaining as Chair the degrees of BEng and PhD in electrical and electronic engineering from the University of Liverpool, he spent several years involved in industrial research before entering academia.
Since 1985, he has held a number of senior positions at the University of Bristol.
In 2003 he was awarded the degree of DEng by the University of Liverpool for his major contribution to mobile communications research, much of which has formed the basis of international standards.
He is a Fellow of the Institution of Electrical Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Joe was appointed a director in January 2001.
Terry Garthwaite, FCA, non-executive director, age 63, is a chartered accountant, who after qualifying, joined Price Waterhouse in London.
He held a number of senior finance positions within Foseco plc including Director of Corporate From left to right Finance, prior to spending eleven years as Group Finance Director at the multinational engineering group Senior plc.
He is Leo Somerville President, Renishaw Inc a non-executive director of Brammer plc and Wilmington Group Norma Tang Corporate Lawyer and Company Secretary plc.
Terry was appointed a director of Renishaw plc in July 2003 Dave Wallace Director & General Manager and is chair of the Audit committee.
Tim Prestidge Director & General Manager David Snowden, FCA, non-executive director, age 73, was a partner at KPMG for 25 years, latterly acting as Senior Partner International sales and marketing board for KPMG in South Wales.
David was appointed a director of the Company in July 2003 and is the chair of the In addition to the executive directors Ben Taylor and Allen Remuneration committee.
Roberts with John Deer as Chair Bill Whiteley, FCMA, the senior independent non-executive director, age 61 was, until his retirement in May 2008, the chief executive of Rotork plc, where he had been a director for 24 years.
During this period, Bill managed Rotork plcs business during a period of major expansion, both geographically and in product lines.
Bill is chairman of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc and Hill and Smith Holdings plc and a non-executive director of Brammer plc.
He has been awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Engineering at the University of Bath.
Bill was appointed a director of the Company in June 2008.
Audit committee Nomination committee Terry Garthwaite Chair with effect from 26th July 2010 From left to right Joe McGeehan Sir David McMurtry Chair Jean-Marc Meffre Managing Director, Renishaw Hong Kong Limited David Snowden Terry Garthwaite Bill Whiteley Joe McGeehan Leo Somerville President, Renishaw Inc David Snowden Rhydian Pountney General Manager, ROW Sales Remuneration committee Bill Whiteley with effect from 26th July 2010 Marc Saunders General Manager, Group Marketing David Snowden Chair Services and UK Sales Terry Garthwaite Rainer Lotz Managing Director, Renishaw GmbH Joe McGeehan Bill Whiteley Masumu Oishi President, Renishaw KK Annual report and accounts 2010
