08 Measuring achievement in 2010 The board uses 16 key performance indicators KPIs to judge progress towards strategic objectives.
They are grouped within three categories, Colleagues, Customers and Shareholders.
The groups progress against these KPIs is shown opposite.
Explanation of 2010 KPIs Cost savings are savings delivered in the year related to permanent cost reductions.
Cash conversion targets as percentage of Colleague engagement Your Voice Counts is an employee operating profit is operating cash flow expressed as a percentage engagement survey and represents the aggregate engagement of APBITA.
Gross capex as percentage of depreciation means cash Sales colleague retention is the reciprocal of total sales heads capital additions net of proceeds from disposals expressed leaving in the year as a percentage of the sales head count at the as a percentage of depreciation.
Service colleague retention is the reciprocal of total service heads leaving in the year as a percentage of the service head count at the beginning of the year.
Business overview H&S lost time through accidents LTA is defined as a work-related We provide on pages 10 and 11 an overview of the group by injury or illness to an employee which results in them being absent division, activity and country.
Pest Control & Hygiene UK & from work for one day shift or more this excludes the day shift in Ireland were merged with effect from 1 July 2010 and this change which the accident occurred.
The number of lost time accidents is reflected in these charts.
On 1 January 2011 the Textiles & is expressed as a rate per 100,000 standard working hours.
Hygiene businesses in Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden excluding the Medical business, Poland, Portugal and Spain also Gross sales percentage of opening portfolio are additions to the merged with Pest Control.
While these changes are not reflected portfolio new business and additions to existing business but here they will be shown in the 2011 Annual Report.
excluding price increases expressed as a percentage of the opening portfolio.
Customer retention percentage is the reciprocal of total terminations reductions and terminations expressed as a percentage of opening portfolio.
Net gain percentage of opening portfolio is the movement in the portfolio expressed as a percentage of the opening portfolio.
State of Service is the total number of service visits performed divided by the total number of visits due.
Customer Voice Counts i. e. net promoter score is measured by the average net promoter score rating across all branches in the business.
Organic revenue growth is revenue growth excluding the effect of acquisitions.
acquisitions is the year-on-year increase in total revenue expressed as a percentage of the previous years revenue.
Both measures are at constant exchange rates.
APBITA margin % is the adjusted profit before interest, tax and amortisation APBITA expressed as a percentage of total revenue.
Debtors days sales outstanding DSO are trade debtors gross of provisions calculated on the exhaust basis i. e. going back over the relevant number of preceding days invoicing until the debt balance is zero.
The number of days this takes is the debtor days.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
