22 Board of directors John McAdam Alan Brown Peter Bamford Richard Burrows Chairman Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Aged 62.
Appointed Chairman in May Aged 54.
Appointed a director in July Aged 65.
Chairman of United Utilities Management Accountant.
Chairman of SuperGroup plc and Appointed a director in January 2008.
Group plc and non-executive director Chief Executive in April 2008.
Formerly Chairman of British American Tobacco of Rolls-Royce PLC, J Sainsbury plc and A non-executive director of Intertek Chief Marketing Officer and director of plc.
Non-executive director of Carlsberg Sara Lee Corporation USA.
Formerly Group plc from 15 April 2011.
Formerly Vodafone Group plc having held senior A S Denmark.
Formerly Governor of Chief Executive of Imperial Chemical Chief Financial Officer of ICI 2005-2008 executive roles at Vodafone, including as the Bank of Ireland and joint Chief Industries plc ICI from 2003 to 2008 prior to which he held various corporate Chief Executive of Northern Europe, Executive and latterly a non-executive and prior to joining ICI in 1997, held a and operational roles in the Unilever Middle East and Africa operations and director of Pernod Ricard SA France number of positions at Unilever, from group 1980-2005 including Senior Vice Chief Executive of Vodafone UK.
and Chairman and Chief Executive of 1974, within its Birds Eye Walls, President Finance, Unilever Food and An independent non-executive director.
Irish Distillers and a director of CityJet Quest International and Unichema Beverage Europe and latterly Executive Limited Ireland and Mey ki Turkey.
Alan Giles Peter Long Andy Ransom William Rucker Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Director Non-Executive Director Aged 56.
Appointed a director in May Aged 58.
Chairman of Fat Face World Ltd, Accountant.
Appointed a director in executive director in May 2008.
Appointed a director in February 2008. a director of the Office of Fair Trading and October 2002.
Chief Executive of TUI Responsible for the Pest Control division Chief Executive of Lazard & Co. Ltd in of Book Tokens Limited.
Formerly non-executive and for the Ambius division and the group the UK, Deputy Chairman of Lazard LLC Executive of HMV Group plc, Managing director of Debenhams plc and Chief legal function and previously responsible and Chairman of Quintain Estates and Director of Waterstones, director of Executive of Sunworld Ltd.
The senior for the groups Asia-Pacific businesses.
Joined Lazard in 1987 WH Smith PLC, non-executive director independent non-executive director.
Formerly a senior executive at ICI from Arthur Andersen.
An independent of Somerfield plc and Wilson Bowden plc.
1987-2008 where he was responsible non-executive director.
for a number of group functions and international businesses including ICIs regional and industrial divisions.
Duncan Tatton-Brown Jeremy Townsend Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Aged 46.
Appointed a director in July Appointed a director in August 2010.
Chief Financial Officer of Fitness Formerly Finance Director of Mitchells First Group Ltd.
Formerly Group Finance & Butlers plc, having been previously an Director of Kingfisher plc, having been executive at J Sainsbury plc where he previously Finance Director of B&Q plc held various finance roles including and Chief Financial Officer of Virgin Group Financial Controller, Corporate Entertainment Group.
An independent Finance Director and Strategy Director.
Prior to Sainsburys, he was employed by Ernst & Young, working in audit and corporate finance.
Paul Griffiths Company Secretary Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
