Governance 23 Senior management Xuemei Bennink-Bai Bryan Kinsella Divisional Managing Director, Asia Pacific Chief Information Officer Aged 44.
Formerly Senior Vice President and Chief of Unilever Food Solutions China and a member of the Unilever Food Information Officer of the Society of International  Board for Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Prior to this she tions and Aeronautics having previously held board positions at held a wide range of positions with Unilever in general management, Vertex part of United Utilities, the Computer Science Corporation sales, project management and research in China, Vietnam, the and executive roles at ASDA and International Computers.
Martin Sawkins Mike Brown Group HR Director Divisional Managing Director, Facilities Services Aged 55.
Previously held positions as Group Age 54.
Formerly Group Director HR Director, HomeServe plc: Group HR Director, The AA Limited and of Operations and prior to that CEO of Integrated Services at Serco HR Director, Centrica Home and Road Services.
Prior to this held a Group plc.
Prior to this spent most of his career with BOC Group number of senior positions in HR and operations in British Aerospace holding managing director positions in Europe, China and South East and United Biscuits.
Originally qualified as a Chartered Accountant and Peter Slator has also worked for Nestle Ltd and GKN.
A non-executive director Divisional Managing Director, Textiles & Hygiene Services of N G Bailey Ltd.
Appointed Divisional Managing Director in April 2009.
Previously worked for 28 years with Unilever, having been Executive Chairman in Australasia and prior to that the Group Head of IT and before that Managing Director of the Foods business in Japan.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting group and parent company financial statements in accordance with records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards detect fraud and other irregularities.
and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsiUnder company law the directors must not approve the financial ble for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on company financial statements, the directors are required to: the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: legislation in other jurisdictions.
m ake judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Each of the directors, whose name and functions are set out on f or the group financial statements, state whether they have been page 22 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the f or the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the issuer and to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and company financial statements: and b the directors report set out on pages 24 to 28 includes a fair review p repare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless of the development and performance of the business and the position it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken company will continue in business.
as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
