24 Directors report Principal activities, business review and Substantial interests in shares and key performance indicators share capital The company is the holding company of a group which through The company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled its operating businesses in some 50 countries provides a range of, by another corporation or by an individual and there are no principally, business to business support services.
A summary arrangements in operation which may at a subsequent date result description of the groups principal activities is given on pages 10 in a change in control of the company.
The principal subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures shareholders shown below had indicated that they were interested of the company are shown on page 102.
The development and in 3% or more of the companys issued share capital and were not performance of the business during the year, the position of the subject to the 5% disclosure exemption under the Disclosure and group at the end of the financial year and expected future Transparency Directive.
There were no movements in the developments are discussed in the Chairman and Chief Executives companys ordinary shares during the period.
statement on pages 01 to 05, the strategy update on pages 06 and Authority for the company to make purchases of its own shares 07, the key performance indicators on pages 08 and 09 and the of up to 181,483,101 was obtained at the annual general meeting business overview on pages 10 and 11, the business review, on 14 May 2010.
No purchases of its shares were made by the including the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group company during 2010.
The authority is normally renewable on pages 12 to 18 and the financial review on pages 19 to 21. annually and approval will be sought from shareholders at the 2011 annual general meeting to renew the authority for a further year.
Results and dividend The companys share capital during the year consisted of ordinary The consolidated profit before income tax for 2010 was 14.5m shares of 1p each.
There were 1,814,831,011 shares in issue throughthe tax on this was 34.8m.
Net consolidated capital employed out the year.
Each ordinary share other than treasury shares, which is 125.2 m compared to 150.1 m last year.
have no voting rights carries the right to vote at a general meeting of the company.
At any general meeting, a resolution put to the The company has not paid a dividend since the interim payment vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a in respect of 2008.
The board continues to keep dividends under poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every member who is review and is committed to their resumption when i the companys present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the company cash flow is robust and ii when the foundations of sustainable and shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in profitable growth have been established in all of the companys person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which principal businesses.
Only one of these criteria has been met they are a holder.
in the financial year to 31 December 2010.
of Nature of Substantial shareholding % ordinary shares holding Invesco Ltd 15.38 279,128,559 Direct Schroders plc 11.99 217,591,010 Indirect Aviva plc and subsidiaries 6.90 125,188,391 Direct Orbis Holdings Limited 7.02 127,347,545 Indirect i Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.00 90,790,221 Indirect ii Blackrock Inc 4.96 90,090,116 Indirect AXA SA 4.80 87,093,421 Indirect Legal and General Group plc 3.99 72,494,739 Indirect i Ameriprise Financial Inc includes Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Ltd ii Blackrock Inc includes Blackrock Investment Management UK Ltd Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Governance 25 24 Principal activities, 25 Directors and 25 Directors interests 26 A uditors and auditor 27 P olicy in relation 27 Research and business review re-election process25 Directors indemnity independence to payment of development and KPIs25 Corporate and insurance27 Directors suppliers27 Financial 24 Results and dividend governance 26 I nterests of directors statement on the 27 Other instruments 24 Substantial interests 25 Statement of in contracts disclosure of performance areas28 EU Takeovers in shares and share directors 26 Related party information to 27 Communities and Directive capital responsibilities transactions auditors charitable 28 Annual general 25 Electronic 25 Corporate 26 Going concern 27 P ost balance sheet donations meeting communications responsibility 26 Employees events 27 Key contracts There are no special control rights or restrictions on transfer or Directors interests limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and no requirements The interests of the directors and their families in the share capital for the prior approval of any transfers.
No person holds securities of the company on 1 January 2010, or their date of appointment if in the company carrying special rights with regard to control of the later, and at 31 December 2010 are set out below.
The company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 of securities or on voting rights.
Beneficial Beneficial Interests Interests Rentokil Initial plc ordinary shares of 1p each number number John McAdam 20,800 20,800 Electronic communications Alan Brown 20,800 20,800 In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the company will Andy Ransom 52,000 52,000 distribute its printed annual report only to shareholders who have Jeremy Townsend nil nil indicated to the company that they wish to receive it in that form.
The company will periodically canvas new shareholders on how Peter Bamford 38,000 38,000 they wish to receive their shareholder communications and did Richard Burrows 25,000 25,000 so in April 2010.
Further information on shareholder services is Alan Giles 12,000 12,000 available on page 112 and the inside back cover.
Peter Long remuneration committee chairman and senior independent director 2,000 2,000 William Rucker 100,000 100,000 Directors and re-election process Duncan Tatton-Brown audit committee chairman 12,000 12,000 Biographical information on the current directors of the company, Michael Murray resigned 31 March 2010 N A 52,000 including their ages and their dates of appointment, is shown on page 22 and is also set out in the notes accompanying the notice Total 282,600 334,600 of the annual general meeting.
Michael Murray resigned as a director and chief financial officer Details of incentive awards to directors are shown in the remuneraon 31 March 2010.
Jeremy Townsend was appointed a director and tion report on page 47.
No director has any beneficial interest in chief financial officer on 31 August 2010.
All of the other current the shares of any of the companys subsidiaries.
Any changes in the directors served throughout the year.
interests of the directors and their families in the company and its In line with the provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance subsidiary companies during the year and from the end of the year Code which will apply to the companys annual report next year, to 14 March 2011 are shown in the directors remuneration report.
the board has decided that all members of the board will submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting in 2011.
Directors indemnity and insurance Service contracts and letters of appointment for all directors are The company has granted indemnities in favour of its directors available for inspection at the registered office and will be available as is permitted by Section 232-235 of the Companies Act 2006. at the annual general meeting on 11 May 2011.
It has also purchased insurance cover for the directors against liabilities arising in relation to the company, as permitted by Corporate governance the Companies Act 2006.
This insurance does not cover The Corporate Governance statement on pages 29 to 47 forms part criminal activity.
Statement of directors responsibilities The statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements can be found on page 23.
Corporate responsibility A summary of the groups corporate responsibility report can be found on pages 48 to 52.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 26 Corporate governance Directors report Interests of directors in contracts on the basis of the definitions and subject to the adjustments set out in the bank facility documentation.
The covenant is The board has a formal process for considering and, if appropriate, tested on 30 June and 31 December for the previous 12 months.
authorising potential conflicts of interest which is reviewed At 31 December 2010 the covenant ratio was 8.3x, equivalent annually by the nomination committee.
During 2010 no director to 219m of EBITDA headroom.
had any material interest in any significant contract to which the company or any subsidiary was a party.
Further information on the Full details of the groups net debt and borrowing facilities are authorisation process is provided in the report of the nomination set out in notes 21, 22 and 28 to the financial statements.
Employees Related party transactions The company attaches considerable importance to communicating Other than in respect of arrangements relating to the employment with colleagues.
Internal communications take place at a group, of directors, details of which are provided in the remuneration divisional, business and team level in order to ensure that colreport or as set out in note 34 on page 101, there is no material leagues receive accurate information in a timely manner and a indebtedness owed to or by the company to any employee or any variety of structures exist for two-way communications at all levels.
other person considered to be a related party.
At a corporate level the group intranet which has been refreshed in 2010 is used to announce company news with the support of direct e-mail communication from the executive team.
This is suppleGoing concern mented by a periodic electronic magazine called Horizons which At 31 December 2010, the group had net debt of 953.6m.
Of this, features interviews with senior executives about major initiatives 867.5m had been issued under the groups debt capital market and performance.
programme and the earliest maturity of any of these instruments In Europe, the company meets its European Forum European is 2013.
Of the balance, 23.9m is held as net cash and other Works Council usually twice a year to communicate with colborrowings in the businesses and 110m is drawn under the groups leagues representatives from across the continent.
The company bank facility, which matures in October 2012.
This facility provides maintains an open dialogue with the Forum at times of business the groups principal source of day-to-day liquidity.
Divisional communications use a wide range of channels The groups practice is to reforecast the expected full-year such as e-mail, divisional intranets, electronic newsletters and outcome in terms of profit and cash every month and current and quarterly magazines to communicate business issues including prospective performance is reviewed formally with each of the financial and economic factors affecting the operations.
These forecasts, together with suppleimportance is placed on face-to-face team meetings.
mentary short-term cash forecasts, which are provided by the Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully divisions to group treasury, allow the groups cash and debt considered, taking into account the aptitudes of the applicants.
position to be managed actively.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort At 31 December 2010 and 14 March 2011 the group had undrawn is made to ensure that their employment with Rentokil Initial headroom in its committed bank facilities of 390m and 385m, continues and that appropriate re-training is made available.
After reviewing group and company cash balances, the policy of Rentokil Initial that the training, career development borrowing facilities and projected cash flows, the directors believe and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, that the group and company have adequate resources to continue be identical with those of other employees.
operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Auditors and auditor independence In reaching this conclusion, the directors have considered carefully KPMG Audit Plc replaced  LLP as the the risks to the groups trading performance and cash flows as a companys auditors in September 2009.
In concluding that KPMG result of the economic environment and the shortage of credit Audit Plc should be reappointed as auditors, the board and the available in the bank finance market in particular.
The directors audit committee took into account the need to ensure that auditor have also had regard to the groups operating plan and budget for independence was safeguarded.
2011 and have considered a number of risk factors.
The group has a good level of headroom in its bank facilities in terms of both the The company considers that there are sufficient controls and amount of funds available to withdraw and the financial covenants.
processes in place to ensure that the required level of independence is maintained.
The company has a formal policy on the The groups bank facilities contain a single financial ratio covenant provision of non-audit services provided by the companys which requires EBITDA to be no less than 4x interest payable Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Governance 27 Corporate governance Directors report auditors.
The amount of non-audit fees earned by the auditors is Communities and charitable donations routinely reported to the committee.
The board does not consider The companys approach to the community consists of three that there is any material risk of the companys auditors withdrawseparate elements charitable cash donations mainly linked ing from the market.
to employees initiatives, community support and community A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the investment.
Community support and investment is locally company and to authorise the directors to determine their rather than centrally driven.
Charitable donations amounted remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
This amount excludes value in kind donations or colleagues time.
Donations for UK charitable purposes in 2010 amounted to Directors statement on the disclosure 47,000 and a further 83,000 was donated in other countries.
of information to auditors There were no payments to political organisations.
The company Insofar as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit operates a matched giving scheme whereby the company information as defined by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 matches donations raised by employee fundraising.
No company of which the companys auditors are unaware: and each of the donation was greater than 2,000.
Payments are made to a wide directors has taken all of the steps that he should have taken as a range of charitable organisations both in the UK and overseas.
director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the companys auditors are aware Key contracts of that information.
The group does not have any dominant customer or supplier relationships.
Post balance sheet events Please refer to note 35 to the accounts on page 101.
Research and development The company invests in an active programme of research and Policy in relation to payment of suppliers development in support of its major international business Rentokil Initial has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers streams.
This programme includes the conception, design, in various countries.
These are either negotiated along with other testing and manufacture of new products to enhance the quality, contract terms or conform to standard terms applied either by effectiveness and safety of the companys services and minimise the relevant group company or by the supplier.
It is the companys their environmental impact.
Where appropriate, work may be policy to pay suppliers in accordance with either negotiated or sponsored at universities with expertise in relevant areas.
The standard terms, provided that the relevant invoice is properly companys total research and development expenditure in 2010 presented in a timely manner and is not the subject of dispute.
The company is a signatory to the UK Prompt Payment Code.
At 31 December 2010 the trade creditors of the group represented Financial instruments 51 days of annual purchases and the UK businesses trade creditors represented 35 days of purchases: UK trade debtors represented The companys financial risk management objectives and 34 days of turnover.
During the year the parent company did not policies are set out within the financial review on pages 12 to 18, have any trade creditors.
which includes the policy for hedging certain forecast financial transactions.
The review and notes 16, 21 and 22 to the accounts also detail the companys exposure to price, credit and liquidity Other performance areas risks.
The company is not materially exposed to foreign exchange As a means of helping shareholders assess the success and impacts risks arising from cross-border trading transactions, although it of our strategies, the company uses non-financial performance is significantly exposed to foreign exchange investment risks.
indicators, which are shown in the table on page 09 and further information on these and on other performance areas is set out in the corporate responsibility section of the governance review on pages 48 to 52.
Further details of the companys corporate responsibility performance can be found in the companys web-based corporate responsibility report 2010, which is available at www.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 28 Corporate governance Directors report EU Takeovers Directive Annual general meeting Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which The annual general meeting of the company will be held at implemented the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is required No.
4 Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ on Wednesday 11 May 2011 to disclose certain additional information.
Those further discloat 11 a. m. sures, which are not made elsewhere in this annual report, are In addition to the adoption of the 2010 report and accounts, as follows: resolutions dealing with re-election of all directors and the T he companys articles of association give power to the board resolution dealing with the approval of the directors remuneration to appoint and replace directors, but also require directors to report, there are resolutions on the following matters: the retire and submit themselves for re-election at the first annual appointment and remuneration of the auditors, a routine authority general meeting following the appointment and for re-election to re-purchase the companys shares, authorities to allot shares by rotation.
The articles themselves may be amended by special and disapply pre-emption rights and a general authority to make resolution of the shareholders.
donations to EU political organisations.
T he board is responsible for the management of the business A separate letter to shareholders containing the notice of the of the company and may exercise all the powers of the company annual general meeting and explanatory information on the subject to the provisions of relevant statutes and the companys resolutions to be proposed as special business accompanies this memorandum and articles of association.
For example, the annual report.
This annual report and the notice of the annual articles contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding general meeting can be found on the companys website, the companys power to borrow money.
P owers relating to the issuing of shares are also included in the On behalf of the board, articles of association and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each year at the annual general meeting.
A copy of the articles of association is available to view on the companys website.
T he companys Euro Medium Term Note Programme contains conditions that in general terms allow the notes in issue by the company to be put back to the company in the event of a Paul Griffiths change of control of the company coupled with either a credit Secretary rating downgrade below investment grade or where the 14 March 2011 companys credit rating is already below investment grade.
T he companys main central committed bank facilities require Registered office: mandatory prepayment and cancellation in the event of a 2 City Place change of control of the company.
Beehive Ring Road T here are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter Gatwick Airport or terminate upon a change of control of the company, such as West Sussex some commercial agreements, financing arrangements and RH6 0HA employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the group as a Registered in England and Wales No.
The remuneration and contractual arrangements for the executive directors and senior management do not contain any matters that are required to be disclosed under The Takeovers Directive.
Copies of executive directors service contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the companys registered office and at the annual general meeting.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
