Report of the Directors continued The Board There is significant involvement from the non-executive The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership Directors.
This involves an ongoing dialogue with the of the Company and Group within a framework of prudent executive Directors including constructive challenge of and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and performance and the Groups strategy.
The Board reviews the Groups strategic objectives Directors are provided with sufficient information to allow and looks to ensure that the necessary financial and human them to monitor, assess and challenge the executive resources are in place to achieve these objectives, and to management of the Group.
Comprehensive Board papers review management performance against these objectives.
including financial information are circulated to all Directors prior to Board meetings and, on a weekly basis, they receive The Board also sets the Companys values and standards up-to-date trading information.
The non-executive Directors and manages the business in a manner to meet its have the opportunity to meet without the executive Directors obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders.
present, and this includes discussions of targets set and The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, achieved by management.
the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Executive Director of the Concessions division and two All Directors have access to the advice and services of non-executive Directors.
Their biographies appear on pages the Company Secretary and a procedure has been agreed 16 and 17 and these demonstrate a range of experience for the Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of the Company.
On joining the Board there is a process of conduct which is vital for the success of the Group.
for Directors to receive training as to their role and its Tony Hughes acts as senior independent non-executive requirements and for non-executive Directors to gain Director and is available to shareholders if they have reasons an understanding of the whole business.
Non-executive for concern on which contact through the normal channels Directors are actively encouraged to meet with operational is inappropriate or has failed to resolve an issue.
management and to visit the Groups operations in order to enhance their understanding of the Groups business, The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly its brands, employees and processes.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the During 2010 there were eight Board meetings with full strategic direction and operational management of the Group.
The Board meets on a regular basis and there is a formal Executive Directors are included in the annual performance schedule of matters specifically reserved for its consideration.
evaluation of all senior employees within the Group.
This This includes approval of the annual budget and the three involves a comprehensive review of performance against year business plan, approval of the interim and year end objectives and covers areas for future development through Report and Accounts, review and approval of significant appraisal documentation and meetings.
The non-executive capital expenditure including development of new sites, Directors also meet in the absence of the Chairman to significant disposals of assets and acquisitions or disposals appraise the Chairmans performance in the light of his of businesses.
Operational management are responsible for the day-to-day The Company acknowledges the importance of developing running of the Group and report on a regular basis on that the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist performance to the Board.
The Board is responsible for in this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend relevant reviewing, challenging and approving the strategic direction courses and seminars and to acquire skills and experience of the Group and monitoring operational performance.
which may enhance their contribution to the ongoing The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper progress of the Group.
The Board and committees of the management of the Group and has access to the necessary Board have been subject to a formal performance appraisal, information to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Directors through an internal questionnaire, and the performance are subject to annual election by shareholders at the first of all members of the Board is considered as part of the opportunity after their appointment, except where they annual remuneration review process.
are appointed by shareholders, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of not more than three years.
Following changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, Directors will be subject to re-appointment on an annual basis.
20 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Communications with shareholders The Restaurant Group plc strategy Communications with shareholders are given high The Restaurant Groups key objective is to grow shareholder priority.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers value and the strategy deployed to achieve this is to build a review of operations and Group Finance Directors report business capable of generating long-term, sustainable and on pages 4 to 15 include a detailed review of the business growing cash flows.
In pursuit of this we have built a business and the Chief Executive Officers review of operations which is focused on the growing casual eating out market.
on pages 6 to 11 includes a review of planned We have targeted segments of this market which offer distinct future developments.
barriers to entry and where we can be confident of delivering good growth in profits and cash flows and where there is There is a regular dialogue with institutional investors good potential for high returns on investment.
This has led including presentations after the Companys announcement the Group to focus our activities in two areas Leisure and of the year-end results, and at the half year.
The Group operates in the expanding casual major institutional shareholders is provided to the Board on dining market, and our offerings continue to provide good a regular basis and, where appropriate, the Board will take value for money in comfortable surroundings and excellent steps to address their concerns and recommendations.
service from our dedicated teams.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate The Groups strategy is to deliver further organic growth with private and institutional investors and welcomes their through the roll-out of our brands Frankie & Bennys, participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen Chiquito, Garfunkels and our Pub restaurant business.
of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and We have a solid pipeline of sites for development, coupled Nominations Committee are available at the Annual General with a strong focus on continuing to deliver like-for-like sales Meeting to answer questions, and for all Directors to attend.
growth from our existing restaurants.
Our Concessions business operates in a dynamic and complicated market Remuneration Committee where our management teams have market-leading The Remuneration Committee consists of two non-executive expertise and a track record of innovation and improving Directors.
There was 100% attendance of the four sales performance and the Group continues to look for Remuneration Committee meetings during 2010.
The role opportunities to expand this division.
of this Committee and details of how the Company complies with the principles of the Code are set out in the Directors The Restaurant Group plc risk factors remuneration report on pages 29 to 35.
The Board of Directors regularly identify, monitor and manage potential risks and uncertainties to the Group.
The list on the Nominations Committee following page sets out what the Directors consider to be the The Nominations Committee consists of the non-executive current principal risks and uncertainties, with an overview of Directors, the non-executive Chairman and the Chief the mitigation process for these.
This list is not presumed to Executive Officer.
It met once during 2010 with full attendance be exhaustive and is, by its very nature, subject to change.
There are written terms of reference for the Nominations Committee.
It makes recommendations to The Restaurant Group plc key performance the Board for the appointment or replacement of additional indicators Directors.
It is also responsible for succession planning The Board of Directors and executive management receive for the Group.
a wide range of management information delivered in a timely manner.
Listed below are the principal measures of progress Audit Committee that are reviewed on a regular basis to monitor the The Audit Committee consists of two non-executive development of the Group.
During the year the Committee was chaired by John Jackson until 6 May 2010 and since that date by Like-for-like sales Simon Cloke.
The Audit Committee met twice during 2010 This measure provides an indicator of the underlying with full attendance at each meeting.
A more detailed performance of our existing restaurants, and highlights description of the work undertaken by the Audit Committee successful development of our offerings to best match is included in the Audit Committee report on pages 36 and changing consumer demands over time.
Shareholders of the Company have the opportunity to accounting standard or consistent definition of like-for-like re-appoint Deloitte LLP as external auditors of the Company sales across the industry, although the Group has applied at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 May 2011. a consistent basis of calculation across years for reporting like-for-like performance.
During 2010, the Group like-for-like sales declined by 1% which followed a 2% decline in 2009 and a 1.5% increase in 2008.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 21 Report of the Directors continued Nature of risk Mitigation plans Strategic external risks Adverse economic conditions and a decline in consumer Regular monitoring of performance and appropriate confidence and spend in the UK action plans Increased supply of new restaurant concepts into the market Concentration on segments offering higher barriers to entry and good growth prospects: regular monitoring of performance and appropriate action plans Impact of terrorism in key locations including airports Contingency planning and training: liaison with authorities and landlords in key locations Possible health pandemic that may cause customers to stay Contingency planning and communication with employees away or prevent restaurants being adequately staffed Lack of new site opportunities, and risks to existing Dedicated property department focusing on new site Concession agreements development, strong relationships with Concessions partners Operational risks Failure to provide customers with brand-standard value for Training, mystery diner visits, monitoring of customer feedback, money offerings and service levels internal quality control testing Major failure of key suppliers to deliver products into restaurants Contingency planning for supply chain and suppliers Damage to our brands images due to failures in environmental Training of restaurant and pub teams: detailed health and health compliance in the restaurants or from contamination safety manual: regular internal and external auditing of all sites: of products auditing of supply chain and suppliers: health and safety incentives and awards The loss of key personnel or failure to manage Benchmarking of remuneration packages: analysis of staff succession planning turnover: performance appraisal and review system to retain existing talent: Long-Term Incentive Plan Financial risks Increase in prices of key raw materials including foreign Rolling programme of securing longer-term contracts to mitigate currency fluctuations, wages, overheads and utilities short-term pricing fluctuations: energy efficiency programme Reversion of formerly sold or disposed leases following Monitoring of sub-let properties: ongoing relationships with business failure of new occupiers property agents Failure to meet banking covenants Signed facility agreement, monitoring of financial performance against covenant levels: banking relationships: significant levels of headroom against covenants Compliance risks Increased regulation of the food and beverage industry leading Monitoring of developments and liaison with external authorities to higher costs such as the Food Standards Agency and Department of Health Breakdown in internal controls through fraud or error, major Experienced staff in key roles: segregation of duties: internal failure of IT systems and external audit processes: Audit Committee role Changes to tax regime, including VAT, corporation tax and Ongoing monitoring in conjunction with external advisers income tax Further information on the management of risks highlighted above is provided in the Chief Executive Officers review of operations and Group Finance Directors report on pages 6 to 15.
22 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements New sites opened The Group has well-established procedures which have been The expansion of our brands is a key driver of the Groups developed over many years which meet the requirements profitability.
As noted in the Group Finance Directors report, of the Turnbull Guidance.
A key control procedure is the potential new sites are subject to a rigorous appraisal process day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Board before they are presented to the Board for approval.
This in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular process ensures we maintain the quality of openings as management meetings at which performance against plan well as the quantity of sites opened.
During 2010 the Group and business prospects are reviewed.
The Group has opened 24 new sites 2009: 19 and plans to open 22 to 27 established a monthly executive management meeting new restaurants during 2011. where the three executive Directors, senior operational managers and head of functional departments review Group EBITDA performance and issues affecting the Group.
Additionally, The ability of the Group to finance its roll-out programme the Board seeks to continually strengthen the internal is aided by strong cash flows from the existing business.
control system where this is consistent with improving the The Group defines EBITDA as operating profit before relationship between risk and reward.
The Groups associate depreciation, amortisation and non-trading items.
EBITDA company, Living Ventures Restaurants Group Limited, does serves as a useful proxy for cash flows generated by not fall under the same internal controls as the Group.
The operations and is closely monitored.
During 2010 the Group internal controls within the associate are discussed with generated 85.8m EBITDA, an increase of 8% on the 2009 management of that company during shareholder meetings level of 79.6m.
and are considered to be appropriate for an entity of its size.
Operating profit margin Other key features and the processes for reviewing The Board and management closely monitor profit margins effectiveness of the internal control system are as an indicator of operating efficiency within restaurants and described below: across the Group.
During 2010 the Group adjusted operating Terms of reference for the Board and its sub-committees, margin was 12.6% 2009: 12.2%.
In addition, the Group including a schedule of matters reserved for the Board closely scrutinises the returns on invested capital from and an agreed annual programme of fixed agenda items new site openings and the average EBITDA generated for Board approval.
An established organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility and rigorous reporting requirements.
Further information on these key metrics is provided in the Operational performance and operational matters are Chief Executive Officers review of operations and the Group considered at monthly meetings of the executive Directors Finance Directors report.
Financial performance is monitored and action taken through weekly reporting Internal control to the executive Directors and monthly reporting to the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal Board against annual budgets approved by the Board.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance Capital investment is regulated by a budgetary process with guidance for directors Internal Control: Guidance for and authorisation levels, with appraisals and postDirectors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, investment reviews.
the Board has ensured that there is an ongoing process for Comprehensive policy manuals setting out agreed reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control standards and control procedures.
These include human including identifying, evaluating and managing the significant resources related policies, information technology and risks faced by the Group.
This process, which is regularly health and safety.
The Group employs a firm of external reviewed by the Board, is carried out in conjunction with auditors to monitor restaurants on a regular basis for business planning and is documented in a risk register that compliance with statutory and internal health and has been progressively enhanced during the financial year safety requirements.
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and An internal audit function headed by an experienced Accounts.
Whilst acknowledging its overall responsibility for internal auditor has access to all areas of the Company the system of internal control, the Board is aware that the and Groups business and reports into the Board.
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 23 Report of the Directors continued Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting to the accounts records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual the financial position of the company and enable them to Report, Directors remuneration report and the financial ensure that the parent company financial statements comply statements in accordance with applicable law and with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud are required by the International Accounting Standards IAS and other irregularities.
Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial integrity of the corporate and financial information included statements are also required by law to be properly prepared on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 governing the preparation and dissemination of financial of the IAS Regulation.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
IAS 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly Information provided to auditors for each financial year the Companys financial position, Each of the current Directors have taken all the steps that financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other relevant information needed by the Companys auditors for events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and the purpose of their audit and to establish that the auditors recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses are aware of that information.
The Directors are not aware set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards of any relevant information of which the auditors are Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial unaware.
This information is given and should be interpreted statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: Going concern properly select and apply accounting policies: As referred to in the Chief Executive Officers review of present information, including accounting policies, in operations there are significant economic concerns facing the a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable United Kingdom and consumer-facing industries in particular.
and understandable information: and The Group Finance Directors report also contains a summary provide additional disclosures when compliance with the of the cash flows and borrowing position of the Group.
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable Further information on the Groups policies for capital risk users to understand the impact of particular transactions, management and financial risk management are set out other events and conditions on the entitys financial below.
Potential risk factors and uncertainties that could position and financial performance.
affect the business are listed above.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company The Group is highly cash generative, as explained in the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Group Finance Directors report, and enjoys negative working Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom capital as it generally does not give credit to its customers.
Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent The Group has a debt facility of 120m which matures in company financial statements are required by law to give December 2012 and net debt at 2 January 2011 of 46.9m a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are Based on the Groups plans for 2011 and after making required to: enquiries including preparation of reasonable trading select suitable accounting policies and then apply forecasts, consideration of current financing arrangements them consistently: and current headroom for liquidity and covenant compliance, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and prudent: has adequate resources to continue operations for the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the have been followed, subject to any material departures going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
24 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Capital risk management At 2 January 2011 the Group had gross borrowings The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able attracting interest including overdraft of 50.0m to continue as a going concern while looking to maximise 2009: 70.0m and cash balances of 2.7m 2009: 2.8m.
The capital structure of the Group consists of equity comprising issued share capital, reserves Creditor payment policy and retained earnings, debt, finance leases and cash and The Companys policy is to agree the terms of payments cash equivalents.
The Group monitors its capital structure with its suppliers as and when a trading relationship is on a regular basis through cash flow projections and established.
The Company ensures that the terms of consideration of the cost of financing its capital.
payment are clear and its policy is to abide by the agreed terms, provided the supplier meets its obligations.
In December 2007 the Group completed a refinancing At 2 January 2011 the Company had no trade creditors.
As part of this the Group has externally imposed The Group had an average of 42 days 2009: 41 days borrowing requirements.
The Group has a 120m revolving purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
facility in place until December 2012 and a 10m overdraft facility.
Under the terms of the 120m revolving facility the Donations Group is required to comply with its financing covenants No donations for political purposes have been directly made whereby net interest charges must be covered at least four by the Company during the year.
Charitable events, fund times by EBITDA and net debt must not exceed three times raising and sponsorship are organised by restaurants for EBITDA.
These covenants are tested twice annually and organisations in their locality as described in the Corporate are monitored on a regular basis.
The Group remained Responsibility section on pages 26 to 28. within its external limits throughout 2010.
Annual General Meeting Financial risk management A separate Circular is included with the mailing of the Annual The Board of The Restaurant Group plc regularly reviews Report to shareholders setting out the resolutions to be the financial requirements of the Group and the risks voted on at the Annual General Meeting, which is to take associated therewith.
The Group does not use complex place at 11am on 11 May 2011 at the offices of Maclay financial instruments, and where financial instruments are Murray & Spens LLP, One London Wall, London EC2Y 5AB.
used it is for reducing interest rate risk.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
The Board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put Group operations are primarily financed from retained to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting are in the earnings and bank borrowings including an overdraft facility.
best interests of shareholders and, accordingly, recommends In addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the also has other financial instruments such as debtors, Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial prepayments, trade creditors and accruals that arise shareholdings in the Company.
directly from the Groups operations.
Further information is provided in note 24 to the accounts.
Auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue Effective from 18 January 2008, the Group entered into as auditors, and a resolution will be proposed at the Annual a three year interest rate swap for a notional amount General Meeting for their reappointment.
of 25m, from 18 January 2008 to 18 January 2011 at a fixed rate of 4.92% plus margin.
On 8 February 2010 Directors responsibilities statement this swap was terminated on payment of 1.0m.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: 1. t he financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Effective from 16 January 2009, the Group entered into applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view a further two interest rate swaps: a two year interest rate of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the swap for a notional amount of 20m at a rate of 2.70% Company and Group: and plus margin and a three year interest rate swap for 2. the Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review a notional amount of 20m at a rate of 2.975% plus margin.
of operations, Group Finance Directors report and report On 9 February 2011 the three year swap was terminated of the Directors include a fair review of the development on a payment of 0.4m.
and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description of the After the impact of the interest rate swaps, the average rate principal risks and uncertainties faced.
of interest charged during the year on the Groups debt was 2.81% 2009: 3.56%, and the average year-end rate was By Order of the Board, 2.98% 2009: 4.06%.
On 2010 results, net interest was covered 21.9 times 2009: 16.0 times by profit before tax, Robert Morgan interest and non-trading items.
Based on year end debt Company Secretary and profits for 2010, a 1% rise in interest rates would 9 March 2011 reduce profits before tax and non-trading items by 0.2% 2009: 0.5% and interest cover would reduce to 21.1 times 2009: 14.9 times.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 25
