75 other disclosures The annual report 2010 has been prepared for, and only for, The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The Company, its directors, employees, agents and advisers do not transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such to ensure that the financial statements and the remuneration report responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This annual report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the may contain statements which are not based on current or historical consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
fact and which are forward looking in nature.
These forward They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the looking statements reflect knowledge and information available Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps at the date of preparation of this annual report and the Company for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
undertakes no obligation to update these forward looking The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity statements.
Such forward looking statements are subject to known of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the and unknown risks and uncertainties facing the Group including, preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ without limitation, those risks described in this annual report, from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and other unknown future events and circumstances which can cause results and developments to differ materially from those Each of the directors, whose names are listed on pages 52 and 53 anticipated.
Nothing in this annual report should be construed of the annual report, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: as a profit forecast.
the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared statement of directors responsibilities in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance the Group: and with applicable law and regulations.
the business review includes a fair review of the development Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements and performance of the business and the position of the Group, for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties the consolidated financial statements in accordance with that it faces.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by dividends the European Union and the parent company financial statements Subject to shareholder approval, the directors have proposed a in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 2010 final dividend of 8.0p per share.
The total dividend for the UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company year ended 31 December 2010 is 12.0p per share 2009: 8.0p.
law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of dividend ex dividend record payment per share p date date date affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of 2010 interim 4.0 08.09.10 10.09.10 05.10.10 the Group for that year.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: 2010 final 8.0 11.05.11 13.05.11 07.06.11 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them principal acquisitions and disposals consistently: There have been no significant acquisitions or disposals of Group make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable businesses during 2010. and prudent: directors and directors interests state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and The board of directors during the year ended 31 December 2010 applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, and at the date of this annual report is set out on pages 52 and 53. subject to any material departures disclosed and explained None of the directors had any interest during or at the end of in the consolidated and parent company financial statements the year in any contract of significance in relation to the business respectively: of the Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Full details of the interests in the share capital of the Company of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will those directors holding office on 31 December 2010, including any continue in business.
interest of a connected person, are set out in the remuneration report.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 76 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report other disclosures share capital research and development At 31 December 2010, the Company had 876,864,290 shares The Groups expenditure on research and development during in issue as shown, together with details of the rights and restrictions the year amounted to 19m 2009: 20m.
attaching to the shares, in note 28 to the consolidated financial significant agreements statements.
Rexam has a number of commercial agreements which are powers given to directors essential to the Groups business, as discussed in the key risks The powers given to the directors are contained in the articles section of the business review on pages 34 to 39.
Mitigation of association the Articles and are subject to relevant legislation arrangements are in place to safeguard, as far as possible, and, in certain circumstances, including in relation to the issuing the Groups business in the event of the unexpected termination or buying back by the Company of its shares, subject to authority or amendment of such agreements.
being given to the directors by shareholders in general meeting.
The Company is also required to disclose any significant The Articles also govern the appointment and replacement agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of of directors.
The Articles, which may only be amended with control of the Company.
In the event of a takeover bid, some shareholders approval in accordance with relevant legislation, commercial agreements allow the counterparties to alter or can be found on the Companys website.
terminate the arrangements on a change of control of the purchase of own shares Company.
The Company has committed debt facilities all of which At the AGM 2010, shareholders passed a special resolution are directly or indirectly subject to change of control provisions, renewing the authority granted to the Company, in accordance albeit the facilities do not necessarily require mandatory with the Articles and relevant institutional guidelines, to purchase prepayment on a change of control.
a maximum number of its own shares in the market.
At 31 December 2010 the debt facilities subject to these No shares have been purchased in the market, nor has any provisions were: contract been made to purchase shares under the previous or debt facilities amount maturity existing authorities from 1 January 2010 to the date of this report.
Subordinated bond 750m June 2067 The directors are seeking an annual renewal of the authority at US public bond $550m June 2013 the AGM 2011.
Further details can be found in the notice of US private placement $225m June 2013 AGM 2011.
Medium term note 638m March 2013 AGM 2011 AGM 2010 share purchase authority proposed approved Bilateral credit facility 50m December 2012 10% of issued share capital 87.68m 87.68m Revolving credit facility 775m May 2015 Bilateral credit facility 45m May 2015 service contracts Bilateral credit facility 45m May 2015 The service contracts of the executive directors and the letters Bilateral credit facility 20m May 2015 of appointment for the non executive directors are available for Bilateral credit facility 20m May 2015 inspection at the registered office of the Company, and will be available at the AGM 2011.
Bilateral credit facility 20m May 2015 Bilateral credit facility 20m May 2015 substantial shareholdings Bilateral credit facility 20m May 2015 At the date of this report, the Company had received notification from the following financial institutions of their and their clients Bilateral credit facility 20m May 2015 interests in the voting rights of the Company, in accordance with Bilateral credit facility 20m May 2015 the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the Financial Bilateral credit facility 20m May 2015 Services Authority, which are required to be disclosed under section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
The number of shares 1 All of the above bilateral credit facilities and the revolving credit facility are multi currency.
and percentage interests are as disclosed at the date on which the interests were notified to the Company.
interests of 3% or more in issued share capital shares % BlackRock Inc 43,442,538 4.95 Legal & General Group Plc 34,660,260 3.95 Information provided to Rexam pursuant to the DTR is publicly available via the regulatory information services and on the Companys website.
77 The service contracts of the executive directors do not contain auditors a change of control provision.
disclosure of information to the auditors Each person who is a director of the Company at the date of The trustee of the Rexam Employee Share Trust the Trust holds approval of this annual report confirms that: shares in order to satisfy awards under the Rexam employee share incentive plans.
If an offer is made to acquire the Companys so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit shares, the trustee is not obliged to accept or reject any such offer information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and in respect of any shares which are at that time subject to awards each director individually has taken all the steps that they ought which are outstanding, or which have at that time otherwise been to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any allocated to or earmarked for beneficiaries of the Trust.
However, relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys the trustee shall have regard to the interests of the beneficiaries auditors are aware of that information.
and shall have the power to consult them to obtain their views on such offer and, subject to the foregoing, may consider any reappointment of auditors recommendations made to it by the Company but shall not be  LLP will be proposed for reappointment obliged to comply with such recommendations.
as the Companys auditors at the AGM 2011 as recommended by the audit and risk committee.
The Company has granted a qualifying pension scheme indemnity in the form permitted by the Companies Act 2006 to the directors annual general meeting 2011 of Rexam Pension Trustees Limited, the Trustee to the Rexam Pension The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00am on 5 May 2011 Plan.
The indemnity remains in force at the date of this report.
at Church House, Deans Yard, London SW1, details of which can be found in the notice of AGM 2011. payments to suppliers The Groups operating businesses are responsible for the terms and conditions under which they conduct business transactions On behalf of the board with their suppliers.
It is Group policy to agree the terms of payment and make payments to suppliers in accordance with those terms, David Gibson provided that suppliers have complied with all relevant terms company secretary and conditions.
23 February 2011 The Company had 13 days 2009: 11 days purchases outstanding at 31 December 2010 based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers.
corporate governance statement The information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement in accordance with rule 7.2 of the DTR can be found in this directors report within pages 12 to 77. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 78 Rexam annual report 2010 79 consolidated financial statements 80 independent auditors report to the members of Rexam PLC 81 consolidated income statement 82 consolidated statement of comprehensive income 83 consolidated balance sheet 84 consolidated cash flow statement 85 consolidated statement of changes in equity 86 notes to the consolidated financial statements: 86 note 1 principal accounting policies 92 note 2 segment analysis 94 note 3 operating expenses 95 note 4 employee costs and numbers 96 note 5 auditors remuneration 96 note 6 exceptional items continuing operations 96 note 7 interest 97 note 8 tax 99 note 9 earnings loss per share 100 note 10 discontinued operations 101 note 11 equity dividends 101 note 12 goodwill 103 note 13 other intangible assets 104 note 14 property, plant and equipment 105 note 15 investments in subsidiaries 105 note 16 investments in associates and joint ventures 106 note 17 available for sale financial assets 106 note 18 inventories 107 note 19 trade and other receivables 108 note 20 cash and cash equivalents 109 note 21 assets and liabilities classified as held for sale 109 note 22 trade and other payables 110 note 23 borrowings 111 note 24 net borrowings 112 note 25 financial instruments 119 note 26 retirement benefit obligations 123 note 27 provisions 124 note 28 share capital 124 note 29 other reserves 125 note 30 share based payment 127 note 31 reconciliation of profit loss before tax to cash generated from operations 127 note 32 contingent liabilities 127 note 33 commitments financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 80 Rexam annual report 2010 independent auditors report to the members of Rexam PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Rexam PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 75, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, on page 62, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on directors remuneration.
other matter We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Rexam PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 and on the information in the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Robert Milburn senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 February 2011 81 consolidated income statement 2009 2010 restated For the year ended 31 December notes m m Continuing operations Sales 2 4,619 4,533 Operating expenses 3 4,146 4,253 Underlying operating profit 2 513 418 Exceptional items 6 8 107 Amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 32 31 Operating profit 473 280 Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 16 5 2 Retirement benefit obligations net finance cost 26 15 31 Underlying interest expense 7 117 134 Fair value changes on financing derivatives 7 12 14 Interest expense 7 129 120 Interest income 7 4 3 Underlying profit before tax 390 258 Exceptional items 6 8 107 Amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 32 31 Fair value changes on financing derivatives 7 12 14 Profit before tax 338 134 Tax on underlying profit 8 116 77 Tax on exceptional items 6 1 26 Tax on amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 10 11 Tax on fair value changes on financing derivatives 3 4 Tax 8 102 44 Profit for the financial year from continuing operations 236 90 Discontinued operations Loss for the financial year from discontinued operations 10 112 119 Total profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of Rexam PLC 124 29 Underlying earnings per share pence 9 Continuing operations 31.4 23.0 Discontinued operations 1.4 2.4 Total 32.8 25.4 Basic earnings loss per share pence 9 Continuing operations 27.1 11.4 Discontinued operations 12.9 15.1 Total 14.2 3.7 Diluted earnings loss per share pence 9 Continuing operations 27.0 11.4 Discontinued operations 12.9 15.1 Total 14.1 3.7 For details of equity dividends paid and proposed see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
The notes on pages 86 to 127 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 82 Rexam annual report 2010 consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December notes m m Profit loss for the financial year 124 29 Actuarial losses on retirement benefits 26 64 181 Tax on actuarial losses on retirement benefits 8 24 61 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 29 12 207 Net investment hedges recognised 29 22 57 Exchange differences recycled to the income statement on disposal of subsidiaries 29 14 Cash flow hedges recognised 29 40 73 Tax on cash flow hedges 29 4 48 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 29 25 163 Cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 29 2 14 Changes in market value of available for sale financial assets 29 1 4 Other comprehensive income for the year 16 86 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Rexam PLC 108 115 83 consolidated balance sheet 2010 2009 As at 31 December notes m m Assets Non current assets Goodwill 12 1,848 1,886 Other intangible assets 13 383 595 Property, plant and equipment 14 1,571 1,723 Investments in associates and joint ventures 16 61 54 Pension assets 26 19 Deferred tax assets 8 252 201 Trade and other receivables 19 120 80 Available for sale financial assets 17 27 21 Derivative financial instruments 25 256 275 4,537 4,835 Current assets Inventories 18 415 432 Trade and other receivables 19 648 630 Available for sale financial assets 17 1 2 Derivative financial instruments 25 70 65 Cash and cash equivalents 20 114 113 1,248 1,242 Assets classified as held for sale 21 282 4 1,530 1,246 Total assets 6,067 6,081 Liabilities Current liabilities Borrowings 23 81 140 Derivative financial instruments 25 10 17 Current tax 20 15 Trade and other payables 22 768 748 Provisions 27 39 62 918 982 Liabilities classified as held for sale 21 50 968 982 Non current liabilities Borrowings 23 1,800 1,955 Derivative financial instruments 25 186 141 Retirement benefit obligations 26 482 396 Deferred tax liabilities 8 77 99 Non current tax 85 87 Other payables 22 81 47 Provisions 27 63 52 2,774 2,777 Total liabilities 3,742 3,759 Net assets 2,325 2,322 Equity Ordinary share capital 564 563 Share premium account 989 989 Capital redemption reserve 351 351 Retained earnings 32 55 Other reserves 29 386 362 Shareholders equity 2,322 2,320 Non controlling interests 3 2 Total equity 2,325 2,322 Approved by the board on 23 February 2011 Graham Chipchase, chief executive David Robbie, finance director financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 84 Rexam annual report 2010 consolidated cash flow statement 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations note 31 685 708 Interest paid 110 142 Tax paid 75 62 Net cash flows from operating activities 500 504 Cash flows from investing activities Capital expenditure 206 184 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 8 10 Proceeds from property classified as held for sale 5 Acquisition of businesses 5 Disposal of businesses 1 21 Loan from joint venture 5 Interest received 4 3 Net cash flows from investing activities 183 155 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 21 19 Repayment of borrowings 159 540 Purchase of Rexam PLC shares by Employee Share Trust 6 Proceeds from rights issue 334 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 105 79 Other financing items 13 Net cash flows from financing activities 262 266 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 55 83 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 62 25 Exchange differences 14 7 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 4 3 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 55 83 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 99 62 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash at bank and in hand 46 40 Short term bank deposits 68 73 Bank overdrafts 15 51 99 62 85 consolidated statement of changes in equity Ordinary Share Capital Non share premium redemption Retained Other Shareholders controlling Total capital account reserve earnings reserves equity interests equity m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 563 989 351 55 362 2,320 2 2,322 Profit for the financial year 124 124 124 Actuarial losses on retirement benefits 64 64 64 Tax on actuarial losses on retirement benefits 24 24 24 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 12 12 12 Net investment hedges recognised 22 22 22 Cash flow hedges recognised 40 40 40 Tax on cash flow hedges 4 4 4 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 25 25 25 Cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 2 2 2 Changes in market value of available for sale financial assets 1 1 1 Other comprehensive income for the year 40 24 16 16 Total comprehensive income for the year 84 24 108 108 Share options: value of services provided 5 5 5 Share option schemes: proceeds from shares issued 1 1 1 Purchase of Rexam PLC shares by Employee Share Trust 6 6 6 Change in non controlling interests 1 1 1 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 105 105 105 At 31 December 2010 564 989 351 32 386 2,322 3 2,325 At 1 January 2009 413 1,005 351 77 328 2,174 2 2,176 Loss for the financial year 29 29 29 Actuarial losses on retirement benefits 181 181 181 Tax on actuarial losses on retirement benefits 61 61 61 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 207 207 207 Net investment hedges recognised 57 57 57 Exchange differences recycled to the income statement on disposal of subsidiaries 14 14 14 Cash flow hedges recognised 73 73 73 Tax on cash flow hedges 48 48 48 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 163 163 163 Cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 14 14 14 Changes in market value of available for sale financial assets 4 4 4 Other comprehensive income for the year 120 34 86 86 Total comprehensive income for the year 149 34 115 115 Share options: value of services provided 6 6 6 Proceeds from rights issue 150 16 200 334 334 Transfer to retained earnings 200 200 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 79 79 79 At 31 December 2009 563 989 351 55 362 2,320 2 2,322 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 86 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 principal accounting policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share based payments and retirement benefit obligations.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements the comparative amounts have been restated to reflect the Plastic Packaging Closures division as a discontinued operation.
The Group has adopted the following new and revised IFRS as of 1 January 2010. i IFRS3 Revised Business Combinations.
This revision to an existing standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations with certain changes which could impact the accounting for the Groups acquisitions.
For example, all payments to purchase a business must be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date with cash contingent payments classified as debt and subsequently remeasured through the consolidated income statement.
In addition, all transaction costs must be expensed in the consolidated income statement.
This revision has no impact on these consolidated financial statements.
ii IAS27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
This revision to an existing standard requires an entity to attribute comprehensive income to the parent company and any non controlling interests, even if this results in the non controlling interests having a deficit balance.
It specifies that changes in a parent companys ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in the loss of control must be accounted for as equity transactions.
It also specifies how an entity should measure any gain or loss arising on the loss of control of a subsidiary, whereby at the date when control is lost, any investment retained in the former subsidiary will have to be measured at its fair value.
This revision does not have a material impact on these consolidated financial statements.
The following accounting standards and amendments to existing standards are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group.
i IFRS9 Financial Instruments, issued in November 2009, is the first step in the process to replace IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets.
The Group intends to adopt IFRS9 no later than the accounting period beginning on 1 January 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
ii IAS24 Revised Related Party Disclosures, issued in November 2009, clarifies the definition of a related party and the disclosure of transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries and its associates.
The Group intends to adopt IAS24 Revised for the accounting period beginning on 1 January 2011, subject to endorsement by the EU.
There are no other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
key estimates and assumptions The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The key estimates and assumptions used in these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment in accordance with the accounting policy for goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of cash generating units relating to continuing operations are determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash flow projections for each cash generating unit and discount rates based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risks associated with particular cash generating units.
For details of impairment testing in 2010 and 2009 see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies for goodwill and impairment testing are set out below.
retirement benefits The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
There are two principal funded defined benefit pension plans, in the UK and US, and an unfunded retiree medical plan in the US.
The costs and the present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on factors such as life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of current employees, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities.
The Group uses estimates based on previous experience and external actuarial advice in determining these future cash flows and in determining the discount rate.
If the discount rates were to fall by 0.5%, the net liabilities of the plans at 31 December 2010 would rise by approximately 110m 2009: 105m.
If equity values were to fall by 10%, then the plan assets at 31 December 2010 would fall by approximately 100m 2009: 100m.
The accounting policy for retirement benefit obligations is set out below and details of the assumptions used for the two principal pension plans and the retiree medical plan are set out in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
87 1 principal accounting policies continued income taxes Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations whose ultimate tax treatment is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes are likely to be due.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based on estimates of future taxable income and recoverability.
Where a change in circumstance occurs, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax balances in the year in which that change or outcome is known.
The accounting policy for income taxes is set out below.
basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise Rexam PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the results of its associates and joint ventures.
The financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared as of the same reporting date using consistent accounting policies.
Intercompany balances and transactions, including any unrealised profits arising from intercompany transactions, are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a share of more than 50% of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date on which the Group ceases to control them.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control, whereby the strategic, financial and operating decisions relating to the venture require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control and are generally accompanied by a 50% share of voting rights.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its investment in the associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
All acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group.
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
foreign currencies The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
Exceptions to this are where the monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation or designated as hedges of a net investment, or designated as cash flow hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially recognised in equity.
The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statements are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate for the year.
Where this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rate prevailing on the transaction date, the exchange rate on the transaction date is used.
Exchange differences on translation into sterling arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a subsidiary, any cumulative exchange differences held in equity are recycled to the consolidated income statement.
On the repayment of a quasi equity loan, the proportionate share of the cumulative amount of the exchange differences on the loan recognised in other comprehensive income is not reclassified to the consolidated income statement unless the Group loses control over the entity to which the quasi equity loan related.
The principal exchange rates against sterling used in these consolidated financial statements are as follows: Average Closing Average Closing 2010 2010 2009 2009 Euro 1.17 1.17 1.12 1.11 US dollar 1.55 1.54 1.57 1.61 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 88 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 principal accounting policies continued revenue recognition and other income Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration, net of rebates and trade discounts.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the buyer, when the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group, typically on delivery of goods.
The Group makes certain advance payments to customers in relation to contracts which are charged against sales in the consolidated income statement over their useful economic lives, typically being the contract term.
Other income includes licence income and project management fees for the construction of manufacturing lines and equipment on behalf of customers.
exceptional items Items which are exceptional, being material in terms of size and or nature, are presented separately from underlying business performance in the consolidated income statement.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
The principal events which may give rise to exceptional items include the restructuring and integration of businesses, significant changes to retirement benefit obligations, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, goodwill impairments, major asset impairments and significant litigation and tax claims.
retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution pension plans.
A defined benefit pension plan is one that specifies the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement.
The Group operates both funded defined benefit pension plans, where actuarially determined payments are made to trustee administered funds, and unfunded defined benefit pension plans, where no such payments are made.
The asset or liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less, for funded schemes, the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated, at least triennially, by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The pension element of the net finance cost in the consolidated income statement comprises the expected return on assets of funded defined benefit pension plans, less administration expenses of pension plans, and the interest on pension plan liabilities.
Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, experience gains and losses and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
A defined contribution plan is one under which fixed contributions are paid to a third party.
The Group has no further payment obligations once these contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised in the consolidated income statement when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is likely.
The Group also provides post retirement healthcare benefits retiree medical to certain of its current and former employees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on an employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet accounting treatment with respect to retiree medical is similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
These obligations are valued by independent actuaries, usually on an annual basis.
share based payment The Group operates equity and cash settled share option schemes.
For equity settled share options, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and performance conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
All non vesting conditions are included in the fair value.
For cash settled share options, the services received from employees are measured at the fair value of the liability and recognised in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value of the liability is measured at each balance sheet date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
IFRS2 Share based Payment has been applied to equity settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 and to all cash settled share options.
The Rexam Employee Share Trust holds ordinary shares in Rexam PLC which are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
89 1 principal accounting policies continued interest Interest on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings held at amortised cost is recognised in the consolidated income statement using the effective interest method.
Interest includes exchange differences arising on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings, where such exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Interest includes all fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, and corresponding adjustments to hedged items under designated fair value hedging relationships, where they relate to financing activities and are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Interest relating to payments made over an extended period of development of large capital projects is added to the capital cost and amortised over the expected lives of those projects.
Non hedge accounted financing derivative financial instruments fair value changes and hedge ineffectiveness on financing derivative financial instruments are separately disclosed, within interest, on the face of the consolidated income statement.
segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the executive leadership team, which comprises the executive directors and certain senior executives.
The executive leadership team is responsible for assessing the performance of the operating segments for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated.
Operating segments are combined for external reporting purposes where they have similar economic characteristics, and the nature of products and production processes, the type and class of customers and the methods to distribute products are all similar.
goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at 31 December each year and at any time where there is any indication that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions on or before 31 December 1997 has been deducted from equity.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business sold except for any goodwill deducted from equity.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill and goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates and joint ventures is presented in investments in associates and joint ventures.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
other intangible assets Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Computer software acquired 2 to 3 years Computer software developed Up to 7 years Customer contracts and relationships acquired 5 to 20 years Technology and patents acquired 5 to 20 years Other development projects Up to 5 years The cost of intangible assets acquired in an acquisition is the fair value at acquisition date.
The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the purchase price and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use.
Computer software development costs that are directly associated with the implementation of major business systems are capitalised as intangible assets.
Expenditure on research is recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Expenditure incurred on other development projects is capitalised as an intangible asset if it is probable that the expenditure will generate future economic benefits and can be measured reliably.
The amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets, comprising acquired customer contracts and relationships and technology and patents, is separately disclosed within operating profit on the face of the consolidated income statement.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 90 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 principal accounting policies continued property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises purchase price and directly attributable costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
For all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate cost, less residual value of the assets, over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Leasehold buildings Shorter of 50 years or lease term Manufacturing machinery 7 to 17 years Computer hardware Up to 8 years Fixtures, fittings and vehicles 4 to 10 years Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
impairment of assets This policy applies to all assets except inventories, deferred tax assets, financial assets and non current assets classified as held for sale.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use and is determined for an individual asset see also accounting policy for assets and liabilities classified as held for sale and discontinued operations below.
If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined.
Discount rates reflecting the asset specific risks and the time value of money are used for the value in use calculation.
When an asset is written down to its recoverable amount the impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Impairment losses incurred in a cash generating unit or group of cash generating units are applied against the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units.
Where no goodwill exists, the impairment losses reduce the other non current assets of the cash generating units.
Should circumstances change which result in a reversal of a previous impairment, the value of the asset is increased and the reversal is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year in which it occurs.
The increase in the carrying amount of the asset is limited to the amount which would have been recorded had no impairment been recognised in prior years.
Impairment losses applied to goodwill are not reversed.
inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in first out or a weighted average cost basis.
Cost comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion costs and an allocation of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs to completion and selling costs.
cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement comprise cash at bank and in hand, money market deposits and other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are presented in borrowings within current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
assets and liabilities classified as held for sale and discontinued operations Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and the sale is highly probable.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
They are not depreciated or amortised.
Operations are classified as discontinued when they are either disposed or are part of a single coordinated plan to dispose, and represent a major line of business or geographical area of operation.
grants Grants received in respect of property, plant and equipment are capitalised and released to the consolidated income statement in equal instalments over the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
leases Leases are classified as finance leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the liability and finance charge to produce a constant rate of interest on the finance lease balance outstanding.
Assets capitalised under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases other than finance leases are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Any incentives to enter into operating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight line basis.
91 1 principal accounting policies continued income taxes The tax expense represents the sum of current tax, non current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax and non current tax are based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is recognised in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax arising from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than an acquisition, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised.
Deferred tax is measured using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the tax relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the tax is recognised directly in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
provisions Provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists in respect of a past event and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions for restructuring are recognised for direct expenditure on business reorganisations where plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on or before the balance sheet date.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered to be material.
dividends Final equity dividends to the shareholders of Rexam PLC are recognised in the period that they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
financial instruments Financial instruments that are measured at fair value are disclosed in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the following fair value measurement hierarchy: i quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1. ii inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2. iii inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward aluminium, resin and energy commodity contracts.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges are classified as follows: i fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
ii cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
iii n et investment hedges where they hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the consolidated income statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 92 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 principal accounting policies continued Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to operating activities are included in operating profit when recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to financing activities are included in interest when recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Borrowings are measured at amortised cost except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Where borrowings are used to hedge the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations, the portion of the exchange gain or loss on the borrowings that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity.
Upfront fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are initially capitalised as transaction costs of the loan and amortised in interest over the expected term of the loan.
Ongoing commitment fees are expensed in interest as incurred.
Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity except for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from those assets which are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
They are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Trade and other payables are measured at cost.
2 segment analysis For internal reporting, Rexam is organised into three operating segments for Beverage Cans based on the geographical locations of Europe and Asia, North America and South America, and into one operating segment for Plastic Packaging.
For external reporting, the three operating segments for Beverage Cans are combined into one reportable segment.
Beverage Cans comprise aluminium and steel cans for a wide variety of beverages including carbonated soft drinks, energy drinks and beer.
Plastic Packaging comprises rigid plastic products for customers in the Healthcare and Personal Care markets.
The Closures division has been reported as discontinued operations in the segment information set out below.
Previously this division was reported as part of Plastic Packaging.
i segment information 2010 Underlying Underlying Exceptional operating return on and other Profit 1 Sales profit sales items loss m m % m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans 3,677 394 10.7 11 383 Plastic Packaging 942 119 12.6 29 90 Total reportable segments 4,619 513 11.1 40 473 Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 5 Retirement benefit obligations net finance cost 15 Net interest expense 125 Profit before tax 338 Tax 102 Profit for the financial year from continuing operations 236 Discontinued operations Loss for the financial year from discontinued operations note 10 112 Total profit for the financial year 124 Impairment: Impairment: Capital Depreciation and Impairment: intangible property, plant 2 Assets Liabilities expenditure amortisation goodwill assets and equipment m m m m m m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans 3,449 683 141 142 6 Plastic Packaging 1,566 268 51 87 3 Total reportable segments 5,015 951 192 229 3 Associates and joint ventures 61 Unallocated assets and liabilities 711 2,741 Total continuing operations 5,787 3,692 192 229 3 Discontinued operations note 21 280 50 19 36 59 65 55 6,067 3,742 211 265 59 65 58 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets.
93 2 segment analysis continued Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures from continuing operations are wholly attributable to Beverage Cans.
Segment assets are disclosed after deducting inter segment assets of 2m for Beverage Cans and 1m for Plastic Packaging.
Segment liabilities are disclosed after deducting inter segment liabilities of 1m for Beverage Cans and 2m for Plastic Packaging.
The assets of associates and joint ventures are wholly attributable to Beverage Cans.
Underlying operating profit comprises operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets.
Underlying operating profit from continuing operations is included as it is felt that adjusting operating profit for exceptional items and the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets provides a better indication of the Groups performance.
Underlying return on sales comprises underlying operating profit from continuing operations divided by sales from continuing operations.
Non specific central costs are allocated on the basis of net assets excluding investments in associates and joint ventures, net borrowings and tax.
Unallocated assets comprise derivative financial instrument assets, deferred tax assets, pension assets and cash and cash equivalents which are used as part of the Groups financing offset arrangements.
Unallocated liabilities comprise borrowings, derivative financial instrument liabilities, current and non current tax, deferred tax liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
ii segment information 2009 restated Underlying Underlying Exceptional operating return on and other Profit 1 Sales profit sales items loss m m % m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans 3,573 310 8.7 69 241 Plastic Packaging 908 102 11.2 71 31 Total reportable segments 4,481 412 9.2 140 272 2 Disposals and businesses for sale 52 6 11.5 2 8 4,533 418 9.2 138 280 Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 2 Retirement benefit obligations net finance cost 31 Net interest expense 117 Profit before tax 134 Tax 44 Profit for the financial year from continuing operations 90 Discontinued operations Loss for the financial year from discontinued operations note 10 119 Total loss for the financial year 29 Impairment: Impairment: Capital Depreciation and Impairment: intangible property, plant 3 Assets Liabilities expenditure amortisation goodwill assets and equipment m m m m m m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans 3,340 578 81 146 3 1 23 Plastic Packaging 1,545 281 47 86 7 Total reportable segments 4,885 859 128 232 3 1 30 2 Disposals and businesses for sale 2 Associates and joint ventures 53 Unallocated assets and liabilities 654 2,850 Total continuing operations 5,592 3,709 128 232 3 1 32 Discontinued operations 489 50 20 40 193 3 6,081 3,759 148 272 196 1 35 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets.
2 Represents the Petainer business sold in 2009.
Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures from continuing operations are wholly attributable to Beverage Cans.
Segment assets are disclosed after deducting inter segment assets of 2m for Beverage Cans and 2m for Plastic Packaging.
Segment liabilities are disclosed after deducting inter segment liabilities of 3m for Beverage Cans and 1m for Plastic Packaging.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 94 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 segment analysis continued iii geographic and other information 2009 2010 2009 restated 2010 Non current restated Non current Sales assets Sales assets m m m m Continuing operations US 1,586 1,470 1,619 1,418 Brazil 700 432 554 373 Austria 288 91 268 104 Russia 267 208 300 196 Spain 218 102 241 110 UK 200 200 184 187 France 178 339 173 366 Germany 131 327 166 340 Other countries 1,051 841 1,028 854 4,619 4,010 4,533 3,948 Unallocated non current assets 527 476 Total continuing operations 4,619 4,537 4,533 4,424 Discontinued operations 343 333 411 4,962 4,537 4,866 4,835 Sales are stated by external customer location.
One customer, principally in Beverage Cans, contributed sales of 1,394m 2009: 1,459m, and another Beverage Cans customer contributed sales of 610m 2009: 478m.
Unallocated non current assets comprise derivative financial instrument assets, pension assets and deferred tax assets.
3 operating expenses 2009 2010 restated Continuing 2009 Continuing 2009 2009 2010 operations 2010 2010 restated operations restated restated Continuing exceptional Continuing Discontinued Continuing exceptional Continuing Discontinued operations and other operations operations operations and other operations operations 1 1 underlying items total total underlying items total total m m m m m m m m Raw materials used 2,371 2,371 169 2,457 2,457 139 Changes in inventories of WIP and finished goods 10 10 5 9 9 3 Employee benefit expense 730 730 80 706 40 746 86 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 183 183 21 183 183 25 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 32 46 15 18 31 49 15 Impairment of goodwill 59 3 3 193 Impairment of intangible assets 65 1 1 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 6 6 55 1 35 36 3 Reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment 3 3 4 4 Freight costs 224 224 10 184 184 8 Operating lease rental expense 33 33 6 36 4 40 6 Operating lease rental income 2 2 2 2 Other operating expenses 552 11 563 37 546 29 575 44 Other operating income 15 15 2 24 24 1 4,106 40 4,146 520 4,115 138 4,253 521 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets.
Operating expenses include research and development expenditure of 16m from continuing operations and 3m from discontinued operations 2009: 16m and 4m : and fair value gains on forward foreign exchange contracts not hedge accounted of 3m from continuing operations 2009: losses 3m.
95 4 employee costs and numbers i employee benefit expense 2009 2010 restated m m Continuing operations Wages and salaries 615 634 Social security 80 88 Share based payment 11 6 Retirement benefit obligations 24 18 Total continuing operations 730 746 Discontinued operations 80 86 810 832 ii key management compensation including directors of Rexam PLC 2010 2009 m m Salaries and short term employee benefits 10 9 Post employment benefits 1 2 Termination payments 5 Share based payment 2 4 13 20 Key management comprises all directors of Rexam PLC and band 1 executives.
For details of directors remuneration see the remuneration report.
iii average number of employees 2009 2010 restated Number Number Continuing operations Beverage Cans 7,500 7,800 Plastic Packaging 12,100 12,600 Disposals and businesses for sale 300 Total continuing operations 19,600 20,700 Discontinued operations 2,100 2,200 21,700 22,900 2009 2010 restated Number Number Continuing operations China 4,900 5,100 US 4,600 5,200 France 2,300 2,400 Brazil 1,800 1,800 Germany 1,100 1,000 Russia 700 900 UK 600 700 Other countries 3,600 3,600 Total continuing operations 19,600 20,700 Discontinued operations 2,100 2,200 21,700 22,900 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 96 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 auditors remuneration 2010 2009 m m Fees payable to  LLP for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 0.8 0.7 Statutory audit fees payable to associate members of  LLP 2.5 2.7 Total audit fees 3.3 3.4 Other fees in respect of services required by legislation 0.2 1.2 Fees for tax services 0.5 0.6 Fees for other services 0.6 0.3 4.6 5.5 Included in statutory audit fees payable to associate members of  LLP are 0.2m in relation to discontinued operations 2009: 0.2m.
Included in other fees in respect of services required by legislation in 2009 was 1.0m relating to work performed on the rights issue which was charged to the share premium account.
6 exceptional items continuing operations 2009 2010 restated m m Restructuring of businesses 8 99 Impairment of goodwill 3 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 5 Exceptional items included in operating profit 8 107 Tax on exceptional items 1 26 Total exceptional items after tax 7 81 The restructuring of businesses charge of 8m in 2010 comprises 5m of employee related costs in Beverage Cans and 6m of costs less 3m reversal of impairment in Plastic Packaging in respect of previously announced plant closures.
The restructuring of businesses charge of 99m in 2009 comprised 56m relating to the closure of the Dmitrov and Dunkirk beverage can facilities and for the reorganisation of the North American beverage can business, 36m relating to the closure and consolidation of plastic packaging plants within Personal Care and Healthcare and a redundancy programme in Healthcare, and 7m in respect of a reduction in corporate staff, including cancellation of certain long term incentives.
Impairment of goodwill of 3m related to the India beverage can business.
The loss on disposal of subsidiaries of 5m related to the disposal of the Petainer plastic bottle business and a plastic packaging Personal Care business based in the US.
7 interest 2010 2009 m m Interest expense Bank overdrafts 8 7 Bank loans 26 33 US public bond 25 24 US private placement 9 8 Subordinated bond 41 43 Medium term notes 31 37 Interest on financing derivatives 21 20 Foreign exchange gains losses 2 2 Underlying interest expense 117 134 Fair value losses gains on financing derivatives 12 14 129 120 Interest income Cash and cash equivalents 4 3 Interest expense in 2010 includes 10m 2009: nil of capitalised facility fees written off on the cancellation of related bank facilities.
97 7 interest continued An analysis of fair value losses gains on financing derivatives is set out below.
2010 2009 m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 1 5 Cross currency swaps 11 Fair value adjustment to borrowings 5 9 5 4 Not hedge accounted Interest rate swaps 7 3 Cross currency swaps 10 21 17 18 Fair value losses gains on financing derivatives 12 14 The net gain on fair value hedges of 5m 2009: net loss 4m represents the total hedge ineffectiveness for the year.
8 tax i tax included in the income statement 2009 2010 2009 restated 2010 Exceptional restated Exceptional 2009 Underlying and other 2010 Underlying and other restated 1 1 profit items Total profit items Total m m m m m m Continuing operations Current and non current tax charge 82 6 76 65 65 Adjustment in respect of prior years 7 7 5 5 Current and non current tax 75 6 69 60 60 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 38 8 30 14 33 19 Adjustment in respect of prior years 3 3 3 3 Deferred tax 41 8 33 17 33 16 Total continuing operations 116 14 102 77 33 44 Discontinued operations 9 74 65 8 82 74 125 88 37 85 115 30 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on financing derivatives.
ii tax included in equity 2010 2009 m m Retirement benefit obligations 24 61 Cash flow hedges 4 48 Tax included in equity 20 13 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 98 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 8 tax continued iii tax reconciliation A reconciliation of the tax charge applicable to the Groups profit loss before tax on continuing operations at the UK statutory rate of 28% 2009: 28% with the tax charge on continuing operations based on the Groups effective rate is set out below.
2009 2010 2009 restated 2010 Exceptional restated Exceptional 2009 Underlying and other 2010 Underlying and other restated 1 1 profit tax items Total profit tax items Total m m m m m m Profit loss before tax on continuing operations 390 52 338 258 124 134 Tax on continuing operations at the UK statutory rate 109 14 95 72 34 38 Non deductible and non taxable items 6 2 4 3 8 11 Higher lower domestic tax rates on overseas earnings 17 2 15 4 7 3 Tax overprovided in prior years 4 4 2 2 Tax in the consolidated income statement 116 14 102 77 33 44 Effective rate of tax on continuing operations 30% 30% 30% 33% 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on financing derivatives.
iv analysis of deferred tax 2010 2009 m m Deferred tax assets 252 201 Deferred tax liabilities 77 99 Net deferred tax assets 175 102 Retirement Accelerated Goodwill Other benefit Tax tax and other temporary obligations losses depreciation intangible assets differences Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 117 61 106 12 18 102 Exchange differences 4 2 1 1 1 7 Credit charge for the year 1 4 13 37 6 41 Credit charge to equity 24 4 20 Transfer to liabilities classified as held for sale 4 1 5 At 31 December 2010 146 59 90 50 10 175 At 1 January 2009 58 32 109 63 68 14 Exchange differences 6 8 7 4 5 Credit charge for the year 4 23 5 68 8 98 Credit charge to equity 61 48 13 Reclassifications 6 6 At 31 December 2009 117 61 106 12 18 102 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented as non current in the consolidated balance sheet.
Of the total deferred tax assets, 29m 2009: 40m are recoverable within one year.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised where it is probable that they will be recovered.
In recognising deferred tax assets, the Group has considered if it is more likely than not that sufficient future profits will be available to absorb tax losses and other temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets of 26m 2009: 26m have not been recognised in respect of losses, tax credits on dividends and other temporary differences due to the uncertainty of the availability of suitable profits in the foreseeable future.
The principal items on which no deferred tax assets have been recognised are tax losses of 92m 2009: 97m.
There is no expiry date on these tax losses.
No deferred tax has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries except where it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the forseeable future.
If the earnings were remitted in full, tax of 25m 2009: 34m would be payable.
99 9 earnings loss per share i basic and diluted earnings loss per share Basic Diluted Basic Diluted 2009 2009 2010 2010 restated restated Pence Pence Pence Pence Continuing operations 27.1 27.0 11.4 11.4 Discontinued operations 12.9 12.9 15.1 15.1 Total 14.2 14.1 3.7 3.7 2010 2009 m m Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of Rexam PLC Continuing operations 237 90 Discontinued operations 113 119 Total 124 29 2009 2010 restated Millions Millions Weighted average number of shares in issue 875.6 786.5 Dilution on conversion of outstanding share options 2.6 0.2 Weighted average number of shares in issue on a diluted basis 878.2 786.7 ii underlying earnings per share 2009 2010 restated Pence Pence Continuing operations 31.4 23.0 Discontinued operations 1.4 2.4 Total 32.8 25.4 2010 2010 2009 2009 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations m m m m Underlying profit before tax 390 22 258 27 Tax on underlying profit 116 9 77 8 Underlying profit for the financial year 274 13 181 19 Attributable to: Shareholders of Rexam PLC 275 12 181 19 Non controlling interests 1 1 274 13 181 19 Underlying earnings per share is based on underlying profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders of Rexam PLC divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
Underlying profit for the financial year is profit before exceptional items, the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on financing derivatives.
Underlying earnings per share is included as it is felt that adjusting basic earnings per share for exceptional items, the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on financing derivatives provides a better indication of the Groups performance.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 100 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 10 discontinued operations The Plastic Packaging Closures division is currently being marketed for disposal.
Indicative offers have been received and an impairment loss has been recorded reflecting the value of these offers.
In accordance with IFRS5 Non Current Assets Held For Sale and Discontinued Operations the business has been classified in the consolidated balance sheet within assets and liabilities classified as held for sale note 21, and presented as discontinued operations.
The consolidated income statement, analysis of exceptional items and summary of cash flows of this division are set out below.
i consolidated income statement 2010 2009 m m Sales 343 333 Operating expenses 520 521 Underlying operating profit 22 28 Exceptional items 185 202 Amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 14 14 Operating loss 177 188 Share of underlying post tax losses of associates and joint ventures 1 Exceptional items 4 Share of post tax losses of associates and joint ventures 5 Underlying profit before tax 22 27 Exceptional items 185 206 Amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 14 14 Loss before tax 177 193 Tax on underlying profit 9 8 Tax on exceptional items 68 77 Tax on amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 6 5 Tax 65 74 Loss for the financial year 112 119 ii exceptional items 2010 2009 m m Impairment of goodwill 59 193 Impairment of intangible assets 65 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 55 3 Total impairment 179 196 Restructuring of businesses 6 6 Exceptional items included in operating profit 185 202 Disposal of associate 4 Exceptional items before tax 185 206 Tax 68 77 Exceptional items after tax 117 129 Total impairment of 179m in 2010 comprises 171m to write down the value of the Closures division to fair value less costs to sell at 31 December 2010, and 8m arising on the closure of a facility located in Constantine, US.
The restructuring of businesses in 2010 relates to the closure of the Constantine facility, and in 2009 related to the closure of a facility located in Hamlet, US.
iii summary of cash flows 2010 2009 m m Net cash flows from operating activities 30 69 Net cash flows from investing activities 12 19 Net cash flows from financing activities 36 Net cash inflow 18 14 101 11 equity dividends 2010 2009 m m Interim dividend for 2010 of 4.0p paid on 5 October 2010 35 Final dividend for 2009 of 8.0p paid on 3 June 2010 70 Final dividend for 2008 of 10.9p paid on 2 July 2009 79 105 79 A final dividend per equity share of 8.0p has been proposed for 2010 and, subject to shareholder approval, is payable on 7 June 2011.
The proposed final dividend has not been accrued in these consolidated financial statements.
12 goodwill i summary 2010 2009 m m Cost At 1 January 2,085 2,246 Exchange differences 30 156 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3 Disposal of subsidiaries 8 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 263 At 31 December 1,852 2,085 Impairment At 1 January 199 Exchange differences 9 3 Impairment for the year 59 196 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 263 At 31 December 4 199 Carrying value at 31 December 1,848 1,886 The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December is allocated to cash generating units or groups of cash generating units as set out below.
2010 2009 m m Europe 647 664 US 367 351 Brazil 197 188 Russia 44 43 Egypt 35 35 Mexico 7 7 Beverage Cans 1,297 1,288 Healthcare 330 324 Personal Care 221 218 Closures 56 Plastic Packaging 551 598 Carrying value at 31 December 1,848 1,886 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 102 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 12 goodwill continued ii impairment testing At 31 December 2010, goodwill in relation to the discontinued Plastic Packaging Closures cash generating unit was fully impaired by 59m based on fair value less costs to sell.
During 2009, goodwill in relation to the discontinued Plastic Packaging Closures cash generating unit was impaired by 193m and goodwill in relation to the Beverage Cans India cash generating unit was impaired by 3m following tests for impairment triggered by expected declines in future profitability and cash flow forecasts resulting from adverse market conditions.
All these impairment losses are recognised as either exceptional items within continuing operations or discontinued operations as set out below.
2010 2009 m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans: India 3 Discontinued operations Plastic Packaging: Closures 59 193 Total impairment 59 196 For the purposes of impairment testing in relation to continuing operations, the recoverable amounts of cash generating units or groups of cash generating units were determined based on value in use calculations.
The cash flow projections used in these calculations were based on the financial budget for 2011, as approved by senior management in December 2010, and the plans for 2012 and 2013, as approved by management in October 2010.
Cash flows beyond the three year period have been extrapolated using a growth rate not exceeding the long term average growth rate of the countries in which the cash generated units operate.
As highlighted in the principal accounting policies the calculation of value in use requires the use of estimates which, although based on managements best knowledge, may ultimately differ from actual results.
The discount rates used in the goodwill impairment calculations have a significant impact.
The pre tax risk adjusted discount rates used for each of the cash generating units in relation to continuing operations are set out below.
2010 2009 % % Beverage Cans: Europe 11 11 US 11 11 Brazil 15 15 Russia 18 18 Egypt 21 22 Mexico 16 16 Plastic Packaging: Healthcare 11 11 Personal Care 11 11 Closures n a 11 Other key assumptions used in the recoverable amount calculation include: i sales and margins.
Forecasts are based on sector level analyses of sales, markets, costs and competitors.
Consideration is given to past experience and knowledge of future contracts.
ii raw materials and energy price inflation.
Forecasts for aluminium and resin are based on forward prices at the time projections are prepared and take into account pass through of costs and hedging.
Forecasts for other raw materials and energy are based on inflation forecasts and supply and demand factors.
Management considers that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of goodwill attached to the above cash generating units to fall below their carrying value at 31 December 2010.
103 13 other intangible assets Customer Computer Computer contracts and Technology Other software software relationships and patents development acquired developed acquired acquired projects Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 95 26 498 188 13 820 Exchange differences 1 1 19 6 25 Additions 9 2 11 Disposals 2 1 3 Transfers 1 2 3 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 4 2 171 67 1 245 At 31 December 2010 98 24 346 127 16 611 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2010 65 17 91 46 6 225 Exchange differences 1 1 2 1 3 Amortisation for the year 11 3 32 14 1 61 Disposals 1 1 2 Impairment 65 65 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 3 2 104 15 124 At 31 December 2010 71 18 86 46 7 228 Carrying value at 31 December 2010 27 6 260 81 9 383 Cost At 1 January 2009 94 26 540 204 12 876 Exchange differences 7 2 44 16 1 70 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2 2 Additions 6 1 2 9 Disposals 1 1 Reclassifications 1 1 Transfers 2 2 4 At 31 December 2009 95 26 498 188 13 820 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2009 55 14 65 33 6 173 Exchange differences 4 1 5 2 2 14 Amortisation for the year 13 4 31 15 1 64 Impairment 1 1 Transfers 1 1 At 31 December 2009 65 17 91 46 6 225 Carrying value at 31 December 2009 30 9 407 142 7 595 The impairment of 65m in 2010 relates to the discontinued Plastic Packaging Closures division note 10.
The impairment of 1m in 2009 related to the closure of the European Beverage Cans facility in Dmitrov, Russia.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 104 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 14 property, plant and equipment Plant and Assets under Property equipment construction Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 602 2,389 113 3,104 Exchange differences 4 13 2 19 Additions 3 43 154 200 Disposals 9 48 1 58 Transfers 2 3 1 Reclassifications 23 95 118 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 44 205 20 269 At 31 December 2010 579 2,289 127 2,995 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2010 150 1,231 1,381 Exchange differences 2 5 7 Disposals 3 43 46 Depreciation for the year 22 182 204 Impairment 61 61 Reversal of impairment 3 3 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 11 169 180 At 31 December 2010 160 1,264 1,424 Carrying value at 31 December 2010 419 1,025 127 1,571 Cost At 1 January 2009 603 2,375 282 3,260 Exchange differences 44 160 19 223 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2 2 Additions 2 13 124 139 Disposal of subsidiaries 4 11 15 Disposals 8 43 51 Transfers 4 4 Other movements 3 1 4 Reclassifications 56 218 274 At 31 December 2009 602 2,389 113 3,104 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2009 138 1,140 1,278 Exchange differences 10 75 85 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 9 10 Disposals 4 36 40 Depreciation for the year 22 186 208 Impairment 7 30 37 Reversal of impairment 4 4 Transfers 1 1 Other movements 2 2 At 31 December 2009 150 1,231 1,381 Carrying value at 31 December 2009 452 1,158 113 1,723 The carrying value of property, plant and equipment includes finance leased assets of 34m 2009: 34m in respect of property and 1m 2009: 2m in respect of plant and equipment.
In 2010, the impairment of 61m comprises continuing operations of 6m and discontinued operations of 55m note 10.
Of the 6m from continuing operations, 5m relates to the conversion of plants from steel to aluminium can manufacture in the European Beverage Cans business and 1m relates to over capacity in the Mexican Beverage Cans business.
The reversal of impairment of 3m relates to the North American Plastic Packaging business whereby the proceeds from the sale of assets were higher than previously expected.
In 2009, the impairment of 37m comprised 23m related to the closure of the Dmitrov and Dunkirk Beverage Can facilities, 4m related to the reorganisation of the North American Beverage Cans business and 10m as part of the reorganisation of Plastic Packaging.
The reversal of impairment of 4m related to the North American Beverage Cans business whereby the proceeds from the sale of assets were higher than previously expected.
105 15 investments in subsidiaries The principal subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned, are shown below.
An asterisk indicates that the capital is directly owned by Rexam PLC.
Subsidiaries incorporated in the UK are registered in England and Wales.
All subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements.
Country of Principal area Identity of Nature of incorporation of operation capital held business activities Rexam Beverage Can Company US US Common stock Consumer packaging Rexam Beverage Can Naro Fominsk LLC Russia Russia Capital stock Consumer packaging Rexam Beverage Can South America SA Brazil South America Common stock Consumer packaging Rexam do Brazil Ltda Brazil South America Quotas Consumer packaging Rexam European Holdings Limited UK UK Ordinary shares Holding company Rexam France SA France France Ordinary shares Consumer packaging Rexam Group Holdings Limited UK UK Ordinary shares Holding company Rexam Holdings AB Sweden Continental Europe Ordinary shares Holding company Rexam Inc US US Common stock Holding company Rexam Overseas Holdings Limited UK UK Ordinary shares Holding company Rexam Plastic Packaging Inc US US Common stock Holding company 16 investments in associates and joint ventures The principal associate and joint venture are set out below.
Country of incorporation and area of operation Issued capital Group share Hanil Can Company Limited associate South Korea 1.7m shares of 5,000 won each 40% Controladora Envases Universales Rexam SA joint venture Guatemala 334.5m shares of 1 quetzal each 50% Associates Joint ventures Total m m m At 1 January 2010 31 23 54 Exchange differences 2 1 3 Share of post tax profits continuing operations 2 3 5 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 1 1 At 31 December 2010 35 26 61 At 1 January 2009 37 26 63 Exchange differences 2 2 Transfer of joint venture to subsidiary status 2 2 Disposal of associate 6 6 Share of post tax profits continuing operations 2 2 Share of post tax losses discontinued operations 1 1 At 31 December 2009 31 23 54 There is 3m of goodwill allocated to the joint venture in Guatemala 2009: 3m.
The following table sets out summary information on all associates and joint ventures on a 100% basis.
2010 2010 2009 2009 Associates Joint ventures Associates Joint ventures m m m m Sales 153 56 115 44 Profit after tax 5 5 1 1 Assets 150 62 129 59 Liabilities 63 10 52 13 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 106 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 17 available for sale financial assets 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 23 31 Exchange differences 1 3 Income for the year 2 2 Changes in market value 1 4 Cash payments 3 Payments to satisfy retirement benefit obligations 2 3 At 31 December 28 23 Non current assets 27 21 Current assets 1 2 At 31 December 28 23 Available for sale financial assets at 31 December 2010 include 27m 2009: 22m of investments used to satisfy certain US retirement obligations, of which 27m 2009: 18m comprises fixed rate listed investments, the fair values of which are determined directly by reference to published price quotations in an active market, and nil 2009: 4m comprises cash and cash equivalents.
Also included in available for sale financial assets at 31 December 2010 are unlisted investments of 1m 2009: 1m.
The carrying amounts of available for sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies, which are the functional currencies of the relevant subsidiaries.
2010 2009 m m US dollar 27 22 Euro 1 1 28 23 18 inventories 2010 2009 m m Raw materials, stores and consumables 176 182 Work in progress 15 18 Finished goods 224 232 415 432 An analysis of provisions against inventories is set out below.
2010 2009 m m At 1 January 32 30 Exchange differences 2 Charge for the year 13 10 Released in the year 3 1 Utilised 4 5 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 9 At 31 December 29 32 107 19 trade and other receivables 2010 2009 m m Non current assets Trade receivables 4 4 Provision for impairment 4 4 Net trade receivables Prepayments 68 33 Taxes 9 8 Other receivables 43 39 120 80 Current assets Trade receivables 509 499 Provision for impairment 17 12 Net trade receivables 492 487 Prepayments 55 42 Taxes 37 36 Other receivables 64 65 648 630 Total trade and other receivables 768 710 An analysis of provisions for impairment of trade and other receivables is set out below.
2010 2009 m m At 1 January 16 11 Exchange differences 1 Impairment in the year 7 10 Released in the year 1 3 Utilised 1 1 At 31 December 21 16 An analysis of total trade and other receivables including those which are past due but not impaired is set out below.
2010 2009 m m Not yet due 715 670 Past due less than 1 month 21 15 Between 1 and 2 months 4 9 Between 2 and 3 months 1 4 Between 3 and 6 months 2 4 Between 6 and 12 months 5 8 In more than 12 months 20 768 710 All amounts over two months past due but not impaired are expected to be recovered in the first half of 2011. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 108 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 19 trade and other receivables continued The maximum amount of credit risk with respect to customers is represented by the carrying amount on the balance sheet.
Customer credit facilities for new customers must be approved by designated managers at business level or by senior sector management.
Credit limits are set with reference to trading history and reports from credit rating agencies.
Customer credit facilities are reviewed at the sales order entry stage and at the time of shipment so as not to exceed customer limits.
Overdue accounts are regularly reviewed and impairment provisions are created where necessary.
As a matter of policy, all outstanding trade balances greater than three months are fully provided except as approved by senior sector management and with due regard to the historical risk profile of the customer.
The Group has extremely low historical levels of customer credit defaults, due in part to the blue chip multinational nature of many of its customers and the long term relationships it has with them.
There were no major new customers in 2010 where the Group considered there was a risk of significant credit default.
There are no trade and other receivables that would otherwise be past due or impaired whose terms have been renegotiated.
The carrying amounts of total trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies which, in most instances, are the functional currencies of the relevant subsidiaries.
2010 2009 m m Euro 259 241 US dollar 242 207 Brazilian real 154 154 Russian rouble 29 17 Other 84 91 768 710 20 cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 m m Cash at bank and in hand 46 40 Short term bank deposits 68 73 114 113 The Group has provided letters of credit, secured by short term bank deposits, totalling 1m 2009: 5m as part of its insurance arrangements.
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies.
2010 2009 m m US dollar 72 13 Euro 20 56 Brazilian real 6 26 Other 16 18 114 113 109 21 assets and liabilities classified as held for sale An analysis of the assets and liabilities classified as held for sale at 31 December, principally the discontinued Closures division, is set out below.
2010 2010 2010 Closures 2009 Closures Closures 2010 post 2010 before impairment Other impairment Total impairment adjustments Other Total m m m m m m Goodwill 59 59 Intangible assets 186 65 121 121 Property, plant and equipment 134 47 87 2 89 4 Investment in joint venture 1 1 1 Inventories 41 41 41 Trade receivables 26 26 26 Cash and cash equivalents 4 4 4 Total assets 451 171 280 2 282 4 Trade payables 42 42 42 Deferred tax 5 5 5 Provisions 3 3 3 Total liabilities 50 50 50 Carrying value 401 171 230 2 232 4 For further information on the discontinued Closures division see note 10.
Other assets classified as held for sale of 2m 2009: 4m comprise properties in the US deemed surplus to requirements.
22 trade and other payables 2010 2009 m m Current liabilities Trade payables 438 417 Social security and other taxes 60 57 Accrued expenses 202 198 Other payables 68 76 768 748 Non current liabilities Accrued expenses 30 9 Other payables 51 38 81 47 Total trade and other payables 849 795 The carrying amounts of total trade and other payables are denominated in the following currencies, which in most instances are the functional currencies of the relevant subsidiaries.
2010 2009 m m US dollar 398 371 Euro 259 259 Brazilian real 92 64 Sterling 41 42 Other 59 59 849 795 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 110 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 23 borrowings 2010 2009 m m Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 15 51 Bank loans 25 40 US public bond 1 2 US private placement 1 1 Subordinated bond 21 23 Medium term notes 17 21 Finance leases 1 2 81 140 Non current liabilities Bank loans 43 120 US public bond 356 340 US private placement 146 139 Subordinated bond 706 734 Medium term notes 549 621 Finance leases 1 1,800 1,955 Total borrowings 1,881 2,095 The Group has a range of bank borrowings maturing between 2012 and 2015.
These facilities may generally be drawn in a range of freely available currencies and are at floating rates of interest.
In addition the Group has a US public bond, a US private placement, a subordinated bond and medium term notes in issue.
The US public bond and US private placement totalling $775m were issued at a fixed price and mature in 2013.
The subordinated bond is denominated in euros with a maturity of 2067.
It was issued at a fixed rate of interest but has been swapped into US dollar floating rates of interest through the use of cross currency and interest rate derivatives.
The medium term notes are denominated in euros and mature in 2013.
They were issued at fixed rates of interest although some have been swapped to floating rates of interest in euro through the use of interest rate derivatives.
The bulk of the Groups drawn debt is currently represented by various bond issues with significant headroom available under its committed bank facilities.
Total minimum lease payments at 31 December 2010 are 1m 2009: 3m.
Included within borrowings are secured loans of 15m 2009: 15m, the security for which is principally property.
The carrying amounts of total borrowings are denominated in the following currencies.
2010 2009 m m Cash and cash equivalents 114 113 Bank overdrafts 15 51 Bank loans 68 160 US public bond 357 342 US private placement 147 140 Subordinated bond 727 757 Medium term notes 566 642 Finance leases 1 3 Financing derivatives 83 154 1,684 1,828 Movement in net borrowings.
2010 2009 m m At 1 January 1,828 2,601 Exchange differences 38 192 Change in cash and cash equivalents 55 83 Proceeds from borrowings 21 19 Repayment of borrowings 159 540 Fair value and other changes 11 23 At 31 December 1,684 1,828 Reconciliation of net borrowings to the consolidated balance sheet.
2010 2009 m m Total derivative financial instruments net 130 182 Derivatives not included in net borrowings 47 28 Financing derivatives included in net borrowings 83 154 Cash and cash equivalents 114 113 Borrowings included in current liabilities 81 140 Borrowings included in non current liabilities 1,800 1,955 1,684 1,828 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 112 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 25 financial instruments i carrying amount and fair value of financial assets and liabilities Analysis of the carrying values and fair values at 31 December, by category and by class, of financial assets and liabilities.
Derivatives Derivatives Loans Available Other Total used for used for and for sale financial carrying Total hedging trading receivables assets liabilities amount fair value m m m m m m m At 31 December 2010 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 114 114 114 1 Trade and other receivables 599 599 599 Available for sale financial assets 28 28 28 Derivative financial instruments 324 2 326 326 Financial liabilities 2 Trade and other payables 789 789 789 Bank overdrafts 15 15 15 Bank loans 68 68 68 US public bond 357 357 392 US private placement 147 147 160 Subordinated bond 727 727 642 Medium term notes 566 566 585 Finance leases 1 1 1 Derivative financial instruments 6 190 196 196 318 188 713 28 2,670 1,799 1,781 At 31 December 2009 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 113 113 113 1 Trade and other receivables 591 591 591 Available for sale financial assets 23 23 23 Derivative financial instruments 338 2 340 340 Financial liabilities 2 Trade and other payables 738 738 738 Bank overdrafts 51 51 51 Bank loans 160 160 160 US public bond 342 342 374 US private placement 140 140 153 Subordinated bond 757 757 591 Medium term notes 642 642 663 Finance leases 3 3 3 Derivative financial instruments 11 147 158 158 327 145 704 23 2,833 1,924 1,824 1 Excludes prepayments and taxes.
2 Excludes social security and other taxes.
Market values have been used to determine the fair values of available for sale financial assets, bank overdrafts and floating rate bank loans.
The carrying values of trade and other receivables and trade and other payables are assumed to approximate their fair values due to their short term nature.
The fair values of the US public bond, subordinated bond and medium term notes have been determined by reference to quoted market prices at the close of business on 31 December.
The US private placement is not a publicly traded instrument and its fair value has been approximated using the market value of the US public bond, which has a similar maturity date.
The fair values of interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, fixed rate loans and finance leases have been determined by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts has been determined by marking those contracts to market against prevailing forward foreign exchange rates.
The fair value of forward commodity contracts has been determined by marking those contracts to market at prevailing forward prices.
In both 2010 and 2009, all financial instruments measured at fair value are categorised as level 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, whereby the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques, except for 27m 2009: 18m of fixed rate listed investments included in available for sale financial assets that are classified as level 1.
The valuation techniques for level 2 instruments use observable market data where it is available, for example quoted market prices, and rely less on estimates.
113 25 financial instruments continued ii financial risk management The Group bases its financial risk management on sound economic objectives and good corporate practice.
Group treasury operations are carried out under policies and parameters defined by the Rexam board and supervised by its finance committee.
Group treasury is not operated as a separate profit centre nor does it enter into any transactions for speculative purposes.
The Groups major operational hedges comply with IAS39 and hedge accounting treatment is applied.
Some smaller trading exposures are hedged on an economic basis and hedge accounting treatment is not applied where the compliance burden is deemed to be onerous and the income statement volatility arising is not expected to be significant.
a market risk: currencies Currency risks arise from the multi currency cash flows within the Group.
These risks arise from exchange rate fluctuations relating to the translation of balance sheet items of foreign subsidiaries translation risk and from currency flows from sales and purchases transaction risk.
The policy regarding translation risk is to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange movements between overseas currencies and sterling arising on the translation of the value of non UK operations into sterling for reporting purposes.
This is achieved by borrowing a proportion of debt, either directly or through the use of cross currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts, in currencies which match or are closely linked to the currencies of the overseas businesses.
This approach also provides some protection against the foreign exchange translation of overseas earnings as it matches the currency of earnings to the currency of the interest expense.
These amounts are included in the consolidated financial statements by translation into sterling at the balance sheet date and, where hedge accounted, offset in equity against the translation movement in net assets.
Some cross currency swaps used to manage the Groups currency exposures, whilst economically effective, are ineligible for hedge accounting treatment.
The policy regarding transaction risk is to hedge the reported net transaction exposure in full less an allowance for variability in forecasting.
This is generally achieved through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts with amounts hedged being based on the reporting from individual Group businesses.
None of the foreign exchange derivative instruments at 31 December 2010 related to derivative trading activity, although some fair value gains and losses were taken to the consolidated income statement because IAS39 hedge accounting treatment was not applied.
Foreign exchange derivative instruments are used for hedging general business exposures in foreign currencies such as the purchase and sale of goods, capital expenditure and dividend flows.
Transactional foreign exchange risks are hedged by Group treasury unless it is a legal requirement in the country where the foreign exchange risk arises that hedging is carried out locally.
In the latter case, hedging is carried out by the individual responsible for treasury within the local business, but still operating within the overall Group policy on foreign exchange management.
The currency denomination of borrowings at 31 December 2010 was 75% in US dollars, 22% in euros and 3% in all other currencies 2009: 70% US dollars, 27% euros, 3% all other currencies.
b market risk: interest rates Changes in interest rates on interest bearing receivables and floating rate debt in different currencies create interest rate risk.
The objective of the Groups interest rate risk management is to manage its exposure to the impact of changes in interest rates in the currencies in which debt is borrowed.
Group policy is to keep between 20% and 80% of interest at fixed rates.
Interest rate risk is managed through the issue of fixed rate debt and through the use of interest rate derivatives that are used to manage the overall fixed to floating mix of debt, which was 76% fixed and 24% floating at 31 December 2010 2009: 72% and 28%.
Group treasury operates within a broad framework in respect of the mix of fixed and floating rate debt, as the optimum blend will vary depending on the mix of currencies and the Groups view of the debt markets at any point in time.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on bank deposit rates in the relevant currency.
Short term deposits are usually made for periods varying between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short term deposit rates.
Other floating rate financial instruments are at the appropriate LIBOR interest rates as adjusted by variable margins.
Interest on floating rate financial instruments is repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on fixed rate financial instruments is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
Some interest rate swaps used to manage the Groups fixed to floating debt mix, whilst economically effective, are ineligible for hedge accounting treatment.
Fair value gains and losses on these hedges are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
In 2010, there was a loss of 12m 2009: gain 14m on fair value changes on financing derivative financial instruments, disclosed separately within interest expense in the consolidated income statement.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 114 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 25 financial instruments continued c market risk: commodity prices Changes in the market price of commodities used by the Group create commodity risk.
Group policy is to manage these risks through both its supply chain management and through use of financial derivatives.
Where financial derivatives are used, the Group uses mainly over the counter instruments transacted with banks, which are themselves priced through a recognised commodity exchange, such as the London Metal Exchange.
The Group manages the purchase of certain raw materials, including aluminium, resin and energy costs through physical supply contracts which, in the main, relate directly to commodity price indices.
With regard to aluminium, which represents the Groups largest commodity exposure, the policy is to eliminate as far as possible any market price variability through hedging in tandem with contractual commitments to customers.
Where Rexam assumes the aluminium price risk on customer contracts, it has defined a risk appetite with a predetermined aggregate consolidated income statement limit arising from any related aluminium hedging activities.
Its position against this limit is monitored and reported on a monthly basis.
For other commodities, the policy is to follow an incremental hedge approach over a period of up to three years in order to manage the price year over year and limit uncertainty.
None of the commodity derivative financial instruments at 31 December 2010 related to derivative trading activity, although some fair value gains and losses were taken to the consolidated income statement because hedge accounting was not applied.
The commodity hedges mainly relate to contracted and expected future purchases of aluminium, but also include resin and energy.
d market risk: sensitivities A sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities affected by market risk is set out below.
Each risk is analysed separately and shows the sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities when a certain risk is changed.
The sensitivity analysis has been performed on balances at 31 December each year.
The rates used are based on historical trends and, where relevant, projected forecasts.
Key methods and assumptions made when performing the sensitivity analysis net of hedging : a For the floating rate element of interest rate swaps, the sensitivity calculation is performed based on the floating rates as at 31 December each year.
b The translation impact of overseas subsidiaries is not included in the sensitivity analysis.
c The sensitivity analysis ignores any tax implications.
currencies The foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis set out in the table below is based on foreign currency positions, other than each Group entitys own functional currency, on the balance sheet at 31 December.
The analysis includes only risks arising from financial instruments and gives the estimated impact on profit before tax and equity of a reasonable increase and decrease in exchange rates between currency pairs with significant currency positions.
Impact on Impact on profit Impact profit Impact Increase before tax on equity Decrease before tax on equity % m m % m m At 31 December 2010 Sterling US dollar 10 19 4 10 23 5 Sterling euro 10 23 32 10 28 39 10 15 16 10 16 16 Euro US dollar At 31 December 2009 Sterling US dollar 10 21 18 10 25 22 Sterling euro 10 23 42 10 28 51 Euro US dollar 10 13 13 10 13 13 The impact of currency risk on net investment hedges is offset by the translation of overseas subsidiaries on consolidation.
The net impact of currency translation in 2010 resulted in sales and underlying profit from continuing operations increasing by 22m and 7m respectively compared with 2009 as set out below.
Underlying operating Sales profit m m Euro 51 3 US dollar 31 3 Russian rouble 17 5 Other currencies 25 2 22 7 115 25 financial instruments continued interest rates At 31 December 2010, if the US dollar interest rate were increased by 1% with all other variables held constant, profit before tax would increase by 7m as a result of US dollar denominated floating rate debt and interest rate and cross currency derivatives that are not hedge accounted.
If euro and sterling interest rates were increased by 1% with all other variables held constant, profit before tax would reduce by 8m as a result of fixed rate debt being swapped into floating rate debt.
A reduction in interest rates would not have a significant effect on profit before tax.
There was no significant interest rate risk relating to equity in either year.
commodity prices At 31 December 2010, there was no price risk relating to the income statement since all significant commodity derivatives were treated as cash flow hedges with movements being reflected in equity.
If the aluminium price was increased or reduced by 10% with all other variables held constant, equity would increase or decrease by 45m, respectively 2009: 22m.
equity prices The Group is not subject to any significant equity price risk.
e liquidity risk An analysis of undiscounted contractual maturities for non derivative financial liabilities, derivative financial liabilities and assets and undrawn committed debt facilities is set out below.
Total Within 1 to 2 2 to 5 More than contractual 1 year years years 5 years amount m m m m m At 31 December 2010 Non derivative financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 708 18 38 25 789 Bank overdrafts 15 15 Bank loans 24 7 7 29 67 US public bond 24 24 381 429 US private placement 9 9 155 173 Subordinated bond 43 43 130 728 944 Medium term notes 24 24 569 617 Finance leases 1 1 Derivative financial instruments: Derivative contracts settled gross payments 607 103 205 1,276 2,191 Derivative contracts settled gross receipts 631 123 228 1,282 2,264 Derivative contracts net settlements 3 2 5 4 Commodity contracts 36 12 1 49 Undrawn committed debt facilities 50 1,028 1,078 At 31 December 2009 Non derivative financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 691 4 19 24 738 Bank overdrafts 51 51 Bank loans 40 3 101 16 160 US public bond 23 23 411 457 US private placement 9 9 157 175 Subordinated bond 46 46 137 813 1,042 Medium term notes 27 27 676 730 Finance leases 2 1 3 Derivative financial instruments: Derivative contracts settled gross payments 729 79 199 1,358 2,365 Derivative contracts settled gross receipts 831 96 234 1,406 2,567 Derivative contracts net settlements 1 4 7 12 Commodity contracts 26 7 33 Undrawn committed debt facilities 148 221 805 1,174 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 116 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 25 financial instruments continued The Group monitors its liquidity to maintain a sufficient level of undrawn committed debt facilities, thereby ensuring financial flexibility.
As at 31 December 2010, Rexam had 1,078m of undrawn committed debt facilities available 2009: 1,174m.
Group treasury mitigates refinancing risk by raising its debt requirements from a range of different sources and with a range of maturity dates.
As at 31 December 2010, committed debt maturities ranged from 2% repayable in 2012 2009: 5% repayable in 2010 to 24% repayable in 2067 2009: 21% repayable in 2067.
No more than 38% of committed debt matures in any one financial year 2009: 37%.
f credit risk The maximum credit risk exposure of the Groups financial assets at 31 December is represented by the amounts reported under the corresponding balance sheet headings.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk associated with financial instruments of the Group.
Credit risk arises from exposures to external counterparties.
In order to manage this risk, the Group has strict credit control quality measures that are applied to counterparty institutions and also limits on maximum exposure levels to any one counterparty.
To manage credit risk, the maximum limits for bank exposures held under Group policy are set out below by individual counterparty credit rating category.
These limits are used when making investments and for the use of derivative instruments.
The table also sets out the Groups financial asset exposure at 31 December for each counterparty credit rating category.
g capital risk management The Groups objective is to minimise its cost of capital by optimising the efficiency of its capital structure, being the balance between equity and debt.
The Group views its ordinary share capital as equity.
This objective is always subject to an overriding principle that capital must be managed to ensure the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
The Group is able to adjust its capital structure through the issue or redemption of either debt or equity and by adjustment to the dividend paid to equity holders.
The Group uses a range of financial metrics to monitor the efficiency of its capital structure, including its weighted average cost of capital and net debt to EBITDA and ensures that its capital structure provides sufficient financial strength to allow it to secure access to debt finance at reasonable cost.
At 31 December 2010, the Groups net debt to EBITDA for financial covenant purposes was 1.8 times 2009: 2.2 times.
The Group aims to keep this ratio below 2.5 times.
For this purpose, net debt is broadly net borrowings adjusted to exclude interest accruals, certain derivative financial instruments and an equity portion of the subordinated bond and reflects non sterling amounts at average exchange rates.
EBITDA is underlying operating profit after adding back depreciation and amortisation of computer software and adjusted where appropriate to include acquisitions on a pro forma basis and excludes disposed businesses.
117 25 financial instruments continued iii derivative financial instruments The net fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments designated as fair value or cash flow hedges and those not designated as hedging instruments are set out below.
2010 2009 m m Fair value hedges Cross currency swaps 257 282 Interest rate swaps 13 14 270 296 Cash flow hedges Forward aluminium commodity contracts 50 35 Forward gas commodity contracts 2 2 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2 48 31 Total hedge accounted 318 327 Not hedge accounted Cross currency swaps 175 136 Interest rate swaps 10 3 Forward foreign exchange contracts 3 6 Total not hedge accounted 188 145 Total net fair value of derivative financial instruments 130 182 fair value hedges The Group has designated interest rate swaps and the interest element of cross currency swaps as fair value hedges whereby interest is receivable at fixed interest rates varying from 4.375% to 6.75% 2009: 4.375% to 6.75% and payable at floating rates.
These swaps hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of medium term notes which mature in 2013 2009: 2013.
The cross currency swaps hedge changes in the fair value of the euro subordinated bond which matures in 2067.
Net ineffectiveness gains of 5m were included in interest in 2010 2009: net loss 4m.
cash flow hedges The Group has designated forward foreign exchange contracts and aluminium and gas commodity contracts as cash flow hedges.
Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge foreign currency transaction risk and mature between 2011 and 2013 2009: between 2010 and 2011.
The aluminium commodity and gas commodity contracts hedge anticipated future purchases of aluminium and gas respectively, and mature between 2011 and 2013 2009: between 2010 and 2011. not hedge accounted Derivatives are not used for trading purposes.
However, under IAS39 some derivatives may not qualify for hedge accounting, or are specifically not designated as a hedge where natural offset is more appropriate.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 118 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 25 financial instruments continued net investment hedges An analysis of the Groups non derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges with respect to its subsidiaries, principally in the eurozone and the US, are set out below.
Medium US public Bank term notes bond loans Total m m m m At 1 January 2010 483 194 677 Net decrease in designations 86 153 239 Exchange differences recognised in equity 24 2 22 At 31 December 2010 373 43 416 At 1 January 2009 499 192 43 734 Net increase decrease in designations 17 26 43 Exchange differences recognised in equity 33 24 57 At 31 December 2009 483 194 677 An analysis of the notional amounts and maturity dates for derivative financial instruments is set out below.
2010 2009 Notional Notional amounts amounts Maturity m m Fair value hedges Cross currency swaps euro 2017 641 676 Cross currency swaps sterling 2017 505 505 Interest rate swaps euro 2013 171 180 Forward aluminium commodity contracts US dollar 2011 5 5 Cash flow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts US dollar 2011 to 2013 141 130 Forward foreign exchange contracts sterling 2011 24 24 Forward foreign exchange contracts Swedish krona 2011 21 22 Forward foreign exchange contracts Brazilian real 40 Forward aluminium commodity contracts US dollar 2011 to 2013 408 193 Forward gas commodity contracts US dollar 2011 to 2013 8 5 Forward resin commodity contracts US dollar 4 Not hedge accounted Cross currency swaps sterling 2011 to 2017 505 505 Cross currency swaps US dollar 2011 to 2017 654 625 Interest rate swaps US dollar 2012 364 248 Forward foreign exchange contracts US dollar 2011 to 2013 210 485 Forward resin commodity contracts US dollar 2011 2 For forward foreign exchange contracts, there are other currencies traded which have been excluded as the fair values for these contracts were immaterial.
119 26 retirement benefit obligations i summary UK US Other Total Gross defined defined defined defined retirement benefit benefit benefit benefit Other Total Retiree benefit pensions pensions pensions pensions pensions pensions medical obligations m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 11 218 37 266 19 285 111 396 Exchange differences 11 11 1 10 5 15 Service cost continuing operations 9 4 1 14 9 23 1 24 Net finance cost continuing operations 8 14 2 8 8 7 15 Service cost discontinued operations 1 1 3 4 4 Exceptional items discontinued operations 2 2 2 2 Total operating profit discontinued operations 1 1 3 2 2 Actuarial changes 9 73 1 65 65 1 64 Cash contributions and benefits paid 22 2 3 27 12 39 12 51 Transfers 2 2 2 2 At 31 December 2010 19 315 38 334 18 352 111 463 Restated: At 1 January 2009 16 54 43 81 20 101 127 228 Exchange differences 8 3 11 1 12 9 21 Service cost continuing operations 7 3 1 11 8 19 1 20 Exceptional items continuing operations 1 1 2 2 2 Total operating profit continuing operations 6 2 1 9 8 17 1 18 Net finance cost continuing operations 2 19 2 23 23 8 31 Service cost discontinued operations 1 1 4 5 5 Actuarial changes 36 154 4 186 186 5 181 Cash contributions and benefits paid 17 1 2 20 12 32 11 43 Transfers 3 3 3 3 At 31 December 2009 11 218 37 266 19 285 111 396 2010 2009 m m Pension assets 19 Retirement benefit obligations 482 396 Gross retirement benefit obligations 463 396 Tax 146 117 Net retirement benefit obligations 317 279 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 120 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 retirement benefit obligations continued ii defined benefit pension plans The Group operates various defined benefit pension plans throughout the world, the largest being the funded plans in the UK and the US.
With respect to the UK, a full actuarial valuation by a qualified actuary was carried out as at 31 March 2008 and updated to 31 December 2010.
The next full actuarial valuation is due as at 31 March 2011.
With respect to the US, a full actuarial valuation by a qualified actuary was carried out as at 1 January 2010 and updated to 31 December 2010.
In 2009, Rexam PLC entered into a security agreement with the Trustees of the UK pension plan, granting them a charge over the Beverage Cans UK facilities and machinery at Milton Keynes and Wakefield, enforceable up to 1 January 2013 in the event of a contribution default or a material decline in Rexams pension covenant.
IFRIC14 IAS19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction had no impact on the Group in 2010 or 2009.
US Total Total UK UK US Other 2009 Other 2009 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 restated 2009 restated m m m m m m m m a Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet Fair value of plan assets 1,598 1,026 13 2,637 1,489 980 11 2,480 Present value of funded obligations 1,579 1,295 16 2,890 1,500 1,159 14 2,673 Funded defined benefit pension plans 19 269 3 253 11 179 3 193 Present value of unfunded obligations 46 35 81 39 34 73 Net asset liability 19 315 38 334 11 218 37 266 b Amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement Continuing operations Current service cost 8 4 1 13 7 3 1 11 Past service cost 1 1 Exceptional items past service credit 1 1 1 1 Exceptional items curtailments 1 1 1 1 Employee benefit expense 9 4 1 14 6 2 1 9 Expected return on plan assets 92 52 144 74 52 1 127 Interest cost 84 66 2 152 76 71 3 150 Net finance credit cost 8 14 2 8 2 19 2 23 Total 1 18 3 22 8 21 3 32 Discontinued operations Current service cost 1 1 1 1 Exceptional items curtailment 2 2 Employee benefit expense 1 1 1 1 c Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Actuarial gains losses on plan assets 57 46 1 104 142 71 2 73 Actuarial losses gains on retirement benefit obligations 48 119 2 169 178 83 2 259 Total 9 73 1 65 36 154 4 186 d Changes in the fair value of plan assets At 1 January 1,489 980 11 2,480 1,310 1,186 9 2,505 Exchange differences 44 44 93 1 94 Expected return on plan assets 92 52 144 74 52 1 127 Actuarial gains losses 57 46 1 104 142 71 2 73 Employer contributions 22 1 23 17 17 Plan participant contributions 2 1 3 3 3 Benefits paid 64 96 1 161 57 94 151 At 31 December 1,598 1,026 13 2,637 1,489 980 11 2,480 121 26 retirement benefit obligations continued Total US Other UK US Other Total UK 2009 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 % % % % % % % % e Major categories of plan assets Equities 50 18 74 38 53 18 74 39 Bonds 49 82 22 61 45 82 22 59 Cash and other 1 4 1 2 4 2 f changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations US Total UK US Other Total UK 2009 Other 2009 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 restated 2009 restated m m m m m m m m At 1 January 1,500 1,198 48 2,746 1,294 1,240 52 2,586 Exchange differences 55 55 101 4 105 Current service cost continuing operations 8 4 1 13 7 3 1 11 Current service cost discontinued operations 1 1 1 1 Past service cost continuing operations 1 1 Exceptional items continuing operations 1 1 2 Exceptional items discontinued operations 2 2 Interest cost continuing operations 84 66 2 152 76 71 3 150 Actuarial losses gains 48 119 2 169 178 83 2 259 Plan participant contributions 2 1 3 3 3 Benefits paid 64 98 3 165 57 95 2 154 Transfer from available for sale financial assets 2 2 3 3 At 31 December 1,579 1,341 51 2,971 1,500 1,198 48 2,746 g principal actuarial assumptions UK US Other UK US Other 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 % % % % % % Future salary increases 5.00 4.00 3.08 5.20 4.00 3.07 Future pension increases 3.50 1.35 3.70 2.00 Discount rate 5.40 4.90 5.20 5.70 5.50 5.06 Inflation rate 3.50 2.50 2.00 3.70 2.50 2.00 Expected return on plan assets net of administration expenses : Equities 7.51 7.67 8.25 7.75 7.56 8.30 Bonds 4.61 4.37 3.90 4.70 4.76 3.70 Cash and other 0.31 2.77 1.00 0.25 3.16 1.00 To develop the expected return on plan assets assumptions, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on risk free investments, primarily government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the asset class concerned and the expectations for future returns of the asset class.
The resulting returns for equities, bonds and cash were then reduced to allow for administration expenses.
The mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities of the UK pension plan are based on the standard tables PA92 as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
These tables are adjusted to reflect the circumstances of the plan membership.
The life expectancy assumed for a 65 year old pensioner is 86.2 years 2009: 86.2 years for a male and 89.3 years 2009: 89.3 years for a female.
The life expectancy for a non pensioner currently aged 45 is 88.4 years 2009: 88.4 years for a male and 91.7 years 2009: 91.7 years for a female.
The mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities of the US pension plans are based on the RP2000 combined active and retiree mortality table projected to 2017 2009 projected to 2006, weighted 70% blue collar and 30% white collar.
The life expectancy assumed for a 65 year old pensioner is 83.6 years 2009: 82.8 years for a male and 85.7 years 2009: 85.2 years for a female.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 122 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 retirement benefit obligations continued h historic information on defined benefit plans 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Fair value of plan assets 2,637 2,480 2,505 2,361 2,313 Present value of defined benefit obligations 2,971 2,746 2,586 2,424 2,639 Net liability 334 266 81 63 326 Cumulative actuarial losses gains 28 37 223 253 36 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Experience gains losses arising on plan assets: Amount m 104 73 221 81 32 Percentage of plan assets % 4 3 9 3 1 Experience losses gains arising on defined benefit obligations: Amount m 169 259 191 136 103 Percentage of present value of defined benefit obligations % 6 9 7 6 4 The Group expects to contribute 46m in cash to its defined benefit pension plans in 2011. iii other pension plans The Group operates a number of defined contribution plans, included as part of other pensions in i above, for which the charge in the consolidated income statement for the year was 7m for continuing operations and 3m for discontinued operations 2009 restated: 6m for continuing operations and 4m for discontinued operations and cash contributions were 10m 2009: 10m.
iv retiree medical Certain current and former employees in the US are provided with cover for medical costs and life assurance, referred to in these consolidated financial statements as retiree medical.
These unfunded benefits are assessed with the advice of a qualified actuary.
2010 2009 m m a Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet Present value of the retiree medical obligation 111 111 b Amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement Continuing operations Current service cost 1 1 Interest cost including administration costs of 1m 2009: 1m 7 8 8 9 c Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Actuarial gains 1 5 d Changes in the present value of the retiree medical obligation At 1 January 111 127 Exchange differences 5 9 Current service cost 1 1 Interest cost 7 8 Actuarial gains 1 5 Benefits paid 12 11 At 31 December 111 111 123 26 retirement benefit obligations continued e principal actuarial assumptions 2010 2009 % % Discount rate 4.90 5.50 9 reducing to 9 reducing to Healthcare cost trend rate 5 over 17 years 5 over 17 years The mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities for retiree medical are based on the RP2000 combined active and retiree table projected to 2017 2009: projected to 2006, weighted 85% blue collar and 15% white collar.
The life expectancy assumed for a 65 year old pensioner is 83.4 years 2009: 81.8 years for a male and 85.5 years 2009: 84.6 years for a female.
Assumed healthcare cost trend rates do not have a significant impact on the Group with respect to retiree medical.
A one percentage point change in assumed rates would have the impact as set out below.
2010 2009 m m 1% increase service cost and interest cost combined increase 1% increase retiree medical obligation increase 3 3 1% decrease service cost and interest cost combined reduction 1% decrease retiree medical obligation reduction 3 3 f historic information on retiree medical 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Present value of retiree medical obligation m 111 111 127 98 163 Cumulative actuarial gains m 20 19 14 15 15 Experience gains losses arising on retiree medical obligation: Amount m 1 5 1 20 Percentage of present value of retiree medical obligation % 1 5 1 12 27 provisions Share Regulatory based Environmental Restructuring Indirect tax and other payment compliance of businesses exposures claims Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 22 56 22 14 114 Exchange differences 1 1 1 1 Charge for the year 20 9 20 6 55 Released in the year 2 3 5 Utilised 2 49 9 60 Transfer to liabilities classified as held for sale 3 3 At 31 December 2010 21 21 32 22 6 102 Current liabilities 3 18 18 39 Non current liabilities 18 3 32 4 6 63 At 31 December 2010 21 21 32 22 6 102 Current liabilities 3 54 4 1 62 Non current liabilities 19 2 18 13 52 At 31 December 2009 22 56 22 14 114 Environmental compliance mainly relates to the US and France and is long term in nature with the timing of utilisation unknown due to the need to complete remedial investigations, to negotiate remedial plans with local authorities and to implement agreed plans.
The provision for restructuring of businesses comprises 11m relating to Plastic Packaging and 10m relating to Beverage Cans in respect of previously announced plant closures.
Indirect tax exposures relate to Brazil and are long term in nature, with the timing of payment, if any, dependent upon the outcome of tax cases and exposures.
Regulatory and other claims relate to various proceedings where the timing of payment, if any, is dependent upon the outcome of the proceedings.
Share based payment relates to cash settled share option schemes, the timing of payment being dependent on various performance criteria being met.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 124 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 28 share capital 2010 2009 2 Number of issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 64 7p Thousands Thousands At 1 January 876,829 642,920 Issued on employee share option schemes 35 110 Issued on rights issue 233,799 At 31 December 876,864 876,829 The rights and restrictions attaching to the shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of shares are as governed by law and in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
Holders of shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy, on resolutions proposed at general meetings and participate in any distribution of income or capital.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares where such transfer documents are not lodged by acceptable means or proof of title is required.
The Companies Act 2006 abolished the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the Company adopted new articles of association at the AGM 2010 to reflect this.
Shares are held by the Rexam Employee Share Trust Trust for the satisfaction of certain share options note 30.
The independent trustee of the Trust has the same rights as any other shareholder.
Participants do not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights of holders of shares nor any known agreements between holders of shares under which financial rights are held by any person other than the registered holder, or voting rights or the transfer of shares are restricted.
Under the authority given to the directors at the AGM 2009, the Company issued 233,799,459 new ordinary shares on 19 August 2009 by way of a 4 for 11 rights issue at a price of 150p per share announced on 29 July 2009.
The rights issue raised net proceeds of 334m after costs of 16m.
As part of the arrangement for the rights issue, the Company entered into an arrangement with a subsidiary availing itself of statutory merger relief for not recording share premium under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985.
The nominal value of the new ordinary shares issued of 150m was credited to share capital, the costs of 16m were charged to the share premium account and the remaining consideration of 200m was recorded as a merger reserve.
This merger reserve was transferred to retained earnings on 10 November 2009 following redemption of the preference shares in the subsidiary.
29 other reserves Available Net for sale investment Cash flow financial Translation hedge hedge assets Merger reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 441 126 51 4 362 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 12 12 Net investment hedges recognised 22 22 Cash flow hedges recognised 40 40 Tax on cash flow hedges 4 4 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 25 25 Cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 2 2 Changes in market value of available for sale financial assets 1 1 At 31 December 2010 429 104 64 3 386 At 1 January 2009 662 183 151 328 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 207 207 Net investment hedges recognised 57 57 Exchange differences recycled to the income statement on disposal of subsidiaries 14 14 Cash flow hedges recognised 73 73 Tax on cash flow hedges 48 48 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 163 163 Cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 14 14 Changes in market value of available for sale financial assets 4 4 Recognised on rights issue 200 200 Transfer to retained earnings 200 200 At 31 December 2009 441 126 51 4 362 125 30 share based payment A summary of all Rexams share based payment schemes is set out below.
Scheme name Abbreviation Scheme status Settlement basis Long Term Incentive Plan 2009 LTIP Open Equity and cash Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP 2007 Closed Equity Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Closed Equity Savings Related Share Option Schemes SAYE Open Equity Phantom Stock Plan Phantoms Closed Cash Deferred Bonus Incentive Scheme DBIS Closed Equity LTIP Following approval by shareholders at the 2009 AGM, the primary long term incentive plan for Rexams executive directors, senior executives and other senior management is now the Long Term Incentive Plan 2009 LTIP.
The LTIP measures performance targets over a three year period.
Options will normally vest, subject to performance targets being achieved, on the third anniversary of the date of grant at a nominal cost to the employee.
Employees who leave with a right to exercise options must normally wait until the end of the measurement period.
If the option vests, the employee will receive an entitlement which normally will be time apportioned for the period from the start of the measurement period to the date on which employment ended.
Options granted in 2010 to executive directors and band 1 executives are subject to two performance conditions, compound annual earnings per share EPS growth and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance in the proportion 60% and 40%, respectively.
These options are equity settled.
Options granted in 2010 to other senior management are subject entirely to EPS growth and are either equity settled or cash settled depending on the seniority of the employee.
For further details of the LTIP refer to the remuneration report.
LTIP 2007 Prior to 2009, annual grants of options were made to executive directors and senior executives.
The percentage of share options that actually vest is dependent upon Rexams TSR performance over a three year measurement period.
If performance targets are met, share options vest three years after the start of the measurement period and can be exercised at a nominal cost to the employee.
The expiry date is six years and 11 months after the grant date.
ESOS Prior to 2009, annual grants of options over ordinary shares were made to certain senior management.
For grants up to and including 2006, shares vested if a performance target growth in economic profit was met over the three year measurement period.
No performance target was set for the 2007 and 2008 grants and the options vest three years after the grant date, provided the participant is an employee of the Group at that time.
Options are exercisable three years after grant date and expire 10 years after grant date.
The exercise price is set at market value using the market price of a Rexam share at the grant date.
SAYE All employee SAYE schemes are open to eligible employees resident in the UK and Ireland.
Annual grants of options over shares are currently made at an exercise price of 80% of the market value of Rexam shares at the grant date.
Options vest three, five or seven years after the commencement of the savings contract, depending on the term selected by the employee at grant and expire six months after vesting.
Phantoms This scheme operates in the same way as the ESOS with the same terms and conditions.
Prior to 2009, grants were made to certain senior management located outside the UK and Europe and are settled in cash.
DBIS A grant of options was made during 2007 to Graham Chipchase.
The number of shares that vested was measured against a non market based condition relating to an OI Plastics operating profit target.
The option was exercised at nominal cost on 18 February 2010.
The employee benefit expense recognised in relation to share based payment in 2010 is set out below.
2010 2009 m m Continuing operations Equity settled schemes 6 6 Cash settled schemes 5 Total continuing operations 11 6 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 126 Rexam annual report 2010 notes to the consolidated financial statements 30 share based payment continued The key assumptions used in valuing options granted during the year are set out below.
LTIP SAYE Valuation models TSR Monte Carlo Binomial EPS BlackScholes Expected dividend growth % 4.5 to 6.1 4.5 Expected historical volatility % TSR 38.8 to 39.4 29.3 to 38.8 Risk free interest rate % TSR 1.2 to 1.9 1.2 to 2.6 Expected life years 2.2 to 2.7 3.2, 5.2 and 7.2 Weighted average share price 2.91 to 3.33 3.08 Weighted average fair value 1.43 to 3.01 0.77 to 0.88 The assumptions made to incorporate the effects of expected early exercise have been included by assuming an expected option life based on historical exercise patterns for each option scheme.
Historical volatilities are arrived at using a period comparable with the expected life of the option.
The correlation coefficient for LTIP is calculated using the correlation matrix for the TSR simulation using three year daily historical stock price series for each company in the comparator group, including Rexam, from the beginning of the measurement period.
The number of options and weighted average exercise prices of all option schemes are set out below.
2010 2010 2009 2009 Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average options exercise price options exercise price Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 13,043 2.34 16,907 2.72 Granted 13,195 0.04 1,537 2.12 Exercised 93 0.89 131 2.62 Lapsed 4,643 1.22 6,037 2.48 Expired 658 3.98 Rights issue adjustment 1,425 2.52 Outstanding at 31 December 21,502 1.18 13,043 2.34 Exercisable at 31 December 2,665 4.06 846 3.13 The exercise prices and average remaining contractual lives of options by scheme are set out below.
2010 2009 2010 2010 Weighted average 2009 2009 Weighted average Number of Range of remaining Number of Range of remaining options exercise prices contractual life options exercise prices contractual life Thousands Years Thousands Years LTIP 12,224 2.2 LTIP 2007 2,058 4.2 4,474 4.7 ESOS 3,090 2.14 to 4.61 6.3 3,770 1.87 to 4.61 7.4 SAYE 1,866 2.12 to 3.88 3.4 1,946 2.12 to 3.88 4.0 Phantoms 2,264 2.71 to 4.57 6.3 2,795 2.71 to 4.57 7.4 DBIS 58 0.2 Rexam Employee Share Trust 2 The Group operates an employee share trust, the Rexam Employee Share Trust Trust, that owns 2,468,028 ordinary shares of 64 p in 7 Rexam PLC at 31 December 2010 2009: 525,805 shares acquired at an average cost per share of 3.38 2009: 4.72 and included in the consolidated balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of 8m 2009: 2m.
The shares will be used to satisfy LTIP exercises.
The purchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies.
Dividends receivable during the year have been waived.
The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust.
Shares are allocated by the Trust when relevant LTIP options are exercised.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2010 was 8m 2009: 2m.
127 31 reconciliation of profit loss before tax to cash generated from operations 2009 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 restated restated restated Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations operations operations operations operations m m m m m m Profit loss before tax 338 177 161 134 193 59 Adjustments for: Net interest expense 125 125 117 117 Impairment of goodwill 59 59 3 193 196 Impairment of intangible assets 65 65 1 1 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 6 55 61 36 3 39 Reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment 3 3 4 4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 183 21 204 183 25 208 Amortisation of intangible assets 46 15 61 49 15 64 Movement in working capital 20 20 29 11 40 Movement in provisions 8 2 10 21 10 31 Movement in retirement benefit obligations 12 2 10 6 5 11 Other adjustments 8 8 59 5 64 Cash generated from operations 647 38 685 634 74 708 32 contingent liabilities In an international group a variety of claims arise from time to time: some have little or no foundation in law or in fact and others cannot be quantified.
The claims include litigation against Group companies, investigations by regulatory and fiscal authorities and obligations arising under environmental legislation.
Provision has been made in these consolidated financial statements against those claims which the directors consider are likely to result in significant liabilities.
There are no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2010 or 31 December 2009 that require disclosure.
33 commitments i operating lease commitments The Group leases offices and warehouses under non cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases plant and equipment under cancellable operating leases.
An analysis of the total future minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating leases is set out below.
2010 2009 2010 Plant and 2009 Plant and Property equipment Property equipment m m m m Less than 1 year 22 2 29 2 Between 1 and 5 years 47 2 60 3 Over 5 years 42 46 Total 111 4 135 5 Total future minimum sublease receipts under non cancellable operating leases are 10m 2009: 11m.
ii capital commitments 2010 2009 m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the consolidated financial statements: Property, plant and equipment 51 18 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
