52 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report directors and officers chairman non executive directors Sir Peter Ellwood 67 Noreen Doyle 61 John Langston 61 Appointed to the board as a non Appointed to the board on 22 March Appointed to the board on 30 October executive director on 1 February 2008 2006 and is chairman of the finance 2008 and is chairman of the audit and as chairman on 1 May 2008. committee.
Noreen contributes her and risk committee.
John has proven Sir Peter is chairman of the nomination diverse business experience and international, commercial and financial committee.
He is an experienced knowledge of financial markets to the experience which he contributes to chairman with a wide international Rexam board.
She is a non executive the Rexam board.
He is a chartered business and leadership focus.
Before director of Credit Suisse Group, accountant and joined the board of joining Rexam, he was chairman of ICI Newmont Mining Corporation and Smiths Group plc in 2000 holding PLC until its acquisition by Akzo Nobel QinetiQ Group PLC, and a member of operational roles until his appointment NV in 2008.
Prior to that, he was group the advisory panels for the Macquarie as finance director of Smiths Group from chief executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc.
European Infrastructure Fund and the 2006 to his retirement in May 2010.
His other directorships include Macquarie Renaissance Infrastructure He was a director of TI Group plc prior membership of the supervisory board Fund.
Noreen held senior operational to its acquisition by Smiths Group.
positions at Bankers Trust Company and a non executive director of Cross Match at the European Bank for Reconstruction Technologies Inc. & Development until her retirement as first vice president of the EBRD in 2005.
Wolfgang Meusburger 57 Jean-Pierre Rodier 63 Carl Symon 64 Appointed to the board on 1 December Appointed to the board on 7 June 2006.
Appointed to the board on 17 July 2003 2006.
Wolfgang has many years Jean-Pierre has significant international and as senior independent director on experience in the fast moving consumer business experience and an extensive 8 February 2006.
Carl is chairman goods FMCG industry and an indepth knowledge of the packaging and of the remuneration committee.
He has understanding of business development, aluminium industries which he contributes deep experience in international business advising on this and management issues.
He is currently an and significant knowledge of the He currently sits on the board of several advisor to Corporate Value Associates.
manufacturing, technology and service international FMCG companies in He was previously chairman of industries and an indepth understanding Europe and an educational facility in Enterprises et Personnel until his of corporate governance matters.
Wolfgang is chairman resignation on 1 July 2010 and an currently a non executive director of BT of Kgi Shne AG and Kaffee Partner associate with Mediobanca Banca di Group plc and BAE Systems plc, and GmbH, and of the non executive board Credito Finanziario until his resignation chairman of Clearswift Systems Limited.
His non executive on 1 January 2011.
He was chairman He was previously a non executive directorships include BS Group, CCT Reig and chief executive of Pechiney until director of Rolls-Royce Group plc and Group and Chiquita Fruit Bar.
He held Pechiney merged with Alcan in 2003. chairman of HMV Group plc.
He held senior international positions in the Before that he was chief executive of senior international executive leadership FMCG industry and was chief executive Union Minire and chairman and chief positions with IBM Corp. until his of Tchibo GmbH until 2001. executive of MetalEurop France.
53 executive directors company secretary Graham Chipchase 48 David Robbie 47 David Gibson 48 chief executive finance director Appointed to the board on 10 February Appointed to the board as finance 2003 and as chief executive on director on 3 October 2005.
Graham has extensive has strong financial, accounting, strategic financial and operational knowledge of and corporate finance experience Rexam.
He joined Rexam as finance and skills, all of which make a valuable director in 2003 and was appointed contribution to the Rexam board.
Prior group director plastic packaging in to joining Rexam, he was chief financial 2005.
As chief executive he has proven officer of Royal P&O Nedlloyd NV and, leadership skills and an operational before that, chief financial officer of understanding of Rexams businesses and CMG plc.
He is a trustee of Aldeburgh markets.
Before joining Rexam, Graham Music and was a non executive director was finance director of GKN plcs of the BBC until 31 December 2010. aerospace services business and, prior to that, he held various positions within the European and US subsidiaries of BOC Group plc.
changes to the board executive leadership team Graham Chipchase was appointed Jon Atchue Claire Jenkins as chief executive designate on human resources corporate affairs 16 November 2009 and as chief Andr Balbi Cervio Iain Percival executive on 1 January 2010.
There beverage can americas enterprise risk were no other changes to the board during 2010.
Graham Chipchase David Robbie chief executive finance director David Gibson Tomas Sjlin legal beverage can europe & asia Malcolm Harrison plastic packaging financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
