7 what we make beverage cans plastic packaging We make around 60bn beverage cans each year We make a wide range of plastic packaging products.
mainly in aluminium, but also in steel, in more than These include lipstick cases, compacts, samplers, 20 countries around the world.
We offer a broad fragrance and lotion pumps and shaving trays for the range of products from standard 12oz 33cl cans, personal care market: products such as laundry spouts through slim and sleek versions to large one litre cans, and air fresheners for home care applications: dry and use a wide range of innovative inks and coatings powder inhalers, pharmaceutical pumps and valves, to add further value.
We also make the ends to seal eye droppers, nasal sprays, medical devices, pill jars the cans and have a range of printed and coloured and closures for healthcare customers: and closures ends as well as distinctive features such as cut out or for a range of end markets including beverages, laser coded tabs.
Europe & Asia personal care We are the largest beverage can and can end maker in Europe.
We are a leading supplier of advanced packaging solutions We also have beverage can plants in Egypt, China and India, for beauty, personal care and home product customers.
as well as an associate in South Korea.
North America healthcare We are the second largest beverage can and can end maker We produce standard and custom packaging solutions for in the US.
We also have a plant in Mexico and a joint venture pharmaceutical customers worldwide, as well as complete in Guatemala.
custom packaging systems for healthcare and prescription packaging.
South America closures We are the largest beverage can and can end maker in We produce closures for a wide range of beverages, specialty South America with operations in Argentina, Brazil and Chile.
closures and containers for end markets including household and healthcare, as well as high barrier food containers.
more information in the operating review more information in the operating review share of sales and underlying operating profit 2010 1 1 sales underlying operating pro t 80% Beverage Cans 77% Beverage Cans 20% Plastic Packaging 23% Plastic Packaging 1 Continuing operations.
more information in the operating and financial reviews financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
