16 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report market review The overall economy and the packaging industry showed signs of This summary review of the global packaging recovery in 2010.
The value of the global packaging market grew 6% 200910 to reach US$395bn, reverting back to packaging market market is based on external independent values seen in 2008.
This corrects the drop experienced between sources including PIRA International, 2008 and 2009 as a result of the global economic downturn.
The outlook for the global economy in 2011 is still uncertain with the possibility of fragile consumer confidence in many developed It also draws on other research and our markets.
Long term growth trends show a shift in emphasis towards emerging markets: in 2010 the Asia and rest of world region own inhouse business intelligence resources.
see chart on page 17 increased its share of the total packaging market value to 34%, on a par with Europe.
It examines the state of the global consumer PIRA forecasts that the industrys global sales value will continue packaging market, the relative positions to recover in 2011 and is expected to grow at an average annual of the two principal materials that we use rate of 3% over the next five years to reach US$456bn by 2015.
As depicted in the adjacent chart, and as in previous years, and also looks at a number of trends that packaging for food was the largest end use market in 2010. may have an influence on our end use This, together with packaging for beverages, accounted for nearly 70% of the market value.
Packaging for healthcare and personal markets and therefore on the opportunities care applications made up more than 10% of global consumer packaging sales.
for packaging companies such as ours.
There was increased consumer spending in all end use markets.
While the value of food and beverage sales registered good growth, consumer spending on cosmetics, personal care and healthcare products increased well above the average.
consumer packaging market value 1 by end use 2010 materials Food 51% Beverages 18% Healthcare 6% beverage cans Cosmetics 5% On a global basis, beverage cans accounted for 6% of the Other 20% consumer packaging market value in 2010.
Overall beverage can packaging value showed positive growth, driven by the emerging markets of South America, Asia and the Middle East.
There was also good market value growth in North America while Europe remained broadly flat.
1 Excludes secondary bulk and industrial packaging.
In terms of volume growth, overall can consumption in the US source: PIRA International 2010 remained at a similar level to 2009 with alcoholic beverages performing more strongly than non alcoholic beverages.
Beverage can consumption in Europe bounced back in 2010 growing around 3% with a positive pack mix effect boosting can consumption.
Non alcoholic beverages, especially carbonated soft drinks CSDs and energy drinks, experienced above average growth.
Beer in cans also performed well, especially in western Europe.
A general feeling of economic uncertainty remains in North America and Europe where the recovery is still weak with government austerity measures curtailing consumer spending in many countries.
Russia is showing signs of recovery after having been hit hard and its recent successful bid to host the FIFA 2018 World Cup is likely to have a positive effect on future growth.
PIRA expects beverage can sales to grow globally by 2% pa to the end of 2015.
Future beverage can growth will be driven by the increasing use of innovative applications.
17 consumer packaging market value consumer packaging market value 1 1 by material 2010 by geographic region 2010 Paper and board 34% Europe 34% 2 Rigid plastics 27% Asia and rest of world 34% Glass 11% North America 27% Flexible plastics 10% South America 5% Other metal 9% Beverage cans 6% Others 3% 1 Excludes secondary bulk and industrial packaging.
2 Rest of world encompasses Oceania, Africa and Middle East.
source: PIRA International 2010 source: PIRA International 2010 New product development is expected to continue to be devoted The largest increases are forecast to be in what is referred to as the to improving decoration, with a particular emphasis on short run pharmerging countries such as India, Brazil, Russia and Central products and increased use of technology, as well as to exploring America where growth is expected to be 14% to 17% per annum.
further resealability for on the go consumption.
Bottle cans, such as In healthcare, predictions regarding the worlds top drugs by 2014 Rexams Fusion, are expected to assume greater significance and illustrate how the pharmaceutical world is changing: the top three are future usage is likely to extend beyond premium, niche applications forecast to be biotech drugs.
Global vaccine revenues are forecast to more mainstream brands as the technology develops.
to be 32bn in 2016, twice those of 2009, driven by new products and expansion of established therapies.
Rexams involvement in the plastic packaging injection device market puts us in a good position to benefit from this Plastic accounted for 37% of all global packaging sales on a fast growing segment.
In addition, Rexam is a leader in ophthalmic material basis in 2010.
Rigid plastic packaging, Rexams area packaging in Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
of focus, accounted for 27% of the consumer packaging market value in 2010 and grew by over 10% in value globally between 2009 and 2010.
It is expected that it will be the fastest growing megatrends packaging material up to 2015 with a predicted average annual growth rate of just over 4%.
This section looks at the main overarching trends referred to The cosmetics market regained momentum after difficult trading as megatrends that are likely to influence and help shape our conditions in the first half of 2009, with an estimated growth of industry for the next decade or more.
They are the ones that are 5.2% in 2010, slightly lower than the last five year compound predicted to influence consumers and create long term shifts across average growth rate CAGR of 5.4%.
But for the first time, the different markets, regions and demographics.
Although these US and Western Europe accounted for less than 50% of the global megatrends are largely global, they tend to have different impacts cosmetics market.
Industry and other estimates expect that almost depending on region and maturity of market as illustrated in the 80% of future market growth will be derived from new markets chart on page 18.
The following pages analyse some of the trends between 2010 and 2025, highlighting the strategic significance and their consequences.
of a presence in emerging markets.
developed markets Growth will be driven in the personal care market by new changing demographics, ageing society and growing ethnic diversity innovative product solutions.
In Rexams case, this could include The average age of the population in developed markets is airless solutions to protect sensitive formulae, total solutions increasing.
According to the UN, one in three people in the such as metal forming, treatment and decoration for lipsticks developed world will qualify for pensions or social security by and mascaras, as well as further development of foam pumps.
Older consumers are looking for products that are easy The foam segment has seen an upsurge in demand due to to use, healthy, value for money, and nostalgic with packaging consumer behaviour changes as a result of the H1N1 swine flu tailored to their needs.
Another relatively new area for foam pumps is the haircare market, especially for hair colourants.
The rise in the number of single person households is also influencing new product development.
Preference is growing In the healthcare market, Intercontinental Marketing Services for longer shelf life, smaller portion sizes and products that offer Health estimates that the global pharmaceutical market will convenience and time saving.
increase between 5% and 8% annually in the period to 2015. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 18 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report market review Greater ethnic diversity and greater availability of multicultural Concerns about the use of excessive packaging and the foods also provide increased opportunities for packaging.
The sustainability of our society remain prevalent.
Consumers continue desire is for product authenticity and differentiation.
Packaging to challenge green claims on products and packaging.
They that incorporates clear signs of provenance and stands out on want more help understanding the complex, confusing world of the shelf will become more sought after in the future.
environmentally friendly products and packaging.
Small, subtle changes to packaging, such as lightweighting and recycling health and wellbeing, safety and sustainability information on packs, will make it easier for consumers to make The health and wellbeing trend is now moving towards preventive informed lifestyle choices and they are more likely to purchase healthcare fuelling growth in food and beverage products that products that are packaged in eco friendly packaging.
Demand for low and light, fresh and safe, natural and organic as well as functional and fortified options are Rexam is fully aware of its responsibility to address these concerns expected to continue to grow in 2011 and beyond.
and, while we emphasise that packaging has a positive role to play in the sustainability of our society, as a leading global consumer Wellbeing extends to product safety and security.
More packaging packaging company, our focus is on achieving optimal packaging innovations such as Rexams Nea Airless solution and the solutions that balance the needs of the consumer society and Novelia preservative free multidose eyedropper that prevent the environment.
contamination or degradation, counterfeiting and tampering will become increasingly important in reassuring consumers about value, hi-lo consumerism and convenience the safety and authenticity of the products they are buying.
Following the global economic downturn, many consumers curbed their spending on some basic items so that they could trade up to more premium goods, a term known as hi-lo consumerism.
megatrends affecting packaging demographic trends sustainability health and wellbeing value hi-lo consumerism ageing society ethical consumerism health conscious premiumisation Less family packs Growing middle Small moves in Recyclable packs Calorie control Preventive Balancing Conspicuous Simple solutions classes increase eco Eco Easy Reusable packs packs vaccines added value consumption Vitality, energy in packaging Excessive Cheaper pack Product labelling medicines affordability Rising demand and longevity key required packaging forms Dosing portion Tamper resistant Quality and for luxury and to grey appeal Rising number of concerns Alternative control packs moderation imported goods Easy to open women working Light weighting packs energy Self medication Anti counterfeiting Multi functional brands packs Kid tween power Waste recycling shortages Customised Medical tourism Trading down Personalised Anti ageing Male grooming Ethically sourced Biodegradable products Rising awareness private label goods products pack Natural organic of fitness diet Mass Transparent Waste Comfort customisation packs management cocooning Indulgence treats convenience concerns about product safety growing ethnic diversity on-the-go lifestyles and security rapid urbanisation Single unit dosing Emergence of Anti counterfeiting Concerns about Greater choice of More efficient use Easy open close impulse shopping Child resistant food security products variants of packaging Longer shelf life Shift towards packs Increased More ethnic foods Greater use of Simplified formats eating out culture Compliance demand for Product returnable packs Temp control Ready to eat RFID security pharma packs saturation Burden on pack cook packs Transparent category blurring resources DIY beauty spa Alternative Blister packaging packs Packs standout Better logistics distribution Intelligent Clear labelling Authenticity New products channels vending packaging and instructions provenance Time strips expiry Impact on developed markets Impact on emerging markets 19 This led to consumers seeking out at one end of the spectrum less health and wellbeing, safety and sustainability sophisticated, simple forms of packaging that convey value and at Health and wellbeing are now distinct consumer trends in the top end of the scale more premium packaging.
There was also emerging markets.
Higher disposable incomes, government evidence of a slight shift in the positioning of premium products programmes for healthier diets, western influences and changing towards discretion and added value.
lifestyles have seen a shift in public perception.
This has fuelled demand not just for healthy food and drinks, in particular fat free Convenience continues to have a big impact on peoples lives.
or low calorie foods, and nutrient enriched products, but also Packaging features such as single unit dosing, which originated in anti-ageing products and beauty foods such as collagen boosting food, is now gaining momentum and moving into other categories beauty products and spa treatments.
such as laundry care, soap, cosmetics, skincare and over the Due to the sheer size of populations in emerging markets, they are counter OTC drugs.
There is also an increase in demand for becoming major consumers of pharmaceutical and healthcare products that serve several needs, or can be used in a variety of products, and many of these consumers are elderly.
The market for ways, and these require unique forms of packaging and delivery OTC medication is growing, largely fuelled by higher education systems.
Added features such as dual chamber packs, foam levels, the expansion of government health programmes as well formats for liquids, resealable aluminium bottles, specialty closures as increasing health awareness.
There is more self medication and purse ready packaging solutions for beauty products, will all which provides opportunities for packaging to include value added help consumers better manage their daily lives.
features like dosage information and compliance features.
The further development of applications for our foam dispensers is just one example of the work we are doing to meet some of There appears to be a correlation between health and wellbeing these needs.
and concern for the environment.
Consumers who shop for healthier products are also more likely to prefer packaging that emerging markets is environmentally friendly and easy to recycle.
In the emerging changing demographics, growing middle incomes and markets we are seeing an increasing appetite for environmental rapid urbanisation friendliness and the need for more efficient use of packaging.
In emerging markets the proportion of the ageing population is It appears that sustainable packaging now goes beyond reducing also growing, and although less pronounced than in the developed packaging volumes and encompasses sustainability in the supply markets, this will have an impact due to the large absolute chain, the use of local products and materials, return programmes population sizes.
In Asia, for example, by 2050 the number of and curbs on the use of materials that cannot easily be recycled.
people aged 60 and over will be around 2bn.
The demands for packaging that is portable, single serve, easy to open, easy to grip, convenience and conspicuous consumption lightweight and clearly labelled features we have seen for some While developed markets have largely been more focused time in developed markets are expected to intensify.
This will on value, emerging markets, influenced by big spending in western result in a greater demand for a much more diverse range of cultures, are trending towards more conspicuous consumption.
They are rapidly becoming sophisticated consumers demanding more premium products and personalised luxury goods.
Packaging Rapid urbanisation has led to a rise in the number of prosperous plays a key role in presenting brand values and this is particularly middle income groups.
Greater spending power is resulting true of luxury goods, where it creates an image of superior quality, in rapid growth in household consumption and a shift of sophistication and style.
expenditure from basic needs to lifestyle products and cosmetics.
Demand is expanding for a wide range of both high and low value In terms of convenience, emerging markets are following products across all markets, including convenience foods and developed markets with an increase in the number of one person indulgence products.
households, dual income families and more working women.
This has led to a shift in lifestyle towards eating out and a demand We are growing our presence in emerging markets to help ensure for convenience in pre prepared foods, single serve portions and that we can capture these growth opportunities.
This will in turn increase consumption of packaging materials as smaller portions tend to use more packaging relative The rise in male grooming is another significant trend.
Portability is also seen as important in single serve becoming more conscious of the way they look and the emergence packaging to meet the rise of the on the go market.
Retail structures of specific products to cater for this need is having an impact in the have undergone significant change, with convenience stores fast personal care market.
Packaging designed for men generally is in becoming the most important points of sale for consumers of more sober colours and needs to take into account features such all ages and backgrounds.
Many convenience items are also as portability, compactness and clear instructions.
available from vending machines allowing consumers to save time.
Over half the worlds tweens children aged 712 live in Asia and the brands they buy have a big influence on them.
They are attracted by packaging that is colourful, fun and even features non essential functionality.
They are also more inclined to buy through automated systems such as vending machines and online shopping which puts new demands on packaging.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
