42 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report sustainability We aim to put sustainable thinking at the heart of our decision Rexam believes that running its business in making process and our commitments go beyond our impact on the environment.
They encompass the role of our products in, and our a responsible and sustainable manner is contribution to, society, as well as the wellbeing and development fundamental to near term success and long of our people.
Companies are judged Line management responsibility for sustainability sits in the Groups executive leadership team.
Building on our work in 2009, not only by their financial performance but we undertook a major exercise during 2010 to determine the main sustainability issues relevant to us and our key stakeholders.
also by their corporate behaviour: how We formed a working group, comprising individuals from across the Group, who obtained the views of over 300 people within they behave towards their people, those Rexam and analysed external stakeholders sustainability with whom they do business and the agendas.
From this, we have developed further our sustainability framework which relates directly to our strategic objectives.
communities within which they operate.
It allows us to identify, assess and then manage potential risks and potential opportunities to underpin Rexams future.
It forms As a leading global manufacturer of primary the basis of our commitments, detailed below, which are clearly packaging, and as part of a broader aligned to our business.
Also in 2010, we became a corporate partner of Forum for supply chain, we understand and do not the Future a UK based independent, non profit organisation underestimate the effect our actions can promoting sustainable development, establishing a commitment to work with them and our other stakeholders to achieve a have on those around us.
products: enhanced value Primary packaging is an essential component of modern living, and makes a positive contribution to a sustainable society.
As packaging prevents product waste, underpackaging can be more damaging to the environment than overpackaging in terms of resources squandered.
In Europe, less than 3% of food goes optimum packaging to waste between farm factory and retail depot thanks to the benefits of effective packaging, whereas in the developing 1 The Innventia AB model shows that the environmental world at least 30% to 35% of food never reaches consumers.
consequences of product losses caused by excessive packaging reduction are far greater than guaranteeing adequate protection The environmental benefits of the beverage can are well through an incremental excess of packaging.
established, but the contribution of plastic packaging to sustainability is not as well recognised.
Lightweight plastic Negative environmental packaging reduces the weight of transported goods and the impact generation of waste.
In Europe, if all the plastic used in packaging Optimum pack design that could be substituted were substituted with the most appropriate alternative material out of up to seven different options, it is estimated that the tonnage would increase significantly, leading to a more than 55% increase in energy consumption.
Minimum environmental impact Underpackaging Overpackaging Minimum Increasing packaging material material weight or volume 1 Derived from Environmental Impact of Packaging: Performance in the Household report by Dr Jan Kooijman, Food Technology Consulting.
source: INCPEN 43 In 2010, we reduced our total carbon intensity per kilogram of raw material converted by 7.4% to 0.88 CO2 equivalent 2009: 0.95 CO2 equivalent underpinned by further reductions in our electricity and gas consumption.
Graham Chipchase chief executive Primary packaging accounts for only a small proportion of the Recycling metal is integral in some of our markets.
Brazil is ranked total energy input into an average products life cycle from raw first globally in terms of aluminium can recycling, with 98.2% of the material to the end of its useful life even before including any aluminium cans sold recycled in 2009. environmental benefit from recycling the packaging.
Studies show Successful and viable recycling of plastic is more difficult than for that the carbon footprint of the packaging supply chain is largely metals.
The different types of plastic in the waste stream make it decoupled from GDP growth the charts below show this to be the difficult to produce acceptable recycled raw material, and sorting case both for aluminium can and plastic production.
That said, the is complicated and costly.
Some countries have infrastructures that supply chain remains focused on achieving optimal packaging address this issue, and they have been able to increase their plastic solutions not least because raw material and energy efficiencies recycling rates.
Germany and Sweden, for example, have plastic keep costs down, which is necessary to remain competitive.
As a recycling rates approaching 40% versus the European norm of leading global primary packaging company, Rexam recognises its between 15% and 30%.
responsibility to be at the forefront in terms of minimising the impact of its products on the environment.
We have a strong record of achieving consistent year on year reductions in the use of raw materials and energy in the manufacture of our products.
we will promote and support actively the most relevant recycling or recovery systems for our products Recycling lowers the carbon footprint of beverage cans significantly, plastic waste decoupled from market growth EU as the use of recycled metal avoids the use of virgin metal which results in up to a 95% energy saving.
As the metal is infinitely recyclable with no loss of quality, recycled beverage cans are 150 turned back into metal for the beverage and food can industries or used in other applications such as transport or construction.
125 We support recycling recovery infrastructures and invest funds and resources in various programmes and activities across the markets in which we operate.
Many countries already have excellent 100 recycling rates, but where this is not the case we work with local partners to address the specific needs of the recycling systems in 80 these markets.
1996 2008 In the UK, we were instrumental in establishing Every Can Counts Plastic production in 2008, a beverage can collection and recycling programme, GDP and we continue to be active in its funding and management.
Plastic waste to land ll weight The programme now has over 4,000 collection points on beaches, sources: PlasticsEurope and Eurostat at music festivals, in shopping centres and at other outdoor locations.
In 2010, the Every Can Counts model was deployed in Austria and early results indicate positive changes to consumer behaviour.
At the start of 2011, the same concept was introduced into parts of France.
can raw material consumption decoupled from We again participated in the long running US nationwide industry market growth EU Aluminium Can Council recycling programme.
Held during the 250 lead up to Americas annual Recycle Day, the programme encourages close partnerships between plants and their local communities.
During 2010s six week programme, Rexams North American beverage can network collected a total of 1,832 tonnes of aluminium cans, representing a 35% increase over 2009.
100 50 1996 2008 Aluminium can production GDP Aluminium waste not recycled rate sources: BCME, Eurostat and EAA indexed indexed financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 44 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report sustainability In order to develop and promote products made from recycled plastics, Rexam continues to search for recycled raw material which could be used in the manufacture of products to meet best performance customers needs.
Currently, within our Healthcare division we use recycled PET in the production of some prescription bottles and our industry winner Personal Care division worked closely with a customer to develop and launch a stick deodorant package made almost entirely from The team from our plant at Chatsworth won the 2010 US nationwide industry Aluminium Can Council recycling recycled polypropylene.
The team collected the most aluminium cans per One sustainable option for plastic waste which cannot be recycled employee of all the industrys plants in the US, collecting a total of 6.1 tonnes per employee.
This winning total was made is energy from waste EfW.
As plastic has a high energy content possible by the close partnership the plant has established with its calorific value is similar to fuel oil, and its CO2 emissions the local company Valley Recycling.
Together they generated are 25% less than coal, we endorse the use of plastic waste community activities including recycling drives at local to generate energy.
There is a clear correlation between those churches, colleges and charity events.
European countries with higher than average recycling rates and higher than average EfW rates leading to total recycling and EfW waste recovery rates in excess of 80%.
The European overall total recovery rate for post consumer plastic waste increased to 54.0% in 2009 2008: 51.3%, so there is still room for considerable improvement.
We shall continue to support the 6.1 tonnes expansion of EfW as a constructive component of a comprehensive plastic waste management policy.
we will work with policy makers to ensure packaging makes a positive contribution to sustainability Rexam is an active member of a variety of national and international industry and research associations and trade bodies.
These often draw their membership from the whole supply chain so that they have a cohesive constructive approach to issues that may arise.
Reflecting our long history of focusing on the environmental impact of the products we make, we are a founding member of the UK based Industry Council for Packaging and the Environment INCPEN and of the European Organisation for Packaging and the Environment both founded over 20 years ago.
These associations undertake research which is used by a wide variety of constituents, including policy makers.
They also liaise closely CO2e emissions with interested parties regarding constructive input and solutions CO2e tonnes production tonnes to issues that may have a bearing on the sustainability of our business.
We reduced our total carbon footprint to 1.17m equivalent tonnes 2009: 1.23m equivalent tonnes in spite of increased We remain an established member of the London Stock Exchange production volumes.
We reduced our carbon intensity per FTSE4Good index, an international responsibility performance kilogram of raw material converted by 7.4%.
The indexs expectations mirror the way Rexam Group believes business should be conducted to deliver sustainable 2010 0.88 success through environmental management, upholding human 2009 0.95 and labour rights, ethical business practices and supply chain labour standards.
Beverage Cans we will engage with our customers and the supply chain 2010 0.74 to minimise the environmental impact of packaging and 2009 0.78 packaged goods The consumer packaging supply chain, from retailers via our major customers through to our suppliers, is focused on improving its Plastic Packaging sustainability performance.
We believe that the best way 2010 1.30 to achieve lasting improvements in performance is to engage 2009 1.53 constructively with our customers and suppliers, seeking solutions in a partnership approach.
