directors and officers Scott Forbes Ed Williams Chairman Managing Director Scott was appointed Chairman of Rightmove formerly the largest worldwide provider of Ed joined Rightmove in December 2000 as in July 2005.
He is also the Chief Executive of residential property services.
Scott established Managing Director at its inception.
He is also a Bridge Capital Advisors Ltd, which he founded the Cendant international headquarters in non-executive director of Trader Media Group, in 2007, and was a director of NetJets London in 1999 and led this division as Group the main brands being Auto Trader and Management Ltd, a subsidiary of Berkshire Managing Director until he joined Rightmove.
co. uk, the UKs leading motoring Hathaway through to October 2009.
Scott has Appointed 13 July 2005. website.
His prior experience is in business over 30 years experience in operations, finance strategy and IT consulting with McKinsey & Co, and mergers & acquisitions which includes 15 Accenture and JPMorgan.
Appointed years at Cendant Corporation which was 19 December 2000.
Jonathan Agnew Ashley Martin Judy Vezmar Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Jonathan joined the Board in January 2006 as Ashley joined Rightmove in June 2009 as Judy is Chief Executive Officer of LexisNexis Senior Independent Director.
He is Chairman a non-executive director and also as Chairman International.
LexisNexis, part of the global of Beazley, The Cayenne Trust and Ashmore of the Audit Committee, where he provides media group Reed Elsevier PLC, is a leading Global Opportunities.
Jonathan was an oversight of the financial reporting practices, worldwide provider of content-enabled investment banker for over 25 years, including internal control environment and compliance workflow solutions designed specifically for being a Managing Director of Morgan Stanley with the various listed company regulations.
professionals in the legal, risk management, and Group Chief Executive of Kleinwort He is also a member of the Remuneration corporate, government, law enforcement, Benson.
He has been Chairman of Nationwide Committee.
He qualified as a chartered accounting and academic markets.
Judy is Building Society, Limit, Gerrard Group and accountant in 1981 and has a career in responsible for the International Group and their LMS Capital and has served on the Council finance spanning 30 years.
He was previously expansion of the range of successful online of Lloyds.
Finance Director of Rok plc, the building services to over 100 countries.
She is based Chairman of the Remuneration Committee services group, and Group Finance Director in London.
Appointed 16 January 2006. and a member of the Audit and Nomination of the media services company, Tempus plc.
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Committees.
Chairman of the Nomination Committees.
Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee.
16 rightmove plc annual report 2010 Nick McKittrick Peter Brooks-Johnson Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director Managing Director, Rightmove.
co. uk Nick joined Rightmove in 2000.
He led the Peter joined Rightmove in 2006 and developed development of Rightmoves original website the Home Information Packs proposition.
His focus and then went on to build the new homes, subsequently shifted to the operation of the lettings and overseas businesses.
At the start of Rightmove.
He then went on to 2005 Nick became the Managing Director of the lead, from the beginning of 2008, the estate main Rightmove.
co. uk operating subsidiary, agency business.
Peter was promoted to the role overseeing a trebling of revenue in three years.
of Managing Director of Rightmove.
co. uk on his In 2009, he was promoted to the role of Chief appointment to the Board on 10 January 2011 and Operating Officer and Finance Director.
Before now leads the main operating business.
Prior to joining the Company he worked in Accenture for joining Rightmove, Peter was a managing consultant eight years in the technology consulting division.
with Accenture and the Berkeley Partnership.
Appointed to the Board 5 March 2004.
Appointed to the Board 10 January 2011.
Colin Kemp Liz Taylor Non-executive Director Company Secretary Colin was appointed to the Board in July 2007.
Liz was appointed Company Secretary He is the Network Director for the Halifax of Rightmove in July 2006.
She is a Fellow of Community Bank following the formation of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Lloyds Banking Group in January 2009.
Administrators and has over 20 years company With over 30 years experience in high street secretarial experience across a variety of FTSE retail banking, Colin has worked for HBOS 250 public companies in the retail, media and companies since 1979.
His roles have included property sectors.
Prior to joining Rightmove, running the Retail Contact Centres and heading she was Company Secretary of The Berkeley up the Halifax Employee Share Services Group Holdings plc, the holding company of business, administering employee share the group engaged in residential and plans to over 400 UK companies.
January 2005 and December 2007, Colin was Managing Director of Halifax Estate Agencies Limited.
Colin is a Cranfield MBA and an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
