senior management team Alex Solomon Alan Gearing Peter Armstrong New Homes Director Managing Director, Rightmove Property Services Business Development Director Alex joined Rightmove in 2005 and, having Alan joined Rightmove in 2006 developing new Peter joined Rightmove in 2003 and worked in been responsible for the pricing and products sources of revenue separate from property the new homes business which he then went portfolios, now runs the new homes business.
He was appointed as Managing on to run from May 2006 to May 2010.
Peter Prior to joining Rightmove he spent six years Director of Rightmoves Automated Valuation has subsequently taken on the role of business working as an economist policy advisor for Model division in July 2008.
Prior to Rightmove development director.
Prior to Rightmove, Peter trade bodies, initially representing the interests he was a founder of both The Asset worked in sales and sales management, latterly of agricultural firms at the National Farmers Management Group property disposal and in directory advertising with Yell.
Union and then mortgage firms at the Council maintenance services and The Inventory of Mortgage Lenders.
Exchange online inventory and property inspection and was Managing Director of a 50 branch estate agency chain.
Miles Shipside Robyn Perriss Simon Hickie Commercial Director Financial Controller Human Resources Director Miles joined Rightmove as a founding director in Robyn joined Rightmove in 2007 and has Simon joined Rightmove in 2007 following 2001 bringing 20 years of experience at senior day-to-day responsibility for the financial seven years at Bloomberg LP where he was levels in independent estate agency and with operations, based out of Milton Keynes, as well responsible for HR operations across Europe, Halifax Estate Agency.
He has responsibility for as statutory reporting and the treasury function.
the Middle East and Africa.
Prior to moving into estate agency and media relations, specialising She was formerly Group Financial Controller at HR, he had managed part of Bloombergs in advising the industry on how the internet is the online media business, Trader Media Group.
financial research operation covering new debt transforming home moving and the state of the She qualified as a chartered accountant in and equity security issuance and mergers & housing market.
He qualified as a Chartered South Africa with KPMG.
