Product overview Touching your life every day Major global commodities Few people around the world can spend a day without using a metal or mineral in some way.
In the production and supply of metals and minerals, Rio Tinto is one of the worlds most diversified companies.
Major products are aluminium, copper, diamonds, coal, iron ore, uranium, molybdenum, gold, borates, titanium dioxide, salt and talc.
Gold Aluminium Gold has enjoyed a mystique and value unrivalled by other metals.
Most gold that is not stored as bullion for investment purposes goes into jewellery.
Golds conductivity and non corrosive properties make it a vital fabrication material in technology, electronics, space exploration and dentistry.
We produce gold as a by-product from our copper mines.
Silver Silver is a good conductor of electricity and does not corrode.
It is used in many electrical and electronic applications, such as photovoltaic Bauxite, alumina, aluminium cells, and is the principal ingredient of x-ray film.
Silver is also a metal of beauty, used to make lasting products for the home and person.
Rio Tinto is a leading global supplier of bauxite, alumina and Rio Tinto produces silver as a by-product of its copper production.
In a closely integrated value chain, the mineral bauxite is refined into alumina which is smelted into aluminium metal.
Aluminium is one of the most widely used Diamonds & Minerals metals and its largest markets are transportation, building and construction.
Copper Diamonds Diamonds share the role with gold as an important component in jewellery that ranges from top end jewellery through to more affordable pieces.
Rio Tinto is able to service all diamond jewellery Copper markets as it produces the full range of diamonds in terms of size, quality and colour distribution including whites, champagnes, About two thirds of copper production is used in electrical cognacs, greys, blues and greens and the rarest of all, pink diamonds.
applications due to its high conductivity.
It helps power our lives, in homes and factories, cars, computers, phones and equipment.
Borates Further major uses are in air conditioning and refrigeration, Refined borates are used in hundreds of products and processes.
are a vital ingredient of many home and automotive applications, Molybdenum and are essential nutrients for crops.
They are commonly used in glass and ceramic applications including fibreglass, television Molybdenum is a metallic element frequently used in alloys screens, floor and wall tiles, and heat resistant glass.
with stainless steel and other metals.
It enhances the metals toughness, high temperature strength and corrosion resistance.
We produce molybdenum as a by-product from the Kennecott Utah Copper operations.
Segmental analyses of sales revenue by product and by destination have been included in note 32 to the 2010 financial statements.
6 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Titanium dioxide Iron Ore The minerals ilmenite and rutile, together with titanium slag, can be transformed into a white titanium dioxide pigment or titanium metal.
The white pigment is a key component in paints, plastics, paper, inks, textiles, food, sunscreen and cosmetics.
Titanium metals key properties of light weight, chemical inertness and high strength make it ideal for use in medical applications and in the aerospace industry.
Talc Talc is hydrated magnesium silicate and is the softest rock in the world.
It is an important ingredient in the manufacture of paper, Iron ore paints, moulded plastics for cars and other familiar products.
Iron is the key ingredient in the production of steel, one of the Rio Tinto produces various grades of talc for niche markets.
most fundamental and durable products for modern day living, with uses from railways to paperclips.
Our mines are located in Australia and Canada.
Energy Salt Salt is one of the basic raw materials for the chemicals industry and is indispensable to a wide array of automotive, construction and electronic products, as well as for water treatment, food and healthcare.
Coal Coal is plentiful, relatively inexpensive, and safe and easy to transport.
We are a large producer in the export thermal coal market.
Thermal coal is used for electricity generation in power stations.
We also produce higher value coking, or metallurgical, coal which, when treated into coke, is used in furnaces with iron ore to produce steel.
Uranium Uranium is one of the most powerful natural energy sources known, used in the production of clean, stable, base load electricity.
After uranium ore is mined, it is milled into uranium oxide, the mine product that is sent away for further processing into fuel rods for nuclear power stations.
Marketing channels All sales and marketing activity is conducted by Rio Tintos product groups who utilise a range of sales and marketing channels to interact with customers.
These channels include direct sales, sales via distributors and sales via agents.
No customer facing sales and marketing activity is handled outside of the product groups.
