Strategic context A global perspective for metals and minerals Commodity price indices Economic imbalances may lead to volatility Daily spot price index 1 January 2009 100 Countries debt to GDP ratio % Spot iron ore 62% Fe, fob Advanced economies 360 120 Aluminium Emerging and developing economies 320 Copper World 100 Thermal coal NEWC G7 280 80 240 60 200 160 40 120 20 80 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 Sources: LME, Reuters Ecowin, globalCOAL, Platts Source: IMF Although the short term prospects for emerging economies are Competitive environment much brighter, Asian countries continue to rely strongly on Rio Tinto is a major producer in most of the metals and minerals demand from advanced economies.
The reform process required markets in which it operates.
It is generally among the top five global to boost domestic consumption is likely to be lengthy.
In the producers by volume in each such market.
Rio Tintos activities are meantime, growth in China has become even more dependent spread across the globe.
Most of Rio Tintos competitors are private on investment than before the global financial crisis, with fixed sector companies which are publicly quoted.
Several are, like capital formation now accounting for over 40 per cent of Chinas Rio Tinto, diversified in terms of commodity exposure, but others GDP.
Such imbalances are likely to remain key challenges for the are focused on particular commodities.
global economy in coming years.
However the key underlying High quality, long life mineral resources, on the basis of attractive trends of urbanisation and industrialisation in populous parts of financial returns, are relatively scarce.
Nevertheless, Rio Tinto the world will continue to provide a strong platform for growth.
holds interests in some of the worlds largest deposits.
Rio Tinto expects world production volumes to grow in line with global China economic growth.
In addition, higher demand from China and The sharp rebound in Chinas economic growth since the first potentially India, as a result of high rates of economic growth quarter of 2009 resulted from the Chinese Governments rapid and urbanisation trends in those countries, could contribute response to the collapse of global trade as well as a reversal further to increases in world production volumes in the long term.
of tightening policy introduced during 2008 to combat an overheating property market.
The RMB4 trillion stimulus package Global economy introduced in late 2008 and the accompanying surge in bank The introduction of large fiscal and monetary stimuli by governments lending spurred the development of infrastructure projects and a around the world started to take effect towards the middle of 2009. quick turnaround in housing construction activity.
Having fallen Global trade started to recover during the second half of the year, to an annualised pace of nearly six per cent in early 2009, Chinas led by activity in Asia.
Major developed economies gradually GDP growth exceeded ten per cent in 2010. stabilised with most experiencing renewed GDP growth by the third quarter of 2009.
With the growth momentum firmly back on track, the Chinese Government renewed its attempts to quell rising house prices The recovery continued into 2010, although with marked differences through a series of policy interventions.
The key challenge is in the pace and sustainability of growth between OECD and emerging for the Government to successfully contain inflation and asset Asian countries.
The emergence of a two-speed economy reflects the bubbles in an environment of excess liquidity.
The Government fact that financial excesses leading to the global crisis had developed is also pushing for more incremental structural reforms to boost primarily in advanced economies, which now face a significant household consumption.
However, it is also a reminder that many of the global imbalances that had accumulated over the past decade remain, As the Chinese economy transitions towards its 12th five year and in some cases, have become more acute.
plan, it is likely to focus increasingly on development strategies and institutional reforms aimed at reducing some of the growing The recovery in the OECD has so far been dependent on domestic imbalances.
This should translate into a stronger focus government stimulus and an initial phase of inventory rebuilding, on technology and services as well as policies targeting the with the growth momentum built since the middle of 2009 fading development of inland and rural areas.
Although such reforms slightly in the latter part of 2010.
Sovereign debts in advanced could ultimately lead into a phase of economic growth that is less economies have increased significantly as a result of the financial commodity intensive than over the past ten years, investment crisis and governments in several countries are now faced with and the development of infrastructure projects should remain an tough decisions to address fiscal imbalances by reducing spending important aspect of the Chinese economy in the medium term.
and raising taxes, with likely negative consequences for short China consumed 400kg of steel per capita in 2009, about half the term growth.
Financial systems remain fragile implying scope for levels seen in Japan at its peak, with significant scope for further volatile outcomes ahead.
14 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Chinese demand as a share of global consumption 2009 urbanisation rate % % 1st 70 2008 100 2009 60 2010 1st 1st 80 US Global ranking in 2009 50 1st 1st 1st 40 60 30 40 China 20 2nd India 20 10 Oil Cu Al Ni Coal Steel Iron ore 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 traded Sources: WBMS, BP, IISI, CRU Gross national income per capita US$ at PPP Global 2010 coal demand data was unavailable at the time of publication Source: UN the aluminium market where a large proportion of on and off LME Commodity markets inventories are currently understood to be tied into financing The start of a stabilisation in the global economy from the second deals.
Such activities are likely to continue in a context of further quarter of 2009, and more importantly the rapid turnaround of quantitative easing, the major effects of which are to reduce real the Chinese economy, triggered a sharp rebound in commodity interest rates, weaken the US dollar, raise inflation expectations prices.
Chinese imports of metals and minerals soared to new and increase asset prices, especially for assets leveraged to growth highs during 2009 as a result of recovering underlying demand, in developing countries such as commodities.
restocking, scrap shortages, closure of high cost domestic capacity and some speculative activity facilitated by rising liquidity.
As Despite the greater participation of an increasing web of financial a result Chinas share of global demand in 2009 increased to players in the commodity markets, physical fundamentals remain key between 35 and 50 per cent for several commodities and up in driving price dynamics.
In a context of renewed strong demand, to two thirds for traded iron ore. cost inflation is starting to creep up again across the mining industry with potential supply side challenges as a consequence.
Chinas strong appetite for commodities continued into 2010 in combination with resurgent demand from OECD economies.
Outlook for 2011 Although minerals and metals consumption in advanced economies Forecasters have become more cautious about the strength in remained below pre-crisis levels, the demand trends contributed OECD economies in 2011 but the IMF is still predicting global to a further tightening in some markets and a return to prices growth above four per cent and Chinese GDP is expected to grow seen in mid 2008 for commodities such as copper and iron ore. above nine per cent.
Historically global growth at these levels has In a significant shift in energy markets in 2009, China became a provided a strong basis for commodity demand allowing Rio Tinto net importer of thermal coal.
This continued into 2010, absorbing to run its operations at full capacity.
supply from traded Asian seaborne coal and keeping upward pressure on prices.
Meanwhile, the aluminium market has moved Some risks to the near term outlook include an inevitable reduction closer to balance during 2010 benefiting from strong demand from in the level of fiscal and monetary stimulus, much of which is the recovering automotive sector.
However, overall stock positions commodity intensive.
Another key risk is linked to sovereign debt remain high compared to historical levels.
crises, especially in Europe, and the potential impact that these could have on the stability of global financial markets as well as For bulk commodities, a key development during 2010 has been implications for investor and consumer confidence.
a further step away from previous benchmark price settlement mechanisms and towards more market oriented and shorter Looking to the longer term, increasing prosperity in developing term pricing arrangements.
These movements reflect changing countries including China and India, with associated industrialisation market dynamics, with China being the main catalyst through and urbanisation, will continue to drive underlying growth rapid demand growth and greater fragmentation of the demand in demand for commodities.
At the same time, it is apparent and supply sides.
Pricing periods for coking coal and iron ore that global imbalances might take many years to resolve.
This have moved towards quarterly cycles and, in the case of iron ore, points to a high average growth setting for our markets but also references to published price indices started to appear in term one characterised by potential strong volatility.
Although still relatively underdeveloped, these new the mining industry in general, are responding to the rapid pricing arrangements are attracting the attention of financial demand recovery and stronger prices with reinvigorated capital institutions with the establishment of financial tools such as expenditure expansion plans.
This is in turn putting renewed futures contracts for iron ore. pressure on skills, equipment and key raw material availability with implications for cost escalation and project schedules.
The growing influence of financial investors is also being felt in the already well developed base metals markets, with discussions during 2010 focused on plans to introduce physically backed Exchange Traded Funds for aluminium and copper.
Low interest rates are already facilitating the financing of stock positions in www.
