Exploration Investing for the future The Exploration group is organised geographically into regional The Group has had a sustained commitment to exploration since multi-commodity teams, with head offices in London, Salt Lake 1946 and considers exploration to be one of its core competencies.
This structure provides a balance between Mature Group operations, such as Weipa, the Pilbara and Rssing, global reach and local presence.
were Tier 1 greenfield discoveries by Rio Tinto.
The value of these discoveries is still being realised after more than 40 years by both Greenfield exploration programmes are prioritised on a global mine production and successful brownfield exploration.
basis so that only the most attractive opportunities are pursued.
Continuing this legacy, the Exploration group has since 2000 Priorities are determined in consultation with the product groups, identified two of the largest copper opportunities in the world at with investment decisions being driven not by location or choice Resolution in Arizona, US and La Granja in Peru.
Exploration has of commodity but rather by the quality of each opportunity.
also delivered one of the worlds largest known high grade iron Exploration teams frequently present the first face of Rio Tinto ore deposits, at Simandou in Guinea, as well as the Caliwingina in a community and lay the groundwork for what could become channel iron deposits in the Pilbara, Australia.
Exploration places a high priority on the potash deposits at Potasio Rio Colorado, which Rio Tinto sold effective community engagement and considers its commitment to Vale in 2009: the Sulawesi nickel laterite deposit in Indonesia: to sustainable development as fundamental to securing its social the Mutamba titanium deposit in Mozambique: and the lithium licence to operate.
borate deposits at Jadar in Serbia.
Safety A significant proportion of the Exploration groups expenditure is returned to Rio Tinto through the sale of Tier 2 discoveries.
Over the The Exploration group all injury frequency rate has increased period 2000 to 2010, divestment of Exploration group projects has from 0.62 at the end of 2009 to 1.18 at the end of 2010.
The returned US$1,291 million for a net pre tax spend of approximately deterioration in performance is correlated with the expansion of US$128 million.
Over the period this translates to an average Tier 1 field activities following the global financial crisis and increased discovery cost of less than US$16 million per deposit.
The Exploration group continues to work closely with contractors to implement critical controls The following table shows the Exploration groups Tier 1 around high risk activities such as drilling.
discoveries since 2000: Performance Year Discovery Commodity Location A bauxite Order of Magnitude project was initiated at Amargosa 2000 Potasio Rio Potash Argentina in Brazil and is on target for delivery of the resource to the product Colorado group at the end of 2011.
Resource evaluation continued at the 2002 Resolution Copper US Tamarack nickel-copper prospect in the US and the project will 2004 Simandou Iron ore Guinea be advanced to a decision point in early 2011.
The Altai Nuurs 2005 La Granja Copper Peru coking coal deposit in Mongolia was identified as a non core 2005 Caliwingina Iron ore Australia asset and has been prepared for divestment.
2008 Sulawesi Nickel Indonesia 2008 Mutamba Titanium Mozambique Target testing at Sanxai in Laos, in joint venture with Mitsui, 2009 Jadar Lithium borates Serbia identified ore grade bauxite mineralisation.
Target generation activities were progressed across a range of At the end of 2010, the Exploration group was actively exploring commodities and jurisdictions.
In Kazakhstan, a memorandum in 16 countries, and assessing opportunities in a further seven, for of understanding was signed with state mining company Tau-Ken a broad range of commodities including bauxite, copper, coking Samruk to conduct joint venture exploration for copper and other coal, iron ore, diamonds, nickel, uranium and potash.
A similar agreement was signed with Chinalco to jointly Strategy explore for copper and other minerals within mainland China.
The purpose of Exploration is to add value to the Group by discovering or acquiring resources that can increase future cash flows.
A fundamental element of the Groups business strategy is a clear focus on finding and mining only the largest, most cost All injury frequency rate competitive resources that are profitable at all parts of the natural Per 200,000 hours worked price cycle and that deliver sustainable competitive advantage.
These are described as Tier 1 resources.
1.25 1.18 1.18 The Exploration group is accountable for greenfield exploration programmes and it provides technical assistance to the business 0.98 2009: 0.62 0.88 units on brownfield exploration.
Greenfield exploration, which aims to establish completely new operating business units, involves geographic or commodity diversification away from 0.62 existing Group operations.
Brownfield exploration is directed at sustaining or growing existing Group businesses.
Exploration further supports the product groups in the assessment of merger and acquisition opportunities.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 62 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information In the brownfield environment, Exploration handed over a number Outlook of iron ore deposits in the Pilbara, Australia, to the Iron Ore product The Exploration group expects to explore for a range of group.
In Utah, US, exploration continues within a three kilometre commodities across at least 17 countries in 2011 and plans orbit of the Bingham Canyon Mine.
Recent drilling to the east of the to deliver the Amargosa bauxite Order of Magnitude project mine identified a new but sub-economic  to the Rio Tinto Alcan product group at the end of the year.
Drilling at other targets within the Bingham mine Reinvigorating early stage target generation will continue to be a orbit is under review.
On the Rssing mine lease in Namibia, ore priority to drive sustained exploration success.
grade uranium intersections were returned at the Z20 prospect.
Divestment of Tier 2 assets will continue where real value can A research and development milestone was reached with the first be realised, with a target of 50 per cent of the annual greenfield test flights of the VK1 airborne gravity gradiometer over a test exploration budget being returned to the Group.
System optimisation is under way in The next crop of potential discoveries: preparation for production flying towards the end of 2011 and commercialisation of the technology.
Project CommodityCountry Stage Gross cash expenditure on exploration and evaluation in 2010 was Amargosa Bauxite Brazil Order of Magnitude US$594 million.
The increase of US$80 million over 2009 gross Sanxai Bauxite Laos Project of Merit expenditure reflects the ramp up of activities in response to the improved market outlook, while remaining below 2008 expenditure of US$1,134 million.
Gross expenditures are offset by US$522 million pre-tax proceeds from the divestment of exploration properties.
Progress of a project The evolution of a project from target through drilling to be of a grade and work on these projects is broadly defined generation to investment approval, quantity sufficient to be of economic as evaluation.
implementation and commissioning interest by analogy with peer deposits The two main evaluation study phases involves a series of study stages that currently in production.
are Pre-feasibility and Feasibility Studies.
Sustainable Projects which attract the support of the Pre-feasibility involves an evaluation development critera are applied relevant Rio Tinto product group are of project options, yielding a far clearer throughout the project development cycle.
progressed to Order of Magnitude Study.
This understanding of the preferred project Early stages of work are broadly termed involves an assessment of a range of options concept and key value drivers.
The exploration and are the responsibility of to establish economic viability of the project, Feasibility Study sees the focus switch the Exploration group.
These stages deliver and determine whether its potential value is to optimisation and engineering of a a progressive increase in confidence in the sufficient to justify committing significant single scenario identified through the technical and economic parameters used resources to a detailed study programme.
This finally freezes to determine whether a project satisfies Any potential showstoppers are identified the scope of the project to be constructed.
Target generation and testing involves A successful Order of Magnitude Study the progression from concept to results in the declaration of a discovery demonstration of mineralisation at a and the transfer of project management prospect.
A Project of Merit is defined from the Exploration group to the where mineralisation has been identified relevant Rio Tinto product group.
Further Opportunities are tested and screened by several different stages of work Target generation Project of Merit Order of Magnitude Pre-feasibility Feasibility Study Construction and testing Study Exploration Evaluation www.
