S u s t a i n a b l e d e v e l o p m e n e t c n a n The way we work Our global code of conduct The way we work defines how we conduct ourselves as a business.
It is underpinned by our values, our approach to sustainable development, and by effective corporate governance.
Chairmans introduction Four values define Rio Tinto: accountability, respect, with a reputation for acting responsibly, we will be teamworkand integrity.
welcome as investors, partners and members of the local community wherever in the world we operate.
They guide everything we do and are expressed through the principles and standards of conduct as set out in a global code This will hold true even as expectations and regulations of conduct called The way we work available on our website at surrounding corporate governance change following the www.
global financial crisis and our business evolves.
The way we work defines the way we manage the economic, We regularly review our practices to make sure they are aligned social, political, environmental and governance challenges of with changing regulations and that they continue to support our operations.
It also frames a unified approach to complying the principles and values contained in The way we work.
with the regulatory obligations of our stock exchange listings in the UK, Australia and the US.
Everyone in the Group is required to take training on The way we work.
But most important of all, our values help the Group to fulfil our commitment to shareholders to maximise total returns whilst also fulfilling our commitment to contribute to sustainable development.
This is because, as a company Jan du Plessis, chairman The way we work Related information online at www.
com ourapproach Related sections within this report p114 Report on corporate governance p24 Risk management p29 Sustainable development review 16 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report r e v o G V a l u e s Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information This focus on environmental stewardship also delivers financial Governance benefits.
For example by improving energy efficiency we not only The role of the board reduce our environmental impact, we also reduce our operating costs.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a common board of Social wellbeing is another fundamental aspect of our approach directors who are responsible for the Groups success and accountable to sustainable development.
This involves providing a safe and to shareholders for our performance.
healthy workplace in which people, treated with fairness and Consistent with accepted good practice, the board consists of a decency at all times, can develop their full potential.
mix of executives and independent non executives, the majority And going beyond the workplace, our idea of social wellbeing extends being independent non executives.
This combination balances to our neighbours.
With them, we seek long term partnerships innovative thinking with business knowledge and experience.
characterised by the mutual respect that leads to trust.
The board has established committees responsible for audit, However, good intentions are never enough.
So for us strong executive remuneration, executive and non executive succession, governance systems are a vital part of putting sustainable social and environmental matters and assisting the board to development into practice.
These systems ensure that we continue deliver its responsibilities.
Each plays a vital role in underpinning to manage our business with openness and accountability.
Values To ensure their relevance and continuing adherence to best practice, the committees annually review their terms of reference.
More Our reputation stems from our four core values, which define the detailed descriptions of the board and its committees are on essence of who we are and who we will be: accountability, respect, pages 118 and 122. teamwork and integrity.
The first of these values accountability is about taking ownership Managing risk of our performance and decisions, and the impact that they have Rio Tinto recognises that risk is an integral component of its on the business.
We also support the accountability that others business, and that it is characterised by both threat and opportunity.
have in their own areas of work.
The Group fosters a risk aware corporate culture in all decision making.
Through skilled application of high quality, integrated We demonstrate respect through our approach to sustainable risk analysis and management, we enhance opportunities and development, and by recognising our peoples contributions to the reduce threats, and so achieve and maintain competitive advantage.
We care for each others health, safety and wellbeing.
The Groups Risk standard guides the process by providing an By working as a team, we can focus our collective efforts on where overall methodology and structure for the handling of risk within they deliver the best outcome for the Group.
We believe good team the organisation.
The Group seeks to provide the board and members trust in the commitment and capability of others.
senior management with a consistent, Group wide perspective And finally, we work with integrity, treating all our stakeholders of the key risks.
Reports are submitted to the board twice per with fairness, honesty and openness.
year and include assessment of the likelihood and impact if risks materialise, along with risk management initiatives.
Sustainable development As a company, we naturally meet the needs of customers, but we seek to do this without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
That is what we mean by sustainable development.
It is good business as well as good sense.
Our continuing financial success depends on the Groups ability to gain access to the land, people and capital we need.
To do that, we put our economic, social, environmental and technical expertise to work to harness these resources.
This process creates prosperity that is shared among shareholders, employees, communities, governments and business partners.
But there is more to it than that.
Sustainable development also demands rigorous environmental stewardship.
If we cannot always prevent harm, we can minimise and remediate any negative environmental effects of the Groups operations.
To ensure this, we have developed high standards that we maintain by implementing a wide range of practical programmes.
These apply to issues that include air quality, ecosystems, biodiversity, climate change, the use of energy, land and water, waste disposal and facility closures.
