Diamonds & Minerals Differentiation in the marketplace The Diamonds & Minerals group is well positioned to benefit from late cycle demand growth in mature and emerging markets.
Our businesses occupy strong positions in their respective sectors, combining high quality assets with technical expertise and a robust understanding of our markets and customers.
Harry Kenyon-Slaney, chief executive, Diamonds & Minerals Diamonds & Minerals overview a Contribution to Group operating cash flow US$ million Underlying earnings contribution 2008 2010 2008 474 Prices and exchange 298 Inflation 24 245 Volume Costs 88 b Tax and other 805 2009 800 2% 169 Prices and exchange Inflation 31 Volume 138 Costs 42 b Tax and other 706 2010 328 0 b Includes US$797 million gain on the sale of potash assets in 2009 r Expanded deposit boundaries and identified additional sodium borate Operating highlights mineralisation at Jadar, a lithium and borates development project 2010 2009 in Serbia.
US$ million US$ million r Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT increased titanium dioxide Revenue 3,035 2,618 production by 21 per cent compared to 2009 in response to Operating cash flow 510 528 improved market conditions.
a Underlying earnings 328 800 r Achieved the first full year of production of ilmenite ore at QIT Capital expenditure 300 519 Madagascar Minerals QMM.
Net operating assets 4,580 4,612 r Progressed construction of the tailings treatment plant at Richards Bay Minerals RBM ahead of start up in early 2011.
Strategy Key priorities r To maximise shareholder value by contributing material earnings to r Continue to strive for zero harm to people across all operations.
Rio Tinto and delivering better than comparable industry returns.
r Deliver material earnings and cash flow to Rio Tinto, and generate r To benefit from increasing demand for Diamonds & Minerals products better than comparable industry returns.
by improving the efficiency of the groups existing assets, building the growth projects in its pipeline and growing through value accretive r Differentiate Rio Tinto from other suppliers in Diamonds & Minerals acquisitions in existing and new sectors.
markets by providing a reliable supply of high quality products, r To share best practices in safety and community engagement in order technical expertise and marketing support programmes.
to maintain employer and developer of choice status across the six r Ramp up to full production at QMM.
continents that constitute our operations base.
r Progress development projects to plan.
r Achieve incremental expansions at Rio Tinto Fer et Titane RTFT Key achievements and Boron through efficiency and technology improvements.
r Lowest all injury frequency rate among Rio Tinto product groups.
r Identify and execute opportunities for inorganic growth.
r Commenced underground ore production at the Diavik diamond mine.
Outlook r Gained approval and funding to complete the Argyle diamond mine underground project in Australia.
r Following recovery in 2010, the outlook for the product groups r Launched a pre-feasibility study for the Bunder diamond project, India.
markets is favourable, driven primarily by increased demand from emerging markets.
r Delivered flexibility and efficiency improvements through a new labour agreement at Rio Tinto Minerals RTM Boron Operations in California.
r The medium to long term fundamentals for the diamond industry are positive.
r Received a binding offer in early 2011 from Imerys to acquire Rio Tintos talc business for an enterprise value of US$340 million.
r Demand growth offers opportunities across titanium dioxide and borates.
a See note 2 and the Financial information by business unit section of the 2010 financial statements for a reconciliation of underlying earnings to net earnings.
50 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Sales revenue of the Diamonds & Minerals group was US$3,035 million Strategy in 2010, US$417 million higher than in 2009, reflecting higher prices The Diamonds & Minerals groups core purpose is to maximise and sales volumes in response to improved economic conditions.
shareholder value by safely and efficiently mining, processing and Adjusting for the one-off US$797 million gain on the sale of potash marketing diamonds and minerals.
The group seeks to differentiate assets in 2009, 2010 underlying earnings of US$328 million were Rio Tinto from other suppliers in its markets by providing a reliable US$325 million higher than 2009, reflecting revenue growth and tax supply of high quality products, technical expertise and marketing benefits largely associated with a one-off charitable donation of land.
Many of its businesses operate in remote Improved rough diamond prices and sales volumes were reflected in and environmentally sensitive locations, where we have focused a 52 per cent improvement in Rio Tinto Diamonds sales revenue in on developing leading community relations and sustainable 2010 compared with 2009. development practices to become a development partner of choice.
RTMs borates and talc businesses secured additional price Rio Tinto believes that similar industry dynamics to those that drove increases as markets recovered and met an aggressive target the growth in iron ore, copper and coal demand are forming in a to increase EBITDA by 12 per cent from a 2009 baseline.
The groups strategy aims to position its businesses to make the most of these changing market fundamentals In December 2009, a Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment and will be delivered along three principal pathways: BBBEE restructuring was completed at RBM which reduced Rio Tintos equity share in the business from 50 per cent to t Progressing underlying business performance through 37 per cent.
Despite this, RTITs revenue increased by operational and commercial improvement.
four per cent, reflecting stronger demand for titanium dioxide t Maintaining and expanding capacity through investment feedstock and increased prices for its metallic products.
in the groups existing businesses, for example the Argyle An impairment charge of US$115 million after tax was recognised Underground project and incremental capacity expansions on the diamonds portfolio assets to reduce their carrying value at Boron and RTFT.
to an estimated recoverable amount.
This is not included in t Further growing the business through value accretive underlying earnings.
acquisitions in existing and new sectors.
Key achievements Rio Tinto Diamonds strategy is to be the preferred global supplier Diamonds of natural rough diamonds and to continue to operate, manage and develop world class diamond resources safely, efficiently The first ore was produced from the Diavik underground mine in and to the highest possible environmental standards.
Underground operations will steadily increase and the remaining open pits are expected to be depleted by 2012.
RTMs strategy is to be the undisputed leader in value creation In September 2010, Rio Tinto approved the investment of US$803 within the borate sector.
RTM seeks to leverage superior product million to complete the Argyle underground project in Australia.
quality, reliability of supply and technical support to capture Following a transition from the current open pit operation, the profitable growth in promising sectors and regions.
At its mine is expected to be fully operational in 2013.
The project is operations, RTM will focus on increasing capacity while achieving expected to extend the life of the mine until at least 2019. world class safety performance and improving its position on the industry cost curve.
A pre-feasibility study of the Bunder project in Madhya Pradesh, India commenced in July 2010 and in October 2010, the Government RTITs strategy is focused on capturing profitable growth in titanium of Madhya Pradesh signed a State Support Agreement with dioxide feedstock markets and maximising the value from its Rio Tinto for the project.
These are critical milestones in the industry leading portfolio of resources, processing facilities and ongoing development of the mine, which will be the first hard rock co-product capabilities.
RTIT aims to grow titanium dioxide feedstock diamond mine in India.
production to meet increasing demand, while maximising co-product contribution.
RTIT will also dynamically drive cost efficiency to Minerals sustain or improve its position on the industry cost curve.
Demand recovery for borates across all market sectors particularly Performance in Asia led to an 18 per cent increase in borate production compared with 2009.
Talc demand recovery was driven primarily by the In 2010 the Diamonds & Minerals groups markets substantially polymers sector and production levels increased by 13 per cent.
recovered from the financial turmoil of late 2008 and 2009.
Sustained demand from emerging markets largely offset the slower Boron forged a new labour agreement that lays the groundwork recovery from the established markets of the US and Europe.
This for improved work practices and productivity, enhancing the has been reflected in higher prices and increased sales volumes, businesss competitive position through the life of the operation.
leading to a 16 per cent increase in revenues.
RTM upgraded its distribution and packaging facility in Malaysia, The product group continued to focus on improved operational commissioned a new talc beneficiation plant in Australia and performance.
Rio Tintos share of diamond production reached announced plans to open an Asian Technology Center in 2011 to create competitive advantage in the businesss most promising 13.8 million carats, with underground production commencing growth region.
at Diavik during the year.
Strong demand growth in Asia for borates offset delayed recovery in mature markets, driving borate In February 2011, Rio Tinto received a binding offer from Imerys to production increases of 18 per cent compared to 2009.
Titanium acquire its talc business for an enterprise value of US$340 million.
dioxide feedstock production increased by 21 per cent in response A period of exclusivity with Imerys has been agreed, and Rio Tinto to improved market conditions, while progress continues to be will respond to this binding offer following consultation with the made at the QMM ilmenite mine in Madagascar.
com 51 Diamonds & Minerals continued RTM reduced AIFR by 24 per cent to 0.65 in 2010.
RTMs Houston Production of titanium dioxide feedstock increased by 21 per cent Operations were recognised for safety leadership through compared with 2009 in response to improved market conditions.
Rio Tintos Chief Executive Safety Award, and Rio Tintos US RTIT reacted quickly to stronger demand by returning to full operations were recognised by the Mine Safety and Health output following capacity reductions made in response to the Administration as among the safest in the country.
QMM completed its first full year in operation following the first All RTIT operations improved their safety performance in 2010, shipment of ilmenite ore in mid 2009, and the final product is with the total AIFR improving to 0.52.
QMM achieved one of the being well received by the market.
QMM has experienced difficult groups lowest AIFRs, at 0.20, with a largely new workforce.
mining conditions since commissioning, but production is increasing Greenhouse gas emissions as technical issues are addressed.
The implementation of dry All diamond sites maintained or reduced their greenhouse gas mining in 2011 is expected to double throughput by year end.
emissions in 2010 compared to 2009 and are working on a Further options to increase throughput are being evaluated.
number of initiatives to ensure continuous improvements are in Construction of the tailings treatment plant at RBM progressed in place.
A key focus is reducing fuel consumption and investigating 2010, under budget and on schedule.
The project will extract zircon, alternative power options.
rutile and ilmenite from tailings, from early 2011.
Across RTITs operations, total greenhouse gas emission intensity Safety decreased by nine per cent, reflecting increased operating Safety improvement and awareness continued to be a major focus efficiencies achieved as production levels increased.
Initiatives included the piloting of the Site Safety work on the electricity co-generation project at RBM is continuing Acceleration Programme at RBM and the creation of the Diamonds and will contribute to future reductions in emissions by generating & Minerals collaborative forum to drive benchmarking and share electricity from waste gas.
In 2010 the product groups all injury frequency rate RTMs global operations continued efforts to reduce greenhouse AIFR was 0.51 compared to 0.71 in 2009. gas emissions, and set new targets to lower them by two per cent All diamond sites achieved exceptional safety performances per tonne of product from 2008 levels by 2013.
Key initiatives in 2010 with their AIFR improving to 0.36 from 0.65 in 2009. include improving energy efficiency in processing plants, harvesting In 2010 the Diavik mine won the Canadian industrys most reclamation ponds and in-pit dumping of overburden.
prestigious safety award the national John T Ryan safety trophy Review of operations for its safety performance.
Rio Tinto Diamonds Argyle Rio Tinto: 100 per cent All injury frequency rate The Diamonds group owns and operates the Argyle diamond mine in Per 200,000 hours worked 0.89 the east Kimberley region of Western Australia.
Argyle continued to 0.85 operate its surface mine while undertaking minimal construction of 0.51 an underground block cave mine below the existing open pit in the 0.71 first half of 2010.
2009: 0.71 0.56 Diamond production in 2010 was 9.8 million carats, seven per cent 0.51 lower than 2009, reflecting the fact that the open pit mine is in the final stages of production with lower ore grades, prior to an underground mine accessing higher grade ore. Diavik Rio Tinto: 60 per cent The Diamonds group operates the Diavik diamond mine, located approximately 300km north east of Yellowknife in the Northwest 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Territories, Canada.
It is an unincorporated joint venture between Rio Tinto and Harry Winston Diamond Corporation.
Titanium slag and iron greenhouse gas emissions intensity The Diavik mine currently comprises three diamond bearing kimberlite pipes that are being mined using open pit and Indexed relative to 2008 109.3 underground mining methods.
The first underground mine 104.9 102.7 102.3 100.0 production occurred in March 2010 and will steadily increase.
104.9 The remaining open pits are expected to be depleted by 2012.
The underground operation will extend the life of the Diavik 2009: 109.3 mine until 2022.
A fourth pipe, the A21 pipe, is being reviewed to determine its viability.
Diamond production in 2010 was 3.9 million carats Rio Tinto share compared with 2009 production of 3.3 million carats, reflecting a significant increase in ore processed.
Murowa Rio Tinto: 77.8 per cent The Murowa mine has been operating as a small open pit since 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2004 and is owned by Rio Tinto 77.8 per cent and Riozim 52 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information In October 2010, the Government of Madhya Pradesh signed a State Limited 22.2 per cent, an independent Zimbabwean listed entity.
Support Agreement with Rio Tinto as further endorsement of the Rio Tintos share of production in 2010 of 139,000 carats was Bunder project.
above the 97,000 carats in 2009 as a result of a modest capacity expansion in the process plant.
Murowa is considering expanding In September 2010 the Rio Tinto board approved a further the existing open pit to increase production and the previous US$803 million to complete the construction of the Argyle feasibility study for this expansion is currently being reviewed.
Argyle will continue the transition to underground mining until 2013 by which time it is expected to In 2010 Murowa Diamonds received the Zimbabwe National be a wholly underground mine with a life through to at least 2019.
Chamber of Commerce award for the Best Corporate Social Responsibility Programs.
Exploration drilling in Serbia resulted in expanded deposit boundaries and the identification of a new sodium borate Rio Tinto Minerals Rio Tinto: 100 per cent mineralisation at Jadar, a lithium and borate development project The business comprises borates and talc mines, refineries, and with considerable economic potential.
The deposit is one of the shipping and packing facilities on five continents that operate largest undeveloped lithium deposits in the world.
If developed, under the Rio Tinto Minerals banner.
Approximately 815,000 it is expected to be in production within five to six years.
product tonnes of refined borates are produced at Boron Operations, the principal borate mining and refining operation Outlook in Californias Mojave Desert.
RTM also operates talc mines The diverse markets being served by the groups operations are including the worlds largest, in southern France and processing linked by a strong connection to end consumer markets, consumer facilities in Austria, Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Italy, sentiment and spending habits.
Following recovery in 2010, the Japan, Mexico, Spain and the US.
outlook for the groups markets is generally favourable, driven by increased demand from Asian countries.
In 2010 total borates production rose by 18 per cent to 500,000 tonnes of boric oxide, on the back of strong recovery in Asian demand.
Diamonds Total talc production increased by 13 per cent to one million Following 2009 inventory depletions, the diamond supply chain tonnes in 2010, with stronger sales in the polymer sector and was gradually replenished in 2010.
Diamond demand from emerging recovery in paint and paper markets.
markets accelerated, while production levels remained relatively low in comparison with 2008.
As a result, rough diamond prices Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium demonstrated a robust recovery throughout 2010.
In the short run, Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT comprises: the sustainability of this recovery will be in part dependent on US t the wholly owned Rio Tinto Fer et Titane RTFT, formerly QIT consumer confidence.
The medium to long term fundamentals for in Quebec, Canada: the diamond industry are positive.
t an 80 per cent share in the QIT Madagascar Minerals QMM Minerals ilmenite project in Madagascar: and Socioeconomic trends driving energy efficiency in housing and t a 37 per cent interest in and management of Richards Bay transportation, urbanisation in emerging economies and more Minerals in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
sustainable farming practices will drive increased intensity of Both RTFT and RBM produce titanium dioxide feedstock used demand for borates.
Segmentation and pricing strategies are in place by customers to manufacture pigments for paints and surface to support shifts between regions and end uses through different coatings, plastics and paper and the production of titanium consumer and economic cycles.
Supply chain flexibility will be metal.
They also produce iron, steel and zircon co-products.
QMM enhanced by establishing bulk delivery stock points in promising produces ilmenite from beach sands which is shipped to Canada growth regions.
The borate business is positioned for strong growth for processing into titanium dioxide slag.
and industry leading returns in the near and long term.
In 2010, titanium dioxide production increased by 21 per cent Demand for titanium dioxide feedstock is driven mainly by the compared with 2009.
The market for titanium dioxide feedstock pigment industry.
The market recovered sharply in 2010, with high has recovered quickly from the global financial crisis, which led to capacity utilisation rates, driven in part by a steady rise in demand a sharp decline in demand in 2009.
In response, RTITs operations in China and other developing countries.
Rising demand is likely to have returned to full capacity, producing 1,392,000 tonnes of drive prices to structurally higher levels in the coming years.
titanium dioxide feedstock Rio Tinto share.
This increase has RTIT is well placed to benefit from improved market conditions as been achieved despite the reduction in the Rio Tinto share of production increases following capital investment in QMM and its RBM production from 50 per cent to 37 per cent following the established operations in recent years.
BBBEE restructuring in late 2009 and reflects increased output of ilmenite from QMM in Madagascar.
Development projects The Bunder project Rio Tinto: 100 per cent in Madhya Pradesh is Rio Tintos most advanced diamond project and the most important diamond discovery in India for many decades.
Located 500km south east of Delhi, the Bunder projects Order of Magnitude study identified an inferred resource of 27.4 million carats.
Rio Tinto applied for a mining lease in 2008, has constructed an on site sample processing plant to evaluate drilling and surface samples, and is working on detailed studies for the mines development.
