Group overview Opportunities for long term growth Major global operations % Our assets are ideally positioned to serve our customers 21 of sales by destination worldwide.
The majority of our operations are in Australia to North and and North America, but we also have businesses in South America South America, Europe, southern Africa and Asia.
While our operating heartland is in OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries, much of our sales are to emerging economies which are driving the anticipated growth in metals and minerals demand.
To meet rising demand, we will continue to 18 pursue value-adding organic growth, plus targeted small to medium sized acquisitions.
Our five product groups below are supported by our Exploration and Technology & Innovation groups.
Aluminium Copper Diamonds & Minerals We are a global leader in the aluminium With diverse assets and leading technology, The Diamonds & Minerals group comprises industry.
Our closely integrated facilities include our Copper group is uniquely positioned to mining, refining and marketing operations high quality bauxite mines and alumina supply growing global demand.
In 2010, we across three sectors.
Rio Tinto Diamonds is refineries, as well as some of the worlds produced 678 thousand tonnes of copper, one of the worlds leading diamond producers, lowest cost primary aluminium smelters.
making us the worlds fifth largest supplier.
active in mining and sales and marketing.
We also produced 772 thousand ounces of Rio Tinto Minerals is a world leader in borates Products gold and 13 thousand tonnes of molybdenum and talc, with mines, processing plants, Bauxite, alumina, aluminium as by-products of our copper operations.
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium is an industry leader in high Key strengths Products grade titanium dioxide.
Effective portfolio management, improving Copper, gold, molybdenum, silver, nickel our already strong position and moving Products assets further down the cost curve.
Key strengths Diamonds, borates, titanium dioxide Largest bauxite producer in the industry.
Participation in and ownership of several feedstocks, talc, high purity iron, metal world class operating assets.
Management Self generated hydroelectricity at powders, zircon, rutile of the Oyu Tolgoi project, scheduled to be many facilities.
Key strengths a top ten copper producer and a significant Global scale gives the group the ability to gold producer.
Poised to benefit from late-cycle seize opportunities and support customers demand growth.
Investment in a substantial growth profile.
worldwide as markets continue their recovery.
Substantial brownfield and greenfield One of the best growth project pipelines in Industry leading technology and innovation.
the aluminium industry, supported by our management expertise and proprietary AP Technology.
a b a b a b Contribution to Group underlying earnings Contribution to Group underlying earnings Contribution to Group underlying earnings 6% 18% 2% Full operating review on page 42 Full operating review on page 46 Full operating review on page 50 a Items excluded from net earnings to arrive at underlying earnings are explained in note 2 to the 2010 financial statements.
b Aggregate product group underlying earnings contribution of 107 per cent is reduced to 100 per cent by negative amounts for Other items and Net interest.
4 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information % % 19 28 of sales by destination of sales by destination to Europe, Middle East and Africa to China % 32 of sales by destination to elsewhere in Asia and Australia 18 18 Countries with operations and or projects Energy Iron Ore Exploration We are a leading supplier of thermal and We are the second largest producer supplying Exploration is one of the Groups core coking coal to the Asian seaborne market the global seaborne iron ore trade.
After a activities largely paying for itself through and are one of the worlds largest uranium decade of dramatic expansion in Australia, the sale of non core discoveries.
producers, serving electric power utilities and more recent growth in both Australia and Potential Tier 1 discoveries see page 62 worldwide.
Our Energy portfolio includes: Canada, we believe we are well positioned to are retained for development and operation.
Rio Tinto Coal Australia: a coal mine at benefit from the continuing demand surge These have included two of the largest copper Colowyo in Colorado, US: Energy Resources in China and other Asian markets.
We opportunities in the world at Resolution of Australia, which produces uranium oxide are driving performance through effective in Arizona, US and La Granja in Peru.
from its Ranger operation: and Rssing, a project management and enhanced Exploration has also delivered one of the Namibian uranium oxide producer.
worlds largest known undeveloped high grade iron ore deposits, at Simandou in Products Products Guinea, as well as the Caliwingina channel Thermal coal, coking coal, uranium Iron ore, salt iron deposits in the Pilbara, Australia.
Key strengths Key strengths Full operating review on page 62 Strong customer relationships and high Proximity of the expanded Pilbara quality assets located in close proximity operations to the worlds largest and to growing Asian markets.
Technology & Innovation Emphasis on operational excellence, Success in increasing operational Our centralised team of specialists focuses thereby reducing waste and greenhouse efficiency and controlling costs.
on improving current technologies and gas emissions and engaging our people.
Vast potential of brownfield developments operations, with emphasis on project near existing infrastructure.
The Groups Innovation Centre concentrates a b a b on step changes that will give us competitive Contribution to Group underlying earnings Contribution to Group underlying earnings advantages in developing the orebodies of the future.
A special Energy & Climate Strategy Centre is dedicated to improving the Groups use of energy, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and understanding the effects 8% 73% of climate change on our operations and prospects.
Full operating review on page 64 Full operating review on page 54 Full operating review on page 58 www.
