Technology & Innovation A strategic commitment driving competitive advantage t Accelerated progression of the first tunnel boring machine Technology & Innovation T&I consists of a central team of technology which will be commissioned at Northparkes mine in early 2012. professionals and a number of technology centres that develop leading practice and promote improvements in mining, processing, asset t Successful trial of an innovative flotation control system at management, strategic production planning, energy use, and project Kennecott Utah Copper demonstrating improved recovery.
Emphasis is given to shared The T&I gross cost in 2010 was US$214 million, compared with and visible measures of operational effectiveness, the improvement of US$134 million in 2009 and US$158 million in 2008. analytical tools and development of staff capabilities.
Innovation Most work is focused on improving current technologies and operations.
In addition, the Innovation Centre focuses on The Innovation group identifies, evaluates and implements value technology step changes that will confer competitive advantage accretive step change mining technologies with Group wide in development of orebodies likely to be available to the Group application.
The Energy & Climate Strategy Centre focuses on Some of the Innovation initiatives and programmes included: improving the Groups use of energy, reducing greenhouse gas TM t The strategic Mine of the Future programme, interlinking emissions and understanding the effects of climate change on the projects delivering improvements in productivity, cost, product Groups operations and prospects.
The total number of employees in T&I increased from 267 at 31 t The Rio Tinto Centre for Underground Mine Construction, December 2009 to 538 at 31 December 2010 primarily due to an which will focus on rapid mine construction, rock mass increase of demand for the design and build of major projects on behaviour controls, and innovative ground support for future behalf of the Group business units.
Strategy t The development of step change technologies to support the T&Is strategy is to: safe rapid development of large underground block cave mines.
t The development and deployment of autonomous blast hole t Maintain and promote a safe working environment.
drilling technologies, currently operating in the Pilbara with t Continue to embed operational excellence in business units.
potential for Group wide implementation.
t Maximise the contribution of technology to the Groups vision TM t The surface Mine of the Future programme which focuses of industry leadership.
on operating the first significantly autonomous iron ore mine t Deploy technology solutions that increase earnings.
by combining autonomous drilling, semi-autonomous blast t Design and build valuable new investment projects.
loading with autonomous trucks, and a wide range of advanced sensing and telecommunications technologies.
t Position the Group to unlock orebodies that require innovative mining solutions.
Energy & Climate Strategy t Lead the Groups response to climate change.
The Energy & Climate Strategy team E&CS leads the Groups response to the challenges of climate change and the inter-related Safety topic of energy management.
The team engages with the T&I is committed to the safe operation of its facilities and to the operating businesses, governments and other stakeholders on safe deployment of its personnel.
Starting in 2009, the safety the design of climate and energy policy, manages the Groups results reflect the inclusion of development projects managed by carbon capture and storage CCS and develops internal strategies T&I.
The all injury frequency rate for T&I and projects in 2010 is to evaluate energy supply options, secure energy supply, and to 0.72 compared to 0.87 in 2009. reduce energy usage and greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
Performance In addition, E&CS actively supports the development of legislation and regulation through direct engagement with governments and Key achievements involvement in advocacy groups such as the US Climate Action The Improving Performance Together IPT engagements continue Partnership.
to work with operating sites on operating improvements.
In 2010 this collaborative effort delivered in excess of US$1 billion Mineral Technology Services pre-tax cash flow.
This was achieved by, for example, assisting in The Mineral Technology Services Centre comprises a team of the debottlenecking of the iron ore operations in the Pilbara, technology professionals deployed from five regional offices through improved equipment availability and concentrator in North America, Australia and the UK.
The team works throughput at Kennecott and maintenance cost reduction at with operating sites to deliver substantial increases in value: Rio Tinto Alcan operations.
with project teams to determine the optimum value adding project plan: and with the broader Group to understand and The Innovation group achieved several milestones during 2010 manage major technical risks.
The team provides support in including the following: the areas of geology, geotechnics, mining, mineral processing, t Successful movement of 31 million tonnes of iron ore with the hydrometallurgy, process control, asset management, environment Autonomous Haul System fleet demonstrating higher than and business analysis.
The Centre is also responsible for implementing IPT processing, a t First flight of the VK1 airborne gravity instrument.
structured methodology designed to increase the value delivered t Deployment of the remote command vehicle, which is capable by Rio Tintos processing operations.
IPT processing includes of managing up to three blast hole drills with one operator in focused data analysis to understand and address the constraints non line of sight mode.
and variability which inhibit process performance.
IPT processing 64 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information continues to generate value across the Group, delivering over Technical Evaluation Group US$350 million in pre-tax cash flow benefits in 2010.
The Technical Evaluation Group TEG ensures that Rio Tintos investment decisions are based on independent, technical review Asset Management and evaluation.
TEG also provides advice on the adequacy of The Asset Management Centre concentrates on the effective risk identification and management at key points in the project selection and use of equipment for the Groups mining and approvals process.
Work included the implementation of asset Outlook management standards and guidelines, as well as standard business processes and fit for purpose technical operating systems, work In 2011 T&I will continue to maintain a culture that places practices and global metrics to monitor the performance of fixed a high priority on safety and safety improvements.
T&I will plant and heavy mobile equipment.
continue to work with Group businesses to deliver measurable increases in earnings and will continue to assist from a technology The Asset Management IPT programme continued to deliver viewpoint in the selection of the most attractive investment robust results in 2010, supporting business units to realise over opportunities.
It will continue to focus on the safe and efficient US$400 million in pre-tax cash flow benefits.
implementation of projects and will build systems to support management of projects across the Group.
The pursuit of the Mine Mining Technology of the Future programme and the development of innovative The focus of the Mining Technology Centre is to establish leading alliances and relationships that will create competitive advantage practice and develop, share and implement Group wide solutions for the Group remain a significant focus.
T&I will also focus on in the core mining production processes of surface mining, delivering improvements in the Groups energy efficiency, long underground mining, strategic resource development, resource term business decarbonisation options, compliance processes and and reserve estimation, orebody knowledge and mine planning.
performance, and carbon markets participation.
T&I will look to The Centre also oversees the Groups resource and reserves significantly increase staff levels as the business environment estimation and reporting process, reserves and resources audit continues to improve and the need for highly skilled technical process and core technical systems.
IPT mining initiatives in 2010 employeesincreases.
included payload management, drill and blast and off road tyre demand reduction.
The IPT programme for mining technology continued to deliver strong results in 2010 and assisted business units in realising over US$180 million in pre-tax cash flow benefits.
The Mining Technology Centre also includes a Strategic Production Planning SPP team, which focuses on developing and establishing leading practice.
SPP teams co-operate with business units to develop comprehensive plans and valuations of strategic resource development options.
Results from SPP provide a logical resource development framework for more detailed studies and investment decision making.
SPP engagements completed during the year increased the life of mine valuation of a number of existing mining businesses and supported expansion based investment proposals.
Project Development & Implementation The Project Development & Implementation Centre PDI provides guidance, support and training for all aspects of capital projects, performs a governance function by conducting project reviews, manages feasibility studies, and executes capital projects on behalf of the business units.
During 2010 PDI commenced resourcing for, and implementation of, a global operating model in preparation for implementation of projects in nearly all continents and on behalf of all product groups.
The model provides for a Project Management support function as well as Implementation Hubs focused on supporting the product groups.
In 2010 it was responsible for the progression of the Argyle Diamonds underground project, Kestrel mine extension, Yarwun 2 project, the feasibility study for the Energy Resources of Australia heap leach project and the Eagle nickel project in Michigan.
PDI also provided support and advice to most other major projects in a year when the Group recommenced or accelerated projects that were suspended during 2008 and 2009.
Additionally, the operation of the Clermont coal mine project was successfully handed over to Rio Tinto Coal Australia.
During 2010, the Centre continued to make improvements in overall safety performance at these projects.
