Group strategy Striving for global sector leadership Our strategy How Rio Tinto is achieving its vision, creating and preserving value, and exercising its strategic advantage.
Strategy Vision To invest in and operate large, long term, cost competitive mines To become the sector leading global mining and businesses, driven not by choice of commodity but rather and metals company.
by the quality of each opportunity.
The way we work: Governance, Sustainable development, Values neighbours and to the places where we work.
Our approach gives Our vision and how we will achieve it us improved access to land, people and capital all of which are Our vision is to become the sector leading global mining and essential to our future success.
Collectively, our strengths provide us with our strategic advantage.
As we work to achieve this vision, we will maximise shareholder And this advantage is allowing us to meet responsibly the needs of return by sustainably finding, developing, mining and processing a wide variety of customers while generating superior returns for natural resources.
We will do this through a strategy of investing in and operating large, long term, cost competitive mines and businesses, driven not Strategic drivers by choice of commodity but by the quality of each opportunity.
Five strategic drivers help us achieve the Groups strategy.
Rio Tintos diverse portfolio includes some of the worlds best Financial and operational excellence assets.
The high calibre of our people, our expertise in exploration, We have a Group wide focus on financial and operational excellence, technology, innovation and marketing, and our commitment to which involves constantly improving safety, productivity, operational sustainable development have given us a proven track record efficiency and cost control at every stage of our business.
in successful project execution and operational excellence.
We believe these qualities and achievements position us well for Many of our assets already operate in the first or second quartile becoming the global leader in our sector.
of their industry cost curves.
And we continue to seek operating and cost efficiencies by identifying and implementing leading As a highly capable organisation with global reach, we believe practices across the Group.
we are well placed to respond to rising demand for metals and minerals which is being driven strongly by emerging economies.
A few of our assets are higher cost.
We aim to transform these The breadth and scale of our business means that we can supply businesses into more competitive performers, for instance by key metals and minerals needed by worldwide markets at various introducing new technologies, by gaining efficiencies through stages of their economic development, from the raw materials incremental volume enhancements, or through more effective needed for basic infrastructure to the products needed to procurement practices.
We continually review our portfolio to manufacture hi-tech consumer goods.
ensure that all assets are a good strategic fit with our business.
Effective procurement and supply integration across our Group Our focus on financial performance also includes the prudent helps ensure we run an efficient supply chain, maximising management of our balance sheet to achieve and maintain a production across our products to meet customer needs with single A credit rating.
A strong balance sheet provides greater reliability of supply.
resilience against volatility in the global economy and the effect this might have on short term commodity prices.
The way we work is equally important to achieving our vision, as we integrate sustainable development practices into everything By operating our own mines, we are able to take advantage of we do, wherever we operate: building on improvements to health performance improvement initiatives generated by our own and safety performance and extending leadership in areas such employees people who genuinely understand the facilities as community and government engagement, biodiversity and where they work.
management of land, carbon, energy and water.
In all of our operations we have a relentless focus on safety leadership.
Success in these areas helps strengthen our licence to operate.
Our aim is to create an environment in which all employees and We are recognised as a socially responsible developer, and one contractors have the knowledge, skills and desire to work safely, so that builds strong relationships that bring lasting benefits to our that everyone goes home safe and healthy at the end of each day.
18 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Strategic drivers Key performance indicators Five strategic drivers are helping us deliver our strategy Achievement of our strategy and goals is measured and achieve our vision.
by a mixture of financial and non financial performance indicators, some of which are t Financial and operational excellence linked to executive remuneration.
t Licence to operate t Growth t Globalising the business More information on p. 22 t Technology and innovation greenfield projects.
In many cases, our opportunities to expand Licence to operate are the consequence of wise investment decisions made years ago.
Rio Tinto aspires to be the industry partner of choice in working with governments, joint venture participants, communities, Many of our greenfield opportunities are in regions where we customers and other stakeholders.
do not have a long established presence, but our proven ability to develop operations in new countries in a responsible and Our Group wide values of accountability, respect, teamwork and sustainable manner allows us to gain stakeholder buy-in.
We are recognised for building mutually beneficial relationships with our stakeholders based We also review opportunities to add shareholder value through on active partnership and long term commitment.
We are also small to medium sized acquisitions or other business combinations.
regarded as a company that brings long term benefits to our local We have a strict, value-focused approach to mergers and acquisitions, communities and host countries.
Our strong reputation in these and seek opportunities that will give us entry to Tier 1 assets.
areas is a source of significant strategic advantage.
All growth opportunities are assessed using our rigorous investment approval process based on detailed modelling of discounted cash More widely, we are continuing to improve relations with local, flows, and are subject to comprehensive internal but independent regional and national governments.
Key to successful mineral reviews.
Only the best projects that are expected to deliver value development is a culture of trust, transparency and mutual benefit over the long term are approved.
This is established through honest engagement with all stakeholders, including governments and local communities.
Globalising the business Equally important is our determination to minimise the Groups The global spread of our operations is one of the Groups greatest environmental footprint, particularly when it comes to carbon, advantages and also gives us access to a wide range of markets.
As the Group expands in terms of both size and geography, we are We are refreshing our approach to sustainable development to ensure working to build a more diverse, engaged, agile and flexible workforce it remains focused on the social, environmental, economic and one that reflects our growth potential and one that is capable of governance risks most relevant to delivering our business strategy.
reacting quickly to changing market opportunities and challenges.
By building relationships with our stakeholders, and by applying Helping to develop the talent of our employees in emerging markets risk analysis and management effectively throughout our business, and providing them with continued growth opportunities will we can create opportunities out of external challenges, and extend help ensure that we have future leaders that reflect the increasingly our licence to operate.
diverse regions and cultures in which we operate.
Through our scholarship and bursary programmes, and by offering internships Growth and summer placements, we reach out to, and encourage, our We believe the first and best use of our strong balance sheet and future leaders during their academic lives.
cash flows is to invest in our strong pipeline of organic growth opportunities.
Our strategy prioritises growth that adds value to our business, either through increased production capacity, or through extended mine life.
The adherence to our strategy over the years has resulted in a succession of value-creating investment decisions, which in turn have led to superior long term performance.
We have a very strong pipeline of organic growth projects and a resource and mineralisation position that allows sustainable long term growth.
Our projects include brownfield expansions and new www.
com 19 Group strategy continued Technology and innovation Such advances have enabled the opening of the Perth Operations Centre from which Rio Tinto people can control iron ore mining Innovative technologies will lead to dramatic improvements and infrastructure at our Pilbara operations, more than in our operating business and the way we develop new mines.
These technologies can also put us ahead of the competition.
Another key focus of Group innovation is underground tunnelling An example of this is Rio Tintos Mine of the Future programme, and shaft sinking.
At our Northparkes copper and gold mine in which we believe will deliver heightened efficiencies in terms of Australia we will test a system designed to allow us to excavate at both production and costs, as well as a safer working environment more than double the rate of conventional methods.
Success there with reduced impact on the environment.
will enable us to apply the technology for the next generation Mine of the Future involves collaborative partnerships with leading of block cave mines.
This will increasingly be a strategic differentiator, as future ore deposits, especially copper, are often universities and equipment producers to expand the potential of located at deeper depths.
Delivering our strategy Investing adding value across the cycle We create and preserve value through Explore and evaluate Rio Tinto has an experienced in-house exploration team with a investing in and operating large scale, proven track record for the discovery of Tier 1 orebodies.
In addition long term, cost competitive mines to exploration, we create value through expansions and extensions and businesses.
The nature of our of existing assets.
Rio Tintos orebody knowledge process allows us to evaluate value enhancing approaches to developing, operating business means that the lifecycle of and growing our resources.
an orebody may last for many decades.
More information on page 62 Throughout the life of a business, from initial exploration to final closure and restoration, we commit to the highest standards of sustainable development.
Bunder, India Analysing drill core samples at the diamond project in Madhya Pradesh.
Develop Rio Tinto develops orebodies with long term value delivery in mind.
Following the discovery of a resource, it must be thoroughly studied to identify the optimal configuration for development of the orebody and delivery of the product to the market.
As studies are undertaken, economic modelling confirms value.
Once we have obtained internal and external approvals, the project moves to implementation and construction.
Oyu Tolgoi, Mongolia Mine shaft construction at the copper-gold mine.
20 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information The Group takes the threat of climate change seriously.
Technological These KPIs are a measure of how well we are achieving our strategy, advances are enabling us to improve the efficiency of our aluminium and they link clearly to our strategic drivers.
smelting facilities while lowering their carbon output.
We are also Our KPIs give senior management a means to evaluate the looking into the potential benefits of widespread carbon capture Groups overall performance in operations, growth and and sequestration.
They provide managers and their In the long term our commitment to technology and innovation teams with clarity and focus on areas critical to our success.
should have a positive impact in attracting new employees to the The KPIs also give guidance to the Remuneration committee in Group and should help us supply a wider range of customers and framing our remuneration policy.
Some of the KPIs are directly markets more sustainably than ever.
Key performance indicators See p. 22 for more information on our KPIs.
Rio Tinto uses a number of key performance indicators KPIs to monitor our financial and non financial performance.
Operating Operate Close down and restore Rio Tinto creates value through operating its large, long term, When a resource reaches the end of its life, we are committed to cost competitive assets safely and efficiently.
As a capable, global high standards of close down and restoration.
Integrating closure organisation, we employ standard operating and maintenance planning in the early stages of project development and through practices across the Group, and invest in our world class assets an assets lifecycle helps us to leave a positive legacy of sustainable throughout their lifecycles.
An efficient process reduces the use of development, minimise financial impacts and ensure stakeholder consumables, increases equipment operating time and optimises expectations are met.
Our closure standard covers the design, the extraction of ore all of which results in higher production development, operation and closure of all our operations.
levels, reduced costs and optimisation of value.
More information on page 40 More information on page 42 Mine Rio Tinto moves millions of tonnes of material every day.
We have world class technologies and processes to plan, operate World class assets and maintain our mining Iron ore loading facility, Western Australia.
Process Our leading proprietary technologies, such as that for aluminium smelting, ensure that Barneys Canyon, US recoveries are maximised and Leading technologies Rehabilitating waste rock dumps into a wildlife habitat.
our processes are as efficient as Operations centre in Perth, Western Australia.
We produce material that is of the right quality for our customers.
Market We sell our products directly to our customers, the end users.
We seek out long term partnerships to maximise product value and Global presence constantly create new products Serving customers worldwide.
Deliver In many cases, Rio Tinto is responsible for delivering finished product to our customers.
We do this in a Infrastructure network variety of ways, efficiently, Transporting products from reliably and cost effectively.
