Mineral resources As required by the Australian Securities Exchange, the following tables contain details of other mineralisation that has a reasonable prospect of being economically extracted in the future but which is not yet classified as Proved or Probable Reserves.
This material is defined as Mineral Resources under the JORC Code.
Estimates of such material are based largely on geological information with only preliminary consideration of mining, economic and other factors.
While in the judgment of the Competent Person there are realistic expectations that all or part of the Mineral Resources will eventually become Proved or Probable Reserves, there is no guarantee that this will occur as the result depends on further technical and economic studies and prevailing economic conditions in the future.
As in the case of reserves, managed operations estimates are completed using or testing against Rio Tinto long term pricing and market forecasts scenarios.
Resources are stated as additional to the reserves reported earlier.
Where operations are not managed by Rio Tinto the resources are published as received from the managing company.
Where new project resources or reserves are footnoted as being reported for the first time, additional information about them can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website, in the section titled what we produce.
com 91 Mineral resources continued Notes a Likely mining method: O P open pit: O C open cut: U G underground: D O dredging operation.
aa Transfer of resources to reserves has reduced the resource tonnes and grade at Hugo Dummett b The increased resource tonnage at Porto Trombetas is due to model update and the North.
Rio Tintos interest increased from 19.9 to 26.6 per cent during 2010. reclassification of reserve material ahead of permitting.
bb Transfer of resources to reserves has reduced the resource tonnes and grade at Hugo Dummett North Extension.
Rio Tintos interest has increased from 19.5 to 24.9 per cent during 2010. c Boron resources are reported as in situ B O, rather than marketable product as in reserves.
2 3 cc Rio Tintos interest in Hugo Dummett South and South Oyu increased from 19.9 to 26.6 per d Jadar resources are reported as the in situ mineral content to align with the Boron US cent during 2010. estimates.
The Jadar lithium resource is expressed as in situ tonnes of mineralised material.
e Coal type: SC steam thermal coal, MC metallurgical coking coal.
dd A geological re-interpretation and subsequent model update has led to a revision of the Murowa resource.
f Rio Tinto reports Coal Resources on an in situ moisture basis.
ee The Hamersley Brockman 2 resource tonnes were increased following a model update.
g On 19 November 2010, Rio Tinto entered into an agreement to sell its 56.1 per cent interest in ff Changes in the pit design resulted in increased Hamersley Brockman 4 resources.
The agreement is proceeding through final review and approval processes in South Africa.
The increased resource is a result of additional drilling.
gg The decrease in Hamersley Marandoo Marra Mamba resource tonnes is due to a model update and conversion of resources to reserves.
h Resource tonnage at Bengalla was reduced due to redefined resource limits.
i The decrease in resource tonnes at Blair Athol follows resource, mining and economic model updates.
hh Re-design of the pit reduced the resource tonnes at Mt Tom Price Marra Mamba.
ii Transfer of reserves back to resources has increased the Hamersley Paraburdoo Marra Mamba j Resource tonnage at Hail Creek increased following reclassification of reserves and economic resource tonnes and grade.
jj A model update has resulted in improved resource tonnes at Hamersley Turee Syncline.
k Re-evaluation of the resource limits and underground prospects reduced resource tonnage at Hunter Valley Operations.
kk Resources in this category consist of 43 separate deposits, 26 of which are wholly owned by l Resource tonnes decreased at Kestrel Coal due to conversion of resources to reserves and Hamersley Iron.
Tenure of Shovelanna 50 per cent Hamersley Iron has now been granted.
subsequent re-evaluation of the mine plan.
ll A model update led to an increase in the undeveloped Hamersley Marra Mamba resource tonnes.
m Rio Tinto sold its 75.7 per cent interest in the Maules Creek property with transfer being mm Geological model updates led to increased Hamersley Channel Iron undeveloped resource tonnes.
effective on 18 February 2010. nn Technical and economic studies have resulted in reporting of new Hamersley Detrital n Resource tonnage at Mount Pleasant was reduced due to refined resource limits.
o The decrease in resource tonnes at Mount Thorley Operations follows a review of underground oo Model updates yielded lower Hope Downs Brockman resource figures.
pp Technical and economic studies resulted in improved Hope Downs Brockman Process ore p Rio Tinto sold its 75.7 per cent interest in the Vickery property with transfer being effective resource tonnes.
on 4 February 2010. qq IOC resources are quoted on an in situ dry tonnes and grades basis.
This resource would q The decrease in resource tonnes at Warkworth followed a review of underground mining potential.
produce marketable product 57 per cent pellets and 43 per cent concentrate for sale at two per r Rio Tinto completed the divestment of its 48.3 per cent interest in the Antelope and Cordero cent moisture content of 89 million tonnes at 65 per cent iron measured, 329 million tonnes at 65 per cent iron indicated and 578 million tonnes at 65 per cent iron inferred at cut off Rojo mines with an effective date of 15 December 2010. grades of 21 to 25 per cent concentrator weight yield.
s Bingham Canyon resources are lower following conversion to reserves.
rr Review of the geological model resulted in higher Robe River Pisolite resource tonnes.
t Resource tonnes at Eagle have decreased following a model update.
ss Robe River high grade detritals are reported for the first time following technical and economic studies.
u Escondida sulphide resource grades are reduced after completion of a new economic study tt Model updates have improved the undeveloped Robe River Marra Mamba resources.
v The Escondida sulphide leach and oxide resources decreased after a review of the economic uu Rio Tintos interest in Simandou is quoted as 95 per cent, the other five per cent being held by assumptions used to define the resources pit limit.
Chalco has the right to earn 47 per cent of this 95 per cent.
The Government of Guinea has an option to subscribe up to 20 per cent of the entire project reducing ownership of all w Under the terms of a joint venture agreement between Rio Tinto and FCX, Rio Tinto is entitled existing partners to 80 per cent.
Rio Tintos current tenure comprises exploration permits to a direct 40 per cent share in resources discovered after 31 December 1994.
Resource model extended for three months from 24 February 2011 by virtue of a mining concession application updates and pit re-designs have resulted in lower tonnes and higher grades at Grasberg.
It will be necessary to procure grant of that application or some alternative x Technical and economic studies led to increased tonnes at lower grades at Northparkes.
grant from the Government of Guinea to maintain title.
Rio Tinto is in discussions with the y Resources increased following additional drilling and extending the strike length of Heruga Government of Guinea seeking to procure this.
ETG up to the Oyu Tolgoi licence boundary.
Rio Tintos interest has increased from 19.5 to vv Molybdenum grades interpolated from exploration drilling assays have been factored based 24.9 per cent during 2010. on a long reconciliation history to blasthole and mill samples.
z Heruga IVN resources are reported for the first time following technical and economic studies.
ww Rio Tintos interest in Sulawesi reduced from 100 per cent to 80 per cent following an agreement with a third party signed in November 2010. xx Review of geological models and conversion of resources to reserves has reduced Rio Tinto Minerals talc resource tonnes.
In February 2011, Rio Tinto announced that it had received a binding offer for the purchase of 100 per cent of its talc business.
yy Resources at RBM decreased after a model update, a review of product recovery factors and mining depletions.
zz A model update and subsequent pitshell redesigns resulted in an increased resource at Rssing.
aaa Re-modelling at La Granja has reduced the zinc resource grade.
