Aluminium Transformation, modernisation and expansion Our high quality bauxite mines and alumina refineries, state of the art technologies, clean and renewable energy assets and low cost aluminium smelters make us a global leader in the aluminium industry.
Jacynthe Ct, chief executive, Rio Tinto Alcan Aluminium overview a Contribution to Group operating cash flow US$ million Underlying earnings contribution 2008 2010 2008 1,281 2,243 Prices and exchange Inflation 4 Volume 41 Costs 387 60 Tax and other 2009 560 6% Prices and exchange 1,178 Inflation 83 Volume 160 Costs 77 Tax and other 155 773 2010 0 r Construction at the Yarwun expansion project has been accelerated Operating highlights and the completed co-generation plant and ship unloader handed 2010 2009 over to operations.
US$ million US$ million r ISAL aluminium smelter won Rio Tintos top safety award with 4.7 Revenue 15,206 12,038 million work hours without a lost time injury as at December 2010.
Operating cash flow 1,334 549 a Key priorities Underlying earnings 773 560 r Proceed with cost efficiencies, capacity creep and step change Capital expenditure 1,328 1,690 improvement through strategic capital investment: includes phase Net operating assets 38,326 36,340 one of the AP60 plant in Canada and the ISAL expansion in Iceland.
r Continue steps towards optimising the groups asset portfolio: Strategy progress with Kitimat aluminium smelter modernisation in Canada r The second phase of transformation will target incremental EBITDA and Yarwun refinery expansion.
improvement of US$1 billion by 2014. r Capitalise on our value added product capabilities and optimise our r Leverage the groups robust growth pipeline with a priority on casting portfolio to serve customers in all key regions.
modernising and expanding existing Tier 1 assets: lower costs r Prioritise power sources with the lowest carbon footprint and of existing facilities: and progress the development of greenfield improving energy efficiency.
options at a pace aligned with market demand.
r Create value from AP Technology via increased technology sales, r Be long in bauxite and alumina, providing strong growth potential, faster operational improvements and lower full economic costs on particularly in the Asian region.
Key achievements Outlook r Increase of US$1,333 million in underlying earnings from 2009. r Favourable position to leverage strong demand from emerging r Value added aluminium product sales volumes increased to economies and seize opportunities across the aluminium value chain 65 per cent of total sales.
as the industry continues its recovery.
r Bauxite production up by nine per cent over 2009 mainly in response r Alumina pricing mechanisms are developing and as liquidity builds, to increased production at Weipa in Australia to meet the demands the groups strategy of remaining long in bauxite and alumina will of the growing Chinese market.
allow it to use various pricing alternatives.
r Alumina production up by three per cent on 2009 due to improved r As aluminium markets continue to recover, the group is expected to production at Yarwun in Australia, ramp up at Alumar in Brazil, and benefit from stable energy sources, less linked to LME pricing than restarting idled capacity at Vaudreuil in Canada.
those of other large producers.
a See note 2 and the Financial information by business unit section of the 2010 financial statements for a reconciliation of underlying earnings to net earnings.
42 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information offset by adverse currency movements of US$391 million, mainly Strategy from the strengthening of the Canadian and Australian dollars Rio Tinto Alcans financial performance will continue to be against the US dollar.
founded on transformational change and portfolio discipline as a means of reducing its costs and achieving stronger margins.
The improvement in earnings was also attributable to higher With the integration of former Alcan operations completed and sales of value added aluminium products, smelting capacity achieved synergies in excess of the stated US$1.1 billion target, the brought back on line following curtailments in 2009, cost savings second phase of transformation is targeting incremental EBITDA from lower input prices for caustic, coke and pitch, and further improvement of US$1 billion by 2014 through cost efficiencies and operating efficiencies in group smelters and refineries worldwide.
capacity creep, as well as step change improvement through capital This was partly offset by inflation and higher energy costs.
The average aluminium market price in 2010 was US$2,173 per tonne The groups portfolio began improving in 2009 with the sale compared to US$1,665 per tonne in 2009.
The groups average of the Ningxia smelter in China as well as closures at two older realised price for ingot products in 2010 was US$2,388 per tonne facilities, the Beauharnois smelter in Canada and the Anglesey compared to US$1,833 in 2009.
Rio Tinto Alcan has entered into smelter in the UK when its power contract expired.
In 2010, the metal sales hedging transactions to protect the downside risk at group divested some of its smaller non core businesses, including some of its high cost smelters.
This mandate covers a maximum the Awaso bauxite mine in Ghana and the Brockville specialty of 317,000 tonnes about eight per cent of global production alumina plant in Canada.
in 2011 and is expected to cover approximately half this tonnage in 2012.
Executing Tier 1 growth options with a priority on modernising and expanding existing assets will allow Rio Tinto Alcan to In 2010, Rio Tinto Alcans annual bauxite production was 33.4 continue driving costs down and reduce its carbon footprint.
million tonnes, up from 30.7 million tonnes in 2009 mainly in Primary aluminium projects such as the AP60 plant and Kitimat response to rising third party demand.
The group has a leading modernisation in Canada and ISAL expansion in Iceland, as well position in bauxite mining: strong performance in alumina as alumina projects such as the Yarwun expansion in Australia, refining: and whole ownership or participation in 21 smelters are expected to further reduce average costs and progressively with a total annual capacity of four million tonnes of primary drive the groups portfolio down the industry cost curve.
Approximately 80 per cent of this aluminium production is located in the first half of the industry The group uses clean power sources for 72 per cent of the electricity cost curve based on data from CRU, an industry analyst.
used to produce primary aluminium, including a strong base of renewable, self generated hydropower.
This gives its aluminium Aluminium production stayed relatively flat year over year as products a relatively low carbon footprint not only from a production production at the Kitimat smelter was reduced due to the closures standpoint, but also due to their potential for application towards of potlines 7 and 8 in preparation for the modernisation project, fuel efficiency improvements and downstream GHG reductions and production at Laterrire in Canada was reduced due to a eg in cars, trucks, trains and aircraft.
In addition, aluminiums power outage in July.
These were offset by NZAS in New Zealands combination of excellent thermal, electrical and forming properties production increasing following a transformer failure in 2008, can offer more efficient electrical, heating and cooling solutions.
which impacted 2009, and a gradual return to full capacity at operational UK smelters.
Aluminium production records Rio Tinto Alcans business strategy is also to be long in bauxite were set at the smelters in Arvida and Grande-Baie in Canada, and alumina.
The group produces enough bauxite and alumina Sohar in Oman, ISAL in Iceland, Dunkerque in France and to supply its own facilities as well as generate value through Boyne in Australia.
This supports growth and reduces price risk.
The groups alumina position should also allow it to benefit Key achievements from opportunities, particularly in the Asian region, as pricing Bauxite production in 2010 was up by nine per cent compared to structures evolve.
2009 due to increased production at Weipa in Australia to meet Rio Tinto Alcan is the largest bauxite producer in the industry.
demands of the growing Chinese market.
Alumina production It has an interest in three of the four largest bauxite mines in also increased, up by three per cent compared to 2009 due to the world and is currently the worlds largest bauxite producer.
improved production at Yarwun, restarting idled capacity at Rio Tinto Alcan also has projects under way to achieve a leading Vaudreuil in Canada, efficiencies in work management and position in alumina refining, including expansion at the Yarwun process improvements.
Production records were set at Yarwun and facility and ramping up tonnage at both Gove in Australia and at Alumar.
Rio Tinto Alcan is accelerating the construction schedule for the Performance Yarwun alumina refinery expansion.
This will increase the plants Gross sales revenue for Rio Tinto Alcan increased by 26 per cent capacity to 3.4 million tonnes per year and help move the groups compared to 2009.
This reflects the combination of a robust alumina production further down the industry cost curve.
The recovery in end use demand in developed economies and the completed ship unloader and co-generation plant were handed continued roll-over of inventory financing positions amidst a over to operations in 2010, and the latter is already providing prolonged period of low interest rates.
The project has an expected project completion date of August 2012, with first bauxite In 2010, Rio Tinto Alcans contribution to the Groups underlying expected to be processed during the first half of 2012. earnings was US$773 million, an increase of US$1,333 million from 2009.
This was as a result of higher exchange traded In 2010, the group finalised long term energy contracts for a aluminium prices with the overall impact of price increasing number of its smelters including ISAL in Iceland, Bell Bay and earnings by US$1,569 million compared to 2009.
This was partly Tomago in Australia, and Alucam in Cameroon.
com 43 Aluminium continued prices continue to recover, Rio Tinto Alcan is expected to benefit end, a Caustic safety standard was developed and implemented from stable energy sources that are less linked to pricing on the within the Bauxite & Alumina business unit.
At critical sites, process safety management has progressed significantly, with LME than those of other large producers.
Ninety six per cent of reporting, investigation and analysis of significant potential the groups power is secured by self generating facilities or long incidents and completion of corrective actions as a main focus.
term contracts, thus ensuring low and predictable costs.
The group is also expanding its hydroelectric capacity in the Greenhouse gas emissions  region of Quebec through the Shipshaw Rio Tinto Alcan contributed 62 per cent of Rio Tintos total GHG turbine project.
This initiative remains on budget and on schedule emissions in 2010.
Realised and planned reductions also contribute for completion in Q4 2012, and will improve this major component significantly to the Rio Tinto Groups overall intensity of total installed capacity by adding 225 megawatts to Rio Tinto improvements.
Rio Tinto Alcan has a strong commitment to Alcans 2,919 megawatt network.
climate change, which includes both short term operational The ISAL operations won the Rio Tinto Chief Executives Safety objectives and long term adaptation strategies.
Award in 2010, which was the first year in which it was eligible to In 2010, as recovery from the global financial crisis took place, do so.
Except for one incident in 2009, ISAL has had zero injuries curtailed production was gradually restarted.
This affected the since 2007, and has completed 4.7 million work hours without a groups GHG performance level, as did the restart of one potline lost time injury.
at the Laterrire smelter in Canada.
Energy efficiency improved throughout the operations.
Rio Tinto Alcan also continued its global commitment to strong community partnerships throughout 2010.
In Australia, the Total greenhouse gas emission intensity at Rio Tinto Alcan Gove mine and refinery received the prestigious Origin Gold improved by 6.3 per cent in 2010 from 2008 baseline performance.
Banksia award for their partnership with Dhimurru Aboriginal This represents 1.8 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent Corporation to eradicate the Yellow Crazy Ant, a significant and is attributable to the divestment of a high emissions intensity threat to the regional biodiversity of North East Arnhem Land.
joint venture smelter in China, the closure of some older operations In Canada, the group established Ensemble pour la persvrance and increased operational efficiency.
Furthermore, expansion and scolaire, a five year investment programme to support definitive modernisation projects throughout the portfolio, such as those at action to keep young people in school.
In Cameroon, Rio Tinto the Arvida AP60 and Kitimat sites, will considerably reduce the Alcan has played an active role in community projects focused Groups carbon footprint and help deliver on greenhouse on health care prevention of HIV, malaria, and oncocercosis gas commitments.
and access to potable water.
Review of operations Safety During 2010, most value added product VAP segment shipments Rio Tinto Alcan employees have integrated the Group safety improved considerably compared to 2009, largely due to recovery strategy throughout the business and work diligently towards in the economies of Rio Tinto Alcans principal markets.
In North creating a workplace free of health, safety and environmental America, for example, most VAP segment shipments have been HSE incidents.
RioTintoAlcan reduced its all injury frequency affected by the modest but steady improvement in the US economy.
rate by over 30 per cent to 0.73, representing a near 50 per cent Overall, the groups sales volumes of VAP products almost reached reduction from 2006 levels.
The group experienced no fatalities the same levels as seen in 2008, accounting for 65 per cent of at its managed sites, however, there were three fatalities at non total sales in 2010 as compared with 51 per cent in 2009. managed operations.
The return in demand gives Rio Tinto Alcan an opportunity to A key priority has been the reduction of major risks through the optimise and invest in its VAP casting portfolio.
While Kitimat will implementation of Rio Tinto HSE performance standards and increase its slab production, it is transferring billet production to risk management practices.
This includes initiatives relating to other group units in Australia and New Zealand, where the Boyne manual handling, process safety, and improving safety leadership smelter recorded its highest ever volume VAP.
The group is also with the rollout of Leading for Improvement Training.
By year investing in leading edge billet casting facilities at ISAL to support the European billet market.
All injury frequency rate Aluminium greenhouse gas emissions intensity Per 200,000 hours worked Indexed relative to 2008 Including former Alcan 1.67 Including former Alcan 123.2 119.5 117.0 1.45 0.73 100.0 94.5 1.27 94.5 90.5 2009: 1.04 2009: 90.5 1.04 0.73 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 44 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Rio Tinto Alcan also made progress with its growth strategy, focusing Outlook on high return production capacity increases and Canadian Rio Tinto Alcan is better positioned than ever to tackle the modernisation projects that leverage low cost, self generated challenges of the future and the long term fundamentals of its hydropower.
The group completed value improvement initiatives industry remain intact, providing for a confident outlook.
The at both the Kitimat and AP60 project sites to reduce costs.
per capita rate of aluminium consumption is above 20 kilograms per year in developed countries, and the rate gap between developed The prefeasibility study for the modernisation of the Kitimat smelter countries and emerging economies such as India one kilogram, is now complete with an improved business case, and the anode Brazil and Indonesia five kilograms as well as China 12 pallet storage facility has been built.
In March, the group also kilograms is expected to close over the long term.
reached a landmark agreement with the Haisla Nation of British Columbia to secure support and further the Kitimat projects The groups financial performance will continue to be founded commitment to strong communities.
In December, the Group on transformational change, reducing its cost structure, and approved an additional US$300 million investment to further achieving stronger margins.
Its next phase of transformation construction and site preparations for the modernised smelter.
is targeting significant EBITDA margin improvements with the objective of achieving margins around 40 per cent.
At the ISAL facility, a total investment of US$487 million was approved for a modernisation project to boost production capacity Rio Tinto Alcans comprehensive, proprietary AP Technology by 20 per cent and install a leading edge casting facility to reinforce suite makes it a partner of choice for project development.
The Rio Tinto Alcans VAP position.
The group also finalised a long group possesses one of the strongest growth pipelines in the term energy supply agreement with the state utility to allow for industry, with smelter projects in various stages of development.
an amperage increase at the smelter.
The smelter is expected to These include brownfield expansions at Kitimat and ISAL as begin a gradual production increase in Q2 2012.
Billet production well as the potential for expansions at Sohar in Oman, Alucam is expected to begin in 2012 and the group will consolidate in Cameroon, Alma in Canada and two subsequent expansion expertise and production for slab products from ISAL with phases of the AP60 plant.
Greenfield opportunities include existing operations in France and the UK.
an additional smelter in Cameroon, a joint venture smelter in Malaysia, and an aluminium smelter in Paraguay.
In Guinea, the Primary aluminium production was negatively impacted from July group has a basic agreement which sets forth a framework for a to September when two electrical transformers failed at Laterrire.
joint venture greenfield alumina refinery.
The gradual restart of 216 affected pots was completed safely and ahead of schedule.
Production losses are estimated at about As a highly integrated producer, the group also aims to be long in 24,000 tonnes and the cost of this disruption has been mitigated bauxite and alumina.
This provides Rio Tinto Alcan with a robust by insurance coverage.
internal supply chain and additional value options.
Alumina pricing mechanisms are expected to continue evolving.
Rio Tinto The group also experienced a temporary hydropower reduction Alcan believes that there is insufficient liquidity to support a spot in Quebec due to exceptionally low precipitation levels in the index at present and a material proportion of alumina supply is  region.
This led to the signing of a one locked up under medium to long term contracts.
year power supply agreement with the provincial utility.
The full year impact on EBITDA was approximately US$117 million.
As markets continue their recovery, the aluminium industry cost curve is expected to steepen further with cost pressures on the top Rio Tinto Alcans technological capabilities continue to create end.
This is expected to be driven by upward pressure on energy value from sales, faster operational improvements eg production prices, appreciation of the Chinese currency, Chinas reliance on capacity creep, and lower full economic costs on new projects.
imported bauxite, potential gradual increased alumina price, and Phase one of the AP60 smelter project received final approval the eventual impact of carbon pricing mechanisms.
Rio Tinto to proceed in December 2010 with an additional investment Alcan remains well positioned to face these expected pressures on commitment of US$758 million.
Construction of the electrical input costs, as key drivers such as access to energy, raw materials substation is complete and site preparations for potrooms and and currency drive up costs for producers in China.
The facility will be equipped with 38 AP60 reduction cells with metal output per pot at the plant reaching levels 40 per cent higher than at existing smelters.
Phase one of the plant will produce 60,000 tonnes of aluminium per year.
First hot metal is expected in 2013 and the plant will be the platform for commercial development of AP60 technology.
Rio Tinto Alcan is also recognised as a world leader in bauxite residue management and is often called upon to share its expertise.
Its goal is to store bauxite waste in its most solid form possible and, in many cases, recover the liquids used so that it can recycle them in our refining operations.
The group works closely with regulatory authorities in host communities to ensure that it complies with the highest HSE standards, and invests regularly to maintain the integrity and security of these sites.
