Chief financial officers statement Sustainable growth in shareholder value Rio Tinto is once again able to invest in its high quality value adding growth programme, maintain a strong balance sheet and deliver capital returns to shareholders.
Guy Elliott Record breaking financial performance Restoration of balance sheet strength Record underlying earnings of US$14.0 billion were 122 per cent We transformed our balance sheet in 2009 and we further higher than 2009 driven by the continuing recovery in commodity improved on that position during 2010.
Through strong cash prices and strong operational performance.
Record cash flows from flows from operations and the completion of US$4.2 billion in operations of US$23.5 billion demonstrated the exceptional cash divestments, we reduced our net debt from US$18.9 billion to generation capabilities of our Tier 1 assets.
Strong operational performance during 2010 allowed us to benefit In addition to reducing net debt, we have also improved our fully from the strong price environment.
The broader global medium term debt maturity profile and reduced our weighted recovery meant that we began to face pressures on our costs that average interest cost.
In October 2010 we successfully issued are likely to continue in the coming year.
In particular, labour and US$2 billion in bonds with five, ten and 30 year maturities at contractor costs in some geographies such as Western Australia record low interest rates for the metals and mining industry.
However, we are focusing on productivity The proceeds were used in a successful tender for US$1.9 billion improvements, effective procurement and operating efficiency of bonds due in 2013. to help to offset these input cost pressures.
These actions are part of a prudent approach to managing The markets for our products are increasingly complex, with the the balance sheet.
This approach has been rewarded by the introduction of new pricing mechanisms in the bulk commodity restoration of a single A credit rating by Moodys.
markets, the continued emergence of base metals as a financial A strong balance sheet will allow Rio Tinto to invest at all points asset class and the volatile macroeconomic environment in which of the commodities cycle in our first class growth projects.
It we continue to operate.
To navigate these challenges effectively may help us to withstand sudden large shocks to the global Rio Tinto has formed a Marketing Leadership team.
This team economy that could arise from the significant imbalances that will support our marketing vision of optimising the value of our currently exist, enabling us to take advantage of value creating resources, enabling our sales and marketing teams to become opportunities as they arise.
increasingly nimble and customer focused.
The investment environment Over the long term we expect industrialisation and urbanisation Net debt in developing economies, including China and India, to continue US$ millions 45,191 to drive underlying growth in demand for the commodities that we produce.
In Europe and North America high levels of government 4,284 38,672 debt will mean difficult decisions for governments as they rebalance their economies.
These worldwide discontinuities introduce the 2009: 18,861 risk of unexpected shocks in the global economy.
Our outlook is therefore for strong underlying growth for our products but with a potentially high degree of volatility.
18,861 It is important that we have a stable environment within which we can invest.
A key to successful mineral development is a culture of trust, transparency and mutual benefit to all parties.
Australias proposed 2,437 Resource Super Profits Tax and its subsequent replacement with the 4,284 TO BE UPDATED Mineral Resource Rent Tax proposal highlighted that resources and 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 resource nationalism are now major items on the political agenda 12 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information in many countries.
Rio Tinto is committed to working constructively In December we signed an agreement with Ivanhoe Mines, with all host governments to ensure that tax policy development the owner of 66 per cent of the world class Oyu Tolgoi copperdoes not create a hostile environment for investment.
gold project in Mongolia, whereby Rio Tinto will become the development and operating manager of that project.
We have Within this context our strategy remains to invest in Tier 1 now increased our ownership interest in Ivanhoe Mines to resources those with the potential for a long life, that are cost 42.1 per cent and secured the right to increase this further competitive and that have options to expand.
We do not prioritise to 49 per cent.
investment in any particular commodity and do not limit ourselves to those commodities in which we currently operate.
Similarly, We will continue to look for further innovative opportunities to we do not target or avoid specific geographies.
By focusing on enter into new joint ventures with various parties.
In the past we identifying and investing in Tier 1 assets which will add value to have gained access to new resources, new geographies and special our shareholders, regardless of the commodity concerned, we will expertise through such vehicles and will look to continue to do so remain a diversified natural resources group.
We continue to employ a disciplined approach to investing in Investing in organic growth growth opportunities.
Investments in projects and business We have a very strong pipeline of high quality organic projects and combination opportunities must continue to meet our strict a resource and mineralisation position which allows sustainable criteria of investing in high quality large, long term, cost long term growth.
Because the quality of our projects is high, we competitive and expandable assets at good value.
will maintain our position as a large, cost competitive producer.
The return of capital to shareholders We have continued to invest in the business with capital expenditures in 2010 of US$4.6 billion.
During the year we approved US$11 billion for Our first priority for allocation of capital has always been, and new major projects including expansion of our iron ore infrastructure and remains, to make value adding investments in our business in mines in Western Australia and Canada, the first phase of an aluminium order to optimise shareholder value.
We are committed to achieving smelting plant in Quebec using our new AP60 technology, and the and maintaining a single A credit rating.
modernisation of the Kitimat aluminium smelter in British Columbia.
A further priority is our dividend.
We were pleased to announce The approval of these and other projects in 2010 together with a final dividend of 63 US cents per share.
The total dividend in ongoing projects such as the expansion of Yarwun alumina refinery respect of 2010 was 108 US cents per share, 20 per cent higher and the Kestrel coking coal mine will drive the allocation of than the dividend commitment we had made to shareholders at capital in 2011, when we expect capital expenditure of the time of the rights issues in June 2009.
This will form the basis approximately US$13 billion.
of a progressive dividend policy, so that we expect the US dollar value of ordinary dividends will increase over time.
The interim In 2010 we began to reinvigorate our exploration and evaluation dividend is set at one half of the total dividend for the previous programmes.
The Group has a long history of finding high quality year and is therefore expected to be 54 US cents per share in assets through exploration.
We are funding feasibility and 2011.
Under the progressive dividend policy the final dividend pre-feasibility studies on projects such as the further expansion for each year is expected to be at least equal to the previous of our Pilbara operations, Simandou, La Granja, Resolution, and interim dividend.
the Kennecott Utah Copper extension.
This work will develop the next generation of Tier 1 assets.
We recognise that during times of high cash generation a progressive dividend policy alone will not return excess cash to shareholders.
Rio Tinto has a very substantial inventory of projects and resources Therefore, we are undertaking a US$5 billion share buy-back which have not yet reached the stage of development approval.
programme over 2011 and 2012, subject to market conditions.
These projects provide us with valuable growth potential over the This commitment will still leave us with the flexibility to longer term.
make significant investments in our business while remaining Business development committed to achieving a single A credit rating.
Since the beginning of 2008 we have realised over US$11 billion of Rio Tinto is once again able to invest in its high quality value gross cash proceeds from the sale of non core assets.
The majority adding growth programme, maintain a strong balance sheet and of the divestments identified during the strategic review in 2007 deliver capital returns to shareholders.
Our established strategy, are now complete, including nearly all of the Alcan downstream financial discipline and leadership in project execution all mean businesses.
However, we will continue to review the portfolio of that we are well positioned to continue creating sustainable assets to identify those that are no longer consistent with our growth in shareholder value over the coming decades.
strategy, with a particular focus on higher cost aluminium assets.
We are also constantly reviewing the market for potential opportunities to add to our portfolio through small to medium sized acquisitions and other business combinations.
In December we announced a recommended cash offer for Riversdale Mining.
This is a good fit with Rio Tintos strategy of focusing on small to medium sized acquisitions that provide access to large, long term, cost competitive assets.
Guy Elliott, chief financial officer www.
