Copper Resource, optimise, grow We believe Rio Tintos Copper group is uniquely positioned tosupply growing global demand for copper, with a diverse, balanced asset base and industry leading technology and innovation that allows the Copper group to optimise its resources and grow.
Andrew Harding, chief executive, Copper Copper overview a Contribution to Group operating cash flow US$ million Underlying earnings contribution 2008 2010 2008 1,615 487 Prices and exchange Inflation 40 Volume 556 Costs 304 70 Tax and other 2009 1,878 17% Prices and exchange 1,344 Inflation 24 Volume 256 Costs 363 Tax and other 45 2010 2,534 0 undeveloped copper-gold deposits in the world.
Operating highlights r Became the development and operating manager of Oyu Tolgoi 2010 2009 US$ million US$ million and established a clear pathway to 49 per cent ownership in Ivanhoe Mines Limited.
Revenue 7,782 6,206 r Began construction of the Eagle nickel-copper project, which is Operating cash flow 4,048 2,223 expected to begin production in late 2013. a Underlying earnings 2,534 1,878 r Obtained tenure over Sulawesi nickel resources.
Capital expenditure 958 553 r Secured land contracts to advance drilling at the La Granja project.
Net operating assets 6,663 5,187 Key priorities Strategy r Continue to improve safety performance with an emphasis on process r Deliver shareholder value with a material increase in production in safety and underground safety.
r Leverage industry leading technology and innovation to drive r Optimise our operating assets by delivering meaningful improvements value-generating growth in every operation and shorten development in safety and productivity, championing various technologies and for greenfield projects.
remaining a leader in sustainable development.
r Proactively advance application of key technologies that will drive r Partner with local governments and communities to contribute value in Rio Tintos copper assets.
r Manage and provide support to the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project, r Develop strong leadership and diverse, high quality talent needed with a focus on safety, resourcing and sustainable development.
r Keep the growth pipeline full of potential projects and opportunities.
r Ensure high quality resources are in place to deliver growth.
Key achievements r Completed Northparkes E48 block cave project.
Outlook r Began process of updating environmental permits at Kennecott Utah r Solid fundamentals in the near to medium term.
Coppers Bingham Canyon copper mine and extending its life to 2028 r Growth in emerging economies, led by China and India, will drive while maintaining additional long term options.
r Launched construction of US$340 million Molybdenum Autoclave r Potential for supply side challenges linked to increased sovereign Process at Kennecott Utah Copper.
risk, higher operating costs, increasing depths, decreasing grades and r Progressed a number of underground projects at Grasberg, namely project disruption.
the Grasberg Block Cave and DMLZ Deep Mill Level Zone projects.
r The Copper groups asset base is resilient to volatile prices and has r Continued to develop Oyu Tolgoi, one of the most promising opportunities for development, while its growth pipeline is world class.
a See note 2 and the Financial information by business unit section of the 2010 financial statements for a reconciliation of underlying earnings to net earnings.
46 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Strategy Safety The Copper groups strategy is to deliver shareholder value with The Copper group had no fatalities at its managed operations in a material increase in production in the medium term.
However, a fatality occurred at Escondida, a non managed company believes the copper price will remain above historical site, in the process area.
averages, with some volatility, driven by continued strong demand The Copper group is committed to creating an injury free in China and potential supply side challenges.
In 2010, the all injury frequency rate was 0.57, versus Using technological innovation, Rio Tintos Copper group is optimising 0.67 in 2009. its large, long life, cost competitive assets to safely and efficiently gain During 2010, the Kennecott Utah Copper workforce worked more access to deposits at lower depths.
than 2.7 million hours without a lost time incident.
The operation The growth pipeline is full of promising potential projects, which has moved forward with successful initiatives to implement the group will develop by leveraging Rio Tintos project skills and on-site Emergency Response teams and help employees manage in accordance with Rio Tintos leading standards of collaboration their personal health.
During 2010, Kennecott received a total of with local governments and communities.
The group is focused on 13 awards from the Utah Safety Council for its safety performance.
developing the people resources needed to deliver its ambitious Northparkes is working to improve safety by understanding and growth agenda.
addressing fatigue in the workplace, with stage two of a trial Rio Tinto is a leader in block cave mining, and many of our growth currently under way.
In addition, Northparkes is also working projects located at depth depend on this mining method.
While block to manage low probability, high consequence risks.
Into 2011 cave mining is capital intensive and requires lengthy development Northparkes will be focusing safety efforts on further developing times, technologies being pioneered by the company have the and setting underground safety standards and implementing the potential to deliver meaningful competitive advantage.
Rio Tinto Copper Projects has had zero fatalities for the past two Performance consecutive years and worked without a lost time incident in 2010.
Sales revenue of the Copper group was US$7,782 million in 2010, The La Granja project worked without a medical treatment case for US$1,576 higher than in 2009 reflecting higher prices as a result 18 consecutive months.
For the second year in a row, Resolution of increasing global demand.
Copper received the Sentinels of Safety Award from the US Department Underlying earnings were US$656 million higher than 2009, of Labors Mine Safety and Health Administration and the National attributable to higher metal prices.
Refined copper production was Mining Association, for excellence in safety.
This award is the most down five per cent.
Refined gold production was up 24 per cent, and recognised and longest standing award given for occupational safety.
refined silver up 17 per cent reflecting the processing of high grade In 2011, the Copper group will focus on process safety and precious metals contained in concentrates produced in late 2009. underground safety, with the goal of reducing injuries to zero.
The improvement in prices was partially offset by lower sales volumes and higher unit cash costs in line with reduced production Greenhouse gas emissions from lower grades.
The Copper group is committed to ongoing improvements in energy management and efficiency.
In 2010 the Copper groups The average price of copper in 2010 was US$3.40 per pound compared total greenhouse gas emissions were 3.1 million tonnes of carbon to US$2.32 per pound in 2009. dioxide equivalent, about seven per cent of the Rio Tinto total.
Key achievements Since 2008 the Copper group has reduced the GHG emissions intensity of its copper cathode production by 6.3 per cent.
During 2010, the Copper group made significant and important progress on a number of fronts.
Kennecott Utah Copper accounts for the majority 61 per cent of The Kennecott Utah Copper operation is pursuing the Cornerstone the Copper groups greenhouse gas emissions.
Key programmes project, which is expected to extend the life of its Bingham Canyon to improve performance at Kennecott Utah Copper have included mine to 2028 while maintaining additional long term options.
energy management and fuel programmes to improve efficiency Kennecott Utah Copper is also moving forward with construction and the commissioning of a six megawatt combined heat and power of a new Molybdenum Autoclave Process facility that can improve efficiency, metal recovery and greenhouse gasemissions.
All injury frequency rate Northparkes received approval to proceed with the Step Change Per 200,000 hours worked pre-feasibility project, which has the potential to increase 1.37 production three fold and further reduce costs.
1.24 0.57 A feasibility study for the Deep Mill Level Zone at Grasberg 1.05 was completed.
2009: 0.67 The Oyu Tolgoi project, one of the most promising undeveloped copper-gold deposits in the world, continued to move forward.
0.67 0.57 Construction began at the Eagle project, which will produce an average of 17,300 tonnes of nickel and 13,200 tonnes of copper metal per year, beginning in 2013.
In addition, tenure was granted over the southern resource at our Sulawesi nickel project in Indonesia.
In 2010, Rio Tinto secured land access by signing 27 necessary land 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 contracts essential to advancing the La Granja project in Peru.
The Copper group anticipates continued progress in 2011 Rio Tintos large, long life orebodies produce significant amounts of as a result of planned implementation of additional efficiency and copper, at among the lowest costs in the industry, with meaningful technology improvements.
The group is optimising its operations by focusing on safety and by using technological innovation Review of operations to improve recoveries, extend the life of its mines, protect the environment, gain efficiencies and deliver valuable growth.
Kennecott Utah Copper Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Kennecott Utah Copper, based in Salt Lake City, supplies more Kennecott Utah Copper has submitted permits to move forward than ten per cent of the USs refined copper.
It also produces gold, with the Cornerstone project, which is expected to create access silver, molybdenum and sulphuric acid as by-products.
The planned to approximately 650 million tonnes of mineralised material maintenance shutdown at the smelter was completed safely, on and extend the life of its Bingham Canyon mine to 2028 while time and on budget.
In 2010 Kennecott Utah Copper produced maintaining additional long term options.
Kennecott Utah Copper 269 thousand tonnes of refined copper and 596 thousand ounces is also developing the Molybdenum Autoclave Process MAP, an of refined gold.
Kennecott Utah Copper is also commencing studies alternative that will replace third party roasting.
Commissioning associated with the potential development of an underground of the facility is planned to begin in late 2012. copper skarn deposit to operate in parallel with the open pit.
Northparkes E48 block cave project has increased resource tonnes Escondida Rio Tinto: 30 per cent and is expected to extend the mines life to 2023.
By the end of 2012, Northparkes will begin testing a continuous mechanical Operated by BHP Billiton, Escondida is the worlds largest rock excavation system.
This breakthrough technology improves copper producer.
Located in Chiles Atacama Desert, it represents the speed and development of underground operations and allows eight per cent of global production.
Escondida produced recovery of valuable resources from increasingly difficult deposits.
1,011 thousand tonnes of mined copper in 2010.
Approval of three capital projects for execution will extend the sulphide Palabora Mining Company is evaluating expansion alternatives to leach operation, provide access to higher grade material and add extend the copper mine beyond the current profile.
These options grinding capacity to increase mill throughput.
include growth of Lift I through an area known as the western extension and a second lift below current mining activities.
Grasberg the joint venture gives Rio Tinto a 40 per cent share of production above specified levels until 2021 and 40 per cent In addition, the company continues to monitor security at of all production after 2021 Grasberg following several shooting incidents from mid 2009 to Grasberg is owned and operated by PT Freeport Indonesia, a January 2010.
The last reported incident was on 24 January 2010, subsidiary of US based Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. which resulted in a number of injuries.
There were no fatalities in It is one of the worlds largest copper mines and in the lowest 2010.
The Indonesian Government has responded with additional cost quartile of copper producers.
In 2010, Rio Tintos share of security forces and Grasberg has taken precautionary measures.
production from Grasberg was 51 thousand tonnes of mined Mining and milling activities have continued uninterrupted.
copper and 183 thousand ounces of mined gold.
In September, a third party train derailment destroyed the rail line linking Palabora operations to key ports.
Fortunately, there were no Palabora Rio Tinto: 57.7 per cent injuries.
The event did not have a material impact on the production, Palabora Mining Company is a listed South African company transportation and sale of copper and copper rod to customers: JSE based in Limpopo Province.
Palabora produced 58 thousand however it did affect magnetite sales.
tonnes of refined copper in 2010, supplying most of South Africas copper needs and exporting the balance.
At each of its operations, the Copper group is committed to sustainable development and community partnerships.
Northparkes Rio Tinto: 80 per cent In 2010, Kennecott received the Utah Division of Oil Gas and Based in New South Wales, Australia, Northparkes is a joint venture Mining DOGM Earth Day Award for the restoration of its historic with the Sumitomo Group 20 per cent.
This award recognises industry leaders that 39 thousand tonnes of mined copper and 65 thousand ounces of voluntarily exceed regulatory requirements to protect and mined gold in 2010. improve the environment.
In June 2010, Palabora Mining Company entered into a broad Copper cathode greenhouse gas emissions intensity based agreement with its new partners.
Under the agreement, Indexed relative to 2008 the company will effectively sell 26 per cent of its operations and 100.0 assets to a newly incorporated subsidiary owned by employees, 93.7 93.7 the community and a consortium.
The agreement is consistent 84.6 with the countrys Black Economic Empowerment Act, which 81.3 2009: 81.3 requires mines in South Africa to be at least 15 per cent owned by 72.7 historically disadvantaged South Africans.
This requirement will increase to 26 per cent by 2014.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 48 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Sulawesi Rio Tinto: 80 per cent Development projects Sulawesi in Indonesia is one of the worlds largest undeveloped The Copper group is pursuing a strong pipeline of projects and has nickel opportunities.
The deposit consists of an estimated 162 a first class growth profile.
In developing new projects, the group million tonnes of resources with an average grade of 1.62 per cent.
works to proactively manage risk and create a solid, sustainable Having received the first licence under Indonesias new mineral operating environment.
legislation, tenure for the project has been secured and Rio Tinto is Oyu Tolgoi Rio Tinto: 42.1 per cent interest in Ivanhoe reviewing development options.
On 30 November 2010 Rio Tinto MinesLimited entered into an earn-in agreement with Sherritt International When Oyu Tolgoi, in Mongolias South Gobi Desert, reaches full Corporation.
Sherritt must complete two phases of work including production in 2018, it is expected to be a top ten copper producer a feasibility study and spend US$110 million on the project to earn and one of the worlds biggest gold producers, with first quartile a controlling 57.5 per cent equity interest in the holding company production costs.
that owns the Sulawesi project.
Rio Tinto will retain the remaining 42.5 per cent for a net economic interest of 34 per cent.
In late 2010 Rio Tinto secured the right to increase its ownership in Ivanhoe Mines to 49 per cent by 18 January 2012.
Ivanhoe Pebble Rio Tinto: 19.8 per cent interest in Northern holds a 66 per cent interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
Rio Tinto has DynastyMinerals become the development and operating manager of Oyu Tolgoi The Pebble project in Alaska, US is one of the worlds most and has agreed to provide a comprehensive financial package to significant undeveloped  deposits.
Ivanhoe to help secure the development of the project.
Rio Tinto has a 19.8 per cent equity holding in Northern Dynasty The transition of management of Oyu Tolgoi to Rio Tinto has Minerals, which owns a 50 per cent share in the Pebble joint officially started, with a vision to safely deliver on schedule and venture.
According to Northern Dynasty, Pebble contains 5.94 on budget, to be firmly aligned with Rio Tintos strategy, values billion tonnes of measured and indicated resources containing 55 and standards for excellence, and fully deliver on its commitment billion pounds of copper, 67 million ounces of gold and 3.3 billion to employ approximately 90 per cent of the projects workforce from pounds of molybdenum.
Mongolia representing around 3,000 to 4,000 direct jobs, including contractors.
Bougainville Copper Limited Rio Tinto: 53.8 per cent Access to the site in Papua New Guinea remains restricted: Resolution Copper Rio Tinto: 55 per cent however the company continues to progress plans for exploration Resolution Copper, in Arizona, US hosts what is the worlds third and mining and is committed to working closely with the largest undeveloped copper resource.
The first production is countrys leaders and local landowners.
The site is in the midst of a pre-feasibility study and indications of this work are that the operation would likely be Outlook capable of producing 600,000 tonnes of copper per year.
In 2010, Global electrification and growth in China and India, along Resolution Copper advanced development of a new exploration with a greater focus on renewable sources of energy, should drive shaft, and provided more than one billion gallons of treated water continued demand for copper, while there may also be increased from historic mine workings to farmers to irrigate their crops.
La Granja Rio Tinto: 100 per cent The grade profile of the Copper group decreased in 2010 compared Based on exploration drilling, La Granja in Perus Cajamarca to 2009.
While mine plans are continually optimised, ore grades Region is the worlds ninth largest undeveloped copper resource.
are impacted by the inherent constraints that face deeper, more In 2010 evaluation work entered a divergent phase to assess the mature mines.
An anticipated decline in grade in 2011 is expected potential of new geological discoveries and to identify higher to see a rebound in 2012. value, lower risk options for development.
An optimal business case is still being developed.
However, the project has a clear Using industry leading technology and innovation, the Copper group direction for development utilising conventional technologies is expanding and extending the life of its properties with brownfield which has yet to incorporate a recently discovered higher grade development, and pursuing a strong pipeline of greenfield projects to zone of mineralisation.
Drilling will continue in 2011 to confirm create a growth profile.
the extent of the new mineralisation.
Rio Tintos focus on sustainable development allows it to create stable operating platforms that take into consideration the long Kennecott Eagle Minerals Rio Tinto: 100 per cent term needs of the surrounding environment and the community.
Construction of the US$469 million Eagle nickel and copper mine As a result, the company can manage risk effectively, reduce in Michigan, US began in 2010, with first production expected in environmental impacts, operate efficiently, and attract and retain late 2013.
The mine is expected to produce on average 17,300 and high calibre employees.
13,200 tonnes per year of nickel and copper metal, respectively, over six years.
High quality sulphide nickel concentrates will These factors, combined with strong technological capabilities, increasingly be in short supply, and Eagle is one of the most help differentiate Rio Tintos Copper group from its competitors attractive greenfield projects in the nickel industry pipeline.
Eagle and contribute to the goal of being the undisputed sector leader is located in a prospective region where Rio Tinto has significant in creating value for its shareholders.
land holdings and mineral rights.
