Iron Ore Record performance, operational efficiency and robust outlook Following a decade of dramatic expansion, we are well positioned to supply rising global iron ore demand through further capacity increases.
We will continue to drive performance through leadership in project delivery and operational excellence.
Sam Walsh, chief executive, Iron Ore and Australia Iron Ore overview a Contribution to Group operating cash flow US$ million Underlying earnings contribution 2008 2010 2008 6,017 2,920 Prices and exchange Inflation 22 Volume 694 Costs 352 5 Tax and other 2009 4,126 68% Prices and exchange 5,611 79 Inflation Volume 658 Costs 262 Tax and other 135 10,189 2010 0 r The employment of more than 900 Aboriginal people in Western Operating highlights Australia through targeted recruitment and retention strategies.
2010 2009 US$ million US$ million r Resuming expansion programme at Iron Ore Company of Canada IOC.
Revenue 24,024 12,598 r Opening the US$503 million Yurralyi Maya power station Rio Tinto share US$397 million, providing more environmentally efficient Operating cash flow 15,915 7,389 power to support Pilbara operations and communities.
a Underlying earnings 10,189 4,126 Capital expenditure 1,716 2,148 Key priorities r Maintaining production and sales at nameplate capacity.
Net operating assets 11,628 11,263 r Advancing technological integration into the groups operations Strategy through Mine of the Future initiatives.
r Continue to build the Pilbara operations as the leading iron ore r Further improving the product groups safety record towards supplier close to the worlds largest, fastest growing markets.
r Focus on implementing a major expansion programme while r Emphasis on operational efficiency, removal of bottlenecks maintaining maximum production.
r Continue to develop and benefit from technology innovation to r Progress studies of total system capacity to 333 million tonnes deliver supply chain efficiencies, maximising margins per tonne.
per year in 2015. r Continued emphasis on brownfield developments, to leverage Key achievements an unrivalled network of assets close to existing infrastructure.
r Record global iron ore production of 239 million tonnes r Advance new project development options outside of the Pilbara.
Rio Tinto share 184.6 million tonnes, a ten per cent increase on 2009 global production.
Outlook r Full ramp up of the Operations Centre in Perth, including transition r Market to remain tight for the short to medium term, with delays of ports and new mines.
to new supply and strong demand driving prices.
r Opening of Brockman 4, Mesa A and Western Turner Syncline mines.
r The Iron Ore groups strategy and performance will continue to be Subsequent decision to expand Brockman 4 to 40 Mt a capacity driven by the rapid urbanisation and industrialisation in China, and and Western Turner Syncline to 15 Mt a. the steady recovery in other major Asian markets.
r Approval to develop the US$1.6 billion Hope Downs 4 mine r India is expected to continue emerging as a major market as it follows and linking rail spur Rio Tinto share US$1.2 billion.
The group also remains confident in the r Improving on an already sector leading safety record, in the context longer term potential for other markets of South East Asia, Central of high production levels and the complexities of expansion.
Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
a See note 2 and the Financial information by business unit section of the 2010 financial statements for a reconciliation of underlying earnings to net earnings.
58 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Underlying earnings were US$6,063 higher than 2009 as the Strategy result of strong revenue growth and a continued focus on The Iron Ore group seeks to maximise shareholder return from cost control.
Cash flow optimisation, increased equipment its global assets, through establishing a global supply chain able productivity, reduction in process variability through to deliver high grade iron ore to established and emerging markets standardisation and improvement in people intensity have all worldwide.
contributed to effective cost control strategies.
We will continue our focus on operational and financial efficiency, Sales volumes from the Pilbara region of Western Australia set a but our growth phase adds a new perspective.
Of critical importance new record in 2010 at 223 million tonnes 100 per cent basis, will be executing our capacity expansions in the Pilbara and an increase of nine per cent compared to 2009.
Shipments to Canada, and progressing major development opportunities all major markets, other than China, increased as financial at Simandou, Guinea and Orissa, India.
conditions improved earlier than expected.
Following the joint decision to end plans for an iron ore 2010 was also notable for the end of the traditional annually production joint venture with BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto is well priced iron ore supply contracts in favour of shorter term pricing.
positioned to maximise its leading role in the Pilbara, with Rio Tinto maintained its position of providing a range of options superior expansion options and a strong record of project to customers, being able to supply ore under whichever pricing execution.
Strategy will focus on increasing Pilbara capacity by regime best fits within appropriate market dynamics.
over 50 per cent in five years without compromising current At IOC Rio Tinto 58.7 per cent, all pellet lines resumed full operational efficiency.
production and returned to normal concentrate and pellet A number of studies are well advanced to support the major proportions as markets improved.
Total sales were 15.6 million increases in port and rail infrastructure.
A continued emphasis on tonnes, up 9.6 per cent on 2009, and achieved despite significant brownfield developments where possible, exploiting the groups weather related challenges.
unrivalled network of assets close to existing infrastructure, will In December the HIsmelt joint venture partners agreed to permanently improve time-to-market delivery and manage risk.
close the Kwinana site and terminate the joint venture, following Although a number of projects are under study in other regions, two years of care and maintenance.
The closure work is expected a high priority has been attached to the early development of the to be substantially completed by 2014.
The technology business Simandou project in Guinea.
Key aspects of the legal status of the Rio Tinto share 100 per cent continues and a number of licensing project are still to be clarified, and management worked closely opportunities are progressing.
with the Government of Guinea throughout the year to progress Key achievements this aim.
A historic binding agreement was signed with Chalco in July, paving the way for joint development of the Simandou The ramp up of production levels was the standout achievement of the year, with nameplate capacity met and in many cases deposit.
Following the Guinean elections in late 2010, chief exceeded from month to month.
This was particularly commendable executive Tom Albanese visited Conakry for further talks with given the widespread surge in industrial and economic activity the new administration.
To date more than US$700 million has throughout Western Australias resources sector, which might been spent in Guinea on exploration, environmental, community have otherwise imposed delays and cost pressures.
As a result, operating margins remained robust.
Value was preserved Rio Tinto, as the second largest provider of seaborne iron ore, through close focus on elimination of unnecessary cost and tight seeks to deliver its products across world markets.
As a reliable control over manageable overheads.
source of large volumes to agreed specification, Rio Tinto can capitalise on superior supply chain logistics to deliver a consistent Another achievement was the maintenance of business discipline product such as the Pilbara Blend drawn from 11 of our 14 mines throughout a year in which the proposed production joint venture in the Pilbara.
with BHP Billiton remained a high priority.
This discipline positioned the group well once the proposed joint venture was abandoned.
Rio Tinto is not committed to a specific pricing structure, instead seeking to obtain the best price across its suite of products, one As in previous years, technology and innovation was further recognising high value in use while respecting longstanding embedded in enhanced operations.
A number of key initiatives customer relationships.
were implemented during the year, many under the pioneering Mine of the Future vision.
Performance 2010 saw the full ramp up of the Operations Centre in Perth.
More Rio Tintos global iron ore business achieved record performance than 400 employees are now remotely managing most key Pilbara in 2010, demonstrating not only the recovery of all major markets operations, or planning future initiatives, up to 1,500km away.
from the impact of the global financial crisis, but also the capacity A number of other innovation projects continued, such as the of the group to benefit from its position as a leading supplier commencement of tele-remote shiploading in Dampier and the in the seaborne iron ore market.
Production was maintained at continued successful trialling and deployment of driverless trucks above nameplate capacity levels through most of the year, leading and automated drilling and blasting at West Angelas mine.
Coinciding with the ramp up has been the greater deployment As in 2009, the group implemented and refined measures to of Aboriginal workers in the group.
The number of Aboriginal reduce expenditure as markets slowly recovered.
workers and class-A contractors exceeded 900, and a number Sales revenue of the Iron Ore group was US$24,024 million in of apprenticeship and training programmes have been targeted 2010, US$11,426 million higher than in 2009 mainly due to directly at attracting and retaining these employees.
improved prices and higher volumes of ore sales.
Embedding Aboriginal businesses within the organisations www.
com 59 Iron Ore continued continued across the group.
Rio Tinto was a key participant in a operations and projects is a priority.
More than A$200 million landmark commercial biodiesel venture by the Ashburton Aboriginal in contracts were awarded to Aboriginal businesses during 2010.
Corporation, under which up to 7,000 litres of waste cooking oil is Safety provided for biofuel, to be used for blasting at the Tom Price mine.
There has again been a significant improvement in safety Energy efficient devices continue to be introduced to housing and performance for the Iron Ore group in 2010, with the all buildings on sites and in towns.
Research into electricity generation, injury frequency rate AIFR dropping to 0.71, an 11 per cent hybrid engines and alternative fuels continue through the Mine of the improvement on 2009.
In addition to the reduction in air travel implied, the Operations Centre incorporates a range of innovative energy saving Two operations were recognised in the Chief Executive Safety designs purpose built to reduce its environmental footprint.
Awards: Marandoo mine a Most Improved Site award and the Coastal Operation Division a commendation for its strong safety At IOCs Labrador City plant, projects to reduce fuel and steam culture.
The Safety Leadership Development Programme continued production costs resulted in a number of efficiencies which are to be implemented across iron ore sites in Western Australia.
estimated to produce GHG savings of 2,200 to 3,600 tonnes annually.
The second stage of a project to reduce fuel oil required Highlighting a greater focus on general health within the safety to fire pellets was completed on three machines, producing strategy, a Fatigue Management Programme, a pilot Wellness estimated GHG savings of approximately 5,000 tonnes annually.
Programme, and programmes focusing on mental health and medical surveillance began.
Review of operations Further improving the safety record, while undertaking Australias Production performance throughout 2010 was the groups key largest ever mining project, will be a key challenge.
With this in achievement, emphasising the quality of Rio Tintos suite of mind, the Contractor Forum initiative continued throughout 2010 assets and its array of efficient logistics systems.
and a Contractor Safety Leadership Development Programme was Ian Bauert, previously managing director, Sales and Marketing, initiated in Western Australia.
was appointed Rio Tintos managing director, China, as part of the IOCs performance was marred by a tragic accident in March.
rebuilding of close relations with that country.
The improvement Two maintenance workers at the Labrador City site fell from of ties was highlighted by the hosting of a number of high profile height, resulting in fatal injuries to one of the men, while the events at the Shanghai World Expo, where the Australian pavillion other eventually recovered fully and was able to return to work.
was sponsored by Rio Tinto.
Comprehensive studies resulted in a change action plan, which A number of new mines were completed in 2010.
In February has been fully implemented.
the US$1 billion Mesa A mine Rio Tinto share 53 per cent was opened, ramping up through the year to reach its 25 million tonne Greenhouse gas emissions annual capacity in late 2010.
The Western Turner Syncline mine The Iron Ore groups total greenhouse gas GHG emissions was constructed through 2010.
In September, the US$1.5 billion intensity has improved 4.7 per cent from 2008.
Brockman 4 mine Rio Tinto share 100 per cent was opened, supplying 22 million tonnes a year into the Pilbaras production Progress continued on the replacement of ageing power and slated to expand to at least 40 million tonnes a year.
infrastructure in the Pilbara, with a new generation plant, Yurralyi Maya, near Dampier progressively commissioned in the second half In August Rio Tinto approved a US$1.6 billion investment of 2010.
The implementation of the cleaner technology is expected Rio Tinto share US$1.2 billion in Hope Downs 4 mine.
The mine to produce 25 per cent less GHG emissions at the same production is expected to have a 15 million tonnes a year capacity, to sustain level compared with the existing steam power generation.
The current Pilbara capacity, with first ore expected in 2013. option of retrofitting combined cycle equipment has been kept Two incremental expansions increasing capacity at our two open to further reduce GHG emissions and improve efficiency.
Dampier Port terminals by five million tonnes each were Another technological improvement occurred with the integration approved, for a total investment of US$321 million Rio Tinto of 51 Evolution Series diesel electric locomotives into the 100 per cent.
Both are now well into implementation, with Pilbara railway fleet, replacing less efficient locomotives.
completion scheduled for early 2011 and early 2012.
A number of localised innovative projects to reduce GHG emissions In April Rio Tinto confirmed it was discussing pricing of annual All injury frequency rate Iron Ore greenhouse gas emissions intensity Per 200,000 hours worked Indexed relative to 2008 1.27 100.0 95.3 0.71 95.3 88.6 80.4 0.98 2009: 0.80 2009: 88.6 75.1 0.91 0.80 0.71 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 60 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information During 2010 Rio Tinto Marine managed 155 million tonnes of supply contracts on a quarterly basis, following a significant shift in market expectations towards shorter term pricing.
Rio Tinto has seaborne cargo.
Freight participation is largely within the dry bulk pursued a flexible portfolio approach providing a range of options market, managing seaborne transportation of iron ore, coal, salt, to customers.
Rio Tinto recognises that the market dynamics will bauxite, alumina and other minor bulk products.
Rio Tinto Marine remain fluid given underlying cyclical, structural and domestic owns a fleet of five post-panamax vessels, used principally for the industry regulatory policy changes.
transportation of bauxite sourced from Rio Tinto Alcans mine at Weipa, Queensland.
These purpose built ships deliver volume and The taxation debate in Australia prompted a delay in the roll out efficiency advantages on niche trade routes, guaranteeing supply of Rio Tintos ambitious expansion programme, as greater clarity and eliminating freight cost variability.
and assurances were sought and ultimately received from the Commonwealth Government as to the regime under which major Rio Tinto Marine secures the majority of its freight coverage through expansions would occur.
It leverages the Groups substantial cargo base to obtain a low cost mix of short, medium and long term In June the Australian Competition Tribunal decided not to declare Rio Tintos principal railway line in the Pilbara the Hamersley line freight cover.
It seeks to create value by improving the competitive mandated open for third party access.
The Tribunal also decided that position of the Groups products through freight optimisation.
the Robe River line should be declared open for access, but only Development projects until 2018, rather than for 20 years as the applicants wished.
Both decisions are subject to appeal.
Rio Tinto has outlined the largest expansion programme in Australias mining history, to achieve production and shipping A landmark agreement was reached with the Western Australian annual capacity of 333 million tonnes in 2015.
The expansion Government during the year to revise state agreements and will more than double capacity at the Cape Lambert port facility royalty arrangements.
The agreement will allow greater flexibility Rio Tinto share 53 per cent to 183 million tonnes.
in the use of infrastructure and assets.
Rio Tinto agreed to pay royalties of 5.625 per cent on fine product from all mines There were a series of major announcements in 2010 related formerly 3.75 per cent on several mines and to continue paying to the expansion of the Pilbara rail and port infrastructure to 7.5 per cent on lump product.
Rio Tinto also agreed to fund 283 million tonnes a year.
Feasibility studies into further expansion 50 per cent of a one-off, combined payment of A$350 million, to 333 million tonnes per year are well under way.
The scale of the to the State Governments Consolidated Revenue Fund.
expansion programme in the Pilbara is vast, with a total capital expenditure estimate of US$14.8 billion Rio Tinto share Agreements with five Pilbara native title groups were signed in US$12 billion to increase annual capacity to 333 million tonnes.
This is a major achievement in securing current and future access, as well as active Traditional Owners support.
In July and August Rio Tinto announced a US$990 million investment Rio Tinto share US$649 million, for the letting of Minerals dredging contracts and the procurement of long lead items Good weather for salt growth in a number of countries and a associated with the groups growth programme.
Dredging was sluggish recovery in relevant global markets in 2010 led to a approved and began in December.
A further investment of weakening of salt prices and reduced underlying earnings of US$3.1 billion Rio Tinto share US$2.1 billion was approved to US$29 million, down from US$88 million in 2009.
Salt production increase infrastructure annual capacity to 283 million tonnes continued at less than capacity and similar to 2009 at 7.6 million in 2013.
Approval was also given for a final feasibility study for tonnes Rio Tinto share 5.2 million tonnes.
Shipping increased by the second 50 million tonne tranche taking Pilbara capacity to 0.6 million tonnes to 8.3 million tonnes, as stock built up during 333 million tonnes a year, scheduled for completion in late 2015. the global financial crisis was sold.
As part of diversifying risk, customers and new contracts were established outside of the Demonstrating the fundamental change in global markets, Rio Tinto traditional Asian markets, in Europe, Africa and North America.
announced the resumption of IOCs expansion to 22 million tonnes a year capacity, the first stage of a programme to boost Continuation of the Sustainable Health and Safety programme capacity to 26 million tonnes a year.
within the business contributed to the Groups improved focus on general health and safety performance.
Work commenced on Outlook replacement of the main seawall and seawater intake structure at We believe market conditions will remain tight as delays to new Dampier, as part of the continuing structural integrity programme.
supply and strong demand continue to drive prices.
Marine Urbanisation and industrialisation have supported a phenomenal Rio Tinto Marine provides Rio Tinto with comprehensive growth in Chinas steel demand over the past decade.
We believe capabilities in all aspects of marine transportation, global freight this will continue.
The fundamentals underlying Chinas growing markets and the international regulatory environment.
The demand will remain robust, driving this demand into the next Marine group consists of approximately 75 shipping professionals, decade.
India is expected to follow Chinas lead, and increased located principally in Melbourne, Singapore, London and Montreal.
controls on its export capacity and early signs of increased steel Identifying and executing seaborne freight solutions allows intensity suggest its emergence as a major market will continue.
Rio Tinto to participate in all aspects of the supply chain, while The group remains confident in the longer term potential for exerting greater influence on vessel selection, operational safety, other markets of South East Asia, Central Asia, the Middle East scheduling, port efficiency and cost management.
and Africa where urbanisation is relatively low but increasing.
Rio Tinto Marine sets and maintains the groups HSE and vessel Just as the earliest indications of demand were met with assurance standards for freight, with continuous improvement Rio Tintos counter-cyclical investment in capacity a decade ago, efforts undertaken to instil a high standard of health, safety and the group will accordingly seek to expand its production capacity environmental performance aboard vessels under management and by almost 50 per cent in the next five years.
As one of three equal shareholders in RightShip, a ship vetting specialist, Rio Tinto helps to promote maritime industry safety and efficiency.
