our group at a glance Ashtead Group provides equipment that lifts, powers, generates, moves, digs, supports, scrubs, pumps, directs, ventilates whatever the job needs.
of stores A-Plant 1,900 Employees 162m Revenues The second largest 2m equipment rental Profits company with 105 stores throughout England, 0.7% Scotland and Wales Return on investment what we do We rent equipment on flexible terms so that our customers Our stores are located where they are most required and can focus on what they do best rather than maintaining we guarantee our service.
Whether customers need a small and servicing equipment they may use only periodically.
hand held tool or the largest aerial work platform, our staff We make sure the equipment is there when it needs to be are there, able and willing, to help our customers ensure the and is ready to work immediately and efficiently.
Facilitating Providing an fit-out and on-site hire depot ongoing and contractors maintenance for village for a office blocks.
On-site tool hire and maintenance for new residential construction site.
Replacing worn out sewage infrastructure.
Designing and Advising on implementing health and traffic safety aspects management of equipment in systems.
use at new sports stadium.
of stores Sunbelt 5, 300 Employees $ 1,081m Revenues The second largest $1 17m equipment rental Profits business in the US with 393 stores in 5.
9% 35 US states Return on investment Return on investment is defined as underlying operating profit divided by the weighted average cost of capital employed shareholders funds plus net debt and net tax liabilities, minus plus the pension fund surplus deficit and less other financial assets derivatives.
Equipment types Customer base A broad range of construction and industrial equipment Construction industry, facilities management, disaster relief including earth moving equipment, aerial work platforms, agencies, sport and music event organisers, governments, high reach forklifts and other materials handling units, local authorities, homeowners.
smaller tools, pumps, power generation, portable site accommodation, scaffolding, formwork and falsework, Renting and temporary traffic management equipment.
generators, powered access equipment, lighting and temporary accommodation units for an outdoor music festival.
Providing equipment for facilities management at new shopping centre complex.
Designing, erecting and dismantling scaffolding systems.
Drying out and cleaning up after a flash flood Tracking our at an industrial equipment for warehouse.
customers using mobile tracking systems.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
