Chris Cole Non-executive directors Non-executive chairman Aged 63, Chris Cole has been a director since January 2002 and was 6.
Hugh Etheridge appointed as non-executive chairman in March 2007.
Chris is chairman Senior independent non-executive director Aged 60, Hugh Etheridge has been a director, chairman of the Audit of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Finance and Administration Committee.
He is chief executive of WSP Group plc.
Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees since January 2004.
Hugh was appointed as senior independent non-executive director in March 2007.
He is chief financial officer of Executive directors the Waste and Resources Action Programme WRAP, a non-profit organisation established by the UK Government to promote sustainable 2.
Before joining WRAP, he was finance director of Chief executive Waste Recycling Group plc and prior to that, of Matthew Clark plc.
Aged 50, Geoff Drabble was appointed as chief executive in January 2007, having served as chief executive designate from October 2006 7.
Gary Iceton and as a non-executive director since April 2005.
Geoff was previously Independent non-executive director an executive director of The Laird Group PLC where he was responsible Aged 60, Gary Iceton was appointed as a non-executive director and for its Building Products division.
Prior to joining The Laird Group, he held a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees effective from a number of senior management positions at Black & Decker.
Gary also became chairman of the Remuneration chairman of the Finance and Administration Committee and a member Committee in March 2007.
Until 2000 he was a director of St Ives plc of the Nomination Committee.
and chairman and chief executive of its Books Division.
More recently, he was chairman of Jarrold Limited and, prior to that, chief executive officer 3.
With effect from April 2008 he has also been a director Finance director of Norfolk Education Industry & Commerce Group Limited.
Having Aged 51, Ian Robson has been finance director since June 2000.
Prior completed two full terms as a non-executive director, Gary will be to June 2000, Ian held a series of senior financial positions at Reuters standing down from the Board at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Before joining Reuters Group plc, he was a partner at Price Waterhouse now  LLP.
Michael Burrow of the Finance and Administration Committee.
Independent non-executive director Aged 57, Michael Burrow was appointed as a non-executive director 4.
Joe Phelan and member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees President and chief executive officer, Sunbelt effective from March 2007.
Michael was formerly managing director Aged 53, Joe Phelan was appointed a director in April 2009.
Joe was of the Investment Banking Group of Lehman Brothers Europe Limited.
formerly the chief executive officer of DHL Global Mail based in Weston, Florida and was also a member of Deutsche Posts executive committee.
Bruce Edwards Prior to joining DHL in 2004, he held a number of senior executive Independent non-executive director positions with American Airlines.
Joe is an American citizen and lives Aged 55, Bruce Edwards was appointed as a non-executive director in in Charlotte, North Carolina.
June 2007 and a member of the Nomination Committee effective from February 2009.
Bruce is the global chief executive officer for Exel 5.
Sat Dhaiwal Supply Chain at Deutsche Post World Net, and a member of its board Chief executive officer, A-Plant of management.
He joined DPWN following its acquisition of Exel PLC in Aged 41, Sat Dhaiwal has been chief executive officer of A-Plant and a December 2005.
Prior to the acquisition, he was a director of Exel PLC and director since March 2002.
Sat was managing director of A-Plant East, chief executive of its Americas businesses.
Bruce is also a non-executive one of A-Plants four operational regions, from May 1998 to March 2002. director of Greif Inc, a NYSE-listed packaging and container manufacturer.
Before that he was an A-Plant trading director from 1995 and, prior to He is an American citizen and lives in Columbus, Ohio.
1995, managed one of A-Plants stores.
Details of the directors contracts, emoluments and share interests can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Key: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Finance and Administration Committee Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
