business and financial review continued our strategy We are confident that the actions we have taken over the last two years make us amongst the best positioned of our peer group to benefit when the cycle turns.
Geo ff Drabble Ashteads core objectives are to be a leader in the global equipment rental for both organic growth from winning market share from less wellbusiness and deliver good returns for our investors.
We aim to build strong positioned competitors and positioning ourselves to be able to fund relationships with our customers through efficiently delivering the services acquisitive growth if suitably attractive, well-priced opportunities arise.
Our strategy centres around maintaining flexibility through In addition to economic cycles, our business is also subject to significant efficient management of an inherently cyclical business, differentiating our fluctuations in performance from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonal service offering across market sectors to avoid undue exposure to any one effects.
Commercial construction activity tends to increase in the summer area, achieving operational excellence through our business model and the and during extended periods of mild weather and to decrease in the exceptional commitment of our staff and on delivering an average return winter and during extended periods of inclement weather.
Furthermore, on investment across the economic cycle well ahead of our cost of capital.
due to the incidence of public holidays in the US and the UK, there are In good market conditions we achieve our objectives by generating strong more billing days in the first half of our financial year than the second organic growth combined with selective growth through acquisition if half leading to our revenue normally being higher in the first half.
On profitable opportunities arise, as well as delivering high levels of customer a quarterly basis, the second quarter is typically our strongest quarter, satisfaction.
In weaker markets, we cease growth investment and utilise followed by the first and then the third and fourth quarters.
We manage our cash flow to manage debt levels and thereby keep our capital structure the business to accommodate this natural seasonal cycle.
solid through all parts of the cycle.
We carefully monitor a number of key performance indicators which we track over time.
Details of these can be Differentiating our service and fleet found on pages 18 and 19.
As discussed on page 16, our differentiation of service and fleet means Our strategy is summarised in the actions opposite.
that we are able to work in many different sectors and as such are less exposed to a downturn in any one of them.
While private non-residential Our strategy is designed also to manage risk.
A full review of the risks construction activity continues to be subdued, major infrastructure and which influence our business decisions can be found on pages 23 to 25. government projects are continuing and we are benefiting from these.
It will take a sustained return to GDP growth before growth returns to Managing the cycle the private non-residential construction market but a consequence of the We describe ourselves as being a late cycle business in that our main end rapid slowdown in the US is the large number of projects that are ready market, non-residential construction, is usually one of the last parts of the to recommence as soon as developers and financiers gain the necessary economy to be affected by a change in economic conditions.
This means confidence to resume development.
Meanwhile, the flexibility of our that we have a good degree of visibility on when we are likely to be equipment offering means we are actively involved in numerous affected, as the signs will have been visible in other parts of the economy government and infrastructure projects where activity levels are for some time.
We are therefore able to plan accordingly and to react in being sustained deliberately.
Our customers range in size and scale from multinational businesses, We have outlined on pages 12 and 13 the actions we take at each stage through strong local contractors to individual do-it-yourselfers.
In the UK, of the economic cycle.
On pages 10 and 11, we describe how careful we have focused in recent years on building deeper relationships with our balance sheet and fleet management fit within our cyclical strategy.
larger customers, with the top 150 customers comprising 53% of A-Plants We are confident that the actions we have taken over the last two years 2009 10 revenue whilst in the US our managed accounts comprised 20% make us amongst the best positioned of our peer group to benefit when of Sunbelts 2009 10 revenue.
Key to the execution of our strategy is the planning we have undertaken to capitalise on the opportunities presented by the cycle 15 our strategy Planning ahead Managing Careful balance sheet management the cycle: Adapting our fleet and cash position Taking advantage of opportunities Diversified customer base Differentiating Wide variety of applications our service Broad fleet mix and fleet: Nationwide networks in the US and UK Ensuring Long-term partnerships with leading equipment manufacturers Focused service-driven approach operational Strong customer relationships excellence: ISO accreditation Industry-leading application of technology Highly skilled team empowered to operate in a devolved structure Investing in Maintaining significant levels of experience our people: Strong focus on recruitment, training and incentivisation Effective management and monitoring of our fleet investment Maximising Optimisation of utilisation rates and returns our return on Flexibility in local pricing structures investment: Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 business and financial review continued our strategy Broad range of fleet Broad range of fleet Fleet composition Fleet composition Diversified customer base Fleet composition Sunbelt Sunbelt A-Plant Sunbelt A-PlantSunbelt A-Plant A-Plant Sunbelt A-Plant Sunbelt A-Plant Broad range of fleet Fleet composition 13% 13% 32% 10% 32% 10% 17% 17% 22% 22% Commercial construction Commercial construction Aerial work platforms Aerial work platforms Sunbelt Sunbelt A-Plant 14% A-Plant 14% 6% 6% Government and institutional Government and institutional Forklifts Forklifts 6% 6% 4% 4% Industrial, manufacturing Industrial, manufacturing Earth moving Earth moving 10% 10% 9% 9% 11% 11% 7% 7% and agriculture and agriculture Accommodation 5% Accommodation 5% Infrastructure Infrastructure Pump and power Pump and power Broad range of fleet Fleet composition 5% 5% 10% 10% 18% 18% 36% 13% 36% 32% 17% 22% 10% Non-construction services Commer Non-construction services cial construction Acrow Aerial work platf Acrow orms 5% 5% 13% 13% 9% 9% 14% Sunbelt Sunbelt A-Plant A-Plant 6% Residential construction Residential construction Traffic management Traffic management Government and institutional Forklifts 11% 11% 50% 50% 15% 9% 9%6% 15% 28% 28% 5% 5% 2% 2% 18% 18% Small contractor Small contractor Scaffold Scaffold 4% Industrial, manufacturing Earth moving 10% Speciality trade contractors Speciality trade contractors Other Other 9% 11% 7% and agriculture Accommodation 5% 13% 32% 10% 17% 22% Infrastructure Pump and power Commercial construction Aerial work platforms 5% 10% 18% 36% 14% 6% Non-construction services Acrow Government and institutional Forklifts 5% 13% 9% 6% 4% Residential construction Traffic management Industrial, manufacturing Earth moving 11% 50% 10% 9% 15% 9% 5% 11% 28% 18% 2% 7% Small contractor Scaffold and agriculture Accommodation 5% Speciality trade contractors Other Infrastructure Pump and power 5% 10% 18% 36% Non-construction services Acrow 5% 13% 9% Residential construction Traffic management 11% 50% 15% 9% 28% 5% 2% 18% Small contractor Scaffold ThSpeciality tr e Groups div ade contr ersified cactor ustomer s base includes construction, industrial A Other cross our rental fleet, we generally seek to carry equipment from one and homeowner customers, as well as government entities and specialist or two suppliers in each product range and to limit the number of model contractors and is analysed by Standard Industry Classification in the types of each product.
We believe that having a standardised fleet charts above.
results in lower costs because we obtain greater discounts by purchasing in bulk and reduce maintenance costs through more focused, and Our fleet composition is broadly similar to that of our peers.
However, we therefore reduced training requirements for our workshop staff.
We are differentiate our business by emphasising smaller equipment types which also able to share spare parts between stores which helps to minimise we believe offer the potential for higher returns.
It is the needs of our the risk of over-stocking and to easily transfer fleet between locations customers and overall demand that drive the composition of our equipment which helps us achieve leading levels of fleet utilisation.
fleet, with the size, age and mix of our equipment rental fleet driven by We purchase equipment from vendors with strong reputations for the needs of our diversified customer base.
The equipment we provide to product quality and reliability and maintain close relationships with each customer is equally diverse and we are often involved in supplying these vendors to ensure good after-purchase service and support.
various types of different equipment over an extended period at each However, we believe we have sufficient alternative sources of supply distinct stage of a projects development.
for the equipment we purchase in each product category.
We also aim to offer a full service solution for our customers.
Our The breadth of our fleet mix supports our ability to service not only the rental opportunities that exist in new-build construction, but also in a product range includes specialist equipment types such as pump and power, scaffolding and traffic management systems, which involve wide range of other applications including industrial, events, repair and maintenance and facilities management.
We also continue to develop providing service expertise as well as equipment.
Our focused and dedicated approach to equipment rental improves our portfolio of larger national and regional accounts, utilising the scale and geographical footprint of our network.
the effectiveness of our sales force by encouraging them to build and reinforce relationships with customers and to concentrate on strong, Over the past year the investment we have made in our fleet has been whole-life returns from our rental fleet, rather than on short-term for replacement rather than growth.
returns from sales of equipment.
Our large and experienced sales force works closely with our customers to ensure we meet their needs.
Ensuring operational excellence Our sales staff are equipped with real-time access to fleet availability and pricing information through their iPhones, enabling them to Our operating model is key to the way we deliver operational excellence and encompasses the following elements: respond rapidly to changing dynamics in these critical areas.
We guarantee our service standards in both our businesses and In the US we achieve scale through a clustered market approach voluntarily accept financial penalties if we fail to meet our commitments of grouping general tool and specialist rental locations in each of our to our customers.
We believe that our focus on customer service and developed markets.
Sunbelt has rental operations in 43 major cities the guarantees we offer help distinguish our businesses from competitors including Washington DC, Dallas, Houston, Charlotte, Atlanta, Orlando and assist us in delivering superior financial returns.
We have worked and Seattle.
This approach allows us to provide a comprehensive with a lot of our customers for many years.
Our experience is that we product offering and convenient service to our customers wherever gain a large amount of repeat business.
their job sites may be within these markets.
Our local management teams are experienced and incentivised to In the smaller geography of the UK, our strategy is focused on having produce superior financial returns and high quality standards.
sufficient stores to allow us to offer a full range of equipment on a nationwide basis.
We have invested heavily in recent years in migrating our network towards fewer, larger locations which are able to address all the needs of our customers in their respective markets.
17 Reducing staff turnover R Impr eturn on in oved staf five f stment ahead of cost of capital across the cycle retention Sunbelt A-Plant % % %% % 35 20 35 35 15 25 25 25 10 15 15 15 5 5 5 5 0 05 06 06 07 07 08 08 09 09 10 05 6 06 707 8 08 909 10 05 6 06 707 8 08 909 10 Sunbelt A-Plant We invest heavily in our computerised point of sale and service systems through our commission plans which are based on sales volume and as well as the software and online capabilities required to deliver a broad measure of return on investment determined by reference efficient service as well as high returns.
We capture and record the time to equipment type and discount level.
of delivery and the customers signature electronically, allowing us to We flex our incentive plans to reflect the stage of the cycle in which systematically monitor and report on on-time deliveries.
We also use we operate which we believe has been an important element in retaining electronic tracking systems to monitor and secure the location and the confidence of our workforce through the recent difficult times.
Maximising our return on investment Investing in our people One of the key performance indicators we use to monitor our businesses On page 45 we discuss the importance of our staff and corporate culture.
at all levels is return on investment RoI.
For the Group as a whole our We aim to recruit good people and then invest in them throughout their objective is always to ensure that, averaged across the economic cycle, careers.
For example, A-Plants three year apprenticeship scheme is the we deliver RoI well ahead of our cost of capital.
In the past two years largest in the rental industry and is always heavily oversubscribed.
the recession has adversely impacted our returns as shown by the In general, the rental industry suffers from high staff turnover, particularly chart above.
within certain job categories such as mechanics and delivery truck drivers, As and when cyclical recovery becomes established, we expect to see with turnover being particularly high within the first year of employment.
strong recovery in our RoI and we continue to believe that, averaged We have made generally good progress in improving our staff retention through the cycle, our business model can offer attractive rates of return in recent years as shown in the staff turnover chart above.
well ahead of our cost of capital.
Both Sunbelt and A-Plant have extensive programmes in place to The Group maximises its RoI through encouraging effective management ensure the: of invested capital by: recruitment of appropriate personnel to fulfil any vacancies caused maintaining a concentration of higher-return often specialised by promotion or turnover: equipment within the overall rental equipment fleet: ongoing training and development of employees at all levels throughout promoting the transfer of equipment to locations where maximum the organisation: utilisation rates and returns can be obtained: alignment of our employees with the Companys objectives, particularly monitoring the amount of invested capital at each of our stores: and in relation to customer service: and empowering regional and local managers to adapt pricing policies in appraisal, review and reward of our employees.
response to local demand in order to maximise the overall return These processes are subject to periodic review and development especially achieved from the investment in our rental fleet.
in response to changing business needs and market conditions.
We motivate and reward our people through a combination of competitive fixed pay and attractive incentive programmes which drive our profits and return on investment.
Our sales force is also incentivised Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Apr 04 Jul 04 Oct 04 Jan 05 Apr 05 Jul 05 Oct 05 Jan 06 Apr 06 Jul 06 Oct 06 Jan 07 Apr 07 Jul 07 Oct 07 Jan 08 Apr 08 Jul 08 Oct 08 Jan 09 Apr 09 Jul 09 Oct 09 Jan 10 Apr 10
