directors report The directors present their report and the audited accounts for the Transfer of shares financial year ended 30 April 2010.
Certified shares i A s hare transfer form cannot be used to transfer more than one class of share.
Each class needs a separate form.
Principal activities The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment holding ii Transfers may be in favour of more than four joint holders, but the and management company.
The principal activity of the Group is the directors can refuse to register such a transfer.
rental of equipment to industrial and commercial users mainly in the iii The share transfer form must be delivered to the registered office, non-residential construction sectors of the US and the UK.
or any other place decided on by the directors.
The transfer form must be accompanied by the share certificate relating to the shares being Trading results and dividends transferred, unless the transfer is being made by a person to whom The Groups consolidated profit before taxation for the year was the Company was not required to, and did not send, a certificate.
A review of the Groups performance and future The directors can also ask acting reasonably for any other evidence development, including the principal risks and uncertainties facing the to show that the person wishing to transfer the shares is entitled Group, is given in the Business and Financial Review on pages 23 to 25 to do so.
and in note 23 to the financial statements.
These disclosures form part CREST shares of this report.
The Company paid an interim dividend of 0.9p per ordinary i Registration of CREST shares can be refused in the circumstances share in February and the directors recommend the payment of a final set out in the Uncertified Securities Regulations.
dividend of 2.0p per ordinary share, to be paid on 10 September 2010 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 August ii Transfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint holders.
2010, making a total dividend for the year of 2.9p 2009: 2.575p.
Based on notifications received the holdings of 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company as at 15 June 2010 the latest practicable Share capital and major shareholders date before approval of the financial statements are as follows: Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 19 to the % financial statements.
Aegon Asset Management 11 Aviva plc 7 Voting rights Subject to the Articles of Association, every member who is present Artemis Investment Management 5 in person at a general meeting shall have one vote and on a poll every Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5 member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote BlackRock, Inc. 4 for every share of which he or she is the holder.
The Trustees of the Legal & General 4 Employee Share Ownership Trust ordinarily follow the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers and do not exercise their right Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary share capital and to vote at general meetings.
in options over that share capital are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 43.
Details of all shares subject to option are given Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, in the notes to the financial statements on page 67. who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporate member may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting as a corporate representative.
The deadline for the exercise of voting rights is as stated in the notice of the relevant meeting.
35 Change of control provisions in loan Policy on payment of suppliers Suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual payment terms agreed agreements with each of them.
The number of Group creditor days at 30 April 2010 A change in control of the Company defined, inter alia, as a person or a was 88 days 30 April 2009: 53 days which reflects the terms agreed with group of persons acting in concert gaining control of more than 30% of individual suppliers.
There were no trade creditors in the Companys the Companys voting rights leads to an immediate event of default under balance sheet at any time during the past two years.
the Companys asset-based senior lending facility.
In such circumstances, the agent for the lending group may, and if so directed by more than 50% of the lenders shall, declare the amounts outstanding under the facility Political and charitable donations immediately due and payable.
Charitable donations in the year amounted to 138,991 in total 2009: 55,329.
No political donations were made in either year.
Such a change of control also leads to an obligation, within 30 days of the change in control, for the Group to make an offer to the holders of the Groups senior secured notes to redeem them at 101% of their combined Auditors face value of $800m.
Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office and in accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution concerning its reappointment and authorising the directors to fix its Directors and directors insurance remuneration, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the directors of the Company are given on pages 32 and 33.
The policies related to their appointment and replacement are detailed on pages 36 and 37.
Each of the directors as at the date of approval of this Annual General Meeting report confirms, as required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.00pm on Tuesday, that to the best of their knowledge and belief: 7 September 2010.
Notice of the meeting is set out in the document accompanying this Report and Accounts.
1 there is no significant information known to the director relevant to the audit, of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and In addition to the adoption of the 2009 10 Report and Accounts, the declaration of a final dividend, resolutions dealing with the appointment 2 each director has taken reasonable steps to make himself aware of such and re-election of directors and the resolution dealing with the approval information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of it.
of the Directors Remuneration Report, there are seven other matters The Company has maintained insurance throughout the year to cover all which will be considered at the Annual General Meeting.
These relate directors against liabilities in relation to the Company and its subsidiary to the reappointment and remuneration of Deloitte LLP as auditors, the undertakings.
ability for the directors to unconditionally allot shares up to approximately two-thirds of the Companys share capital, the disapplication of pre-emption rights in relation to the previous resolution, empowering the Company to buy back up to 15% of its issued share capital, amendments to the Companys Articles of Association and the ability to call a meeting other than a general meeting on not less than 14 days clear notice.
The majority of these resolutions update for a further year similar resolutions approved by shareholders in previous years.
By order of the Board Eric Watkins Company Secretary 16 June 2010 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
