on the move around the UK... Scotland Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC 16 Going further: for our futures Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 The Company is focused on finding ways to minimise its requirement for energy, transport, water, packaging and waste to landfill.
Dairies give good VIBES Two of Wisemans dairies Bellshill and East Kilbride went head to head as finalists in the Vision in Business for the Environment of Scotland VIBES awards in November 2009.
On this occasion, Bellshill Dairy won over the judges, with the site management team commended for substantially reducing waste, electricity consumption and fuel use during a period when production at the site had actually increased by 14%.
The judges noted that a culture of continuous improvement is embedded within the company and its short and long-term objectives for the site should enable them to continue to be a strong leader in the field of sustainable business in Scotland.
Waste, electricity consumption and fuel use reduced despite a 14% increase in production.
14% Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC Going further: for our futures 17 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Going further... for our futures Our sustainablility targets for 2015.
Wiseman is setting itself stretching sustainability targets which will underpin the companys drive for higher levels of efficiency.
Using 2009 10 performance as a benchmark, 2015 targets include: 30% 25% 15% Gas: 30% Water: 25% Transport: 15% group reduction group reduction fuel use reduction 25% 100% Electricity: 25% Waste: 100% group reduction diversion from landfill Robert Wiseman Dairies believes that there is Major initiatives focused on reducing the use of water, a powerful link between better environmental packaging and waste to landfill have proved successful.
performance, and improvements in efficiency Now, the company has set stretching targets for and profitability.
2015, using performance in the 2009 10 financial For this reason, the Company is focused on finding year as a benchmark.
ways to minimise its requirement for energy, Going forward, progress against the targets will transport, water, packaging and waste to landfill.
be reported within our annual report each year.
Modern, state of the art dairies like our Green In addition, the Company will shortly publish its and White dairy at Bridgwater have been located sustainability strategy containing the details behind close to milk fields, but on major arterial road links our three priority themes: Greenhouse Gases, to population centres, minimising miles travelled Waste and Natural Resources.
by tankers and refrigerated vehicles.
on the move around the UK... South West England Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC 18 Going further: in the community Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Going further... in the community Robert Wiseman Dairies is part of local communities all over the UK as a supplier of fresh milk and as a major employer.
With that comes a responsibility to wherever possible, Over and above this, the Company has again get involved with local communities particularly where committed itself to raising awareness for a range we have dairies and distribution centres.
of charity concerns including the MS Society, Guide Dogs, the Stroke Association, Marie Curie Cancer To facilitate this, the Company has established Wiseman Care and the Beatson Pebble Appeal through a in the Community to ensure that community activity charity month on pack promotion.
is relevant in each locale and focused on delivering against a number of guiding themes.
And Wiseman has also backed participative sport and leisure for families by sponsoring the freshnlo For example, wherever possible, Wiseman in the Pedal for Scotland event, which attracted a record Community activity will benefit families and children, 7,000 riders to take part in a 51 miles cycle from promote good health, involve our customers and Glasgow to Edinburgh in September.
Our SHOCK brand has also played a central role More than 400 staff got involved in Wiseman in in the revival of street football in Scotland.
the Community activities during the year, raising in excess of 60,000 for Wisemans charity partner, A partnership between Wiseman and the Scottish Help the Hospices.
Football Association during the year saw thousands of young people between the ages of 10 and 18 The Company ran its 13th annual Robert Wiseman years, benefiting from free Street Football Sessions Dairies Neighbourhood Shop of the Year programme, delivered by SFA coaches around Wisemans dairy which recognises the quality and excellence of and depot sites in North Lanarkshire, South hundreds of convenience stores throughout the UK.
This years award was won by Spar in Pelynt, Cornwall, a convenience store which has been run by generations of the Boxall family for over 80 years.
The store was credited by independent judges for going the extra mile for their customers and the community they serve.
7,000 people participated in the 2009 freshnlo Pedal for Scotland cycle.
Wherever possible, Wiseman in the Community activity will benefit families and children, promote good health, involve our customers and create a tangible, visible result.
Wiseman in the Community: Cornwall bike ride As part of Wisemans partnership with Help the Hospices, Pensilva depot adopted St Lukes Hospice and the Childrens Hospice South West Precious Lives Appeal as their chosen local hospices.
To kick start the relationship they organised a 30 mile cycle ride, starting at our site in Pensilva and finishing at our Okehampton site.
Over 30 staff from Wiseman sites across the south west completed the challenging route and raised over 850 for the two local appeals.
All those who took part thoroughly enjoyed the event which is set to become an annual fundraising event in the area.
60,000 raised for Help the Hospices in 2009 10.
Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC Going further: in the community 19 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
