Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC 34 Business Review: Board of Directors Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 1: Alan Wiseman 59 Chairman Alan has been with the business for his entire working life.
Under his leadership Wiseman has An undertaken a major programme of acquisitions and organic growth.
He has overall responsibility for the strategic development of the Group.
2: Robert Wiseman 55 experienced Chief Executive Robert joined the business in 1975.
He worked closely with Alan in the expansion of the business, becoming Managing Director in 1985 and was appointed Chief Executive on 16 May 2005.
Board He has responsibility for all operational matters within the Group.
He was awarded Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year 2003.
3 2 1 Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC Business Review: Board of Directors 35 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 3: William Keane 54 5: Martyn Mulcahy 53 8: Ernest J Finch MBE Bsc 63 Group Finance Director Group Operations Director Non-executive Director William is an Associate Member of the Chartered Martyn joined the business in December 1994 Ernie joined the Company in September 1999 Institute of Management Accountants and joined and has been involved in the dairy industry for and was previously group executive of retail Wiseman on 1 January 1994.
He has received a most of his working life.
Martyn has been a director operations and systems with Marks and Spencer Special Achievement Award in the Scottish Finance of the operating company, Robert Wiseman & Sons plc.
He is currently a non-executive director of Director of the Year competition and was Chairman Limited, since October 1995 and is responsible CAFCASS and MEND and holds posts as a commercial of the Group of Scottish Finance Directors in 2001. for the Groups operational activities including adviser in both the public and private sectors.
all environmental, production and distribution 4: David Dobbins 51 9: Jack s Perry CBE, Bsc, CA 55 related matters.
Group Commercial Director Non-executive Director 6: Norman L Murray BA CA FRsA 62 David joined the business in May 1982 and has been Jack joined the Company on 1 March 2010 and was Non-executive Director involved in the milk industry for his entire working life.
previously Chief Executive of Scottish Enterprise until Norman joined the Company in September He has been a director of the operating company, retiring from that post on 3 November 2009.
2003 and is the Senior Independent Director.
Robert Wiseman & Sons Limited, since March 1989 He has also been Managing Partner of Ernst & Young He is currently Chairman of Cairn Energy PLC and is responsible for the Groups commercial activities in Glasgow and Regional Industry Leader for Consumer and a Non-executive Director of Greene King including employee matters, sales & marketing, Products.
He is a former chairman of CBI Scotland and plc.
He is a past President of the Institute of commodity trading bulk cream, health and safety a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
7: Andrew Dare CBE 68 Non-executive Director Andrew joined the Company in October 2000 and was previously Chief Executive of Milk Marque.
He holds several other private company directorships.
