Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC 6 Business Review: Industry Overview Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 What is happening in the dairy sector and what does it mean for Wisemans?
A debate on structural changes in the UK dairy industry.
However, standing back and looking at the broader After much corporate adjustment the processing When one takes a trends provides a different perspective.
Since fideindustry is today also highly concentrated: three players regulation the British dairy industry change has account for c88% of the market ACC, Express and snapshot of an industry, been quite immense albeit reasonably foreseeable Unigate are no more.
Change has led to rationalisation in many respects: change to the structure of farming, and concentration of output and we believe the better year-on-year, sometimes the European context, the organisation of processing balance between market demand and supply: quite and the composition of the retail trade.
critical to the industrys performance and prospects.
one does not see the Indeed, we contend that rarely has this balance been Wisemans foresight and focus is a commendable so level, allowing for improved operating profit per feature of the business to our minds.
That focus is magnitude of change litre and returns from the dairies.
epitomised by its single minded determination to deliver a strong and consistent customer service: In this respect there are reasonable grounds to expect that is taking place.
servicing amongst the most sophisticated and stability in the next two to three years.
However, could demanding retail customers in the world.
Wiseman there be some opportunities and pressures change backs up its approach with sustained investment and ahead If Arla builds a new 1bn litre super-dairy, innovation in its product, process and distribution in South-East England then there may be ripples in capability: again business strategies that result in the market while Dairy Crest has indicated its intention market share leadership.
Consider this as a measure to compete through a 75m investment programme of business success and change: in 1994 Wiseman in its largely southern dairies, although there is no had a c2% share of the liquid milk market in Britain.
We will naturally also In early 2010 the companys share has risen to c30%.
watch with interest to see if Wiseman seeks to further It is our expectation that Wiseman will continue to increase its production capabilities to service the south remain focused, innovative and committed to its & east of England: we do foresee medium-term customers.
That way we believe Wiseman looks opportunity in this area.
after its suppliers, employees and investors.
The liquid milk market Dairy production and processing in the UK Trends in the British milk market appear reasonably Many of the challenges and opportunities that faced well set.
So, the British continue to stand apart from the industry on deregulation, a time when I worked most markets in still being major consumers of milk for the Northern Milk Partnership evolving into Arlas as a drink: circa 45% of milk produced is consumed as key supplier, came to pass.
So, the whole industry fresh liquid milk.
Per capita consumption patterns are is more efficient and farmers that supply the liquid expected to remain flat circa 85 litres capita, with the market, the leading edge of the industry, receive the dynamics therein also stable.
This assertion makes for highest price for their milk see price table.
With the British population expected the noise about the vices of the multiple retailers, the to rise from the c61m at present to about 70m over facts speak for themselves: those farmers supplying the next 20 years, milk consumption should actually Clive Black Ph.
D them make the best returns.
We foresee the trends see some growth.
However, the big shifts in behaviour in farming over the last two decades continuing with within the category, away from full fat milk to lower further concentration of production, although whether fat varieties may have happened.
If this is the case Who is: Clive Black purported 8,000 unit feed stocks will be viable or the scope for more precise milk planning may enable Dr Clive Black is head of research at Shore Capital Stockbrokers.
acceptable remains to be seen.
further efficiency in production and balancing.
Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC Business Review: Industry Overview 7 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Perhaps the more substantial changes in the nature Structural change in the British food retail sector The context for dairy farmers of the industry will come in the form of delivery to is now to a great extent in the hands of the OFT and customers.
We question the medium-term viability of the Competition Commission CC : as is the liquid and processors supplying the doorstep proposition, although we do commend milk processing industry to a degree big change.
competitor attempts to sustain household activities, Concentration levels are high, with the Big Four, this market is probably as e. g. Dairy Crests milk&more programme.
Wiseman as they are known accounting for c76.5% of national remains well positioned for such change with little share.
For the now, their structure is virtually set in favourable as it has been involvement in the doorstep market, and so it should stone: the CC preferring four strong national players.
continue to benefit from transfer gains to the retail We struggle to see new major new entrants targeting channels.
We also point out that on a long-term the capital intensive, highly competitive and low return basis eating out of the home will continue to grow British market.
So, the only way we can see structural as a proportion of calorie intake by the UK consumer.
change is if one of the Big Four becomes distressed, As such, whilst the doorstep market can be expected no such outcome is anticipated in the near term but to contract, elements of the middle ground should The retailers can be expected to remain tough still expand.
However, the context for dairy farmers The form of milk packaging is also likely to be an and processors supplying this market is probably as area of change.
Glass bottles have been replaced favourable as it has been for a long time.
The real by cardboard packs then oil derived poly-bottles.
concern about farmers incomes, as reflected in We see the ebb & flow of retailer interest in bags and reasonably distinctive moves such as price pass-back, jugs: Sainsbury undertaking trials in this area, although and the more political involvement in the supply chain: we believe that Waitrose John Lewis Partnership has e. g. codes of practice and a forthcoming industry ended its experiment.
In the long-run we see oil prices ombudsman, should condition behaviour.
The key rising, being a source of broader food inflation.
For feature of the better conditions though is the balance now, poly-bottles using oil derived ingredients such between supply and demand.
The laws of economics as HDPE, are expected to dominate the superstore have taught us that when this balance changes there channel.
However, economics and increasing pressure are more losers than winners.
The retail trade will be from environmental and regulatory perspectives are watching any change in capacity with interest: we expected to lead to change: 15 years down the line contend that the industry will add capacity carefully, milk packaging may be very different.
so harvesting the benefits of advancements in process & product technology but not at the The distribution channel cost of contracting thin industry return on sales.
If we look at the composition of the British food retail market in 1994 the magnitude of change is also We expect change to continue in the next fifteen dramatic.
Sainsbury, tipped to be a global leader in years, just as the last, but not perhaps at the pace the early 1990s, with a leading market position in the and extent will be more measured compared to north-east of the USA was eclipsed by Tesco.
Other the post-deregulation era as imperfections no fascias trading at that time included Gateway, Kwik longer need to be engineered out.
With facilities Save and Safeway but Gateway through Somerfield like its green & white Bridgwater dairy, Wiseman absorbed and then ejected Kwik Save, the latter quietly is well positioned and we believe it should face the dying: while Somerfield was consumed by the Co-op future with confidence.
and Morrison, eventually, absorbed Safeway.
Market share by volume UK daily milk production m litres UK dairy commodity returns Wisemans 42 3,600 CW S Dairy Crest 40 3,100 MD Foods Unigate 1994 Northern Foods 38 2,600 Others 36 2,100 34 1,600 Wisemans 32 1,100 Dairy Crest Arla Others 2009 Source: Defra and Rural Payments Agency Source: DIN Consultancy 2009 2010 Mature Cheddar 2008 2009 Mild Cheddar 2007 2008 Butter Unsalted 2006 2007 SMP Bulk Cream Source: Dairy Industry Newsletter and Wiseman estimates Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr 06 Jul 06 Oct 06 Jan 07 Apr 07 Jul 07 Oct 07 Jan 08 Apr 08 Jul 08 Oct 08 Jan 09 Apr 09 Jul 09 Oct 09 Jan 10 Apr 10
