The new team ensures strong leadership and a seamless transition.
Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC 26 Business Review: Alan Wiseman Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Alan Wiseman: a remarkable journey He will remain as an employee of the Group to ensure Momentum Robert Wiseman Dairies he is available to provide a smooth transition for the The momentum quickened when Alan led the listing of management team in their new roles and to provide the Company on the London Stock Exchange in 1994, Chairman Alan Wiseman advice and support across a broad range of issues.
providing capital to fund the construction of our dairy in Manchester, and a number of acquisitions including Simple ethos has confirmed he is Kennerty Farm Dairies, CWSs Scottish milk business When Alans father Robert Wiseman Snr founded and Hamiltons Dairies.
Robert Wiseman Dairies in 1947, he couldnt have resigning as a director envisaged that it would grow to the extent that it is The listing also gave Wiseman the opportunity to now supplying 30% of Britains fresh milk, every day.
promote a share owning culture within the Company, of the Company that he resulting in thousands of staff having the opportunity Along the way, much has changed.
But the simple ethos to generate millions of pounds of benefit from share had the vision, drive and instilled by Robert Wiseman Senior in his sons, hasnt.
save, share incentive plans and option schemes.
And these values get involved, get the job done, determination to create, Buoyed by the success of our Manchester dairy and look after your workforce and always give quality of encouraged by major customers who wanted modern, service to customers combined with a work ethic effective from the efficient dairies from which they could source milk, second to none, continue to be at the very core of Alan and Robert put plans in place to take the the companys success.
Annual General Meeting Wiseman model further south.
Whether it was preparing Build it and well fill it!
on July 8, 2010. to float the Company or washing the trucks, Alan Its fair to say that the management team had some doesnt allow anyone to cut corners.
He treats people reservations about the scale of the investment needed how he wishes to be treated himself.
Build it and we will fill it he said.
43 years of achievement Alans career began in 1967, when he joined the So in 2001, the dairy and distribution depot at business straight from school.
Just nine years later he Droitwich Spa was commissioned.
took control of the Company on his fathers retirement.
Droitwich remains the worlds largest fresh milk dairy, Early in his career and with his fathers encouragement, and is capable of processing over 600 million litres per Alan and his brother Robert had the benefit of seeing annum more than 10% of the nations requirement at first hand how milk was increasingly being produced for fresh milk.
in plastic bottles in the US.
Bringing us up to date, the Company under Alans And buying patterns in Scotland had also started to Chairmanship opened Britains Green and White change away from doorsteps to supermarkets following Dairy at Bridgwater in 2007.
Bridgwater is setting a change in regulations which allowed shops to sell the new benchmarks in terms of sustainability and product at a competitive price relative to doorstep efficiency, which the rest of the dairy industry delivery providers.
So following an increase in business from major Its been a remarkable journey and whilst there is still multiples in Scotland Alan took a calculated gamble much to do, Alan can look back with pride at what and the Company invested in a purpose built state-ofhe has achieved as a director and as Chairman at the the-art dairy at Bellshill, which opened in 1989.
Company which bears his fathers name.
This worked well, and two years later Alan drove the business southwards, crossing the border for the first time to open a distribution depot in Manchester.
