on the move around the UK... Wales Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC 24 Going further: to secure our supply Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 In order to ensure optimal efficiencies, Wiseman Milk Group member farms are likely to be close to our dairies.
Wisemans 900th producer Robin Williams is the 900th member of the Wiseman Milk Partnership.
He recently commenced supplying the company with the milk from his 650 acre farm near Mold, North Wales.
I previously supplied my milk to South Caernarfon Creameries which was destined for cheese as well as fresh milk.
As a result I think it was exposed to more volatility.
Therefore the opportunity to move to supplying a liquid-only processor was attractive for me.
The main motivation in joining the Wiseman Milk Group is the long term security of supplying a company that has invested in state of the art dairies, has low borrowing and is ambitious to continue growing.
I have a young family to support so a stable and sustainable return for my milk is my number one priority.
Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC Going further: to secure our supply 25 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Going further... to secure our supply With a substantial increase in the Companys requirement for milk in the last financial year, Wiseman has continued to recruit dairy farmers to join the Wiseman Milk Group.
In the past year alone, the company recruited some In order to ensure optimal efficiencies, Wiseman Milk 187 new members, increasing the number of producers Partnership member farms need to be close to our within the Wiseman Milk Group by some 14%.
dairies, and with the right milk quality to meet our Recruitment has been particularly focused on the exacting requirements, and with the right supply South West of England to meet increased demand profile to meet customer demand throughout the year.
at the Companys Bridgwater dairy.
Independent verification of dairy farmers satisfaction The Wiseman Milk Partnership now numbers 950 with their milk supply contracts was provided in producers, who provide some 60% of the Companys February 2010 by a National Farmers Union study requirement for milk.
Wiseman sources the remainder called What do dairy farmers think about their from farmer owned co-operatives First Milk, Milk Link milk contracts?
Based on interviews with 177 dairy farmers collectively producing 230 million litres of milk, the study concluded that 93% of those sampled were either fairly satisfied or very satisfied with the contract offered by Wiseman, which is designed to offer stability and flexibility.
