Business review sERViCEs Rolls-Royce provides power systems for applications that routinely operate in particularly harsh environments, often with years between intervention.
service activities provide over one half of the Groups revenues, having increased ten per cent compound We work closely over the past ten years.
with customers to align service packages Tony Wood President services Highlights 5,544m service revenues increased by 13 per cent to 5.5 billion Underlying services 76 per cent of the large civil engine fleet now under TotalCare revenue 2010 Osys expands service diagnostic and predictive capabilities Major contracts secured for Tornado, Typhoon and C-130J engines Over 30 marine service centres in operation around the world 350 industrial gas turbines now covered by long-term service contracts Key performance indicators 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Underlying revenue m 3,901 4,265 4,755 4,927 5,544 Underlying services as a percentage of Group revenue 53% 55% 52% 49% 51% 40 rolls-royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review energy We secured further long-term service agreements which, together with the additional 38 new gas turbine units that became operational during 2010, mean the number of gas turbines under long-term service agreements is approaching 350.
Additionally, a number of long-term service agreements were renewed, the most significant being with Total in the North sea supporting 14 gas turbine packages on two platforms for a period of ten years.
We continue to develop the service infrastructure to support the growth of the Rolls-Royce fleet in China, india, Brazil, Malaysia and Russia, along with extending the global footprint of the business with expanding operations in West Africa and Central Asia.
2010 also saw the 20-year anniversary of the Rolls Wood Group repair and overhaul joint venture.
The Rolls Wood joint venture continues to maintain its position as the major supplier of repair and overhaul services for Rolls-Royce industrial gas turbine engines.
The scope of the joint Global services venture was expanded in the year with the official opening of a facility in service opportunities have increased in the marine business Malaysia in partnership with OTEC.
as a result of the increased level of equipment in operation.
Marine As the original equipment manufacturer, Rolls-Royce is best placed to service opportunities have continued to increase in marine as a result of provide mission critical support, long-term product care and well the large number of vessels with Rolls-Royce equipment installed, now planned maintenance on behalf of customers in each of the markets we totalling over 30,000 vessels worldwide.
As this installed base of serve.
The Groups service capabilities include field maintenance and equipment continues to grow, we are actively expanding our support support services, the provision of replacement parts, equipment capacity and capability and now have over 30 dedicated marine service overhaul services, component repair, data management, equipment centres serving customers across North and south America, Africa, leasing and inventory management.
These are typically packaged Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Oceania.
Marine customers seek to together and sold as long-term support agreements such as our have their ships serviced close to where they primarily operate, and we TotalCare suite.
We work closely with customers to align each service continued our expansion by adding around 200 service engineers package to their operational needs, helping to maximise the availability globally.
We continue to expand our service capabilities and in 2010 we and efficient operation of the equipment on their behalf.
completed more than 50 successful underwater intervention repair services which enabled major propulsion overhauls to be completed Civil aerospace without the need for time consuming dry docking.
We have 76 per cent of the large engine fleet and 92 per cent of the in-service Trent fleet now managed under TotalCare.
We also have 900 Future corporate and business jet aircraft enrolled in CorporateCare, the The Group invested over 26 million this year in developing and equivalent offering for this market sector.
in 2010, operational planning restructuring our wholly-owned gas turbine repair and overhaul has been further enhanced across the Trent family of engines with the network, which will deliver significant improvements in operational adoption of sophisticated proactive engine life management policies.
2010 also saw the celebration of These combine our technical knowledge with the service data on each ten years of Rolls-Royce ownership of the Oakland repair and overhaul individual engine to enable each customer to manage their whole fleet facility in the Us.
Our component repair business continues to grow rapidly and delivered Our network of On-Wing Care facilities supported over 3,500 events 150 million in benefit across all sectors in 2010. globally in 25 different countries.
Asset optimisation service development has advanced strongly, led by Defence aerospace the Optimized systems and solutions inc. Osys business.
Osys has We continued to develop MissionCare provision worldwide and service expanded our in-service diagnostic, risk management and predictive presence on military bases.
A long-term service agreement was signed capabilities.
Through Osys, we continue to advance the health with lockheed Martin to support the Canadian Air Force fleet of C-130J monitoring services and capabilities already applied successfully to military transport aircraft.
New contracts were also signed with the UK aircraft engines and energy systems with more than 8,900 assets Ministry of Defence to increase the scope of support for the frontline being monitored.
Tornado and Typhoon fighter aircraft operations.
in 2010, Rolls-Royce completed 500,000 flight hours of MissionCare support for the Adour engines that power the Us Navys T-45 training aircraft.
41 rolls-royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review
