BUSINESS REVIEw DELIVERIng gLOBAL sOLUTIOns MARINE We have some 650 Rolls-Royce designed and equipped vessels operating in the offshore oil and gas sector.
Our strengths in this sector have enabled us to broaden our reach into the merchant and coastal vessel market areas.
We have a significant presence in the naval market powering 70 navies worldwide.
US NAVY ORDER The US Navy confirmed at the beginning of 2011 that an order 2,500 was being placed for the design Marine customers and construction of ten Littoral Combat Ships incorporating the Rolls-Royce MT30 gas turbine.
This is a breakthrough order for the Group.
The Lockheed Martin 30,000 designed ship operates in the Vessels with Rolls-Royce close coastal or littoral waters.
equipment worldwide 1 16 6 Rolls-Ro Rolls-Roy yc ce Gr e Group plc oup plc Annual r Annual repor eport 2010 t 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review BUSINESS REVIEw Growing capability turbine, the MT30, and MAIN IMAGE Our acquisition of the most powerful and servicing of an ODIM ASA in 2010 efficient waterjet in azimuth thruster.
brought technology the world through our and complex handling kamewa product range.
"systems enabling us to address better the subsea Marine servicing "" ODIM has been a leading and seismic sectors A feature of the marine supplier of automated in offshore."
It is the business which reflects handling systems for the technology that that of aerospace, is the seismic industry for many Rolls-Royce provides long life-cycle of the years and also has that will allow exploration equipment in service.
"expertise in the and production of oil and Ships can be in service subsea and offshore gas to move into ever for up to 40 years and supply sectors. """
the ability to provide comprehensive support Alf Gunnar Skogen Project Manager Naval power for complex systems is Deck Machinery seismic In the naval sector we critical for our customers and subsea have the worlds most and is a core strength of powerful marine gas Rolls-Royce.
EXPANDING OUR PRESENCE IN THE MERCHANT VESSEL MARKET We see growth in coastal and short-sea shipping, 80-90% with feeder vessels that World trade by sea take parcels of cargo to smaller ports.
Our energy efficient and Us$140bn more environmentally Addressable market friendly technologies opportunity over will be increasingly 20 years attractive here.
Per Egil Vedlog chief Designer Merchant WAVE-PIERCING VESSEL In 2010, the first order for the new Rolls-Royce design of wave-piercing offshore vessel was secured from operator, Farstad Shipping.
The new vessel is designed for efficiency, safety and comfort and has a visually striking bow shape which enables the ship to pierce waves in extreme weather conditions while maintaining a constant speed.
1 17 7 Rolls-Ro Rolls-Roy yc ce Gr e Group plc oup plc Annual r Annual repor eport 2010 t 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review
