Business review MArKET OUTlOOK The Group operates in four long-term global have very high barriers to entry: markets civil and defence aerospace, marine offer the opportunity for organic growth: and energy.
These markets create a total feature extraordinarily long programme lives, usually measured in decades: opportunity worth in excess of US$2 trillion can only be addressed through significant investments in technology, over the next 20 years and: infrastructure and capability: and create a significant opportunity for extended customer relationships with revenues from aftermarket services similar in size to original equipment revenues.
The size of these markets is generally related to world Gross Domestic Product GDP growth, or in the case of the defence markets, global security and the scale of defence budgets.
civil aerospace affecting demand include GDP growth, aircraft productivity, operating The Group produces a 20-year global market outlook, which covers costs, environmental issues and the number of aircraft retirements.
While passenger and cargo jets, corporate and regional aircraft.
We predict that, the market can be temporarily disrupted by external events, such as war, over the next 20 years 137,000 engines, worth over US$800 billion, will acts of terrorism, or economic downturns, it has, in the past, always be required for more than 63,000 commercial aircraft and business jets.
returned to its long-term growth trend.
In addition to the demand for The forecast predicts faster growth rates for long-haul markets and those engines, the Group forecasts a market opportunity worth US$600 billion markets to, from and within Asia.
These markets will continue to benefit for the provision of product-related aftermarket services.
from more liberal air service agreements, which boost demand.
Factors defence aerospace sectors, programme lives are long and there is a significant opportunity The Group forecasts that demand for military engines will be worth to support equipment with aftermarket services, estimated at US$270 US$160 billion over the next 20 years.
This outlook was moderated, billion over the same period.
Customers budget constraints and their slightly based on US and European budget pressures.
The largest single need to increase the value they derive from their assets have accelerated market is expected to be the US, followed by Europe and the Far East.
the move in this direction.
Within Asia, demand will be dominated by Japan, South Korea and India.
Trends are driven by the scale of defence budgets and geopolitical developments around the world.
As in the Groups other business marine Merchant and offshore markets are rarely at the same stage of the business The Group forecasts a demand for marine power and propulsion systems cycle, which helps to reduce overall volatility.
Whilst naval markets are driven valued at US$215 billion over the next 20 years.
Demand will be greatest in by different considerations, customers are similarly seeking to get more from the commercial sector, where the shipping of raw materials, finished their budgets, leading to increasing demand for integrated systems and goods and people, in addition to oil and gas exploration and production through-life support arrangements.
As in the Groups other markets, marine activity, play crucial roles in the world economy.
These activities require aftermarket services are expected to generate significant opportunities, with large fleets of specialised and increasingly sophisticated ships, which have demand forecasted at US$125 billion over the next 20 years.
to be continually renewed and supported to remain operationally efficient.
energy The Groups 20-year forecast values the total aero-derivative gas turbine The International Energy Agency has forecast that over the next 20 years, sales in the oil and gas and power generation sectors at more than the worldwide demand for oil will grow by more than 18 per cent, for US$70 billion.
Over this period, demand for associated aftermarket gas by 44 per cent and for energy by more than 30 per cent.
To satisfy services is expected to be around US$50 billion.
While the oil and gas this demand, there will be a growing requirement for aero-derivative gas market is large and growing, demand for aero-derivative gas turbines in turbines in various applications.
the power generation segment is twice that of oil and gas.
Note: A long-term conversion rate has been used where necessary in order to present all figures in US$.
20 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 financial statements governance Business review Business review We predict that over the next 20 years 137,000 engines, worth over US$800 billion, will be required for more US$800bn than 63,000 commercial aircraft and business jets.
The Group forecasts a market opportunity worth US$600 billion for the provision of product-related US$600bn aftermarket services.
The Group forecasts that demand for military engines US$160bn will be worth US$160 billion over the next 20 years.
We have an opportunity to support equipment with US$270bn aftermarket services estimated at US$270 billion.
The Group forecasts a demand for marine power US$215bn and propulsion systems valued at US$215 billion over the next 20 years.
Marine aftermarket services are expected to US$125bn generate significant opportunities, with demand forecasted at US$125 billion over the next 20 years.
The Groups 20-year forecast values the total US$70bn aero-derivative gas turbine sales in the oil and gas and power generation sectors at more than US$70 billion.
Demand for associated aftermarket services is US$50bn expected to be around US$50 billion.
21 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 financial statements governance Business review
