governance OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Political donations The Group has entered into a series of financial instruments to hedge In line with its established policy, the Group made no political donations its currency, interest rate and commodity exposures.
These contracts pursuant to the authority granted at the 2010 AGM.
Although the provide for termination or alteration in the event that a change of Company does not make, and does not intend to make, donations to control of the Company materially weakens the creditworthiness of political parties, within the normal meaning of that expression, the the Group.
definition of political donations under the Companies Act 2006 is very broad and includes expenses legitimately incurred as part of the process Employee share plans of talking to members of parliament and opinion formers to ensure that In the event of a change of control of the Company, the effect on the the issues and concerns of the Group are considered and addressed.
employee share plans would be as follows: These activities are not intended to support any political party and the Executive Share Option Plan All options granted have vested and Groups policy is not to make any donations for political purposes in the are exercisable.
Consequently, no early vesting is currently possible.
This Plan has now expired and no further options can be granted: Performance Share Plan Awards would vest pro rata to service in the A resolution will therefore be proposed at the 2011 AGM seeking performance period, subject to remuneration committee judgement shareholder approval for the directors to be given authority to make of Company performance: donations and incur expenditure which might otherwise be caught by Annual Performance Related Award deferred shares The shares the terms of the Companies Act 2006.
The authority sought will be would be released from trust immediately: limited to a maximum amount of 25,000 per Group company but so as ShareSave Options would become exercisable immediately.
The not to exceed 50,000 for the entire Group in aggregate.
new company might offer an equivalent option in exchange for cancellation of the existing option: and During the year, the contribution made by a US subsidiary towards the Share Incentive Plan Consideration received as shares would be running expenses of a political action committee PAC organised by its held within the Plan, if possible, otherwise the consideration would employees was US$ nil 2009: US$24,636.
PACs are a common feature of be treated as a disposal from the Plan.
the US political system and are governed by the Federal Election Campaign Act.
The Rolls-Royce PAC is independent of the Company and Essential commercial relationships independent of any political party.
Its funds are contributed voluntarily Supply chain by employees and the Company cannot affect how they are applied.
Certain suppliers to the Group contribute key components or services, Such contributions do not require authorisation by shareholders under the loss of which could cause disruption to the Groups deliveries.
the Companies Act 2006 and therefore do not count towards the However, none are so vital that their loss would affect the viability of the 25,000 and 50,000 limits for political donations and expenditure for business as a whole.
When dealing with suppliers, the Group is guided which shareholder approval will be sought at the AGM.
by the Supply Chain Relationships in Aerospace SCRIA initiative.
It seeks the best possible terms from suppliers and when entering into binding Change of control purchasing contracts, gives consideration to quality, delivery, price and Contracts and joint venture agreements the terms of payment.
In the event of disputes, efforts are made to There are a number of contracts and joint venture agreements which resolve them quickly.
As the Company is a holding company and does would allow the counterparties to terminate or alter those arrangements not itself trade, it owed no amounts to trade creditors at December 31, in the event of a change of control of the Company.
These arrangements 2010 and therefore the number of creditor days required to be shown are commercially confidential and their disclosure could be seriously in this report to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act prejudicial to the Company.
Borrowings and other financial instruments Customers The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various The increasingly global nature of the business, balanced across the civil lenders.
These facilities generally include provisions which may require aerospace, defence, marine and energy businesses, ensures that the any outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the alteration or termination Group is not overly dependent on any individual customer.
of the facility upon the occurrence of a change of control of the Company.
At December 31, 2010 these facilities were less than 40 per cent drawn.
80 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review
