governance SHAREHOLDERS AND SHARE CAPITAL Share capital and voting rights Share class rights The Company no longer has an authorised share capital having adopted The rights and obligations attaching to the different classes of shares are new articles of association on April 28, 2010.
On December 31, 2010, set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
there were 1,871,779,201 ordinary shares of 20p each, 23,379,971,475 C Shares of 0.1p each and one Special Share of 1 in issue.
The ordinary Ordinary shares shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual report.
They are also entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of Payments to shareholders the Company, to appoint one or more proxies or, if they are corporations, At the AGM on May 6, 2011 the directors will recommend an issue of 96 corporate representatives, and to exercise voting rights.
They have the C Shares with a total nominal value of 9.6 pence for each ordinary share.
right to ask questions at the AGM relating to the business of the meeting Together with the interim issue on January 5, 2011 of 64 C Shares for and for these to be answered, unless such answer would interfere each ordinary share with a total nominal value of 6.4 pence, this is the unduly with the business of the meeting, involve the disclosure of equivalent of a total annual payment to ordinary shareholders of 16 confidential information, if the answer has already been published on pence for each ordinary share.
the Companys website or if it is not in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Holders Communication with shareholders of ordinary shares may receive a bonus issue of C Shares or a dividend The Company attaches importance to the effectiveness of its and on liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
It publishes an Annual report which is available on the Groups website.
There are also separate reports Holders of not less than five per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of covering the environment and community relations.
The Company the Company may requisition a general meeting of the Company.
maintains a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and the Members who represent at least five per cent of the total voting rights of financial community.
This includes presentations of the preliminary and all the members who have a right to vote at the meeting or at least 100 interim results, regular meetings with major shareholders, participation members who can vote and hold shares paid up on average, per member, in stockbrokers seminars and site visits.
as to at least 100, can require the Company to include a matter other than a proposed resolution at an AGM unless it is defamatory, frivolous or Each year the Company holds an investors seminar in order to improve vexatious.
Alternatively, such members may require the Company to the financial communitys understanding of the Group and to introduce circulate a statement of not more than 1,000 words with respect to a investors to a broader range of management.
All shareholders can gain matter referred to in a proposed resolution or other business to be dealt access to these and other presentations, as well as to the Annual report with at a general meeting.
The members do not have to meet the costs of and other information about the Group, on the Groups website at circulating the statement provided a valid request is received before the www.
end of the financial year preceding the meeting.
Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which the C Shares Company highlights key business developments during the year and at Since January 2009, the Company has issued non-cumulative which shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions.
The chairmen redeemable preference shares C Shares as an alternative to paying a of the audit, nominations, remuneration, ethics and risk committees cash dividend.
Shareholders can choose to: are available to answer any questions from shareholders on the work of redeem all C Shares for cash: their committees.
redeem all C Shares for cash and reinvest the proceeds in additional ordinary shares using the C Share Reinvestment Plan operated by The Company confirms that it sends the AGM notice and relevant Computershare Investor Services PLC the Registrar : or documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the keep the C Shares.
For those shareholders who have elected to receive communications electronically, notice is given by email of the availability Any C Shares retained attract a dividend of 75 per cent of LIBOR on the of documents on the Groups website.
Responsibility for maintaining 0.1p nominal value of each share, paid on a twice-yearly basis, and have regular communications with shareholders rests with the executive limited voting rights.
The Company has the option to compulsorily management team led by the Chief Executive.
However, the Board is redeem the C Shares, at any time, if the aggregate number of C Shares in informed on a regular basis of key shareholder issues, including share issue is less than ten per cent of the aggregate number of all C Shares price performance, the composition of the shareholder register and issued, or on the acquisition or capital restructuring of the Company.
Independent research is commissioned annually into institutional shareholder perceptions of the Group.
The Chairman, On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of C Shares shall be the Senior Independent Director and the non-executive directors make entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares, to themselves available to meet with shareholders as required.
the repayment of the nominal capital paid-up or credited as paid-up on 78 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review governance the C Shares held by them, together with a sum equal to the authorities are valid until the AGM in 2011 and the directors propose to outstanding preferential dividend which will have been accrued but not renew these authorities at that AGM.
been paid until the date of return of capital.
In line with revised guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers in The holders of C Shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at a November 2009, it is proposed to seek a further authority at the AGM in General meeting only if a resolution to wind up the Company is to be 2011 to allot up to two-thirds of the total issued share capital, but only in considered, in which case they may vote only on such resolution.
the case of a rights issue.
This is called the Second Section 551 amount.
The Board believes that this additional authority will allow the Company to Special Share retain the maximum possible flexibility consistent with evolving market Certain rights attach to the special rights non-voting share Special practice to respond to circumstances and opportunities as they arise.
Share issued to HM Government Special Shareholder.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Treasury Solicitor may redeem At the AGM in 2010, authority was given to the directors to allot new the Special Share at par at any time.
The Special Share confers no rights C Shares up to a nominal value of 350 million as an alternative to to dividends but in the event of a winding-up it shall be repaid at its a cash dividend.
Such authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM in nominal value in priority to any other shares.
The directors propose to renew this authority at the AGM in 2011. those relating to the foreign shareholding limit, disposals and the nationality of directors that relate to the rights attached to the Special Authority to purchase own shares Share may only be altered with the consent of the Special Shareholder.
At the AGM in 2010, the Company was authorised by shareholders to The Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or purchase up to 185,411,177 of its own ordinary shares representing ten any other meeting of any class of shareholders.
per cent of its issued ordinary share capital as at February 10, 2010.
The Company did not make use of this authority during 2010.
The authority Restrictions on transfer of shares and limitations on holdings for the Company to purchase its own shares expires at the conclusion of There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the the AGM in 2011 or 15 months from April 28, 2010 whichever is the ordinary shares or C Shares other than under the Articles of Association earlier.
A resolution to renew it will be proposed at that meeting.
as described below, under restrictions imposed by law or regulation for example, insider trading laws or pursuant to the Companys share voting rights dealing code.
The Articles of Association provide that the Company Deadlines for exercising voting rights should be and remain under United Kingdom control.
As such, an Electronic and paper proxy appointment and voting instructions must individual foreign shareholding limit is set at 15 per cent of the be received by the Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before a aggregate votes attaching to the share capital of all classes taken as general meeting.
a whole and capable of being cast on a poll and to all other shares that the directors determine are to be included in the calculation of Voting rights for employee share plan shares such holding.
Shares are held in various employee benefit trusts for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the various employee share plans.
For Shareholder agreements and consent requirements shares held in a nominee capacity or if plan trust rules provide the There are no known arrangements under which financial rights carried participant with the right to vote in respect of specifically allocated by any of the shares in the Company are held by a person other than the shares, the trustee votes in line with the participants instructions.
For holder of the shares and no known agreements between the holders of shares that are not held absolutely on behalf of specific individuals, the shares with restrictions on the transfer of shares or exercise of voting general policy of the trustees, in accordance with investor protection rights.
No disposal may be made to a non-Group member which, alone guidelines, is to abstain from voting in respect of those shares.
or when aggregated with the same or a connected transaction, constitutes a disposal of the whole or a material part of either the Major shareholdings nuclear business or the assets of the Group as a whole, without consent At February 9, 2011, the following companies had notified an interest in of the Special Shareholder.
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Authority to issue shares At the AGM in 2010, authority was given to the directors to allot new % of issued ordinary share ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 123,607,451, equivalent to Company Date notified capital one-third of the issued share capital of the Company as at February 10, AXA S. A. January 11, 2010 4.90 2010.
In addition, a special resolution was passed to effect a BlackRock Inc. September 3, 2010 5.02 disapplication of pre-emption rights for a maximum of five per cent of Invesco Limited February 4, 2008 6.91 the issued share capital of the Company as at February 10, 2010.
These Legal & General Group plc October 14, 2009 3.96 79 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review
