BUSINESS REVIEw DELIVERIng gLOBAL sOLUTIOns ENERGY We are a well-established supplier of power for the energy sector.
Rolls-Royce is one of the leading providers of gas turbines for onshore and offshore applications.
The group has a growing position in the power generation industry where it offers aero-derived gas turbines, reciprocating engines and now, a civil nuclear capability.
TRENT 60 GAS TURBINES IN SERVICE IN MASSACHUSETTS, USA.
The first two Trent 60 industrial gas turbines to be sold in the 58MW US are in operation at Power rating of the Trent 60 Braintree Electric Light gas turbine Departments, Thomas A watson Generating Station.
1 20 Rolls-Royce has energy customers in 120 countries 1 18 8 Rolls-Ro Rolls-Roy yc ce Gr e Group plc oup plc Annual r Annual repor eport 2010 t 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review BUSINESS REVIEw Civil nuclear capability instrumentation and MAIN IMAGE The civil nuclear market controls in Europe, Industrial Trent gas is undergoing worldwide USA and many other turbines in a expansion.
Increasingly, international markets, Middle East gas more countries are including all 58 operating compression plant.
recognising the nuclear power facilities importance of nuclear in in France.
Rolls-Royce has a providing a secure energy significant nuclear skills supply and in addressing Our nuclear capability base, with a large existing global climate change.
covers safety, licensing nuclear certified supply and environmental chain, and supports a Rolls-Royce is able to activities: plant system number of key phases of bring proven expertise in and component design: the nuclear programme.
integrated, long-term manufacture and supply: support solutions and in-service support and Lawrie Haynes President nuclear services throughout the plant-life extension.
The Group currently provides safety-critical POWER BOOST FOR THE INDUSTRIAL RB211 GAS TURBINE The RB211 has a strong reputation in the industrial 650 gas turbine market.
Over sold 650 have been sold to 100 customers in 37 countries for oil and gas applications.
Now the latest version of 37 the engine has been countries introduced, theH63, capable of at least 30 per cent more power and 1 00 delivering better efficiency customers than earlier models.
DEVELOPING A GENERATOR TO CAPTURE ENERGY FROM THE TIDE 500kW Tidal stream generator Our first tidal stream generator was deployed offshore of the Orkney Islands and a major milestone was reached in the development programme when it generated 500kw at full power for the first time.
1 19 9 Rolls-Ro Rolls-Roy yc ce Gr e Group plc oup plc Annual r Annual repor eport 2010 t 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review
