12 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business Review Controls Financial Performance Rotork Controls has Revenue m Operating Profit m made further progress this year reporting 7.0% 8.5% record revenue and 280 80 78.8 operating profit 243.4 Peter France MD Rotork Controls 210 60 140 40 70 20 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Rotork Controls has made further progress US dollar being neutral.
Operating profit this year reporting record revenue and has increased 8.5% to 78.8m with the operating profit, continuing the track operating margin increasing to 32.4%.
record for growth which was maintained throughout the last economic cycle.
Considering the regions, the Far East Positive results were seen across most delivered the highest growth in revenue operating regions, with the UK lower due with our businesses in China, India and to reduced spend in the water industry.
Many Rotork Process Controls had a difficult of the businesses in this region delivered 2009 but has seen an improving market double digit growth but having delivered in 2010.
New products such as the large projects in the prior year, Japan and CVA have benefited this business and Singapore reported lower revenues this we look forward to further progress as year.
China saw the next phases of the more products come on line in 2011.
In transmission pipeline projects which had water, the transition between the AMP4 started in 2009 and made progress in Top: Non-intrusive and AMP5 spending cycles in the UK selling into the water market in greater programming of has delayed order placement here, but quantities using our locally manufactured market-leading IQ spend in other parts of the world has been IQ actuators.
The Chinese power market, valve actuator.
sufficient to offset the lower UK activity.
despite a reduction in the number of new Bottom Left: IQT We continue to look for new markets and power stations being announced in China, actuator, solar power plant, Spain.
develop our products to service these as remained a growth market for us including we become aware of them.
In the year we successes with Chinese contractors on Bottom Right: CVL actuators in oil recovery have been successful in a number of nonexport projects and nuclear power stations.
traditional areas, however the traditional In India, power is our major market and markets of oil & gas, power and water have this drove the revenue growth again continued to be active.
and judging by the build programme announced this year will continue to do so.
Revenue grew 7.0% to 243.4m during In Australia, the focus was on desalination the year and with order intake up 9.1%, plants, an alumina refinery and power the order book increased 1.2%.
at 2009 exchange rates, the revenue increase is 5.1%.
Controls has a greater Within the Americas, Canada and Brazil exposure to currencies other than euro were the best performers although our and US dollar than the other divisions and presence in these two countries is at very bears the most significant element of the different stages of their evolution.
Over the year as a has been an established subsidiary for whole the impact of the weaker euro has many years and this year the growth came been more than offset by the strength from an increase in sales for domestic of the basket of other currencies, with water and waste water projects rather than Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13 supporting Canadian valvemakers on export Since my appointment as Chief Executive, Operating margin projects.
In contrast, our first office in Brazil I have also acted as the Controls Division was established in 2009 to supplement Managing Director.
Now, given the growth the sales effort which in the past had been of this division and the growth of the coordinated from the USA.
Brazil not only Group as a whole, the time is right to 32.4% offers a huge potential oil & gas market but appoint a full-time Managing Director and also presents opportunities in water and for me to focus exclusively on my Group up from other natural resource related markets.
I am therefore pleased to announce that Grant Wood has been appointed In Europe we saw an increase in oil & gas Managing Director of Rotork Controls and expenditure, both in tank storage and in he joins the Rotork Management Board 31.9% transmission pipelines.
Grant joined Rotork in particularly benefited our offices in the 2006 as the director of Rotork Site Service in 2009.
In Spain the RSS following a career in management traditional oil & gas markets were quieter consultancy and the utility industry and has but we were still able to grow revenue with been responsible for driving RSS forward orders in solar power and ships.
IQT actuators, membrane filtration sewage treatment plant, UK.
Business Opportunities Brazil, Russia, India, China and the Middle East Nuclear market Mexico Rotork Process Controls including CVA
