30 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Board of Directors Executive The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, the three independent non-executive directors and the four executive directors.
Peter France p Bob Arnold Chief Executive President of Rotork Controls Inc. Peter 42 joined Rotork in 1989 and in Bob 59, who was appointed to the 2008 was appointed Chief Executive of Rotork p. l. c. Board in 2001, is a Graduate Rotork p. l. c. Prior to that appointment Engineer.
Previously with Westinghouse Peter has had roles within Rotork as Chief in the USA, he joined Rotork Controls Operating Officer, Managing Director of Inc. in 1978 as Engineering Manager Rotork Fluid Systems, Director of Rotorks subsequently becoming Vice President, Singapore Company, with responsibility for Engineering and since 1988 President of South East Asia, and in International Sales.
Rotork Controls Inc. Bob has responsibility for all Rotorks interests in the Americas.
Graham Ogden Jonathan Davis Research & Development Director Finance Director Graham 54 holds a PhD and 1st class Jonathan 44 is a Chartered Accountant honours degree in electronic engineering and joined Rotork in 2002 after holding from Bristol University and has been with a number of finance positions in listed Rotork since 1985.
Jonathan gained experience closely involved in product development of the Rotork business initially as Group including our award winning IQ series.
Financial Controller and then as Finance He was appointed to the Rotork Controls Director of the Rotork Controls Division Divisional board in 1997 as Research & before being appointed Group Finance Development Director and joined the Board Director in April 2010. of Rotork p. l. c. in January 2005.
Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 31 Non-executive Roger Lockwood p Ian King lpt Chairman Non-executive Director Key l Audit Committee Roger 65 has been a non-executive Ian 54 joined the Board in February JE Nicholas Chairman, G Bullard, IG King director of Rotork since joining the Board 2005 as a non-executive director.
He is in 1988 and became non-executive Chief Executive of BAE Systems plc having Chairman in November 1998.
He is held other senior general management p Nomination Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
positions at BAE Systems and previously RC Lockwood Chairman, G Bullard, IG King, JE Nicholas, PI France He is Chairman of Colston Engineering at Marconi.
He is a member of the Audit, Services Limited and Hydro International Remuneration and Nomination Committees t Remuneration Committee plc and has previously held CEO roles in and is the senior independent nonautomotive and engineering businesses.
G Bullard Chairman, IG King, JE Nicholas John Nicholas lpt Gary Bullard lpt Non-executive Director Non-executive Director John 54 was appointed to the Board in Gary 53 joined the Board in June 2010 2008 as a non-executive director.
He was as a non-executive director.
He is the previously Group Finance Director of Tate Founder and CEO of Catquin, a company & Lyle plc and Kidde plc.
He is also a nonwhich supports senior female executives executive director of Mondi plc, Hunting in furthering or diversifying their careers.
plc and Ceres Power Holdings plc and is a He previously held senior management member of the Financial Reporting Review positions, including sales and marketing Panel of the Financial Reporting Council.
roles, at IBM and BT Group plc and was He is Chairman of the Audit Committee a non-executive director of Chloride Group and a member of the Remuneration and plc.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Nomination Committees.
Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
