Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Rotork Management Board The Rotork Management Board RMB is the executive committee of Rotork directors responsible for ensuring the development, implementation and execution of Group strategy.
The RMB meets at least quarterly during the year.
Alex Busby David Littlejohns Grant Wood MD Rotork Fluid Systems MD Rotork Gears MD Rotork Controls Alex 51 joined in 1985 and spent David 42 joined Rotork in 1985 working Grant 44 has been appointed Managing in the engineering design department.
He Director of Rotork Controls and he joins the four years at Rotork.
He then went to a major competitor where he held various moved to the USA in 1996 as an engineer Rotork Management Board in March 2011. management roles in Asia and Europe.
in our plant in Rochester, New York from Grant joined Rotork in 2006 as director On rejoining Rotork in 2003 he became where he moved into a sales role, initially of Rotork Site Service RSS following Business Development Manager, then on the east coast and latterly as Sales a career in management consultancy Manager in California.
In 2006 he returned and the utility industry.
He has been Business Development Director, before taking on the role of Managing Director to the UK as Managing Director of the responsible for driving RSS forward over at Rotork Fluid Systems.
Number of years in industry 26 Number of years in industry 26 Number of years in industry 5 Number of years at Rotork 12 Number of years at Rotork 26 Number of years at Rotork 5 Stephen Jones Alastair Spurr Carlos Elvira Group Legal Director Group Operations Director Group Sales & Marketing Director Stephen 52 joined Rotork in 1999.
Alastair 42 joined Rotork in 2005 as Carlos 54 joined Rotork in 1981 as an Operations Director of the Rotork Controls engineering graduate, becoming our first He is Group Legal Director and Company Secretary.
He is a Solicitor and has Division and is a member of the Rotork Graduate Trainee in International Sales.
held previous positions in industry Management Board.
He is a Chartered He became Middle East and European and private practice.
Engineer and has previously held positions International Area Manager in 1984 and within the engineering, construction and later International Sales Manager in 1989. retail industries.
He has been Sales and Marketing Director since September 1999.
Number of years in industry 23 Number of years in industry 24 Number of years in industry 29 Number of years at Rotork 12 Number of years at Rotork 6 Number of years at Rotork 29 Biographies for the following RMB Peter France Chief Executive Jonathan Davis Finance Director members appear on page 30 Bob Arnold President, Rotork Controls Inc Graham Ogden Group R&D Director
