Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 43 Report of the Directors The directors submit their report which Dividends Notification of Major Interest incorporates the management report in Shares The directors recommend a final dividend required under the Disclosure and of 17,120,000 for the year, payable on 6 Since the 2009 Directors Report the Transparency rules for listed companies May 2011 to shareholders on the register Company has been notified of major and the audited accounts for the year on 8 April 2011.
This represents 19.75p interests and voting rights held directly ended 31 December 2010 as set out on per ordinary share 2009:17.25p.
An and or indirectly by the following: pages 46 to 89.
In compiling this report, additional dividend of 11.5p was paid on the directors have consulted with the 23 July 2010 and an interim dividend for management of the Group.
2010 of 12.75p per ordinary share 2009: % of Voting Rights 11.15p was paid on 24 September 2010.
Principal Activities William Blair Company LLC 4 Rotork p. l. c. is a holding company Share Capital registered no.
The principal Aegon UK Group of Companies 5 Details of the Companys share capital activities of the Rotork Group are the AXA S. A.
5 including rights and obligations attached design, manufacture and support of to each class of share and the ordinary actuators, systems and related shares issued during 2010 are set out in products worldwide.
note 16 of the financial statements.
5p Research & Development ordinary shares represent over 99.9% of The Rotork Group provides a range of Total Group expenditure on research & the Companys total share capital and products, systems and services for the development in the year was 4,319,000 1 preference shares represent less than motorisation and manual operation of 2009: 3,557,000 further details of 0.1% of the Companys total share capital.
and adaption to industrial valves and which are contained in the Business dampers for isolation duty and process Review on page 10.
The Companys Articles of Association control applications.
It does this through its contain customary restrictions on the transfer Controls, Gears and Fluid Systems divisions.
Donations of shares as applicable only in certain limited Actuated valves are major control elements The Company made charitable donations circumstances e. g. in relation to transfers in refineries, pipelines, power stations, water of 87,000 2009: 77,000 which are to a minor.
Save for those provisions distribution systems and effluent treatment part of the total Group contribution of there are no restrictions on the transfer of plants and in all industries in which liquids 144,000 2009: 87,000. ordinary shares in the capital of the Company or gases are transported through pipes.
other than certain restrictions which may A summary of the principal subsidiaries and There were no political donations made be required from time to time by law, for branch offices of the Group are set out on in the year or the prior year.
In accordance pages 93 to 95. with the Model Code which forms part of Directors the Listing Rules of the Financial Services The Business Review of the Group is Authority as adopted by the Company The names of the directors in office during set out on pages 6 to 28.
It provides a certain directors and other senior employees the year end and their biographical and balanced and comprehensive analysis are required to seek the prior approval of the other details including the other significant of the development and performance Company to deal in its shares.
commitments of the Chairman are as of the business during the year under shown on pages 30 and 31.
The interests review and the position at the end of the The Company is not aware of any agreements of the directors in office at the end of the year, including the future development between shareholders that may result in financial year in the shares of the Company of the business and information about restrictions on the transfer of securities are as shown in the Remuneration Report environmental matters, the Companys and or voting rights.
The Companys Articles on pages 37 to 42. employees and social and community of Association contain limited restrictions on issues.
The review contains analysis the exercise of voting rights e. g. in relation to JM Davis, RH Arnold, GM Ogden and using financial and non-financial key disenfranchised shares following the issue of PI France have service agreements and performance indicators.
a notice to shareholders under section 793 details of these are contained in the Companies Act 2006.
Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 42.
In May 2010, the Group acquired all the issued share capital of Ralph A. Hiller The Companys Articles of Association may The Companys procedure with regard Hiller.
Details of the transaction are only be amended by special resolution at a to the appointment and replacement of provided in note 3 to the Accounts.
directors and those powers reserved for the Board are described in the Corporate On 23 February 2011 the Group signed The Company is not aware of any Governance Report on pages 32 to 36. a contract to acquire all the outstanding significant agreements to which it is party issued share capital of Rotork Servo that take effect, alter or terminate upon At the Annual General Meeting AGM, Controles fide Mexico S. A. fide C. V. RSCM, a change of control of the Company all the directors currently in office being its Mexican sales and service agent.
RC Lockwood, PI France, JM Davis, Formal completion will take place following IG King, JE Nicholas, GM Ogden, RH Arnold certain share transfer formalities being Employee Share Schemes and G Bullard will offer themselves for finalised.
Gross assets acquired are re-election or election, it being the Shares in the Companys share schemes approximately 1.6 million.
first opportunity for G Bullard to do so all contain provisions providing voting rights following his appointment as a director to the scheme Trustee.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the on 24 June 2010.
Group and the Groups approach to mitigating those risks are set out on pages 22 and 23.
44 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors RE Slater resigned as a director on The directors are responsible for keeping For further information regarding the 31 March 2010.
A Walker resigned as adequate accounting records that Companys objectives, policies and a director on 23 April 2010. are sufficient to show and explain the processes for managing its capital: its Companys transactions and disclose financial risk management objectives: Financial Instruments with reasonable accuracy at any time the details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to financial position of the Company and An explanation of the Group policies on enable them to ensure that its financial credit risk and liquidity risk, see note 25. the use of financial instruments and financial statements comply with the Companies risk management objectives are contained in Act 2006.
They have general responsibility Creditor Payment Policy note 25 to the financial statements.
for taking such steps as are reasonably While there is no formal code or standard, open to them to safeguard the assets of it is Company and Group policy to settle Statement of Directors the Group and to prevent and detect fraud terms of payment with creditors when Responsibility for Preparing and other irregularities.
agreeing the terms of each transaction and the Annual Report and The to abide by creditors terms of payment Financial Statements Under applicable law and regulations, provided that the supplier is also complying The following statement, which should be read the directors are also responsible for with all relevant terms and conditions.
in conjunction with the auditors Statement of preparing a Directors Report, Directors There are no creditors subject to special Auditors Responsibilities, included in the audit Remuneration Report and Corporate arrangements outside suppliers terms and report, is made with a view to distinguishing for Governance Statement that complies conditions.
The Company does not have shareholders the respective responsibilities of with that law and those regulations.
any trade suppliers so that a creditor day the directors and of the auditors in relation to payment period is not appropriate.
Directors Statement Pursuant to the Disclosure and Directors and Officers The directors are responsible for preparing Transparency Rules Indemnity Insurance the Annual Report and the Group and Each of the directors, whose names and Company financial statements in accordance Subject to the provisions of the Companies functions are listed on pages 30 and 31 with applicable law and regulations.
Acts the Companys Articles of Association confirm that, to the best of each persons provide for the directors and officers of the Company law requires the directors to prepare knowledge and belief: Company to be appropriately indemnified.
The Group and Company financial statements for Company purchases and maintains insurance the financial statements, prepared in each financial year.
Under that law they are for the directors and officers of the Company accordance with the applicable set of required to prepare the Group financial in undertaking their duties, in accordance with the accounting standards, give a true statements in accordance with IFRSs as section 233 Companies Act 2006. and fair view of the assets, liabilities, adopted by the EU and applicable law financial position and profit of the Group and have elected to prepare the Company Disclosure of Information and Company: and financial statements in accordance with UK to Auditors Accounting Standards and applicable law UK the directors report includes a fair review The directors who held office at the date Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
of the development and performance of approval of this directors report confirm of the business and the position of the that, so far as they are each aware, there is Under company law the directors must not Group and Company, together with a no relevant audit information of which the approve the financial statements unless description of the principal risks and Companys auditors are unaware: and each they are satisfied that they give a true and uncertainties that they face.
director has taken all the steps that he ought fair view of the state of affairs of the Group to have taken as a director to make himself and Company and of their profit or loss for The directors are responsible for the aware of any relevant audit information and that period.
In preparing each of the Group maintenance and integrity of the to establish that the Companys auditors are and Company financial statements, the corporate and financial information aware of that information.
directors are required to: included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Auditors select suitable accounting policies preparation and dissemination of Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc and then apply them consistently: financial statements may differ from as auditors and to authorise the directors legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgments and estimates that to determine their remuneration are to be are reasonable and prudent: proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Going Concern for the Group financial statements, The Company has considerable financial state whether they have been prepared Annual General Meeting resources, together with business operations in accordance with IFRSs as adopted The AGM of the Company will be held at across a number of different sectors and by the EU: the Companys offices at Rotork House, geographic areas.
As a consequence, for the Company financial statements, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ on Thursday, the directors believe that the Company is state whether applicable UK Accounting 21 April 2011 at 12 noon.
A separate well placed to manage its business risks Standards have been followed, subject circular containing the Notice of the successfully.
Therefore the directors have to any material departures disclosed Meeting is sent to shareholders with this a reasonable expectation that the Company and explained in the Company financial Annual Report & Accounts.
has adequate resources to continue in statements: and operational existence for the foreseeable prepare the financial statements on On behalf of the Board future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis unless it is the going concern basis in preparing the inappropriate to presume that the Group Stephen Rhys Jones Secretary annual financial statements.
and the Company will continue in business.
