14 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business Review Fluid Systems Financial Performance Revenue m Operating Profit m 7.1% 6.8% 120 16 106.8 13.3 90 12 In the last three years 60 8 the acquisitions have all 30 4 brought new products 0 0 into the RFS portfolio.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Alex Busby MD Rotork Fluid Systems This year Rotork Fluid Systems RFS has products give access to the US liquids succeeded in widening both the end-market pipelines market and a stronger presence and geographic areas it serves through a in Latin America.
Hiller, as mentioned combination of new product development, above, provides nuclear certified products acquisitions and establishing new sales and the expertise and contacts to gain channels.
RFS is the division, which more access to this expanding market for other than any other part of Rotork, has grown RFS products in development.
In order to through acquisition.
In the last three years, deliver the product development plan for the acquisitions of Remote Control, Flow-Quip RFS, which now includes work in Hiller and Ralph A. Hiller Hiller have all brought where new opportunities have already been new products into the RFS portfolio, each in identified, we have continued to invest in very different markets and yet each capable the engineering resources of the division.
of being sold through the existing RFS Centres This has included adding engineers and of Excellence worldwide.
The latest of these, aligning the tools used by the engineers Hiller, acquired in May 2010, brought a across the division.
strong brand, good industry contacts, a range Top: RC200 pneumatic actuators at EuroLoop, of nuclear certified hydraulic actuators and Order intake has increased 35.1% but the Netherlands.
provided a step change in RFSs capabilities to some extent this reflects the weaker Below: GP pneumatic in this field.
Integration of acquisitions is key comparatives.
Even with Hiller removed, actuators on Emergency to ensuring they deliver value to the Group.
orders were 27.1% ahead of the prior year Shutdown valves at natural gas plant, Bolivia.
This integration takes place on many levels with a number of markets seeing significant but with Hiller one of the key areas has been growth.
The Centres of Excellence in the Bottom: HPG actuators on CO2 gas pipeline, within engineering and product development.
UK and Canada both reported double Denver USA.
The combination of Rotorks greater resources digit increases in order input as did the and expertise in actuation, with Hillers nuclear factories in Sweden and Italy.
Integration industry knowledge and contacts, has already of acquisitions is an important source of created an enhanced product development growth for RFS and the actuators produced plan as well as led to new sales leads for in Sweden are now sold by more than half traditional Rotork products.
The majority of RFS sales are still oil & gas 2010 saw RFS revenue break through the related projects, with a focus particularly one hundred million pounds mark, posting on upstream although this concentration a 7.1% increase to 106.8m.
Removing is diminishing with each acquisition and the impact of currency and the Hiller through product development.
The range acquisition, revenue growth would have of high pressure gas and gas-over-oil been a more modest 1% but given the actuators has expanded allowing RFS heightened competition earlier in the year to take a share of the LNG and gas this represents a solid result.
transmission markets, whilst the Flow-Quip Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 15 Operating margins in RFS have been RFS has demonstrated that the Operating margin affected by a number of factors, the net commitment to product development, result of which is a reduction to 12.4% supplemented by acquisitions, and but when adjusted to remove the higher providing customers with local support is a amortisation costs this year, operating successful strategy.
The Middle East is an 12.4% margin is 14.0% compared with 15.4% important market for Rotork and especially in 2009.
The continued investment in for the RFS division, with many of the down from the infrastructure of the division: building projects sold in Europe ending up in the the Chinese sales team, increasing the region.
We have therefore strengthened engineering resources and continuing our local support in the region and this will to develop the Lucca factory, lays the remain a focus in 2011.
14.3% foundation for future growth but the benefits from operational gearing in 2010 in 2009. were not sufficient to cover this additional cost.
The acquisition also had a negative impact on margins.
CP & GP pneumatic actuators, process heating plant at Asian refinery.
Business Opportunities Increased investments announced by oil majors New products and broader market focus Safety and information diagnostics Site services Nuclear
