16 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business Review Gears Financial Performance Revenue m Operating Profit m 6.5% 13.4% 40 12 39.2 9.1 30 9 The relationship with 20 6 valvemakers is one of 10 3 long-term partner.
0 0 David Littlejohns MD Rotork Gears 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Rotork Gears manufactures and sells an opportunity to make greater progress with manual and motorised gearboxes from its the numerous domestic Indian valvemakers, factories in the UK, the Netherlands, Italy, and work was underway to gain greater China and since mid-2010, India.
These penetration in a number of other countries.
gearboxes are sold to provide mechanical As a result of this work, revenue grew 6.5% advantage when operating industrial valves, in the year to 39.2m, a record for the whether by hand or using an actuator.
The division, with a more rapid growth in sales largest customers for Rotork Gears are the to valvemakers offsetting a decline in sales two other Rotork divisions, as both electric to Controls and RFS.
Operating margins and pneumatic hydraulic actuators can improved to 23.2% of sales, with operating operate in conjunction with a gearbox, but profit up 13.4% to 9.1m, again a record.
they are also sold direct to valvemakers.
The revenue growth was derived from a The relationship with valvemakers is one combination of new products and new of long-term partner, as the gearbox is an markets.
Investment in the Gears R&D essential component in the sale of many team has meant new products have been Right: IQ actuator with manually operated valves.
With the majority launched to meet applications in the IW gearbox, reverse osmosis desalination of valves sold still manually operated, every American water market and the European plant, Spain.
valvemaker needs a high quality, reliable and USA fire safety market.
The gearbox market is where additional sales resource was Below: IQ actuators with IW gearboxes nearly as fragmented as the valve industry directed were the ones with large domestic at EuroLoop, the though, with Rotork being the largest valvemakers and therefore greatest Netherlands.
participant and the main consolidator of potential.
This has led to significant progress the market.
By operating on a larger scale in China and Russia in the year, whilst a and using our global sourcing expertise focus on valve distributors in Australia has to control costs, we are able to offer led to growth in sales there.
India remains competitively priced gearboxes.
This allows a market of huge potential but the process us to compete against small local vendors of converting the valvemakers to using the or in-house gearbox manufacture at the output from our Indian factory will take time.
We have sourced components from This year saw a far more active valvemaker the Far East since before the factory market for Gears after a slower 2009.
We was established in China, so controlling started the year with a variety of initiatives component costs through managing a underway to deliver revenue growth and global supplier base is a well established improve margins.
A number of new products technique in Gears.
This year, part of the were in development and to be brought to success in improving margins has been as market in 2010, the manufacturing centre result of controlling the component costs in the new Bangalore factory in India offered and reducing the average material content.
Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 17 The factories in Leeds, the Netherlands, Italy incorporating a small production cell in the Operating margin and China have all achieved lower material new Houston facility.
This will allow standard costs despite rising transport and commodity gearboxes to be tailored locally to meet costs.
The search for new suppliers is an customers requirements.
Meanwhile, the ongoing process and next year will see the drive to expand the customer base in China 23.2% qualification of new suppliers in India.
and Russia has provided growth this year and opened up new markets.
up from The current year has seen the successful launch of a number of new products which will continue to provide growth opportunities into next year.
We are also expanding our 21.8% capabilities in the important US market by in 2009.
We have achieved lower material costs despite rising transport and commodity costs.
Business Opportunities USA Manufacturing in India Development of new markets Supply chain management Subsea declutch-able gearbox and hydraulic actuator.
