Report of the Directors The Directors present their report year and prospects for the future.
Financial increases the risks to which the Group is together with the audited financial key performance indicators can be found exposed.
Nothing in the Business Review statements of RPS Group Plc and its on page 8.
The Board does not use nonshould be construed as a profit forecast.
subsidiary undertakings the Group for financial key performance indicators to Principal risks and uncertainties the year ended 31 December 2010. assess the Group as a whole, but component parts of the Group do use The principal risks and uncertainties Results and dividend non-financial key performance indicators are reported on page 31 in the Risk The Consolidated Income Statement is from time to time.
The principal operating Management section of the Business set out on page 68 and shows the profit subsidiary undertakings are listed in Note 5 Review.
The Directors recommend a to the Parent Company Financial Corporate Governance final dividend of 2.52p 2009: 2.19p Statements.
The Directors report on corporate per share.
The Business Review contains certain governance can be found on pages 44-59 This together with the interim dividend forward looking statements with respect and incorporates other parts of the of 2.31p 2009: 2.01p per share paid on 62 to the financial condition, results of Report and Accounts as detailed therein.
21 October 2010 gives a total dividend operations and businesses of RPS.
These of 4.83p 2009: 4.20p per share for the statements involve risk and uncertainty Substantial shareholdings year ended 31 December 2010. because they relate to events and depend The Company is aware of the following upon circumstances that may occur in the interests in excess of 3% of the ordinary Principal activities and future.
There are a number of factors that share capital of the Company as business review could cause actual results or developments at 15 February 2011. Business review information can be found to differ materially from those expressed within the Business Review pages 8 to 39 or implied by these forward looking which reports on the Groups principal statements.
The current uncertainty in activities and performance during the past global economic outlook inevitably No.
of shares Percentage Aberforth Partners 19,458,621 8.95 Aegon Asset Management 10,055,074 4.63 Harding Loevner 9,740,444 4.48 Impax Asset Management 9,197,978 4.23 F & C Asset Management 8,356,852 3.85 Co-operative Asset Management 8,178,883 3.76 Legal & General Investment Management 8,149,160 3.75 William Blair & Company 7,449,204 3.43 Report and Accounts 2010 Accounts Directors The Directors of the Company during the year and their beneficial interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company were: No.
of shares at 31 12 10 and at 31 12 09 and at 02 03 11 03 03 10 Brook Land 30,000 30,000 Roger Devlin 30,000 30,000 Karen McPherson 3,000 John Bennett Louise Charlton Robert Miller-Bakewell 5,000 63 Alan Hearne 12,030 482,030 Peter Dowen 275,910 575,910 Phil Williams 418,439 382,987 Gary Young 88,416 59,409 The Directors interests under the Companys Share Incentive Plan were: No.
These grants will not be released and will lapse in March 2011 It is anticipated that these grants will not be released and will lapse in March 2012.
In consequence it is anticipated that there will be no further releases under the plan.
Report and Accounts 2010 Accounts The market price of the shares at comply with the requirements of the other events and conditions in accordance 31 December 2010 was 230.4p and the Companies Act 2006. with the definitions and recognition criteria range during the financial year was 169.8p for assets, liabilities, income and expenses Financial statements are published on the to 230.4p.
set out in the International Accounting Groups website in accordance with Standards Boards Framework for the None of the Directors were materially legislation in the United Kingdom governing Preparation and Presentation of Financial interested in any significant contract to the preparation and dissemination of Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, which the Company or any of its financial statements, which may vary from a fair presentation will be achieved by subsidiaries were party during the year.
The compliance with all applicable IFRS.
A fair maintenance and accuracy of the Groups presentation also requires the Directors to: Employees website is the responsibility of the The Groups policies in relation to Directors.
The Directors responsibility also n consistently select and apply employees are disclosed on pages 25 extends to the ongoing integrity of the appropriate accounting policies: to 28. financial statements contained therein.
n present information, including 65 Each of the persons who is a Director at accounting policies, in a manner that Charitable and community the time of this report confirms that: provides relevant, reliable, comparable donations and understandable information: and n so far as the Director is aware, there is During the year the Group, including fund no relevant audit information of which n provide additional disclosures when raising by staff, made charitable donations of the Companys auditors are unaware: compliance with the specific 472,000 to non-political organisations.
and requirements in IFRS is insufficient to Supplier payment policy enable users to understand the impact n the Director has taken all the steps that of particular transactions, other events The Group has due regard to the payment he or she ought to have taken as a and conditions on the entitys financial terms of suppliers and settles all undisputed Director in order to make position and financial performance.
accounts in accordance with payment himself herself aware of any relevant terms agreed with the supplier.
At the year audit information and to establish that Under company law the directors must not end the Group had 33 days purchases the Companys auditors are aware of approve the financial statements unless they outstanding in respect of payments to that information.
are satisfied that they give a true and fair suppliers and sub-contractors 2009: 36 view of the state of affairs of the Group This confirmation is given and should be days.
At the year end the Company had and its profit or loss for that period.
interpreted in accordance with the 18 days purchases outstanding in respect of provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Parent company financial statements payments to suppliers and sub-contractors The Directors are responsible for preparing 2009: 16 days.
Company law requires the Directors to the Annual Report and the Financial prepare financial statements for each Going concern Statements in accordance with the financial year which give a true and fair view The financial statements have been Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are of the state of affairs of the Company and prepared on a going concern basis as the also required to prepare financial of the profit or loss of the Company for Directors have a reasonable expectation statements for the Group in accordance that period.
In preparing these financial that the Group has adequate resources with International Financial Reporting statements, the Directors are required to: to continue in business for the Standards IFRS as adopted by the n select suitable accounting policies and foreseeable future.
European Union and Article 4 of the IAS then apply them consistently: Regulation.
The Directors have chosen to Directors responsibilities n make judgements and estimates that prepare financial statements for the statement are reasonable and prudent: Company in accordance with UK Generally The Directors are responsible for keeping Accepted Accounting Practice.
n state whether applicable accounting proper accounting records which disclose standards have been followed, subject Group financial statements with reasonable accuracy at any time the to any material departures disclosed International Accounting Standard 1 financial position of the Company, for and explained in the financial requires that financial statements present safeguarding the assets, for taking statements: and fairly for each financial year the Groups reasonable steps for the prevention and financial position, financial performance and n prepare the financial statements on the detection of fraud and other irregularities cash flows.
This requires the faithful going concern basis unless it is and for the preparation of a Directors representation of the effects of transactions, inappropriate to presume that the Report and Remuneration Report which Company will continue in business.
com Report of the Directors continued Under company law the directors must not The Directors have power to manage Post balance sheet events approve the financial statements unless they the Companys business subject to the On 18 February 2011 the Group are satisfied that they give a true and fair provision of the Companys Articles of announced the acquisition of Evansview of the state of affairs of the company Association, law and applicable regulations.
Hamilton Inc. for a maximum consideration for that period.
The Directors have power to issue and buy of US$8.7m 5.5m.
On 2 March 2011 back shares in the Company pursuant to the Group announced the acquisition The Directors confirm that they have the terms and limitations of resolutions of Nautilus Limited and Nautilus World complied with the above requirements in passed by shareholders at each annual Limited for a maximum consideration preparing the financial statements.
general meeting of the Company.
Directors responsibilities statement pursuant Directors interests in the share capital of Additional information to DTR 4 the Company are shown in the table on The following additional information is The Directors confirm that to the best of page 63.
Substantial shareholder interests of provided for shareholders as a result of the their knowledge: which the Company is aware are shown on implementation of the Takeover Directive 66 page 62. n the financial statements, prepared in into UK Law.
accordance with International Financial The Company is party to a number of As at 31 December 2010 the Companys Reporting Standards as adopted by the commercial agreements which, in line with issued share capital consisted of EU, give a true and fair view of the normal practice in the industry, may be 217,187,913 ordinary shares of 3p each.
assets, liabilities, financial position and affected by a change of control following a At a general meeting of the Company profit or loss of the Company and the takeover bid.
None of these agreements every holder of ordinary shares present in undertakings included in the are, however, considered to be of material person is entitled to vote on a show of consolidation taken as a whole: and significance.
There are no agreements hands and on a poll every member present between the Company and its directors or n the Business Review includes a fair in person or by proxy and entitled to vote employees providing for compensation for review of the development and has one vote for every ordinary share held.
loss of office of employment that occurs performance of the business and the There are no shares in issue which carry because of a takeover bid.
position of the Company and the special rights with regard to control of the undertakings included in the Annual General Meeting Company.
There are no restrictions on the consolidation taken as a whole, and transfer of ordinary shares in the Company The Annual General Meeting will be held that the Risk Management report other than those that may be imposed by on 6 May 2011.
The Notice of Annual includes a description of the principal law or regulation from time to time.
General Meeting circulated with this risks and uncertainties that they face.
Report and Accounts contains a full The Companys Articles of Association may explanation of the business to be Financial instruments be amended by special resolution at a conducted at that meeting.
This includes a general meeting of the shareholders.
Information about the Groups management resolution to re-appoint BDO LLP as the Directors are appointed by ordinary of financial risk can be found in notes 27 to Companys Auditors.
resolution at a general meeting of the 30 of the consolidated financial statements.
The Board can appoint a Capital management Director but anyone so appointed must be By order of the Board elected by an ordinary resolution at the The capital of the Group consists of debt, next general meeting.
Any Director who which includes the borrowings and facilities Nicholas Rowe has held office for more than three years disclosed in note 14 to the consolidated Secretary since their last appointment must offer financial statements, cash and cash themselves for re-election at the next 2 March 2011 equivalents and equity attributable to equity annual general meeting.
With effect from holders of the parent, comprising issued the 2011 Annual General Meeting all capital, reserves and retained earnings as directors will be required to seek annual disclosed in notes 19 and 20.
manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns and pursue the strategy of the Group.
