18 Strategic priorities SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Strategic priorities continued Constantly raising the profitability of local businesses, sustainably Our aim is to keep enhancing our operational performance through top-line growth and continuous improvement in costs and productivity.
Its also important that we maintain and advance our reputation, protect our licence to trade and develop our businesses sustainably for the benefit of our stakeholders.
Colombias profitability continues to improve despite economic slowdown As one of SABMillers largest businesses, Bavaria in Colombia has been at the forefront of the groups rapid progress in the region.
Against the backdrop of SABMillers work to transform the image of the beer market, its operational improvements have steadily lifted its performance to new levels.
Having carefully segmented the market and created a full portfolio of renovated and differentiated brands, the business was able to focus on the quality of its service and developing its relationship with customers.
It has expanded its pre-selling operation and now provides a single point of service to each retailer, agreeing in each case which brands, presentations and point-of-sale material will best meet the consumer needs and beer-drinking occasions served by the outlet in question.
Another important step was to increase control over the distribution network and the number of direct deliveries, and optimise the network for maximum efficiency.
This included rationalising distribution centres, consolidating a fragmented distributor network and introducing and standardising performance incentives for distributors.
The business has also increased its vehicle utilisation by replacing the ageing, overloaded, fuel-inefficient trucks of the past with new, palletised vehicles using modern loading techniques and working to planned routes and schedules.
All these initiatives have reduced distribution costs and made delivery more effective and reliable with a consequent leap in customer satisfaction.
Colombia felt the effects of the global downturn relatively early.
Bavaria responded swiftly to worsening conditions, carrying out a detailed review of its costs and organisation.
This, along with the work on its brands, sales and distribution operations, has enabled the business to deliver an impressive year-on-year rise of 270 basis points in EBITA margin.
The double digit compound annual growth in EBITA since 2007 underlines the resilience and flexibility of the business and its strong position as the economy recovers.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Strategic priorities 19 WWF partnership seeks to safeguard water supplies A crucial factor in securing the sustainable profitability of local businesses is to ensure good supplies of high-quality water for SABMillers breweries.
Concern is growing worldwide about water scarcity and the group is taking steps to understand and manage any potential risks to its business.
In 2008 SABMiller set itself the target of using 25% less water per hectolitre of beer produced by 2015.
A range of programmes are now in place to achieve this reduction, but the issue also affects SABMillers suppliers and demands wider action.
In partnership with the World Wide Fund for Nature WWF, SABMiller is pioneering the technique of water footprinting to understand how much water is used, and where, within its value chain.
The work breaks new ground in Non-Governmental Organisation NGOcorporate partnerships by aligning environmental interests with the need to protect SABMillers operations.
Joint projects with WWF in a number of water-scarce markets are helping to identify where communities, the local environment and SABMiller businesses face possible shortages and to decide what can be done to safeguard supplies.
One example of working in partnership to improve the management of water is a project with WWF, local farmers and the authorities in Honduras that seeks to reduce soil erosion and the use of pesticides by farmers.
As well as helping the environment and improving water quality in the watershed from which SABMillers operation draws its supplies, the project benefits farmers by reducing their input costs.
Investing in local suppliers A market-focused strategy for growth In procuring its raw materials, SABMiller combines the The South African competitive scene is unique in that the main scale benefits of global sourcing with the advantages challenge comes not from new players launching new brands, but of sourcing locally where this makes sense.
from a former partner offering well-established premium brands that SAB itself helped to build over the decades.
Local sourcing means zero import duties and shorter, more secure supply chains while encouraging enterprise and SABs response is to concentrate on building the equity of selected stimulating the local economy on which every SABMiller brands and getting its products efficiently to market.
While its relatively business depends.
In Africa, in particular, it supports the new international premium brands attack the top end of the market, SAB groups strategy of developing new, low-cost products is packing most of its resource behind four power brands Castle Lite in based on indigenous crops such as sorghum and cassava the local premium segment and Hansa Pilsener, Castle Lager and Carling that can be marketed as affordable alternatives to traditional Black Label in the large, cash-generating mainstream segment.
its seeking to offer superior value and service to retailers including tens of thousands of previously unlicensed shebeens that have now entered SABMiller is working hard to source more of its raw materials the formal sector as licensed taverns and to make the most meaningful both conventional and new from local suppliers.
In Africa, contribution to society.
its scaling up commercial barley production in countries such as Zambia and Tanzania and recently won donor The strategy calls for greater investment in market-facing, brand-related funding to help establish a cassava supply chain using activities everything that touches consumers, retailers, government small-scale farmers in Southern Sudan.
In Peru and and the community.
To this end, SAB is squeezing all possible efficiencies Ecuador, its developing high-quality, local supplies of from non-market-facing operations such as production, supply chain and maize and rice to replace imported crops.
In India, the administration and channelling the savings into its brands, marketing and business is working with small-scale barley farmers to distribution.
The aim is to achieve a virtuous circle whereby greater scale improve their yields and quality, enabling them to meet in the marketplace presents opportunities for higher efficiency which more of SABMillers requirements while also boosting their creates more funding for marketing and sales, which drives demand, incomes.
There are currently some 9,000 farmers involved which generates further scale efficiencies.
