20 Strategic priorities SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Strategic priorities continued Leveraging our skills and global scale Our global spread presents increasing opportunities to gain value from the scale and skills of the group, not least by standardising our back-office functions around the world and regionally integrating our front-office systems.
We are also benefiting from ongoing collaboration and the sharing of skills between our businesses.
Exploiting scale to develop global purchasing SABMiller spends over US$5,000 million a year on materials mainly malt, barley, hops, glass and cans, but also other essentials such as marketing items and freight.
Having previously made these purchases mainly on a regional basis, the group is now exploiting its worldwide scale and creating a centralised procurement organisation to manage this expenditure globally while also retaining the flexibility to buy locally where this is advantageous.
Among its many benefits, global procurement offers greater negotiating power and the opportunity to build strong, collaborative relationships with key suppliers.
It also allows the group to optimise and harmonise its specifications to obtain the best quality and value.
Procurement processes can be streamlined, expenditure made more transparent and new ideas and developments disseminated more quickly around the group.
The formation of the global procurement organisation is well advanced with a head office now established in Switzerland a known centre of procurement expertise and within a convenient time zone in relation to the groups global footprint.
The organisation recently carried out pilot programmes in some of its smaller purchasing categories.
These included trade fridges and glassware in Europe and Latin America and other marketing items such as umbrellas, furniture and signage.
Despite rising raw material prices, these two programmes produced significant savings on previous expenditure.
As systems are tested and lessons incorporated, global procurement will be rolled out to other, larger categories in 2010 and beyond.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Strategic priorities 21 Global scale, global processes In a project due to go live from June 2010, SABMiller will capitalise on its scale by creating consistent information and processes and a single, integrated IT system across finance, procurement and human resources.
By standardising essential processes around the globe, the project will, among other benefits, save costs, enable faster sharing of better quality information, accelerate the integration of new acquisitions, free up local management to focus on their own commercial priorities and create a more connected global organisation.
Standardised processes, especially in finance and administration, will also make it possible to establish outsourced shared service centres, presenting further opportunities to optimise efficiency and reduce costs.
SAB in South Africa has for some time run back-office financial activities for its beer and soft drinks businesses through an in-house shared service centre enabled by a local Enterprise Resource Planning system.
The SAB model was chosen as the basis for the global template with development expertise coming from around the group.
In a step towards some of the advantages that the project will deliver, SAB recently outsourced its shared service centre to a business process provider.
Its already seeing the benefits through more efficient processes at lower cost.
Cross-regional IT solutions As part of the process of transforming their operations, SABMillers Latin American businesses have developed a common system for optimising the planning and supply chain operations in each market.
Another collaborative project, first implemented in Peru and now also live in Colombia, is a front-office tool for improving control of sales and distribution and becoming more effective at the point of sale.
Benefits from the two projects have included more accurate budgeting and forecasting, improved production scheduling, reduced working capital and better customer service.
The next step is to combine these locally developed solutions with SABMillers standardised and integrated back-office system see case study above as it starts being rolled out in Latin America.
Ecuador will shortly become the first country to adopt all three systems supply chain planning, front-office sales and distribution and the integrated back-office on a single IT platform.
Having drawn on developments in South Africa, Latin America is now collaborating with SABMillers European businesses to adapt the platform to their markets ensuring, for example, that a system designed to include mom and pop stores in Peru can be adapted to European supermarkets.
As learning is shared in this way, each region is able to innovate more quickly than it could have done on its own.
Exchanging knowledge to achieve marketing excellence Crucial to the groups success is learning what works in one market and applying it in others to generate growth.
To this end, the system of SABMiller Ways has codified best practice in key areas of the business to allow learning and innovation to spread rapidly and efficiently across the group.
Building on The Marketing Way, SABMillers marketing team has developed progressive but formal methods of disseminating knowledge, to improve on the ad hoc methods previously used.
One result was the creation of BigM, the global marketing intranet for the sharing of best practice.
BigM was the first component of WEBrew, the group-wide intranet launched in 2008.
WEBrew also hosts the Mercatus awards programme and the innovative Quencher, SABMillers first global marketing e-zine.
The former recognises marketing excellence across the business and encourages the adoption of award-winning examples.
The e-zine has proved to be a valuable source of news for the marketing community.
New to the mix is the Knowledge Library, currently being piloted in response to demand for greater exchange of knowledge.
Through these innovations, the global marketing function has created a sophisticated platform for new learning to travel quickly and efficiently to all parts of the group.
This will prove essential in the rolling out of new initiatives such as 5 to Drive.
