Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report 47 Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report to shareholders, In July 2009 the company announced plans to open a new brewery together with the audited annual financial statements for the year ended and sparkling soft drinks plant in Angola.
The new soft drinks plant was 31 March 2010. commissioned in January 2010 and the new brewery in April 2010.
In July 2009 the companys Mauritian subsidiary Ambo International Principal activities and business review Holdings Limited completed an investment resulting in the company SABMiller plc is a holding company which has brewing and beverage holding an effective 40% interest in Ambo Mineral Water Share Company interests across six continents.
The principal subsidiaries, associates in Ethiopia.
and joint ventures of the company are listed in note 33 to the consolidated In September 2009 the companys Zambian subsidiary, Heinrichs financial statements.
The principal activities of the group are the Syndicate Limited, acquired a maheu business, a non-alcoholic manufacture, distribution and sale of beverages.
The company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to produce a In September 2009 the companys Namibian subsidiary, SABMiller fair review of the business of the group including a description of the Namibia Proprietary Limited SABMiller Namibia, was granted a principal risks and uncertainties it faces, its development and performance licence to brew and bottle beer in Namibia.
Following the year end, during the year and the position of the group at the end of the year.
it was announced that SABMiller Namibia, which will be 60% owned The business review, including a review of the development and by SABMiller and 40% owned by local Namibian partners in a Broadperformance of the group during the financial year, its position at the Based Black Economic Empowerment initiative, will build a brewery end of the year, likely future developments in the business of the group, at a cost of US$34 million.
Construction of the new brewery on 7.3 key performance indicators and a description of the principal risks and hectares of land outside Okahandja is expected to start in the second uncertainties facing the group, is set out on pages 6 to 39 of this annual half of 2010 and will also include a returnable bottle packaging line report.
Other key performance indicators and information relating to and warehousing facilities.
environmental matters, employee matters and social and community issues required by the business review are set out in the sustainable In December 2009 SABMillers Ugandan subsidiary, Nile Breweries development review on pages 40 to 43 of this annual report.
Ltd, announced that following the success of its initiative to convert locally grown barley into brewing malt it would build a malting plant Significant acquisitions, disposals, financing transactions, at a cost of US$16 million.
Construction began in January 2010 on investments and material developments during the year Nile Breweries existing site in Jinja and is expected to be completed In April 2009 the companys Romanian subsidiary Ursus Breweries SA in the first quarter of 2011. assumed control over 71% of the issued share capital of Bere Azuga In February 2010 the company announced that it had agreed to merge SA in Romania.
Subsequently, further share purchases were made Tsogo Sun, its South African hotels and gaming associate, with Gold and at the year end Bere Azuga was wholly owned by Ursus.
Reef Resorts Limited Gold Reef, a Johannesburg Stock Exchange In May 2009 the company acquired the outstanding 28.1% minority JSE listed business, through an all-share merger.
The transaction will interest in its Polish subsidiary, Kompania Piwowarska SA, from Kulczyk be effected through the acquisition by Gold Reef of the entire issued Holding SA in exchange for the issue of 60 million new ordinary shares.
share capital of Tsogo Sun Holdings Proprietary Limited Tsogo Sun in exchange for the issue of new shares in Gold Reef.
SABMillers wholly In July 2009 the company announced that it proposed to enter into owned subsidiary SABSA Holdings Pty Limited SABSA, will exchange a Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment transaction in South its 49% interest in Tsogo Sun for a 39.7% interest in the enlarged Gold Africa.
The transaction will result in 8.45% of its South African subsidiary, Reef Tsogo Sun business, which will continue to be listed on the JSE The South African Breweries Limited SAB, being held by a broad base with an expected market capitalisation of approximately ZAR21 billion of black participants, which include SABs employees, black-owned US$2,700 million as at 29 January 2010.
The merger was approved licensed liquor retailers and liquor licence applicants, as well as registered by Gold Reef shareholders in April 2010, and completion remains subject black-owned customers of ABI the soft drinks division of SAB, and to requisite regulatory approvals.
the broader South African community through an SAB foundation.
At the end of the 10-year transaction period, participants will exchange In February 2010 the companys subsidiary Rwenzori Bottling Company their shareholdings in SAB for shares in SABMiller plc.
At a general Limited acquired the assets of the Rwenzori water business in Uganda.
meeting of the company held in January 2010 the transaction was In March 2010 the company completed an issue of Peruvian nuevo approved by shareholders, with over 99.99% of the votes cast being sol PEN 150 million approximately US$53 million 6.75% notes due in favour of the adoption of a scheme of arrangement to give effect 2015, under the PEN1,500 million Guaranteed Medium Term Note to the transaction.
The scheme of arrangement was subsequently Programme which had been established by the company and its sanctioned by the High Court of Justice in England and Wales in wholly owned subsidiary Racetrack Per S. R. L. in January 2009.
The economic cost of the transaction as at 27 November net proceeds of the issue were used for the repayment of loans incurred 2009 was calculated at approximately US$279 million, equating to fund the acquisition of shares in Unin fide Cerveceras Peruanas to approximately 0.6% of SABMiller plcs market capitalisation on Backus y Johnston S. A.
A. and for general corporate purposes.
27 November 2009, and the initial allocation of shares in SAB is expected to be completed in June 2010.
In July 2009 the company completed a 1,000 million bond issue under its US$5,000 million Euro Medium Term Note Programme.
The 5.5 year notes were issued with a coupon of 4.50%.
The net proceeds of the issue were used to repay certain indebtedness and for general corporate purposes.
48 Directors report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report continued Dividends Share capital An interim dividend of 17 US cents per share was paid to shareholders During the year, the issued ordinary share capital of the company on 11 December 2009, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010. increased from 1,585,366,969 shares of 10 US cents each to Details of the final dividend proposed by the board for the year ended 1,654,749,852 shares of 10 US cents each.
Of the 69,382,883 31 March 2010 are set out below: new ordinary shares issued during the year, 60,000,000 ordinary shares were issued in respect of the Kompania Piwowarska transaction Amount of final dividend noted earlier in this report and 9,382,883 ordinary shares were issued proposed by the board: 51 US cents per share to satisfy the exercise of options granted under the companys share incentive plans, details of which are shown in note 25 to the consolidated Total proposed dividend for the financial statements.
year ended 31 March 2010: 68 US cents per share During the year the company transferred 5,300,000 ordinary shares If approved, the final dividend will be payable to shareholders on from treasury to the SABMiller plc Employees Benefit Trust for no either section of the register at 6 August 2010 in the following way: consideration, to be used to satisfy awards outstanding under the companys share incentive plans.
At year end the company held a Dividend payable on: 13 August 2010 total of 72,068,338 shares in treasury.
Currency of payment: South African rands to In addition, the company has 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each shareholders on the RSA in issue, none of which were issued during the year.
section of the register, Purchase of own shares US dollars to shareholders shown At the last annual general meeting, shareholder authority was obtained as having an address in the USA for the company to purchase its own shares up to a maximum of 10% and recorded on the UK section of the number of ordinary shares in issue on 29 May 2009.
This authority of the register unless mandated is due to expire at the earlier of the next annual general meeting or otherwise, 31 October 2010, and remains exercisable provided that certain Pounds sterling to all other conditions relating to the purchase are met.
The notice of annual general shareholders on the UK section meeting proposes that shareholders approve a resolution updating and of the register.
renewing the authority allowing the company to purchase its own shares.
Ex-dividend dates: 2 August 2010 for shares traded Shares in the company were purchased during the year by the trustee on the JSE Limited, South Africa.
of the employees benefit trust, details of which are provided in the remuneration report.
4 August 2010 for shares traded on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
The company did not repurchase any shares during the year for the purpose of cancellation, holding in treasury or for any other purpose.
The rate of exchange for conversion from US dollars will be calculated on 21 July 2010 and published on the RNS of the LSE and the SENS Annual general meeting of the JSE Limited on 22 July 2010.
The companys annual general meeting for 2010 will be held at the Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements discloses dividends InterContinental London Park Lane, One Hamilton Place, London waived.
Notice of this meeting may be obtained from the companys website.
Directors Donations The names and biographical details of the current directors are set out on pages 44 and 45.
Apart from Dr Moyo who was appointed to the During the year the group invested US$43.7 million in corporate board on 1 June 2009, Mr Willard who was appointed to the board on social investment programmes, of which US$6,122,486 represented 1 August 2009 and Mr Armour who was appointed to the board on charitable donations.
Of this amount US$224,764 were charitable 1 May 2010 all directors served throughout the period.
Lord Fellowes donations made by the company and Miller Brands UK Limited for will retire from the board at the conclusion of the 2010 annual general the benefit of various causes, both in the UK and overseas, comprising meeting.
Details of the interests in shares and or options of the directors donations in respect of community development, health and education, who held office during the period and any persons connected to them the environment and other causes.
are set out in the remuneration report on pages 59 to 67.
It remains the groups policy that political donations are only made by exception, and where permitted by local laws, and must be consistent Corporate governance with building multi-party democracy.
The directors remain committed to maintaining high standards of To support democracy in Colombia, the groups subsidiary Bavaria SA corporate governance, which they see as fundamental to discharging made donations totalling US$2,394,845 to a number of political parties their stewardship responsibilities.
The board strives to provide the right and movements participating in the congressional elections.
leadership, strategic oversight and control environment to produce and sustain the delivery of value to all of the companys shareholders.
The To support the democratic process in Botswana, group companies in board applies integrity, principles of good governance and accountability Botswana made donations totalling US$218,451 to registered political throughout its activities and each director brings independence of parties participating in the general elections.
character and judgement to the role.
All of the members of the board In Honduras the groups subsidiary donated soft drinks to the value are individually and collectively aware of their responsibilities to the of US$5,061 for the benefit of volunteers assisting during the general companys stakeholders and the board keeps its performance and elections.
core governance principles under regular review.
Statements of our application of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance are The board has reaffirmed the groups policy not to make donations set out in the corporate governance report, which forms part of this to political organisations in the European Union.
directors report, on pages 51 to 58 and the remuneration report on pages 59 to 67.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report 49 Employment, environmental and social policies Overseas branches The aim of the group is to be the employer of choice in each country The company does not have any branches registered overseas.
In order to achieve this, each operating company designs employment policies which attract, retain and motivate the Going concern and audit highest quality of staff.
The group is committed to an active equal Page 68 details the directors responsibilities for preparing the opportunities policy from recruitment and selection, through training consolidated financial statements.
As set out in that statement, and development, appraisal and promotion to retirement.
Within the the directors are satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern.
constraints of local law, it is our policy to ensure that everyone is  LLP have expressed their willingness treated equally, regardless of gender, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, to continue in office as auditors and resolutions proposing their race, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, religion or trade re-appointment and authorising the board to set their remuneration union affiliation.
We value the benefits of employing people of different will be submitted to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, efforts are made to allow them to continue in their role, or Directors indemnities a suitable alternative role, through making reasonable adjustments.
The company has granted rolling indemnities to the directors, uncapped All employees of all SABMiller group companies must adhere to a in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may code of business conduct and ethics.
This sets out our core principles incur in the course of acting as directors of the company or of one or of business conduct and ethics, including being fair and ethical in all more of its subsidiaries.
The Company Secretary and Deputy Company our dealings and treating people with dignity and respect.
The group Secretary have also been granted indemnities, on similar terms, covering is committed to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact.
their roles as Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary This framework sets out universally accepted principles in the areas of respectively of the company and as directors or as company secretary human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption.
The companys of one or more of the companys subsidiaries.
The board believes website sets out these principles and the groups progress towards them.
that it is in the best interests of the group to attract and retain the The directors believe that the groups policies and procedures for services of the most able and experienced directors and officers by combating bribery and corruption are robust, but in light of the new offering competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of UK Bribery Act 2010, expected to come into force in October 2010 such indemnities.
with its accompanying adequate procedures guidance, the group will The indemnities were granted at different times according to the law be conducting a thorough review of the application of its groupwide in force at the time and where relevant are categorised as qualifying code of business conduct and ethics to ensure that any changes third-party indemnity provisions as defined by Section 309B of the necessary to comply with the new legislation and the guidance are Companies Act 1985 and Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. identified and implemented in good time.
They will continue in force for the benefit of directors and officers for The group is committed to regular communication and consultation with as long as they remain in their positions.
employees and encourages employee involvement in the performance of the company.
The group has implemented the distribution of real time Substantial shareholdings news on a global basis via our global intranet.
The news is available Details of notifications received by the company in accordance with the to all of the groups businesses to help inform employees about what Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 2 June 2010 and of persons is happening in our global operations.
Further information is provided with significant direct or indirect holdings known to the company at to employees at a regional country level by way of newsletters and year end are set out in the ordinary shareholding analyses on page electronic communication.
Certain employees throughout the group 161 of this annual report.
are eligible to participate in the groups share incentive plans.
Financial instruments The sustainable development review on pages 40 to 43 gives an overview of the progress against the groups 10 sustainable development Information on the financial risk management objectives and policies priorities and of the impact of the groups business on the environment.
of the group and details of the groups exposure to price risk, credit More detailed information is provided in the companys sustainable risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are contained in note 22 to the development report 2010, available on the companys website.
Research and development Other disclosures required by the Companies Act and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules To ensure improved overall operational effectiveness, the group places considerable emphasis on research and development in its The company does not have any contractual or other arrangements global technical activities.
This enables us to develop new products, that individually are essential to the business of the company.
packaging, processes and manufacturing technologies.
Continued The structure of the companys share capital, including the rights and progress was made in the groups ongoing research in the key areas obligations attaching to each class of share and the percentage of the of raw materials, brewing, flavour stability, packaging materials and share capital that each class of share comprises, is set out in note 25 energy and water saving.
In July 2009 the company announced plans to the consolidated financial statements.
There are no securities of to build a 2 million global brewing research facility in the UK, to be the company that grant the holder special control rights.
built within Nottingham Universitys School of Biosciences.
Our total investment in research and development in the year under review At year end the companys employees benefit trust held 8,675,839 was US$4 million 2009: US$7 million.
ordinary shares in the company.
By agreement with the company, the trustees do not exercise the voting rights attached to these shares.
Payment of suppliers The directors are responsible for the management of the business of The groups policy is to pay invoices in accordance with the terms of the company and may exercise all the powers of the company subject payment agreed in advance.
At the year end, the amount owed by the to the companys articles of association and relevant statutes.
Powers group to trade creditors was equivalent to 48.2 days 2009: 36.3 days of the directors relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are of purchases from suppliers.
set out in the articles of association.
These powers are subject to renewal by the shareholders of the company each year at the annual general meeting.
50 Directors report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report continued The companys articles of association give the board of directors power Pursuant to the companys code for securities transactions, directors to appoint directors.
The articles of association may be amended by and persons discharging managerial responsibilities require, and special resolution of the shareholders.
Directors appointed by the board employees may in certain circumstances require, approval to deal are required to submit themselves for election by the shareholders in the companys shares.
at the next annual general meeting of the company.
Additionally, as No shareholder shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be disclosed in the corporate governance report on pages 51 to 58, entitled in respect of any share held by them to vote either personally Altria Group, Inc. Altria and BevCo Ltd BevCo have power under or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right their respective relationship agreements with the company to nominate conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings if any directors for appointment to the board and certain committees.
These call or other sum presently payable by them to the company in respect relationship agreements also regulate processes applicable in relation of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no shareholder shall be entitled to the acquisition or disposal of shares by Altria and BevCo.
to vote if they have been served with a notice after failing to provide The companys articles of association allow directors, in their absolute the company with information concerning interests in those shares discretion, to refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated required to be provided under Section 793 of the Companies Act form which is not fully paid or the transfer of a share in certificated form 2006.
Restrictions on the rights of the holders of convertible shares on which the company has a lien.
If that share has been admitted to and deferred shares are set out in note 25 to the consolidated the Official List, the board may not refuse to register the transfer if this financial statements.
would prevent dealings in the companys shares from taking place on Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate an open and proper basis.
They may also refuse to register a transfer members, by a corporate representative.
The deadline for delivering of a share in certificated form unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, proxy forms is 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
duly stamped if stampable, at the address at which the register of the company is held or at such other place as the directors may appoint, The company has a number of facility agreements with banks which and except in the case of a transfer by a financial institution where a contain provisions giving rights to the banks upon a change of control certificate has not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied of the company.
A change of control of the company would also give by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other The Coca-Cola Company certain rights under its bottling agreements evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right with various subsidiaries of the company, and in certain limited of the transferor to make the transfer, is in respect of only one class circumstances may give China Resources Enterprise, Limited the of share and is in favour of not more than four transferees jointly.
ability to exercise certain rights under a shareholders agreement in relation to the companys associate CR Snow.
A change of control Transfers of shares in uncertificated form must be made in accordance may also give the Molson Coors Brewing Company the ability to with, and subject to, the Uncertificated Securities Regulations the exercise certain rights under the MillerCoors operating agreement.
Regulations, the facilities and requirements of the relevant CREST system and such arrangements as the board may determine in relation The company does not have any agreements with any director or to the transfer of certificated shares subject to the Regulations.
officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
Transfers of shares listed on the JSE in uncertificated form must be made in accordance with, and subject to, the Securities Services John Davidson Act 2004, the Rules and Directives of the JSE and STRATE Ltd. General Counsel and Group Company Secretary Certificated shares may be transferred prior to dematerialisation, For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc but share certificates must be dematerialised prior to trading in the STRATE environment.
