Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Operations review 27 Europe: Solid pricing and cost management drive EBITA growth of 4% on an organic, constant currency basis despite lower volumes Honduras endured both deteriorating economic conditions Europe following the global financial crisis, and political turmoil, which continued for much of the year.
As the political Financial summary 2010 2009 % situation deteriorated, our operations took action to Group revenue including protect our route-to-market, secure supply and maintain share of associates US$m 5,577 6,145 9 customer service.
Total volume growth of 5% was achieved with growth of soft drinks offsetting lower lager 1 EBITA US$m 872 944 8 volumes.
Sparkling soft drinks grew share to 56% with EBITA margin % 15.6 15.4 good growth by our Tropical brand and the Coca-Cola brand.
Despite lower lager volumes and stronger pricing, Sales volumes hl 000 we increased our share of the alcohol market from 40% to 49% supported by increased outlet penetration and Lager 45,513 47,237 4 superior sales execution.
Lager organic 44,872 47,237 5 In Panama, total volumes grew by 4%, with lager volumes 1 In 2010 before exceptional charges of US$202 million being up 1% in an increasingly competitive environment.
Soft drinks US$64 million of integration and restructuring costs and volume grew 7%, boosted by the excellent performance US$138 million of business capability programme costs of Malta Vigor following its relaunch in the prior year and 2009: US$452 million being the impairment of non-current assets of US$392 million, integration and restructuring costs higher availability of non-carbonated soft drinks.
of US$51 million and the unwind of fair value adjustments on In El Salvador, total volumes grew 8% with strong soft inventory following the acquisition of Grolsch of US$9 million.
drinks sales in a fast-growing soft drinks market.
We Key focus areas maintained our leadership in sparkling soft drinks with a 55% market share.
Our juice volumes grew 46% Drive our full brand portfolios in growth following the launch of a new brand, Jugos del Valle segments in key markets Fresh, in August 2009, while lager volumes were in Further develop our positions in high value line with the prior year.
export markets Continue to innovate in product, packaging and dispense systems Build strong brand equities through innovative 360 degree marketing programmes Leverage our scale In Europe, lager volumes declined 4% on a reported basis and 5% on an organic basis as the beer market continued to be impacted by depressed consumer spending as a result of increased unemployment and tighter credit across the region.
During the year, a number of markets also faced significant increases in excise, which have been substantially passed on in price increases.
Against this backdrop, we grew or maintained market share in our key markets and increased our share of the premium segment.
Organic, constant currency revenue per hectolitre grew 6% reflecting strong pricing in the first half, which moderated in the second half.
This, combined with improved cost efficiency, drove an organic, constant currency EBITA increase of 4% and organic margin expansion of 60 bps.
Marketing expenditure was lower than in the prior year which included local sponsorship of the Euro 2008 football championships and the Olympics.
Fixed costs and depreciation increased due to expanded sales and distribution reach and capacity in both Russia and Romania.
Central European currencies were considerably weaker than in the prior year, impacting raw material costs, but we nevertheless achieved a small improvement in variable production costs.
28 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Operations review continued Europe: continued In Poland, lager volumes were down 3% although In Russia, a significant increase in excise in January 2010 we grew market share, reflecting a sustained focus on and a sharp decline in consumer disposable income sales execution and trade programmes.
Brand activities led to a drop in industry beer production and sales.
Our centred on Tyskie, Polands leading brand, as sponsor of lager volumes were down 5% but our market share was the International Year of Beer, driving an increase in brand maintained.
Repositioning, renovation and line extensions market share for the third consecutive year.
Zubr also on Zolotaya Bochka lifted the brand to number two in the captured significant market share, growing volumes by premium segment, while the Kozel brand delivered 13% 3%.
In the premium segment, we increased our value volume growth to become the number one licensed brand share, and Grolsch was successfully launched in the in Moscow.
In September 2009, we launched Grolsch with super-premium segment.
Revenue per hectolitre grew brand equity indicators showing good growth potential.
In September 2009 we In May 2009, we opened the new brewery in Ulyanovsk, announced the closure of the Kielce brewery and three in line with our geographic expansion strategy: and distribution centres.
launched the Tri Bogatyrya economy brand in a new PET format leading to a doubling of the brands volume.
In the Czech Republic, the market was impacted by Brand mix partially diluted the strong pricing taken in higher unemployment and significant increases in VAT the prior year but we still achieved revenue per hectolitre and excise in January 2010.
Our domestic lager volumes growth of 7% at constant currency.
In the Ukraine, the declined 5%, reflecting a 7% fall in the on-premise channel Sarmat brand was relaunched but volume performance which has been severely affected by economic pressures was severely impacted by a 94% increase in excise in and lower tourism.
Despite this, we maintained market July 2009.
Volume growth on licensed brands Kozel and share with our brands now occupying the number one, Zolotaya Bochka was very strong, benefiting mix and two and three market positions.
Our combined superdriving revenue per hectolitre growth.
premium and premium portfolio grew over 6% with all key brands growing market share.
The performance of In Italy, economic conditions remained negative, Pilsner Urquell, underpinned by strong and improving although the second half saw some signs of stabilisation.
brand health, was particularly noteworthy given its Birra Peroni volumes declined 7% during the year as we price premium.
The market-leading brand, Gambrinus, reduced promoted volume and stock in trade levels.
Our continued to be negatively affected by its significant market share of STRs was marginally below the prior year exposure to the on-premise channel: however, the higher while constant currency revenue per hectolitre grew 4% priced variant, Gambrinus 11, performed well, maintaining reflecting strong pricing and improved channel mix.
This, its leadership of the semi-premium segment.
In the combined with refocused marketing investment behind mainstream segment, Kozel enjoyed another exceptional core brands, production efficiencies and fixed cost year, growing 5% and consolidating its position as Czechs productivity, drove an improvement in EBITA.
Improved overhead productivity led Domestic lager volumes in The Netherlands declined 2%, to an EBITA margin expansion of over 100 bps.
in line with the branded market: a solid result given heavy Romania suffered a severe recession during the year competitor discounting and off-premise consolidation in and our lager volumes fell 13% on an organic basis in the year.
Restructuring initiatives taken in the prior year a market that declined 24%.
We took market leadership began to deliver benefits with fixed costs down 5%.
with share improving by 400 bps to reach 32% over the In the United Kingdom, lager volumes grew 14% on year.
The mainstream segment continued to grow at the a comparable basis, with Peroni Nastro Azzurro sales expense of premium and economy sectors as consumers up 29% following strong growth in on-premise channels sought brands with strong value propositions.
Our largest and in key national retailers.
During the year, exports of brand, Timisoreana, continued its strong performance Miller Genuine Draft to Ireland were taken over by our with volume growth of 2%.
We increased our share in UK business following the termination of the previous the off-premise channel with intensive 360 degree brand licensing arrangement.
activation and strong display support and took market leadership of the growing key accounts sub-channel.
In Hungary, Slovakia and the Canaries, economic We maintained our leadership of the declining on-premise conditions remain difficult and beer markets depressed.
Revenue per hectolitre grew 9% at constant We grew market share in Hungary and maintained share currency, although EBITA declined due to reduced volumes in Slovakia and the Canaries, despite the decline in the and increased depreciation following investment in the on-premise channel.
In November 2009 we announced prior year.
During the year we strengthened our economy the closure of the Topolcany brewery in Slovakia.
segment with the acquisition of the Azuga operations and we closed the acquired brewery, as planned.
