32 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Operations review continued Asia: continued South Africa: Organic, constant currency EBITA grows 2% despite increased market investment The central region contributed half of the volume growth South Africa: Beverages with reported volumes up 16% driven primarily by growth in the key provinces of Anhui and Zhejiang and new Financial summary 2010 2009 % operations in Shandong and Shanghai.
The north eastern Group revenue including region delivered strong volume growth as CR Snow gained share of associates US$m 4,777 3,955 21 share in the Jilin and Heilongjiang areas.
Good growth continued in the western region, particularly in the provinces 1 EBITA US$m 885 764 16 of Guizhou and Gansu and a return to growth in Sichuan.
EBITA margin % 18.5 19.3 Volumes in India were down 14% and EBITA declined significantly reflecting regulatory disputes in Andhra Sales volumes hl 000 Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, and excise increases in Lager 25,761 25,949 1 Karnataka and Rajasthan.
Trading conditions improved in the last quarter as regulatory issues eased and price Soft drinks 17,044 17,303 1 increases were implemented in the key states of Andhra Other alcoholic beverages 1,404 1,325 6 Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra.
During the year 1 In 2010 before net exceptional charges of US$53 million we introduced an embossed proprietary bottle which being business capability programme costs of US$42 million will improve package presentation and drive down costs.
and costs associated with the establishment of the BroadIn Vietnam, which is reported as a subsidiary for the first Based Black Economic Empowerment transaction of US$11 million 2009: US$nil.
time, Miller High Life was launched to supplement the local Zorok brand resulting in a marked increase in volumes.
Key focus areas The Zorok brand is gaining acceptance regionally and Fortify the foundation, and strengthen a sustainable export business has been created.
productivity edge In Australia, the portfolio of premium brands again Engage the competitor delivered strong growth with lager volumes up 32%.
Ensure key brands resonate Peroni Nastro Azzurro continues to take share in the premium segment and was supplemented during the year Shape superior routes to market by Peroni Leggera, a low carbohydrate variant.
Bluetongue Ensure societal leadership and Miller Genuine Draft continued to perform well.
The greenfield brewery north of Sydney is on track to be commissioned in June 2010, and local production will The economic environment in South Africa remained result in lower product costs.
challenging throughout the year with declining consumer demand, despite a return to GDP growth during the last quarter of calendar 2009.
Lager volumes declined by 1% for the year with 1% growth during the second half peak offsetting a 3% decline during the first six months.
The beer market grew marginally during the year, and growth increased towards the end of the year, benefiting somewhat from stock build-up ahead of the Easter 2010 peak.
Soft drinks volumes declined 1% reflecting the difficult economic environment and the unseasonably cold and wet weather during the summer peak.
Sparkling soft drinks sales were down 1% with increased consumption in PET packs offset by a decline in can volumes.
The impact of a seven-week strike, which took place over the peak Christmas period, was mitigated by thorough contingency planning.
Revenue grew by 6% and revenue per hectolitre grew by 7% on a constant currency basis driven by price increases in line with inflation in both beer and soft drinks.
Raw material costs remained under pressure as mediumterm contractual arrangements with key brewing raw material suppliers limited our ability to benefit from the downturn in brewing commodity prices.
Higher packaging materials and sugar prices also contributed to increased input costs.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Operations review 33 Organic, constant currency EBITA grew by 2%, but was South Africa: Hotels and Gaming up 16% on a reported basis reflecting the strengthening of the rand over the year, relative to the US dollar.
Margins Financial summary 2010 2009 % showed a modest decline with a fall in volumes, higher input Group revenue share costs and greater investment in market-facing activities of associate US$m 406 348 17 partly offset by price increases and cost productivity.
A continued focus on reducing non-market-facing and 1 EBITA US$m 122 122 1 distribution costs delivered savings of almost US$80 million EBITA margin % 30.0 34.9 during the year.
These savings were redirected into marketfacing investments.
Revenue per available room Revpar US$ 65.33 67.36 3 Much of the increase in marketing support was directed into our core power brands: Carling Black Label, Hansa 1 In 2009 before exceptional charges of US$7 million being Pilsener and Castle Lager in the mainstream segment the groups share of fair value mark to market losses on financial instruments.
and Castle Lite in the premium segment.
Both Hansa Pilsener and Castle Lager delivered high single digit growth.
Castle Lite, which already accounts for one in SABMiller is a 49% shareholder of the Tsogo Sun group.
every three premium beers purchased in South Africa, returned to growth and is now performing strongly.
The South African hotel industry remained subdued during the year with lower levels of corporate and government In the premium segment, we continued to establish spending.
A number of major sporting events in South our international premium portfolio with the focused Africa during the first quarter of the year provided some development of Miller Genuine Draft, Peroni Nastro uplift, but occupancies remained depressed overall.
Our share of Tsogo Suns reported revenue was During the year, we upgraded sales capability and customer US$406 million, an increase of 17% on a reported service offerings to retailers in all classes of trade, which basis including the non-organic share of revenue of resulted in both the number of outlets serviced and the Tsogo Suns associated company, Gold Reef Resorts, intensity of servicing increasing substantially.
and the newly acquired Century Casinos business.
The Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Excluding this incremental revenue, revenue decreased transaction that was announced during the year, will 4% against the prior year at constant currency.
Constant benefit employees, soft drinks and liquor retailers and currency revenue per available room revpar declined the wider South African community by placing 8.45% of 15%, and was down 3% at reported rates reflecting the the equity of The South African Breweries Limited under stronger rand relative to the US dollar.
The retail offer closed on 28 April 2010 The gaming industry in South Africa contracted during the and the initial allocation of shares will be completed in year with weak demand affecting casino win, although the June 2010.
Gauteng, Distells international and domestic sales continued to the most significant gaming province, reported a 3% drop exhibit good performance with strong sales of cider and in market size.
ready-to-drink brands offsetting declines in spirits and Despite the tough trading conditions, the Tsogo Sun wine.
Despite higher volumes, profitability declined due to group concluded a number of transactions during the unfavourable sales mix and adverse transactional currency.
year, positioning itself well to benefit from market recovery in the future.
On 30 June 2009, Tsogo Sun acquired 100% of the Century Casinos business in Caledon and Newcastle, and in October 2009 increased its stake in the Suncoast Casino in Durban by an additional 30%.
In February 2010, SABMiller announced its intention to merge the Tsogo Sun group with Gold Reef Resorts Limited, a Johannesburg Stock Exchange listed business, through an all-share merger, which will result in SABMiller holding 39.7% of the listed merged entity.
The newly merged company is expected to be one of the top 10 listed Gaming and Hotel companies in the world.
The transaction was approved by Gold Reef Resorts shareholders in April 2010 but completion is still subject to the necessary regulatory and other approvals.
