44 Board of directors SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Board of directors Graham Mackay 60 Malcolm Wyman 63 Meyer Kahn 70 Mark Armour 55 Geoffrey Bible 72 BSc Eng, BCom CA SA BA Law, MBA, DCom hc, SOE MA, ACA FCA Aust, ACMA Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman Graham Mackay joined Malcolm Wyman joined SAB Meyer Kahn joined the group in Mark Armour joined the board Geoffrey Bible joined the board The South African Breweries Ltd in 1986, and joined the 1966 and occupied executive in May 2010.
He has been in 2002 following completion Limited SAB Ltd in 1978 and board as Group Corporate positions in a number of the the Chief Financial Officer of of the Miller Brewing Company has held a number of senior Finance Director in 1990.
He groups former retail interests Reed Elsevier Group PLC since transaction.
He served as positions in the group, including was appointed to the board of before being appointed to the 1996, and of its two parent Chief Executive Officer of Altria Executive Chairman of the beer South African Breweries plc board of SAB Ltd in 1981. companies, Reed Elsevier PLC Group, Inc. from 1994 until business in South Africa.
upon its listing on the London He was appointed Group and Reed Elsevier NV, having April 2002 and as Chairman of Stock Exchange in 1999.
Managing Director in 1983 and previously been a partner in the Altria board from January He was appointed Group Executive Chairman in 1990. the London office of Price 1995 until August 2002, when Managing Director in 1997 He became Chief Financial In 1997 he was seconded fullWaterhouse.
He also served and Chief Executive of South Officer in 2001, with responsibility time to the South African Police as Chairman of the board of African Breweries plc upon for the groups finance From 2002 until 2004 he Service as its Chief Executive, Kraft Foods Inc. from March its listing on the London Stock operations, corporate finance was Chairman of The Hundred serving for two and a half years.
2001 until his retirement in Exchange in 1999. and development, and group Group of Finance Directors.
He was appointed Chairman August 2002. strategy.
He was a member of the He is the Senior Independent of South African Breweries plc Finance and Reporting Working Non-Executive Director of He is a Non-Executive Director upon its listing on the London Group of the UK Governments Reckitt Benckiser Group plc of Nedbank Group Limited and Stock Exchange in 1999.
Company Law Review Steering and a Director of Philip Morris Nedbank Limited.
Among other awards, he Group, which reported in 2001, International Inc. holds an honorary doctorate in and a member of the group commerce from the University appointed by the Financial of Pretoria and was awarded Reporting Council which The South African Police Star produced the Smith Report for Outstanding Service SOE on Audit Committees in 2003. in 2000.
John Manzoni 50 Miles Morland 66 Dambisa Moyo 41 Carlos Alejandro Prez Rob Pieterse 67 BEng, MEng, MBA BSc, Ph.
D, MPA, MBA Dvila 47 BA, MPhil John Manzoni joined the board Miles Morland joined the board Dambisa Moyo joined the Carlos Prez joined the board Rob Pieterse joined the board in 2004.
He is founder and board in June 2009.
She is in 2005, following completion in 2008.
He is chairman of Chief Executive Officer of Chairman of two companies an international economist of the Bavaria transaction.
the supervisory boards of Talisman Energy Inc.
Prior to investing in Africa, Blakeney and commentator on the He is a Managing Director at Mercurius Groep B. V. and joining Talisman in September Management and Development global economy and worked Quadrant Capital Advisors, Inc. Royal Grolsch N. V. and is a 2007 he was Chief Executive Partners International.
He is at Goldman Sachs for eight and serves on the board and member of the supervisory of Refining and Marketing of also a director of various years.
A Non-Executive Director executive committee of Valorem board of CSM N. V. He serves BP plc.
He joined BP in 1983 companies investing in the of Barclays PLC, Dambisa S. A.
He is also a director of on the boards of VEUO, the and was appointed to the BP emerging world.
previously worked at the World Caracol Television S. A. association of Dutch listed plc board in January 2003.
He Bank in Washington D. C. Comunican S. A. Cine companies, and of is a member of the Accenture Colombia S. A. and the Queen EuropeanIssuers.
Dambisa is a Patron for Energy Advisory Board.
He Absolute Return for Kids He spent 25 years at the was previously an investment ARK, a hedge fund supported multinational information banker at Goldman Sachs & childrens charity, and serves services company, Wolters Co. S. G. Warburg & Co. and on the board of the Lundin for Kluwer N. V. where he was Violy, Byorum & Partners.
She also Chairman from 2000 until 2003. serves on the board of Room He was a Non-Executive to Read, an education charity.
Director of Mecom Group plc between 2007 and 2009, and has previously been a member of the supervisory boards of Connexxion Holding N. V. Essent N. V. and Koninklijke Wegener N. V. Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Board of directors 45 Corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC Executive committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee Audit committee Dinyar Devitre 63 Liz Doherty 52 Robert Fellowes 68 John Manser 70 BA hons, MBA BSc hons, FCMA CBE, DL, FCA Dinyar Devitre joined the board Liz Doherty joined the board Lord Fellowes joined the board John Manser joined the board in 2007 as a nominee of Altria in 2006.
He is Chairman of Group, Inc.
He is a member of 2007 and November 2009 Barclays Private Bank Barclays Intermediate Capital Group plc the board of Altria.
Between she was Chief Financial Officer Wealth until 31 December and Shaftesbury PLC and April 2002 and March 2008 he of Brambles Limited.
Prior to 2009 and was Private Secretary Deputy Chairman of Colliers was Senior Vice President and joining Brambles she was to the Queen from 1990 until CRE plc.
He was previously Chief Financial Officer of Altria Group International Finance 1999, having joined the Royal Chairman of Hiscox Investment and prior to his appointment Director of Tesco PLC.
Before Household in 1977 from a Management Ltd, London Asia to this position had held a joining Tesco in 2001, she held career in the London Money Chinese Private Equity Fund number of senior management a number of commercial and Market.
He is a trustee of Limited and Robert Fleming positions within the Altria strategic positions in Unilever the Rhodes Trust and the Holdings Limited, a former group.
He is a director of PLC, including Senior Vice Mandela-Rhodes Foundation.
member of the Presidents Western Union Company, President Finance Central He is also on the board of the Committee of the British Emdeon Inc. and a special & Eastern Europe, Financial British Library.
Banking Association, a adviser to General Atlantic LLC.
Director Unilever Thai director of the Securities He was a director of Kraft Holdings and Financial Director, and Investments Board Foods Inc. from 2002 until Frigo, Espaa.
He serves as and is a past Chairman of a trustee of the Asia Society the London Investment and the Brooklyn Academy Banking Association.
of Music and is a director of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. Cyril Ramaphosa 57 Alejandro Santo Howard Willard 46 Bproc LLD hc Domingo Dvila 33 BA hons, MBA BA Cyril Ramaphosa joined the Alejandro Santo Domingo Howard Willard joined the board of SAB Ltd in 1997 and joined the board in 2005, board in August 2009 as a was appointed to the board following completion of the nominee of Altria Group, Inc. of South African Breweries plc Bavaria transaction.
He is a He is Executive Vice President, upon its listing on the London Managing Director at Quadrant Strategy and Business Stock Exchange in 1999.
He Capital Advisors, Inc. and Development for Altria with is the founder and chairman serves on the boards of oversight responsibility for of Shanduka Group and Joint Valorem S. A. Comunican S. A. Chateau Ste.
Michelle Wine Non-Executive Chairman and Caracol Television S. A.
He Estates, Philip Morris Duty of Mondi Group.
He holds is the treasurer of Aid for AIDS Free Inc. and the Strategy & directorships in Macsteel Charity, a member of the board Business Development group Global B. V. MTN Group Ltd, of trustees of The Metropolitan at Altria Client Services Inc.
The Bidvest Group, Standard Museum of Art and is also a He has held various leadership Bank and Alexander Forbes member of the board of the positions at Philip Morris and serves on the board US-based DKMS Americas USA Inc. in Finance, Sales, of the Commonwealth Foundation.
Information Services and Business Council.
Before joining the Altria family He is a former Secretary of companies in 1992 he General of the African National worked at Bain & Company Congress ANC and was and Salomon Brothers Inc. Chairman of the Constitutional He currently serves on the Assembly, which negotiated board of the YMCA of Greater South Africas first democratic Richmond.
