30 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Operations review continued Africa: Resilient lager volume growth underpins EBITA growth of 4% on an organic, constant currency basis Reported EBITA grew 1%, and by 4% in organic, Africa constant currency terms.
Margins declined in the second half to end the year 90 bps below the prior year on an Financial summary 2010 2009 % organic, constant currency basis as the depreciation of Group revenue including some local currencies increased the cost of imported raw share of associates US$m 2,716 2,567 6 materials.
Fixed costs increased with capacity expansion and supply chain difficulties in Angola negatively impacted 1 EBITA US$m 565 562 1 margin.
Price increases across the region were generally EBITA margin % 20.8 21.9 at or below inflation levels.
In Tanzania, lager volumes declined 4%, in line with Sales volumes hl 000 the industry, as a result of softer consumer spending Lager 13,476 12,726 6 and adverse weather conditions earlier in the year.
Marketing spend on all brands was increased with Lager organic 13,443 12,726 6 a focus on brand innovation.
Ndovu Special Malt Soft drinks 10,442 8,352 25 and Castle Lite were both launched in the premium segment in a new 375 ml green bottle and volume Soft drinks organic 8,687 8,352 4 performance was above initial expectations.
Safari Other alcoholic beverages 3,922 4,079 4 Lager, Redds and Castle Milk Stout all benefited from 1 In 2010 before net exceptional charges of US$3 million being packaging renovations.
Our new brewery in Mbeya was business capability programme costs 2009: US$nil.
successfully commissioned during the second half of the year allowing us to reduce distribution costs in the south Key focus areas west region.
Our arrangement with East African Breweries Spur growth in beer and soft drinks with Limited EABL to brew and distribute their products in expanded brand portfolios across a wider Tanzania was terminated in the final quarter of the year.
price range Mozambique returned to strong growth with lager Further develop sales and distribution to volumes up 11%.
This reflects improved economic enhance our outlet presence and extend conditions and good growth in the north, aided by the our geographic coverage commissioning of our new brewery in Nampula.
Both Optimally manage our capital investment Laurentina Premium and Laurentina Preta, a dark lager, programme to enable continuing growth grew strongly.
The draught category performed well in the Mitigate high imported input costs through on-premise channel.
Profitability growth slowed reflecting innovation and local supply chains increased import costs driven up by the depreciation of the metical against the rand.
Uganda delivered strong lager growth of 24%, assisted by Africas volumes continued to grow in a year in which newly upgraded capacity and improved market execution.
economic growth slowed as a result of the global The launch of the new long neck bottle invigorated the economic recession, and which also resulted in weaker market and differentiated the Nile Special and Club brands.
currencies, increased cost of debt and higher inflation.
In addition, the launch of Nile Gold, a premium malt lager, Our multi-beverage portfolio proved resilient, with total was well received.
In the final quarter, we completed the organic volumes up 4% including lager volume growth acquisition of the Rwenzori water business, the market of 6% and soft drinks growth of 4%.
During the year, we leader in bottled water in Uganda.
acquired further non-alcoholic beverage businesses in Zambia lager volumes benefited from the reduction in Uganda, Ethiopia and Zambia, invested in new breweries excise at the beginning of the financial year, driving growth in Angola, Mozambique, Southern Sudan and Tanzania of 17%.
A further excise reduction was announced in and expanded capacity in Uganda and Zambia.
The beer portfolio was expanded with the Brand and pack differentiation produced strong growth in launch of the local premium brand Mosi Gold in December the premium category and further growth in the affordable 2009.
Soft drinks volumes grew 1% on an organic basis.
We made progress in driving affordability by using The maheu business a non-alcoholic traditional beverage, local ingredients and supporting enterprise development acquired in September 2009, performed well, growing through farming initiatives and local sourcing.
our non-alcoholic brand portfolio and driving soft drinks volumes up 28% on a reported basis.
EBITA margin was impacted by unfavourable exchange rates as a result of the weak kwacha, which drove up the cost of imported raw materials.
