Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Operations review 31 Asia: EBITA level on an organic, constant currency basis as strong China growth is offset by constraints in India In Angola, in a very challenging year, soft drinks volumes Asia ended 5% below the prior year, while lager volumes grew 5%.
After years of strong economic growth, Angola Financial summary 2010 2009 % experienced negative GDP growth following a significant Group revenue including drop in oil revenue.
During the year, the kwanza was fideshare of associates and linked from the US dollar resulting in a 15% depreciation joint ventures US$m 1,741 1,565 11 and the imposition of severe currency restrictions.
These factors negatively impacted consumer spending.
Capacity EBITA US$m 71 80 12 constraints, exacerbated by difficult logistics, hampered EBITA margin % 4.1 5.1 production while the cost of imported raw materials was adversely affected by the currency depreciation.
A new Sales volumes hl 000 two million hectolitre soft drinks plant was commissioned in January 2010 and the new brewery in Luanda was Lager 46,279 41,714 11 commissioned in April 2010.
Lager organic 44,815 41,714 7 In Botswana, the sale of alcoholic products continued to be adversely affected by difficult economic conditions, the Key focus areas social levy introduced in November 2008 and restricted Further build market leadership in China trading and drinking hours.
Our lager volumes ended the and enhance profitability year 35% below the prior year.
Soft drinks volumes grew Continue to drive Snow, the largest beer by 9% driven by increased returnable bottle sales, brand in China enhanced marketing and improved trade execution.
Pursue market liberalisation in India to Castel delivered increased profits with lager volumes achieve a reasonable trading environment growing 11% supported by new capacity in Angola and for the beer industry good growth in Cameroon, Ethiopia and the Republic of Develop our operations in Vietnam and Australia Congo.
Soft drinks volumes also grew 11% with good as well as our broader regional presence growth in Algeria, Tunisia and Cameroon.
Asias lager volumes grew 7% on an organic basis, with good growth in China, Australia and Vietnam partly offset by volume decline in India due to regulatory issues.
Full-year EBITA was level on an organic, constant currency basis with good underlying growth in China offset by difficult trading conditions in India.
Reported EBITA, which includes initial losses in recent Chinese start-ups and acquisitions, declined 12%.
In China, lager volumes grew 10% on an organic basis and 13% on a reported basis despite a slowdown in growth over the last quarter of the year.
Additional capacity of some 20 million hectolitres was added during the year including the acquisition of three new breweries and the commissioning of four greenfield breweries across both existing and new markets.
Marketing efforts remained focused on the Snow brand, which is now approaching 90% of volumes, particularly behind the Snow Draft and Brave the World variants in the fast-growing premium segment.
CR Snows market share continued to grow and is estimated to exceed 20%.
