Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Global beer market trends 9 Global beer market trends 1 The global beer market In Eastern Europe, certain beer markets Alcohol category growth % contracted in 2009 as rising unemployment At the turn of the century, the top 10 brewers and declining on-premise consumption halted Wine 100 accounted for just over one-third of global beer growth.
Regulatory challenges created further sales volumes.
The past decade has seen a headwinds in markets such as Russia and the 80 rapid consolidation, resulting in the top four Spirits beer market there declined 6% as a result.
brewers Anheuser-Busch InBev, SABMiller, 60 Heineken and Carlsberg accounting for Macroeconomic indicators improved in some almost 50% of beer sales volumes and up to markets in the last three months of 2009.
40 2 75% of the global profit pool.
Consolidation However, the drivers of beer consumption Beer has continued in the past 12 months with such as falling unemployment and rising 20 further transactions in Mexico and China.
As consumption expenditure are expected to lag 02 04 06 08 10 12 the pace of consolidation slows in the future, behind the recoveries in GDP.
North America, Beer share of alcohol trends organic volume growth is expected to come hit hard in 2009 by high unemployment, in major emerging markets from developing markets along with value particularly among men of beer-drinking Source: Canadean creation opportunities in developed markets.
age, is expected to see only slight growth.
Globally, the beer market is expected to Alcohol trends grow by 1.5% in 2010, led by a continuing Beer growth trends Category trends show a dichotomy between strong performance in Asia, Africa and Latin % developing and developed beer markets.
China is expected to grow by 6.5%, incomes rising in emerging markets, consumers Africa by 3.1% and Latin America by almost 10 have shifted from informal, often commoditised, 3%.
Western Europe is expected to continue 8 unregulated forms of alcohol to aspirational, the trend of declining beer volumes, driven attractively branded and safer beer products.
by a shift in consumption to other beverages 6 The period from 1999 to 2008 saw commercially and the decline of on-premise consumption.
produced beer increasing its share of total Looking further ahead to 2014, the top 4 alcohol consumption in emerging markets by 15 growth markets are forecast to deliver over 800 bps from 32.8% in 1999 to 41.2% 2 compounded annual growth of 3%.
China in 2008 on a pure alcohol basis.
The same is expected to account for more than 45% period saw a moderate decline in developed 0 of this growth with the USA, Vietnam, Brazil, markets to 35.2% in 2008.
Ukraine, Russia, Mexico and Peru making Five year compound annual growth rate The economic crisis caused an overall downturn up most of the balance.
CAGR by region 2005-2009 in 2009 one that was further exacerbated Source: Canadean by government fiscal pressures leading to Beer segment trends increases in beer excise and other taxation in Across consumer goods sectors in general, order to raise funds.
The consequent consumer the trend towards premiumisation accelerated price increases have constrained beer volume in the past decade but slowed in the last 18 Beer segment trends growth while favouring unregulated forms % months as economic conditions worsened of alcohol.
and consumers reverted to mainstream and economy segments.
As economies improve, Mainstream As the global economy improves, rising 14.5% the trend towards premium will resume as Premium incomes continue to be a significant factor Economy consumers become more willing to pay for in developing beer markets as the category authentic, more image-oriented brands that 16.5% grows at the expense of illicit, high-alcohol reflect their socio-economic and lifestyle spirits.
In Africa, Latin America and Asia in 69% aspirations.
particular, the rise in consumption is closely 3 correlated to population and income growth.
The premiumisation trend has not altered the fact that beer remains very much a local Beer growth trends beverage in terms of both production and Segment mix within global beer category 2009 consumer brand preferences.
International Over the past five years the beer category Source: Canadean brands account for just over 6% of the worlds has maintained a compound average growth beer consumption and this proportion has rate CAGR of 3.5% globally.
However, this changed little over the last 10 years.
Rather, reflects two very different pictures in emerging what has happened is that urbanisation and and developed markets with emerging a growing middle class in emerging markets markets growing at an average rate of 6.8% have led to the growth of local premium while developed markets declined by 3.4%.
These offer premium packaging, The largest contributors to this growth have positioning and variety, but are sold at a been China now the worlds largest beer price accessible to many more consumers market, Africa and Eastern Europe.
The Given the economic pressures, total global resulting scale and higher profit margins beer consumption grew by less than 1% in make this a very attractive industry segment.
That said, strong growth trends continued in some key emerging markets.
China recorded an increase of over 7%, despite being hampered by heavy snow and wet weather that affected consumer demand.
Africa experienced robust 1 All data sourced from Canadean unless growth of 4%, driven by Angola, DR Congo, otherwise noted.
2 BofAMerrilLynch report: Investing in Global Brewers 19 April 2010.
World North America Western Europe Eastern Europe Latin America Africa Asia Australasia
