16 Strategic priorities SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Strategic priorities continued Developing strong, relevant brand portfolios that win in the local market We seek to develop attractive brand portfolios that meet consumers needs in each of our markets.
This includes expanding our offering to address new consumer segments and drinking occasions, strengthening our mainstream brands, building a differentiated portfolio of international and local premium brands and channelling the right brands to the right outlets at the right time and price.
A distinctive space in the market for Castle Lite In recent years, the main growth in the South African market has been in the premium segment.
After a pause during the economic downturn, the premium market has resumed its growth and continues to offer attractive, long-term potential.
It currently accounts for 17% of South Africas beer sales and the figure looks set to rise.
However, the segment has become extremely competitive.
Determined to fight back hard in the premium market, SAB has refreshed its leading premium beer, Castle Lite, and created a more distinctive positioning and a stronger reason for consumers to buy the product.
In identifying a big idea for the brand, the business looked to lessons learned elsewhere in the group and chose to make cold the defining characteristic of Castle Lite.
It then launched a comprehensive programme to own this particular space in the market.
As well as emphasising Castle Lites premium credentials with new packaging and point of sale material, the business created an upbeat, cold-themed TV campaign featuring the American rapper, Vanilla Ice.
It also supplied over 4,000 attractively styled, extra-cold fridges to its retailers.
These were supported by an integrated through-the-line campaign in which visual cues in the advertising the extra-cold beer being lifted from an extra-cold fridge, for example were re-triggered through billboards, packs, merchandising and other points of contact with the consumer.
In an innovation borrowed from Coors Light in the USA, the product now features a thermochromatic label that turns blue when the beer reaches the optimum low temperature.
Castle Lite has responded well.
Since the cold programme began, the previous decline in sales has been stemmed and growth has kicked back in with volumes more than 8% up on the previous year.
Despite formidable competition, Castle Lite remains the largest brand in South Africas premium sector.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Strategic priorities 17 Blue Moon rises Transforming a brand in a falling market with community marketing Although much of the beer market in the USA has By 2008, Hungarys third largest mainstream brand, Arany szok, suffered from the economic slowdown and a trend was losing the loyalty of its consumers, especially in its home region.
among some consumers to switch to cheaper beers, To become more relevant and re-establish brand loyalty, the Hungarian craft beers have continued to sell well among drinkers business carried out a detailed analysis of the market and Arany szoks who value their heritage and distinctive characteristics.
target consumers, namely blue-collar workers aged 30 to 49.
During the year MillerCoors launched a programme to The crucial insight was that these were the countrys unsung heroes, build on the success of the countrys leading craft beer, that what they valued was recognition and the sense of belonging to Blue Moon.
Breaking the tradition that craft beers rely on their community, and that where they found it was playing or cheering discovery and word of mouth rather than advertising, the for the local amateur football team.
business mounted a national advertising campaign, one The upshot was an innovative community marketing programme that aim of which was to increase sales through supermarkets now sponsors approximately 1,000 town and village teams.
As well as and bottle stores.
To create further buzz around the receiving free football kit, local teams are publicised on billboards and in product, it also launched the special edition Blue Moon the media in a way that links Arany szok with local pride.
At the heart Grand Cru in a distinctive indigo bottle to mark the blue of the programme is the local bar through which SABMiller channels its moon the second full moon in a calendar month that support many teams have an official pub where the sponsorship contract occurred on New Years Eve, 2009.
The move attracted is signed.
Themed packs and promotions carry the message into stores more attention to the Blue Moon brand and followed two that are also keen to support the local heroes.
other seasonal brand extensions, Honeymoon and in the fall Full Moon.
The results have been dramatic.
Loyalty measures are rising, as is Arany szoks share of value within the segment.
In a market still suffering from Coupled with wider distribution, the advertising campaign recession with volumes declining and pubs closing at a rapid rate, the and the flow of innovative variations on the product have brand has gained access to many new outlets.
Furthermore, its revenue helped to keep Blue Moon relevant and interesting to its per hectolitre is up as its brand equity has strengthened and there is less consumers.
Sales for the year were up by high single digit resorting to price promotions.
percentage growth and the brand continues to make a valuable contribution to MillerCoors overall results.
A new opportunity in local premium brands The groups strategy within each market is to provide a full portfolio of brands with offerings at each point on the price ladder.
Between local mainstream beers, which make up the vast majority of sales in most markets, and top-end international premium brands, SABMiller is finding attractive opportunities for local premium brands.
More affordable than international premium brands, the concept trades on local provenance and pride and widens the choice for aspiring consumers wanting an affordable luxury.
Local premium brands have proved very successful in Europe and Latin America and the same concept is now being applied in Africa.
SABMillers strategy for local premium brands in Africa is to make each brand unique as the premium beer from here while positioning its brands on the basis of common insights and taking a shared approach to marketing and advertising.
That works because local premium brands tend to be drunk for the same reasons on the same occasions by similar types of consumer.
Success lies in combining cross-border skills and the benefits of scale with a distinctive local twist in each market.
Local premium brands in Africa have grown by 80% compared with the prior year.
The star has been Mozambiques Laurentina Preta, up more than 80%, with other strong performances from Maluti in Lesotho and Ndovu in Tanzania.
The recent launches of Nile Gold Uganda, Mosi Gold Zambia, Sebebe Swaziland and Laurentina Premium Mozambique have all been well received.
