14 Strategic priorities SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Strategic priorities Creating a balanced and attractive global spread of businesses The wide geographic spread of our operations allows us to benefit from growth in volumes and value in beer markets around the world.
We continue to look for opportunities to strengthen our geographic footprint in both developed and developing markets through greenfield entries, alliances, mergers and acquisitions.
Capitalising on Africas growth Africa continues to offer attractive opportunities within the groups global portfolio of businesses.
In the last decade, the economies of sub-Saharan Africa have grown faster than the newly industrialised Asian economies albeit from a low base and have proved resilient to the global recession.
With moderating inflation, growing trade surpluses, falling external debt and expanding populations, Africas economic prospects are encouraging.
Per capita consumption of beer is low but rising.
Theres also good potential for substituting commercial brands for unregulated and unsafe home brews and for introducing new products at the premium end of the portfolio strategies that SABMiller is vigorously pursuing.
After 10 years of steadily rising demand across Africa, one of SABMillers top priorities has been to increase capacity to keep pace.
The past two years have seen substantial investment with new breweries at Mbeya in Tanzania, Nampula in Mozambique, Luanda in Angola and Juba in Southern Sudan as well as upgrades and expansions at Jinja in Uganda and Lusaka in Zambia.
The group has also purchased the Pabod brewery in Port Harcourt to gain its first foothold in Nigeria, the secondlargest beer market on the continent.
Other acquisitions have further diversified the portfolio into nonbeer categories part of a strategy of using the existing operational infrastructure to sell water, soft drinks and malt drinks alongside beer.
In the past two years SABMiller has acquired a Zambian maheu business a non-alcoholic traditional beverage, and three water businesses Voltic in Ghana and Nigeria, Rwenzori in Uganda and Ambo in Ethiopia.
Africas water market is growing at 17.5% a year and water has grown to 4% of sales volume within SABMillers African portfolio in just two years.
In Ghana, new facilities for Club soft drinks produced a leap in sales after a period in which growth was constrained by lack of availability.
Also in Ghana, Voltics sales have done well after improvements in availability and distribution.
To meet growing demand in Angola and Southern Sudan, the business opened a new soft drinks plant in Luanda and began producing soft drinks and water in Juba, all adding further value to SABMillers African portfolio.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Strategic priorities 15 Savings from MillerCoors integration ahead of target The MillerCoors joint venture began operations on 1 July 2008 and was an important step in maximising the value from SABMillers North American assets.
It aimed to create a business with the scale and efficiency to compete more effectively in the US market and promised to achieve US$500 million in annual cost savings by its third year of operation.
Now approaching the end of its second year, MillerCoors is ahead of schedule in its cost-management programme.
The savings have come from actions such as optimising production across the brewery network in order to reduce distribution costs, integrating business processes and systems, combining the buying power of the two organisations and consolidating functions such as media buying and advertising.
In the past year, savings from synergies alone have amounted to US$248 million.
Total synergy savings since MillerCoors began operations now stand at US$326 million.
A further US$50 million has come from cost initiatives started by the parent companies and US$33 million from additional cost savings.
Going well beyond its original target, the business is now on track to generate US$750 million in total synergies and other cost savings by the end of the calendar year 2012 a major boost to MillerCoors ambition of becoming the best beer company in America.
Latin American business builds a solid foundation for growth When SABMiller merged with Bavarias businesses in Colombia, Peru, Ecuador and Panama in 2005, it set out to achieve annual savings of US$120 million from operating improvements and cost synergies by March 2010.
By transferring skills and knowledge from around the SABMiller group to these businesses, it has more than met this savings target.
One of its first priorities was to transform the image of beer, presenting it as a high-quality, aspirational product to increase its share of the total alcohol market.
The task included segmenting the market and creating a full portfolio of rejuvenated and differentiated brands and packs to match specific consumer needs and beer-drinking occasions, all backed by extensive marketing investment.
Unattractive bottles were replaced with more modern shapes and graphics.
A thorough overhaul of the route to market made it possible to deliver the right products to each outlet with far greater efficiency and better customer service.
The result for SABMiller is a successful portfolio of businesses that have generated an attractive return on the groups initial investment of US$7.8 billion announced in 2005.
EBITA from the Latin American businesses has grown at a compound annual growth rate of 16% over this period with margins rising by 320 bps.
The lessons learned from this valuable addition to the global portfolio are now being shared with other group businesses.
The Latin American business sees further opportunities for organic growth as economies grow, consumers switch to commercially produced beer from other forms of alcohol particularly informal spirits and consumption per capita rises to the level of other countries in the region.
CR Snow strengthens its leading position in China The groups Chinese associate, CR Snow, grew at double the market rate during the calendar year 2009, strengthening its leadership and gaining share in key regions of the country.
In a market relatively unaffected by the recession, it increased its earnings and return on investment and continues to invest to benefit from Chinas economic growth.
Responding to consumer demand, CR Snow bought three more breweries and built a further four as part of a 20 million hectolitre increase in capacity during the year.
These expansions have reinforced an already strong presence in Jilin, Inner Mongolia and Zhejiang and taken the business into the important new territory of Shanghai.
At the same time, the company has been reaping the cost synergies of previous acquisitions and gaining economies of scale in procurement, operations and routes to market.
CR Snows share of the Chinese market is estimated to exceed 20%.
Within that, the Snow brand one of the biggest beer brands in the world and larger than Chinas second and third brands combined is approaching 90% of the portfolio.
The companys channel management skills make the brand highly visible and available and its growing fame enables geographic expansion.
The past year has seen further efforts to strengthen its brand equity, particularly behind Snow Draft and Brave the World variants in the fast-growing premium segment.
