46 Executive committee SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Executive committee The executive committee excom is appointed by the Chief Executive.
It comprises the Chief Financial Officer, divisional managing directors and directors of group functions.
Its purpose is to support the Chief Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to him by the board.
In that context, excom co-ordinates brand and operational execution and delivers strategic plans and budgets for the boards consideration.
It also ensures that regular financial reports are presented to the board, that effective internal controls are in place and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in operation throughout the group.
Norman Adami 55 Mark Bowman 43 Alan Clark 50 Sue Clark 46 John Davidson 51 BBusSc hons, MBA BCom, MBA MA, DLitt et Phil BSc hons, MBA MA, BCL Oxon Chairman and Managing Managing Director, Managing Director, Corporate Affairs General Counsel and Director, SAB Ltd SABMiller Africa SABMiller Europe Director, SABMiller plc Group Company Secretary, SABMiller plc Norman Adami was Mark Bowman was appointed Dr Clark was appointed Sue Clark was appointed John Davidson joined the group reappointed Chairman and Managing Director of SABMiller Managing Director, SABMiller Corporate Affairs Director, as General Counsel and Group Managing Director of The South Africa in October 2007.
He joined SAB SABMiller plc in 2003.
African Breweries Limited SAB joined SABMillers beer division Ltd in 1990 as Training and to this, she held a number of Before joining SABMiller, he Ltd in October 2008.
He first in 1993 and has held various Development Manager.
He has senior roles in UK companies, spent his entire legal career at joined SAB Ltd in 1979 and senior positions in the group.
since held a number of senior including Director of Corporate Lovells, a leading international has held a number of senior These include Managing positions in the group, including Affairs, Railtrack Group from law firm, where he had been a positions in the group.
These Director of SABMillers Marketing Director, SAB Ltd, 2000 to 2003 and Director partner since 1991 specialising include Regional Director, Polish subsidiary Kompania Managing Director, ABI and of Corporate Affairs, Scottish in international corporate Operations Director, Managing Piwowarska S. A.
Managing Chairman, Appletiser South Power plc from 1996 to 2000. finance, cross-border mergers Director and Chairman, SAB Director of Amalgamated Africa Pty Ltd. Before joining and acquisitions, and corporate Ltd, President and Chief Beverage Industries Ltd ABI the group, he practised as governance advisory work.
Executive Officer, Miller Brewing now the Soft Drinks Division a clinical psychologist and John is the current Chairman Company and President of SAB Ltd and Chairman lectured in psychology at for 2010 of the GC100 and Chief Executive Officer, of Appletiser.
Vista University in South Africa.
group the association of SABMiller Americas.
general counsel and company secretaries of companies in the FTSE 100.
Nick Fell 56 Tony van Kralingen 52 Ari Mervis 46 Barry Smith 60 BA hons BA hons BCom BSc, MBA Marketing Director, Director: Supply Chain & Managing Director, President, SABMiller SABMiller plc Human Resources, SABMiller Asia Latin America SABMiller plc Nick Fell was appointed Tony van Kralingen was Ari Mervis was appointed Barry Smith was appointed Marketing Director, SABMiller appointed Director: Supply Managing Director of SABMiller President, SABMiller Latin plc in 2006.
Prior to this, he Chain & Human Resources for Asia in October 2007.
He America in 2007 and prior to worked for Cadbury the SABMiller group in October joined ABI in 1989 and has held this he was President, Schweppes Plc, as President, 2008.
He joined SAB Ltd in various senior positions in SABMiller South America from Global Commercial Strategy 1982 and has held a number of sales, marketing, finance and 2005.
He joined SAB Ltd in and also as Director of senior positions in the group.
He has 1984 and has held a number of Marketing, Cadbury Trebor These include Operations been Managing Director of senior positions in the group.
He previously worked Director and Marketing Director, Swaziland Bottling Company These include Marketing for Diageo plc for 15 years in a SAB Ltd, Chairman & Chief and Appletiser as well as Director, SAB Ltd, Managing number of senior roles including Executive Officer, Plzesk Managing Director of SABMiller Director, Kompania Piwowarska Global Brands Director, Johnnie Prazdroj a. s. and, most operations in Russia and S. A. and Senior Vice President, Walker, and Group Marketing recently, Chairman and Australia.
Market Development and Director, Guinness Brewing.
Managing Director: SAB Ltd. Strategy, Miller Brewing He is accountable for the Company.
Global Technical function and Chairman of the Global Sourcing Council.
