What we do and how we work 9% 17% Our business Rest of World UK & Ireland We are a market leading, global company with 13,400people in 24countries and products and servicesavailable in many more.
Across the world we help our customers take care of thecriticalfunctions that all businesses require to operate aseasily, efficiently and cost-effectively as possible.
Revenue by region 36% Mainland Europe 38% North America Our customers 6.3 million companies and organisations around the worldnow use Sages software and services.
These range from small businesses to large organisations Lower Upper and divisions of multi-national corporations.
Our customers Entry-level mid-market mid-market Enterprise are at the forefront of what we do, whether they are globally 25 employees 500 employees 5,000 employees recognised businesses or belong to the large spectrum of local, smaller, entrepreneurial firms who look to Sage to meet their needs.
82% 16% 2% of our of our of our customer base customer base customer base 4% Our products and services CRM 4% We provide our customers with a choice of high quality, Payment processing easy to use and relevant business software, services and 13% support to help them better manage the processes that HR and payroll arethe core of their business.
The majority of our products are developed and sold locally to match local fiscal, legal and regulatory environments.
Our products Revenue and services range from accounts, ERP and payroll software to by sector payment processing, CRM and industry-specific solutions such 54% Accounting as healthcare, manufacturing, non-profit and construction.
25% Industry-specific The Sage Group plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 Headline revenue Our business model flat We operate through a decentralised, locally focused Group organic revenue business structure.
-4% This gives real autonomy to our local operating companies, Software and software-related allowingthem to keep in touch with their local customers and services revenue providing them with the freedom to deliver what these customers Licence, training, professional services, need.
Additionally, it enables them to react swiftly to the particular business forms, hardware characteristics of the local market.
Our business model is underpinned by exceptionally strong cash flow, generated throughahigh level of recurring subscription revenues.
2% Subscription revenue Combined software support contracts, maintenance and support, transaction 2009 2010 services, hosted products Underlying figures neutralise the impact of foreign exchange movements and exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2009 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2010 of $1.56 1 and 1.15 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Local innovation: Simplicity globalcollaboration Sages decentralised business model allows local innovation to flourish.
At the same time we collaborate extensively to share common Our Guiding Agility Trust technologies, experience, expertise and resources and to support Principles customers who require multi-country implementations.
Much of thisis done informally, but formal groups have also been established to facilitate collaboration in key areas including Global Technology and Product Marketing Committees, a Brand Marketing Team, aCustomer Experience Team and international sales and professional services teams.
Our decision making is guided by our Simplicity Guiding Principles Trust, Integrity, Innovation, Agility and Simplicity.
Innovation Integrity The Sage ecosystem Partners Our customers benefit from being supported by a globalbrand of nearly 30 years standing, belonging to a community of millions of entrepreneurs and an extensive and powerful ecosystem of business partners, software developers, accountants and other third parties.
27,000 This global community works with Sage to provide our customers with what they need, when and how they want it, whether it is add-on solutions, implementation and support or convenient 40,000 access to our solutions.
Accountants The Sage Group plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 941m 510m 954m 481m
