Directors report For the year ended 30 September 2010 The directors present their report and the audited consolidated Research and development financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2010.
During the year, the Group invested 158.9m 2009: 174.6m in research and development.
This has resulted in the release of a Principal activities number of new and updated products and features as referred to in the Business review on pages 1 to 39 including Principal risks The Groups principal activities during the year continued to be the and uncertainties.
development, distribution and support of business management software and related products and services for medium-sized and smaller businesses.
Charitable contributions and political donations Business review During the year, within the UK, charitable contributions totalling The Group achieved a profit before taxation of 319.9m on revenue 119,000 were made, which included 43,000 to The Tyne and of 1,435.0m.
Wear Community Foundation, 14,000 to The Community Foundation for Greater Manchester, 16,000 to The Berkshire The Companies Act 2006 requires us to present a fair review of Community Foundation, and a total of 46,000 in smaller the Groups business and a description of the principal risks and contributions to numerous charities.
The rest of the Group made uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that fulfils the charitable contributions totalling 307,000.
No political donations requirements of the Business review is provided in the sections were made in the year.
of this Annual Report headed: How weve performed, Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review, Financial review, What we do and how we work, Maximising our future growth potential, Regional Directors and their interests reviews, Our people, Corporate responsibility and Principal risks and A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the uncertainties on pages 1 to 39, all of which are incorporated into this Company and details of their options over the ordinary share capital report by reference.
of the Company are given in the Remuneration report on pages 51 The Business review does not contain any information about persons to 62.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract, with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements other than a service contract or contract for services, with the which are essential to the business of the Company as, in the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
directors view, there are no such arrangements.
As at the date of this report, indemnities which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006 are in Disclaimer place under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the directors of the Company and the former directors of the Company members of the Company.
This Annual Report has been prepared who held office during the year ended 30 September 2010, to the for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no extent permitted by law and by the Companys articles of association, other persons.
The Company, its directors and employees, agents or in respect of all liabilities incurred in connection with the performance advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person of their duties as a director of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come of these indemnities are available for review at the registered office of and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition Employment policy of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications since future events and circumstances can cause results and for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forwardrespective aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, where looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at practicable, the continued employment of those who may become the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company disabled during their employment and the provision of training and undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
career development and promotion, where appropriate.
The Group Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
has continued its policy of employee involvement by making information available to employees on matters of concern to them.
Results and dividends Many employees are stakeholders in the business through The results for the year and the amount transferred to reserves are participation in share option schemes and a long-term performance set out on page 63.
Dividends paid and proposed are set out on share plan.
Further details of employment policies are given on page 79.
The Board proposes a final dividend of 5.22p per share pages 28 and 29.
2009: 4.93p per share taking the proposed full year dividend to 7.80p per share 2009: 7.43p per share.
The Sage Group plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 Rights and obligations attaching to shares Creditor payment policy Voting Given the international nature of its operations, the Group does not In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the operate a standard code in respect of payments to suppliers.
Articles and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached Subsidiary operating companies are responsible for agreeing the to any class of shares in the Company of which there are none : terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted, including the terms of payment.
It is the On a show of hands, a qualifying person being an individual who Groups policy to ensure that suppliers are aware of those terms and is a member of the Company, a person authorised to act as the that payments to suppliers are made promptly in accordance with representative of a corporation or a person appointed as a proxy these terms.
Creditor days for the Group have been calculated at of a member shall have one vote: and 53 days 2009: 46 days.
The Company has no trade creditors On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall 2009: nil.
have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class Substantial shareholdings meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her if any call or other sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains At 20 December 2010, the Company had been notified, in unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Deadlines for voting rights Direct Indirect Total Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the Name shares % shares % shares % resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held Blackrock, Inc. 64,195,644 4.9364,195,6444.93 on 2 March 2011 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Invesco Limited 57,175,646 4.3457,175,6464.34 Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Future developments may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended The Groups future developments are described in the Business by the Board.
review on pages 1 to 39 including Principal risks and uncertainties.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the Additional information for shareholders opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid up law, the following description provides the required information for on the shares.
shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
Liquidation This summary is based on the Companys current articles of If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority association the Articles, but please note that it is proposed that of a special resolution of the Company and any other authority the Company will amend its articles of association with effect from required by the Statutes as defined in the Articles : the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 2 March 2011.
Brief details of the proposed changes are set out in the circular Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the containing the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
assets of the Company: or Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such Share capital trusts for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, shall think fit.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 1p each.
The Sage Group plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued Transfer of shares Under the Articles, at every Annual General Meeting of the Company, any director in office who a has been appointed by the Board since Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or the previous Annual General Meeting or b at the start of business her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form on the date which is 30 clear days prior to the date of the notice or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may, convening the Annual General Meeting had held office for more than in its absolute discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer 30 months since he or she was elected or last re-elected shall in of a certificated share which is not a fully paid share or on which the either case retire from office but shall be eligible for election or reCompany has a lien.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer election by the shareholders.
The Company may by special resolution of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at the or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given office, or at such other place as the Board may decide, for remove and the Board by unanimous decision may remove any registration: and ii accompanied by the certificate for the shares director before the expiration of his term of office.
The office of director to be transferred and such other evidence if any as the Board may shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: ii he or she is or may be reasonably require to prove the title of the intending transferor or his suffering from a mental disorder: iii he or she is absent without or her right to transfer the shares.
permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her office in uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with shares to be transferred by means of a relevant system and may his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from revoke any such permission.
Registration of a transfer of an being a director: or vi he or she is removed from office pursuant uncertificated share may be refused where permitted by the Statutes to the Articles.
as defined in the Articles.
However, in accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has agreed that all directors will stand for re-election Repurchase of shares at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 March 2011 and that it The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last Annual will propose an amendment to the Company's articles of association General Meeting held on 2 March 2010 to buy-back up to that, if approved by shareholders, will require the directors to stand for 131,296,695 ordinary shares, which remains outstanding until the re-election annually.
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting on 2 March 2011.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 1p and Powers of the directors the maximum price payable is the higher of 5% above the average The business of the Company will be managed by the Board of the mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Company as who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the the provisions of the Companys memorandum of association, five business days immediately before the purchase is made and the the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation of the Company.
Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses.
Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust Amendment of the Companys articles of association The trustee of the Sage Group plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT has Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be agreed not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any general meeting.
made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares the trustee by way of special resolution.
will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that time subject to subsisting awards, but will have Appointment and replacement of directors regard to the interests of the award holders and will have power to Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in number.
consult them to obtain their views on the offer.
Subject to the above Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution the trustee may take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
A director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next following Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to hold employment or executive office for such period subject to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
The Sage Group plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: Under a dual tranche US$271,000,000 and 214,000,000 five year multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 24 August 2010 between, amongst others, the Company and Lloyds TSB Bank plc as facility agent, on a change of control, if any individual lender so requires and after having consulted with the Company in good faith for not less than 30 days following the change of control, the facility agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to the Company, cancel the commitment of that lender and declare the participation of that lender in all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under the finance documents, immediately due and payable, whereupon the commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all such outstanding amounts will become immediately due and payable.
Under a note purchase agreement dated 11 March 2010 relating to US$200,000,000 senior notes, Series A, due 11 March 2015, US$50,000,000 senior notes, Series B, due 11 March 2016 and US$50,000,000 senior notes, Series C, due 11 March 2017 between the Company and the note holders, on a change of control, the Company will not take any action that consummates or finalises a change of control unless at least 15 business days prior to such action it shall have given to each holder of notes written notice containing and constituting an offer to pre-pay all notes on a date specified in such offer which shall be a business day occurring subsequent to the effective date of the change of control which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days after the date of the notice of pre-payments.
Where a holder of notes accepts the offer to pre-pay, the pre-payment shall be 100% of the principal amount of the notes together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon and shall be made on the proposed pre-payment date.
No pre-payment under a change of control shall include any premium of any kind.
Under the terms of both agreements, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company.
By Order of the Board M J Robinson Secretary 20 December 2010 The Sage Group plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
