Maximising our future growth potential Our strategy Our strategy Our strategy is to provide the most effectivesolutions, developed and supportedlocally tomeet our customersspecific market needs.
We encourage innovation to flourish locally, utilising the most appropriate technology tobringreal benefits for customers.
Many of our customers are resource constrained and look to Sage for support and advice, not only to ensure they get themost out of their software and services but also for guidance on key business issues.
We place great emphasis on providing this customer support, whichisakey differentiator in the marketplace.
Our long-term goals Be a key leader in all markets oftheworld.
Develop products and services which are the most compelling fit with acustomers country and industry.
Have the most trusted brands.
Have the most satisfied and active customers in our industry.
Experience superior organic revenue growth versus our peer group.
Be recognised as one of the most admired employers.
The key drivers for our approach are: 6.3 million With 6.3 million customers around the world wearecommitted to delivering high quality, easytouse and relevant business software, services and support.
Supporting customers Profitable Customer and growth market needs Innovation 1 1% 25% We use technology to help customers EBITA margin solve their business problems and Underlying figures neutralise the impact of foreign exchange movements manage their business more effectively 2009: 24% excluding and exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2009 have been retranslated we do this by embedding innovation into FY09 restructuring costs based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September our culture and by investing 11% of our 2010 of $1.56 1 and 1.15 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
EBITA is defined as earnings before interest, tax andamortisation revenue in R&D.
The Sage Group plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 We are maximising ourpotential for future growth over 13,000 minds committed to Keeping things on track our Executive Committee The Executive Committee oversees the sound running of all Sage operations and it comprises ten senior leaders from across The Sage Group plc, including the ChiefExecutive, Group Finance Director and the four CEOs from our regional businesses who manage the Groups operations on a regional level.
The other members are the Group Chief Technology Officer, the Company Secretary and Group Legal Director, the Group Director of HR and # Corporate Communications and the Director of Strategy and Corporate Development.
The role of the committee is to assist the Chief Executive in the performance of his duties, including: The development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets.
The monitoring of operating and financial performance.
The assessment and control of risk.
The prioritisation and allocation of resources.
Monitoring competitive forces in each area of operation.
The committee is also responsible for the consideration of all other matters not specifically reserved for consideration by the Board and approved by the Chief Executive.
From left to right: lvaro Ramrez Paul Stobart # # CEO, Southern Europe CEO, Northern Europe Formerly CEO, Spain Formerly CEO, UK & Ireland Ivan Epstein Paul Harrison CEO, AAMEA Group Finance Director Africa, Australia, David Clayton # MiddleEast & Asia Director of Strategy and Formerly CEO, South # Corporate Development Africa & Australia Formerly Group Strategy Pascal Houillon andMergers and CEO, North America Acquisitions Director frommid 2011 Klaus-Michael Formerly CEO, France Vogelberg Karen Geary Group Chief Group Director of TechnologyOfficer HR andCorporate Guy Berruyer Communications Group Chief Executive Sue Swenson Michael Robinson CEO, North America Company Secretary and tomid 2011 Group Legal Director # From 1 January 2011.
The Sage Group plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Our customers building loyalty and reputation by supporting customers Sages founder was also our first Customer experience Customer research customer.
Today customers remain We aspire to deliver an extraordinary Whilst our operating companies conduct central to our thinking as we focus experience to our customers.
This reflects regular research with their local customers, onsolving their business problems.
our unconditional commitment to them this year for the first time we conducted A large part of Sages success has been and is the philosophy that drives everything multi-country research, which was originally the recognition of how different doing we do.
We believe it will set us apart from piloted in Spain, across the UK, the United business is in different countries.
Therefore, our competitors and help us to win in our States, Canada and France to understand we have always treated our customers as markets.
It is not an initiative or aprogramme better how our customers and employees individuals and we have an enduring respect as such but a constantly evolving state of feel about their experience of Sage.
for these people who bring business to life.
The research analysed a range of touch Our customers are supported locally so points we have with customers.
It identified Our aim is to give every one of our customers that they can talk to an in-country expert what customers regard as important, the confidence in our products, our services, who speaks their language, understands quality of experience they expect and how theway we do business and of course our their situation and is best placed to help this compares to the actual experience people.
Seeing the world through their eyes them better manage the everyday tasks they receive.
helps us connect with them, their business, that are the lifeblood of their organisation.
their passions and their software needs.
This was compared to what we at Sage Our people, through their expert knowledge, Ithelps us get closer to them.
assume is important to customers and provide advice that enables our customers how well we think we are delivering this.
not only toget the most from their software By demonstrating we understand their Consequently we are better able to identify but also todeal with a wide range of critical needs and by recognising the things they what matters the most to customers, where business issues, whether it is HR advice want at each stage of their individual journey we are exceeding, meeting or falling short or the effect of the latest business legislation with us, we will increase their loyalty to us of expectations and the opportunities we in their market.
This in have to redesign and improve the experience.
turn will translate into increased customer Across the Group over 40% of our people We judge our success in delivering an numbers, increased revenue per customer work in customer service, support or training extraordinary customer experience through and higher growth for Sage.
They help our customers face-to-face, a number of measures including the online, through the 33,000 calls we manage The aspiration to deliver such an experience likelihood of our customers recommending per day or in collaboration with our global touches all areas of our business.
Customer and promoting Sage to others.
network of 40,000 accountants and 27,000 support is one of the more obvious ways and business partners.
indeed is a critical element of this.
However, Customer experience in action equally important is how easy our software This support offering is unique, helping us Following the research many Sage operating isto install and to use, how easy we make tobuild real relationships for the long-term, integration and migration, how quickly we companies have started initiatives to listen developing loyalty and establishing Sage better to customers and employees and resolve customer enquiries, how we market asa trusted partner to our customers.
ourselves, our customer billing processes, further improve the way they do business.
Some examples are shown below.
the web tools we provide, how efficient our internal systems are and the relationships In South Africa the Softline Pastel Payroll we have with our partners.
team revisited their renewals process from acustomer perspective and identified several barriers to renewal associated with their existing Annual License Fee ALF renewal process.
The Sage Group plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 Customers were not being notified early In France Sage launched a new range of There is also a wide range of internal activity enough in the process to ensure renewals products, Ciel Facile, aimed at start-up and taking place to understand better what were completed in a timely fashion, small businesses.
After two years there were we need to do to improve the experience the processes varied in accuracy, more than 20,000 active customers on those we deliver to our customers.
Online resource were time-consuming and complicated and products.
However, only 4% of these were centres have been launched to promote service levels were not at entirely acceptable using support services as they didnt meet bestpractice, competitions have been levels.
Therefore, the team re-engineered the their needs in terms of price and opening heldto generate ideas and in a number process and implemented Pastel Hold My hours.
Therefore, the team developed Claire, of operating companies, employee Hand, with new in-product features such a virtual assistant sold as an online support performance goals have been changed to as automated renewal notices, ALF invoice contract.
Claire stimulates an intelligent align performance and reward better with generation and online payment gateways.
conversation with users, understanding and the customer experience they deliver.
These features combine to give customers a answering their questions and enabling Sage For example, some operating companies fully automated and invisible annual product to offer 24 7 service at a competitive price.
arereviewing their emphasis on technical renewal process for the first time.
The project Our Spanish business, in order to support key performance indicators away was completed in two months, implemented maximise the return on investment from from Average Handling Time to First Call in time for the 2010 tax year end in South a sales and marketing campaign, set up a Resolution, fundamentally moving the focus Africa and annual renewals have improved group of Sage Ambassadors to visit partners from how many calls are taken to the delivery by 3%, to over 90%, with reduced cost in to explain the campaign, advise the partners of a higher quality customer experience.
the renewals and registration team.
on how to maximise its effect and increase Inaddition, many of our businesses, The Sage Peachtree team in the United States confidence in Sage.
The Ambassadors including those in Spain, Germany, France, developed an in-product tool comprising a visited over 500 partners in the first week the UK and North America, have completed Product Enhancement Programme PEP and conducted over 7,000 visits during the an extensive series of internal workshops to and an In-Product Advisor.
The PEP collects course of the year.
inspire our people to believe that this really information on actual usage and environmental matters and to help them discover and Sage Germany completely redesigned data from the entire user community, allowing explore their unique role in delivering a better their Software Quality Model to implement the Peachtree team to understand better how experience to both internal and external total quality management in their product the software is being used and what issues customers.
In North America 267 workshops strategy and development process.
As a are encountered during usage which in turn have been completed with 3,950 employees result customer surveys have identified an guides future development.
The In-Product attending almost 100% of the workforce.
improvement in our product satisfaction Advisor uses the PEP data to guide the user ratings and the process was highly as they go about accomplishing their tasks commended by the German Software and allows the software to recommend Certification Institute TUV.
Also in Germany relevant help, customised for each an initiative has been conducted, via a customer based on actual usage patterns.
survey, to identify any dissatisfaction with our This intelligence gathering tool has been products or services and to then contact the particularly useful in improving Peachtree dissatisfied customer in person to resolve customers start-up experience and daily their problem.
The customers have been use as well as helping us to make our sales positively surprised about the contact and marketing activity more relevant to our and our commitment to helping them customers.
Thetechnology will be delivered and this hasled to a significant increase in more Sage products and has been in our customer satisfaction levels.
The Sage Group plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Innovation meeting market needsand trends through innovation Online business solutions have been Market trends developed to address a new way of working, The technology environment continues either through new products designed purely tochange rapidly with businesses use for the web or adapting existing products oftechnology increasingly influenced by tolife online.
The use of the web and Sitting behind these core elements are a mobile access to information, via a wide number of web-based technologies which range of constantly changing devices, our customers do not see but which are isbecoming pervasive.
This makes essential to enhancing the experience they collaborative working much easier and is receive.
These include auto updates, product driving ever more global business processes.
usage feedback mechanisms and SData, Our customers remain pragmatic in their atechnology which allows data exchange adoption of technology, insisting it must help and interoperability between different Sage solve their business problems and manage applications, third parties and the web.
This strategy combines the best of both worlds the reach and convenience of the Sages technology strategy web with the richness, control and resilience These trends present an enormous of on-premise solutions and provides our opportunity for Sage and our customers.
customers with the choice of solution best Weare pursuing a web strategy which has suited to their business.
two core elements Connected services and Online business solutions.
These Unique position leverage web and mobile technologies to deliver not only added value to our existing Sage is uniquely positioned to deliver this customers but also new software and strategy.
Our global community of 6.3 million services to the next generation of web customers, our software assets, service nativeentrepreneurs.
culture, high level of subscription revenues and our trusted brand mean we are well Connected services bring the benefits of placed to evolve and grow in this new world.
the web to existing customers, connecting and extending their predominantly desktop software and increasing their lifetime value.
Where appropriate, we leverage the knowledge and specialist skills of third parties to deliver value to our customers.
The Sage Group plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 Customer services aphone and web-based HR service for Technology strategy in action: small businesses which is included as part of Our CRM and contact management Connected services premium support contracts.
Financial services customers can take advantage of an include social, fiscal, and customs tax e-filing Mobile access eMarketing service to enhance the productivity in France, through which our customers of their desktop software.
Sage eMarketing Many of our software and services are process 1.5 million forms per year and is a cloud-based email marketing service that available via mobile services.
All of our financial health checks.
enables customers to execute sophisticated CRMsolutions Sage ACT!, Sage CRM campaigns which utilise their existing andSage SalesLogix have already been Vertical offers customer information and are closely linked extended, or are being trialled, to give totheir core CRM product.
To date Sage usersreal-time access to their customer In North America Sage Fundraising Online is eMarketing for ACT!, powered by Swiftpage, information via smart phones and handheld a flexible fundraising and event management has more than 1,700 users.
This helps users increase sales service that helps non-profit organisations Info Services for ACT!
is another cloudandservice effectiveness at every stage increase giving, participation and support by based service that gives customers ofthe customer relationship.
connecting more effectively with supporters seamless data export from Hoovers, online.
Theservice enables customers In France Sage Business Mobile has a provider of proprietary business information, to create multiple fundraising campaigns, been developed to allow users to access into their contact and customer management customise these to reflect their needs and their accounting data and key business product.
This enables them to tap intoa use social networking tools to expand information via their mobile.
Free to database of 85 million executives and 65 their audience.
Sage Fundraising Online download and trial with test data, the paid million companies to build prospect lists.
integrates with Sages desktop Not-for-Profit for service is then available ona subscription applications, competitor products and Sage basis.
In the UK Sage 50 and Sage 200 Employee services and Exchange, which allows users to accept are also accessible via mobile devices financialservices payments through Sages certified payments giving customers the power to make platform.
In a short time 39 business partners A number of employee services and financial decisions no matter where they are.
have signed up to sell the service, 12 of services are available to customers.
whom arenew to the not-for-profit business.
Employee services include online contextual legal help in Spain, which in just a few months has attracted 1,000 customers, and Payroll Self-Service and HR Advice in the UK, The Sage Group plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Innovation continued In North America the Sage Payment Technology strategy in action: Online business solutions Solutions Division has developed Connected services continued Payments Sage Exchange, a versatile, secure, certified payments platform.
Sage Exchange Payment services Getting paid and managing cash flow are accepts credit and debit card payments critical issues in any business, but even We continue to expand into payment and and is being introduced through a series moreso in small businesses.
transaction processing with a particular of releases to integrate with a wide focus on integrating these with customers Sage Pay, which now has more than 31,000 range of Sage and third party business accounting software.
Not only can this help customers in the UK, allows customers to solutions, including Sage Peachtree, them get paid promptly but also it improves process securely cardholder not present Simply Accounting by Sage, Sage 50 data accuracy and reduces time and money credit card transactions.
Fundraising and Sage Intergy, spent on administration.
In May 2010, Sage acquired Netcash Sages leading healthcare solution.
In the UK Sage Pay has been integrated into in South Africa.
Netcash specialises Sage Instant Accounts, Sage 50 Accounts, in providing secure, online transaction Sage 200 and TAS.
The Sage Instant processing services for SMEs and has Accounts and Sage 50 integration also gives 4,000 customers.
customers the ability to generate electronic invoices with a secure Pay Now button, SaaS Small Business Payroll allowing them to get paid immediately with In Germany einfachLohn Simple Payroll acredit or debit card.
now has more than 7,500 test customers and over 1,800 paying customers.
The service continues toredefine payroll for micro businesses, allowing community members to engage with their peers as payroll advisors and being fully usable viasmart phone and hand held devices.
The Sage Group plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 Ciel Paye Facile Easy Pay was launched In North America SageSpark continues On-demand and managed services inFrance to supersede Ciel ePaye.
togrow with 10,000 registered users of Sage SalesLogix Cloud Edition, and other Thesolution supports four unique roles, thecommunity portal which is designed solutions, have been deployed on the records holiday, sick leave and other to provide free and low cost services to small various hosting platforms, allowing these employee information, manages payment businesses.
These include Sage Billing Boss, products to be delivered through the web.
and allows data to be sent through an online a free online and mobile invoicing tool and This brings many benefits of the online gateway to the relevant authorities.
In less Sage Payment Boss, which allows small world to customers choosing this option, than a year the service has acquired more businesses to get paid anytime, anywhere such as accessibility and availability, than 1,000 customers, in addition to the byprocessing credit card payments flexible payments and scalable storage 1,000 customers migrated from Ciel ePaye.
In addition it provides These integrate with Sage Simply them with benefits more associated with Accounting, our market leading desktop SaaS Micro-Business Accounting on-premise software such as customisation accounting software in Canada, to reduce and ownership and control of data.
We also Pastel My Business Online, originally invoice processing time, limit the possibility provide remote access to a number of our launched in South Africa, was made of errors and helpimprove cash flow.
on-premise accounting solutions such as available in Australia towards the end Whilst Payment Boss is at an early stage Sage 50 Online in the UK, Intergy on Demand oftheyear as Sage My Business Online, of adoption Billing Boss gained 9,000 in North America and Sage Logic ClassERP withafree version being offered to customers this year, taking itstotal and Payroll in Spain, where the traditional accountancy students.
In South Africa customers to more than 12,000. desktop product is hosted in adata centre.
There has been continued investment inthesolution to enhance further the user experience, including the development ofadedicated accountants area within theapplication to enable collaboration withtheir clients.
The Sage Group plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Performance overview which enables us tocontinue delivering profitable growth.
Five year history financial highlights Revenue Underlying pre-tax profit 1,435.0m 355.7m flat 14% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 EBITA Total dividend 365.8m 7.80p 13% 5% Notes: 1 A reconciliation of operating to statutory results isprovided on page8.
2 The results of all comparative years have not been retranslated tocurrent year exchange rates.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 EBITA is defined as earnings before interest, tax andamortisation ofacquired intangible assets.
Growth has been calculated after the neutralisation of foreign exchange movements.
The Sage Group plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 249.3m 935.6m 283.2m 1,157.6m 299.8m 1,295.0m 320.7m 1,439.3m 365.8m 1,435.0m 3.59p 234.7m 7.00p 251.3m 7.21p 273.4m 7.43p 307.5m 7.80p 355.7m Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 2010 performance in context Key performance indicators KPIs As summarised on page 14, our corporate Underlying EPS growth EBITA margin strategy is focused on creating value and building a strong, sustainable business with high levels of customer satisfaction.
14% 25% We monitor our performance against a number of different benchmarks which allow us to measure the value wearecreating for both our customers andourshareholders.
Consistent and sustainable Underlying EPS represents income for the EBITA is defined as earnings before interest, earnings growth, organic revenue growth financial year, prior to the amortisation of acquired tax andamortisation.
This measure excludes the and strong cash generation from our intangible assets, divided bythe weighted average effects ofamortisation of acquired intangible assets number of ordinary shares inissue during the year.
and thenet amortisation of software development businesses are our KPIs.
Over the year, Underlying EPS growth rates are quoted on a expenditure.
The EBITA margin represents EBITA in the context of challenging market currency neutral basis.
divided by revenue for the year.
conditions, we performed well against thesefinancial benchmarks.
We also closely monitor the degree of Organic revenue growth Cash generation from operations customer satisfaction relating to our products and services.
We take over eight million calls flat 117% a year, or over 33,000 calls a day, from all over the world.
This customer feedback helps us improve our products and services as well as providing a rich source of input 2006 2007 2008 oncustomer satisfaction levels.
One KPI of 2010 customer satisfaction is the level of renewal rates on our service support contracts.
2009 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Customers who choose to renew their Organic revenues are derived from our core Cash flows from operating activities divided by service contracts, upgrade their software or businessoperations, excluding the contribution from EBITAprovide a measure of the ability of the Group migrate to new Sage products, by definition acquisitions and disposals made in the current and toyield cash from its ongoing business to reinvest must have a high degree of satisfaction prior year, along with non-core products.
year revenue is compared to the prior financial year withSage.
Our renewal rates historically translated on consistent exchange rates to eliminate havebeen over 80% and in 2010 we again distortions due to fluctuations in exchange rates.
achieved this high rate of customer renewal.
These KPIs are the most appropriate Renewal rates on maintenance measurements of our business.
Whilst we and support contracts donot include a KPI on people or corporate responsibility, both of these are discussed 81% indepth on pages 28 to 35.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Customer retention is an important measure ofcompetitiveness in the market.
Renewal rates are calculated as the number of maintenance and support contracts which were renewed in the period divided by the number of contracts which were potentially renewable in the period.
