Board of directors and advisers Struan Robertson Charles Jamieson Senior Independent Chairman Non-executive Director James Menzies Robert Cathery Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director Mike Buck James Coleman Chief Operating Officer Non-executive Director Nick Cooper John Crowle Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Michael Pavia Non-executive Director 32 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Charles Jamieson Nick Cooper Robert Cathery Michael Pavia N #R N #A Chairman Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Charles Jamieson is Salamanders Nick Cooper is a founder Robert Cathery is an Michael Pavia is an Chairman and a founder of of Salamander and its Chief Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Salamander.
He holds an MBA Financial Officer.
He holds a Director of the Company and Director of the Company and from INSEAD and is a chartered BSc Hons in Geophysical a founder of Salamander.
He was appointed to the Board accountant.
Prior to joining Sciences, a PhD in Exploration was a director of Vickers da in July 2007.
A chartered Salamander, he spent over 25 Geophysics and an MBA from Costa and Schroders Securities accountant and chairman of years with Premier Oil plc INSEAD.
He spent five years as well as head of corporate the ICAEWs Audit Committee, where he held a number of as a geophysicist at BG and sales at SG Securities London he has had a distinguished posts, including finance Amoco and then was an Ltd.
He also spent four years as career in the energy sector, director and chief executive upstream consultant for two head of oil & gas at Canaccord being finance director of UK officer.
He is currently also years at Booz-Allen & Hamilton.
He is currently a independent LASMO plc and chairman of Vostok Energy Ltd.
Prior to the founding of non-executive director of then SEEBOARD plc now a Salamander, he spent five Vostok Energy Ltd, SOCO subsidiary of EDF Energy plc.
James Menzies years at Goldman Sachs, of International plc and Central He is currently a non-executive which two years were spent in Asia Metals Ltd. director of Thames Water Chief Executive Officer Singapore as a vice-president Utilities Ltd, Telecom Plus plc James Menzies is a founder in corporate finance oil and James Coleman and Elizabeth Finn Care, and of Salamander and its Chief gas.
He is currently a non-executive chairman of Executive Officer.
He holds Non-executive Director non-executive director of PetroGranada.
a BSc Hons in Geology and James Coleman is an Transunion Petroleum Limited.
an MSc in Geophysics and Independent Non-executive Memberships of Planetary Physics.
After a Director of the Company.
Struan Robertson board committees period as a geophysicist at He is a Canadian citizen and Schlumberger and ERC, he Senior Independent a senior partner and former # Committee chairman #N R A spent eleven years at LASMO Non-executive Director chairman of the international N Nomination plc holding a variety of posts Struan Robertson is Salamanders law firm of Macleod Dixon Committee member including senior geophysicist Senior Independent Nonbased in Calgary and was a R Remuneration in Vietnam, chief geophysicist executive Director and was board member of GFI Oil & Committee member in Indonesia, head of corporate educated at the University of Gas Corporation until that A Audit Committee member development and head of Natal and the University of Cape company was acquired by strategy and corporate affairs.
Town, followed by Wharton Salamander on 17 March 2008.
Corporate advisers He spent four years as a senior Business School.
He spent over He is currently a non-executive Joint corporate brokers partner at Lambert Energy 23 years at BP plc where he held director of Anterra Energy Inc Goldman Sachs and Advisory prior to the founding a number of posts, including and a non-executive chairman Oriel Securities Ltd of Salamander.
He is currently CEO of oil trading international, of Sulliden Exploration, Inc, a non-executive director of executive chairman of BP Asia Energold Drilling, Inc and Registered auditor Transunion Petroleum Limited.
Pacific based in Singapore Gold Reserve, Inc all publicly Deloitte LLP and downstream senior vice quoted companies in Canada.
Bankers Mike Buck president for technology and HSBC Bank plc marketing, based in London.
John Crowle Chief Operating Officer Between 2000 and 2004 he was Legal advisers R A Mike Buck is Salamanders Non-executive Director group chief executive of Wates Clifford Chance LLP Chief Operating Officer.
He John Crowle is an Independent Group Ltd.
He is currently holds a BSc Hons in Geology Non-executive Director of the Financial PR non-executive chairman of with Geophysics and an MSc Company with over 35 years Brunswick Group LLP Eredene Capital PLC and holds in Petroleum Geology dist.. experience in the oil industry non-executive directorships with He spent twenty years with and was educated at Durham Henderson TR Pacific Investment LASMO plc as a geophysicist University and Stanford Trust plc and Forth Ports plc and in Indonesia and the UK University Business School.
stood down from International Continental Shelf, chief He spent more than 18 years Power plc and Tomkins plc geophysicist in Colombia, at Enterprise Oil where he held during the course of 2010. exploration manager in a number of posts, including Vietnam and exploration and group exploration manager.
Between 2002 and 2004 He then spent four years with he was at Royal Dutch Shell ENI as managing director as general manager of New in Tehran and managing Ventures Organisation Cluster, director in Pakistan.
Overall based in The Hague.
He is he has 30 years of international currently a non-executive exploration and production director of Rockhopper experience.
Exploration plc and a member of the Durham University Earth Sciences Advisory Board.
33 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
