Directors report The Directors submit their report together with the audited Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements of Salamander Energy PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Salamander Energy PLC is the holding company of the Group and its issued ordinary shares were admitted to listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange on 5 December 2006, under the designation SMDR.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group which are intended to continue into the future are as an independent oil and gas exploration, development and production company focused on building a portfolio of assets in Asia.
The Group operates through a number of subsidiary and other undertakings, including Jointly Controlled Entities, which are set out in note 16 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
The Groups head office is in London with regional offices in Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Lao PDR and Vietnam.
Business review The Company is required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 to include a review of its business in this report.
The information that fulfils this requirement is contained in the following sections of the annual report which are incorporated by reference and are deemed to form part of this Directors Report: Chairmans and Chief Executives Review: Operational Review: Financial Review: Risk Management: Corporate Responsibility: and Corporate Governance Statement.
Directors The Directors who served in office during the financial year were as follows: Charles Jamieson Chairman James Menzies Chief Executive Mike Buck Nick Cooper Struan Robertson Senior Independent Non-executive Director Michael Pavia John Crowle Robert Cathery James Coleman With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The Companys Articles of Association give power to the Board to appoint Directors but require the Directors to submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their election and thereafter retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
However, the Company is supportive of the recommendation from the UK Corporate Governance Code that all directors annually stand for re-election.
Accordingly, and as at the 2010 AGM, all Board members will offer themselves for re-election at the 2011 AGM.
The powers of Directors are described in the Board Terms of Reference, copies of which are included on the Companys website, www.
com and summarised in the Corporate Governance section of this report.
35 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors report continued Results and dividends The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 are as set out in the Financial Statements section of this report.
The Groups loss after tax for the year was $169.5 million 2009: post-tax loss of $13.5 million.
The Company has declared no dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
It is not the Directors current intention that the Company will pay a dividend for the foreseeable future.
Directors interests The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and Directors remuneration are as set out in the Remuneration Report.
Capital structure and ordinary shares Details of the issued share capital together with details of movements in share capital during the year are included in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares.
Details of employee share schemes are disclosed in the Remuneration Report and in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
On a show of hands at a general meeting including any AGM of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at the general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the general meeting and in accordance with the current requirements of the Combined Code, will be published on the Companys website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys securities: pursuant to the Companys various share scheme arrangements: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods : and pursuant to Article 31 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Article 31 of the Companys Articles restricts the percentage of Salamander shares that may be held by Canadian residents to below 10% so as to permit the Company to rely on exemptions from certain obligations which the Company may be subject to under Canadian Securities Law.
Article 31 of the Companys Articles confers upon the Board the power to require Canadian citizens beneficially owning Salamander shares to transfer their Salamander shares when the threshold of 10% Canadian Salamander shareholders is approached.
In the event that such Canadian Salamander shareholders are required to transfer their Salamander shares under Article 31, the relevant Salamander shares will be sold in the market at the best price reasonably obtainable in the market and the net proceeds if any will be remitted to the relevant Canadian Salamander Shareholder.
This compulsory transfer power is generally available to the Board to exercise from time to time, and the Board is free to exercise this power in its absolute discretion.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
36 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Capital structure and ordinary shares continued The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Powers relating to the issuing and buy back of shares are also included in the Articles and the authority to issue shares is renewed by shareholders each year at the AGM.
Convertible bonds Convertible bonds were issued during March 2010 and are described in note 22 of the consolidated financial statements.
Pending conversion, the Convertible bonds carry no votes at meetings of the Company.
Ordinary shares in the Company issued on conversion will rank pari passu with the Companys existing issued share capital.
On a change of control of the Company, bondholders have an entitlement to exercise their conversion rights.
Change of control In relation to agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company, details of the BNP Paribas led loan facility are set out in note 21 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
There are, in addition, a number of other agreements so affected, such as commercial contracts, property lease arrangements and employee share plans, none of which are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Significant shareholders At 23 March 2011, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the significant interests in the voting rights of the Companys issued ordinary shares as notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules were as follows: Voting rights attaching to Percentage of total Nature of issued ordinary shares voting rights holding FinVentures UK 19,994,897 12.98 Direct Phineus Partners LP 15,278,126 9.92 Direct Indirect RS Investments 11,342,050 7.36 Direct Indirect Artemis Investment Management Ltd 9,071,968 5.89 Direct Floriline SA 6,830,544 4.43 Direct Indirect Legal & General Investment Management 5,804,805 3.77 Direct Indirect Black Rock 5,418,714 3.52 Direct Indirect Employees The Company has a policy of providing employees with information about the Company and actively encourages employee involvement and consultation.
Emphasis is placed on keeping employees informed of activity and financial performance by way of briefings and publication to staff of all relevant information and corporate announcements.
2010 saw an increase in employee levels in line with the growth in operated activity.
At year end Salamander employed 163 people compared with 126 employees at the end of 2009.
The Group has a diverse workforce comprising a mixture of local employees and expatriates.
It is an equal opportunities employer and gives every consideration to applications for employment by disabled persons where the requirements of the job may be adequately filled by a disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Companys policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under similar terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion wherever appropriate.
37 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors report continued Business conduct Our Code of Business Conduct sets out the way we work at Salamander and comprises our vision and values.
The Code of Business Conduct is supported by the Groups policies, standards, procedures and processes.
Our values, set out in our Code of Business Conduct, can be viewed in full on the Groups website at www.
These values are supported by policies which define how we will carry out our responsibilities and the rules under which the Group operates.
The Groups policies are approved by the Board and the assurance of Group performance is provided by a combination of effective management processes and embedded risk and compliance activities.
Independent assurance is provided both by internal audit and our independent external auditors.
The Group also requires its suppliers, contractors and agents to adhere to its Code of Business Conduct and to adopt similar ethical standards.
During the year, as part of our regular review of Group policies in consultation with representatives from our main businesses, proposals were made for the further amendment of group policies and procedures.
The revised group policies and procedures were implemented in March 2011 as an enhanced, integrated ethics, compliance and anti-fraud programme to maintain the Groups high ethical standards.
These included a detailed programme to combat fraud and corruption and clear policy statements emphasising our zero tolerance of any form of fraud, bribery or corruption.
During 2010, employees received briefings and training on the Code of Business Conduct and expected standards of behaviour.
All employees will also take part in a bespoke online training programme to deal with fraud and corruption risks and will receive face-to-face briefings as needed in each office.
The training programme on combating corruption will also recognise the requirements of the new UK Bribery Act, which is expected to come into force later this year.
The training and briefings will be repeated annually as part of an ongoing Group compliance programme.
As part of the relaunch of the Companys compliance programme, a new confidential reporting system was introduced for reporting any concerns about the conduct of our business.
The system will also include an external reporting line.
All reports that are registered will be investigated and appropriate action taken.
Any concerns raised, and opportunities for improvement, will be discussed by the Audit Committee as part of its regular review of business risks.
Annual General Meeting The Companys fifth Annual General Meeting as a listed public company will be held at 3 pm at the Andaz Liverpool Street, 40 Liverpool Street, London EC2M 7QN, UK on Tuesday 28 June 2011.
The notice of meeting and an explanatory circular to shareholders setting out the AGM business accompanies this Annual Report.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces which are set out in the Risk Management section of this report.
Payment policy The Groups policy in respect of its vendors is to agree and establish terms of payment when contracting for the goods or services and to abide by those payment terms.
The Company is the holding Company of the Group and has no trade creditors.
Further details can be found in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made no political donations 2009: nil.
Charitable and CSR-related donations made by the Group amounted to $48,700 2009: $39,800.
38 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Auditors As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware.
In addition, each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP were first appointed as Auditors to the Company in September 2005 and have expressed their willingness to continue as Auditors.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Groups Auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairman and Chief Executives Review and the Operational Review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review and note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
In addition, note 25 to the consolidated financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups forecasts and projections demonstrate that the Group is adequately financed and is able to operate within the level of its current facility.
As highlighted in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group meets its investments required to realise its development projects and committed exploration and appraisal programme through a senior junior reserves based lending facility which is due for renewal in 2015, and an acquisition bridge facility which is due for repayment at the end of 2011.
In addition, to provide increased flexibility to the Group to advance a number of strategic options in addition to its current planned programmes, the Group announced on 18 March 2010 the issue of a $100 million convertible bond, the terms of which are described in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
The current economic conditions create uncertainty, particularly over the oil price, which affects revenue from the Groups production and the availability under the reserves based lending facility.
The Group undertook a 2010 hedging programme and has undertaken a 2011 hedging programme partly to manage this risk.
The Directors believe that the Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in economic assumptions such as the oil price, show that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its current reserves based lending facility for the foreseeable future, being twelve months from the date of this report.
To provide further flexibility in the longer term, the Group is currently close to finalising the terms of an amended reserves based lending facility which, if finalised as expected, will both increase the available borrowing base and provide greater day to day liquidity.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and accounts.
Approved by the Board on 23 March 2011 Douglas Barrie Company Secretary 23 March 2010 39 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
