Senior management Steve Adams in Bangkok.
He has over John Henriksen Shaun has a BSc in Geological 23 years industry experience, Sciences from Leeds University, Business Development General Manager, Indonesia predominantly with a MSc in Petroleum Geology Manager John is the General Manager ConocoPhillips, and has from Imperial College, London Steve Adams is Salamanders of our Indonesian operations.
been involved with exploration and an MBA from Liverpool Business Development He has 30 years of experience and appraisal projects in University.
He has extensive in the energy business, of Turkey, the North Sea, Gulf Chartered Geologist in the UK worldwide experience in the which 23 have been gained in of Mexico, and for the last and a Certified Petroleum oil and gas industry and joined Southeast Asia.
Prior to joining 14 years, Southeast Asia.
Salamander from Murphy Salamander, John worked as He brings an in depth where he was deepwater a finance specialist with VICO knowledge of hydrocarbon Tony Rouse exploration manager with where he was seconded by plays across the region, and responsibility for exploration ENI.
John has also worked Group Financial Controller significant experience in new activity and Southeast Asian with LASMO, Hudbay Malacca Tony joined Salamander at its ventures exploration.
Steve has also Strait Ltd and Hudsons Bay inception in 2005 as Group worked for BP, Lasmo, ENI, Nick has a BSc in Geology Oil & Gas.
from University of Leeds and with him 20 years of financial John is qualified as a Certified an MSc in Petroleum Geology experience which he gained Steve is a geologist by Management Accountant from Imperial College, London.
working with such companies background with a BSc in and holds a Bachelor of as Premier Oil plc for three Geology from the University Commerce degree.
Don DiBenedetto years, LASMO plc seven of Durham, an MSc in years and BP eleven years.
Petroleum Geology from Senior Manager Exploitation Ken Jones Some of Tonys assignments Imperial College and an Don is the Subsurface Regional Drilling Manager abroad have taken him to such MBA from RGU Aberdeen.
Engineering Manager, based Ken Jones is Salamanders countries as Myanmar, Colombia, in Jakarta.
He has over 25 years Regional Drilling Manager.
Prior to joining Doug Barrie of reservoir and petroleum He has over 30 years of global Salamander, Tony was running engineering experience in the Group General Counsel industry experience and prior his own consultancy franchise oil and gas industry.
Starting and Company Secretary to joining Salamander Ken was providing advice to small and his career with Exxon in Douglas Barrie has more working for Shell as a drilling medium-sized companies.
Canada, Don has also lived than 25 years of experience consultant on its operations and worked in North Africa, Tony is both a member and providing legal counsel on all in Cameroon.
Ken has also East Africa and the Middle a Fellow of the Chartered aspects of the business of E&P worked as a consultant on East.
He has worked privately Association of Certified majors and independents drilling matters to OMV as a consultant and with Accountants.
in a variety of jurisdictions, Venezuela, Gaz fide France state oil companies.
Prior to this Ken recently, he was engineering Hugh Sykes has worked as a consultant worked for Lasmo for over manager with Talisman to the Energy Practice of 12 years, with assignments General Manager, Vietnam Energy Indonesia.
Cameron McKenna LLP and in Indonesia, Pakistan and Hugh joined Salamander in was latterly group general Don is a Professional Engineer the UK, as well as spells with 2007, opening our Vietnam counsel of Afren PLC.
in Canada and holds a B. Eng.
office in Ho Chi Minh City.
in chemical engineering plus He brings 17 years of Ken has a BSc in Mathematics John Bell an MBA.
experience from BP across & Physics and a MSc in Vietnam, Indonesia, Australia, General Manager, Thailand Geophysics & Planetary Physics Guus Harting Abu Dhabi and the North John is General Manager of both from the University Sea.
His recent experience our Thailand operations.
He Regional Operations Director of Newcastle upon Tyne.
includes , has over 25 years experience Guus is Salamanders Regional approvals, negotiations, and in the oil and gas industry, a Operations Director.
He Shaun Richardson team-building across gas, LNG, number of which were spent has over 30 years of industry Regional Geoscience Director pipelines and power.
Prior to in Southeast Asia.
John worked experience managing Shaun Richardson is Salamander, Hugh held for LASMO for 17 years and production and development Salamanders Regional management positions in BP subsequently spent four years operations in both onshore Geoscience Director.
He has across commercial operations, with ENI, before most recently and offshore environments.
over 30 years of industry business development working for Hess.
John holds He started his career with experience and was most and projects.
His work in a PhD in Geological Sciences Shell and has also worked for, recently exploration director Vietnam started in 1995 with from Durham University and or as a consultant to, Qatar for Harvest Natural Resources PetroVietnams Gas Master an MA in Natural Sciences General Petroleum Company, with responsibility for Plan, whilst his early career from Cambridge University.
Mobil Oil, Chevron and SBM.
Prior to that included research for Rolls Guus has a BSc in Ship-Marine Shaun spent nearly 18 years Royce Aero Engines and work Nick Comrie-Smith Engineering from the University with BG Group, including in UK power generation.
Exploration Manager of Rotterdam, an MBA from a spell as chief geologist in Hugh holds a PhD and a BEng Nick joined Salamander Henley Business School and Jakarta.
He also worked earlier in mechanical engineering.
in 2006 and is currently a M. S. in Executive Interim in his career for Gearhart, He is a chartered engineer, and Exploration Manager based Management from University Britoil plc and BP Exploration.
a member of the IMechE, SPE of Antwerp Business School.
34 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
