Statutory Information 9 Directors Report The directors present their report and the Group is committed to invest in Language Weaver in 2011 to accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010. enable full realisation of this significant opportunity.
Excluding Language Weaver underlying margins at Results and Dividends 18.0% were up on 2009.
The directors recommend a dividend of 5.5 pence per The Group had cash resources at 31 December 2010 share to the AGM reflecting their confidence in the of 46.6 million after cash outflows on acquisition of continued cash generative nature of the operating 25.9 million.
The cash generation during the year has business.
The directors are of the view that the business provided the group with a very solid liquidity position is at a stage when it is appropriate to offer a nominal and considerable financial flexibility.
Further details on yield to those investors who value income as well as the results for the year are given in the Operating and capital growth.
The dividend is not intended to adjust Financial Review section of these accounts.
the positioning of SDL as primarily a capital growth share.
Future dividend policy will be progressive.
Position, Future Prospects and Business Risks Principal Activities The Group has continued to increase cross leveraging The Groups activities during the year continued to in 2010.
Cross leveraging opportunities have been be the provision of Global Information Management strengthened through the acquisitions made in 2009 solutions through the provision of software and services and 2010 with the Structured Content Management to a wide variety of multinational businesses.
These business in particular a primary beneficiary of the Global solutions enable SDL clients to engage with cross leveraging program.
The Board believe that the their clients in multiple languages and across multiple Groups growth prospects remain positive, based upon channels.
The Group made two acquisitions in 2010 the strong technology position further strengthened that further strengthened the Groups technology through acquisition and internal development, quality position.
Language Weaver is an industry leading of the client list and the global nature of operations.
statistical machine translation technology and Xopus In addition the Board believes its strategy to create expands technical content creation possibilities to non compelling end-to-end content management solutions technical authors.
The business continued to invest in global infrastructure in 2010 committing to Review of the Business new offices in Turkey, Chile and San Jose.
The business Revenues of 203.5 million increased by 18% compared also strengthened infrastructural investment in China to 2009 171.9 million.
Acquisitions benefitted the and Japan.
revenue by 4%, with currency having no impact on the overall group revenues.
Underlying revenues therefore The integration of 2010 acquisitions within the business increased by 14% at constant currency.
Constant segments has progressed rapidly with both Language currency revenues increased by 14% in Language Weaver and Xopus fully integrated into SDL processes Services, 9% in Language Technologies and 21% in and systems.
Whilst the Board acknowledges that there are Gross margin has increased to 57% from 56% in 2009, different rates of recovery in the various segments of due to an increasing percentage of technology sales the economy across the industry verticals that SDL which has helped to increase margin together with a serves, the Board has observed strengthening demand vendor cost management programme implemented throughout 2010 and in absence of a broad based across the group in 2009 which has had a full year economic decline the Board feels that the business is impact in 2010.
Profit before taxation and amortisation well positioned for 2011 at this stage.
The Board will was 35.4 million compared to 29.8 million in 2009, continue with its policy of differential management an increase of 19%, reflecting primarily stronger of the cost base directing the significant focus of revenues.
The business accelerated strategic growth investment strongly towards growth opportunities.
investment in 2010 which included innovation, The Group generates approximately 61% of its revenue investment in acquisitions and new offices, building from service solutions and approximately 39% from sales and marketing capability and expanding in key technology.
Technology is anticipated to increase growth territories.
Headline operating margins were its proportion of revenues as the full impact of 2010 therefore stable year on year at 17.4%.
The business acquisitions will be reported in 2011.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 63 Directors Report continued The Board continues to believe that Asia, the emerging to society and takes a progressive approach in ensuring economies in Eastern Europe, selective markets in Latin it meets its broader social obligations.
America and the Nordic region offer solid long term Employment and Employee Engagement growth opportunities for SDL and the business has The diversity of our global workforce is a key strength made particular progress in Japan, China and Korea in of SDL which creates a truly international perspective 2010 following its strategy of aggressive focus on growth across the SDL Group and the ability to effectively investment in these countries in the past few years.
Significant advances have been made in the technology The Group rejects all forms of discrimination and program in 2010 with the launch of SDL BeGlobal from operates an equal opportunities policy.
We expressly Language Weaver, a next generation statistical machine prohibit discrimination on grounds such as sex, race, translation technology, and new launches of SDL Trisoft religion or belief, age or perceived age, sexual orientation and S1000D Contenta technology in the Structured or disability.
The Group aims to provide our employees with genuine The Board remains confident that the business has opportunity to meet their career aspirations with SDL, strong potential for long term value creation.
encouraging employees to build long term careers Details on the risks associated with the business are through progressive role advancement and clear and given in the Operating and Financial Review.
transparent performance frameworks and personal development plans.
At the route of effective employee Branches engagement is leadership communication and a process The Company operates branches in Lebanon, Taiwan is in place to communicate performance monthly, which and Germany.
is started by the Chief Executive and then cascaded through the operating line leadership in the various Events Since the Statement of Financial operating segments and functions.
There is strong Position Date emphasis on building effective teams which place core No material events have occurred since values of innovation, collaboration and communication 31 December 2010.
The Directors recommend a at the heart of their operating agenda.
Decision processes dividend of 5.5 pence per ordinary share as set out in always seek to maximise value for SDL as a whole.
We aim to provide employees with the right tools, induction, training and development experiences Corporate Social Responsibility to perform effectively in their roles and to provide Framework meaningful performance assessment and clarity of SDL is fully committed to be a model corporate personal objectives and priorities that are aligned to citizen in the communities in which it operates and company goals.
The training framework includes new to carrying out its business in a socially and ethical manager training, skill enhancement, team building responsible manner which enhances quality of life for and cross functional training.
In 2010 the core values its employees, stakeholders and those who it supports.
of innovation, collaboration and communication have SDL reinforced this commitment by updating its Code been stressed and we have found independent reviews of Conduct in 2010 to be in line with current best and assessment by peer groups, through 360 type practice.
Operating our businesses with core values mechanisms, to be successful in promoting awareness of integrity and transparency is crucial to our long of leadership development needs.
We also have clear internal values of SDL continues to support overseas assignments or innovation, collaboration and communication.
The secondment of employees and obtains work permits SDL group corporate social responsibility framework or visas to enable employees to benefit from a period continues to target three primary areas of employment overseas.
We have also seen greater movement of and employee engagement, the environment and employees across different operating segments in community involvement.
2010, which is effective in transferring best practice and At this time the Board is of the opinion that given the sustaining culture.
nature of the Groups business activities which does not Disabled Employees involve heavy manufacturing, material risks from social, SDL values applications from disabled or handicapped environmental and ethical issues are limited.
The Board persons and our policy is to always consider in however takes very seriously its broader responsibility 64 Statutory Information 9 full employment applications from disabled or and plays a major role in ensuring alignment between handicapped persons where that person can perform operating segments.
Similar executive groups also meet for each operational Where existing employees become disabled, it is segment and each segment has a fully formed Executive the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide Leadership Team.
The forums serve a critical purpose continuing employment under normal terms and in leveraging best practice and collaboration across the conditions and disabled people are afforded the same Group.
Network office managers and senior functional training and development opportunities for personal group management teams also meet regularly to distil growth as other employees within the organization.
and decide on common issues affecting the Group as a whole.
In 2010 the CTO has brought all of the heads of Under no circumstance will discrimination due to development together to share experience, permeate disability either direct or implied be tolerated.
best practice in agile development and drive roadmap Employee Involvement delivery.
This Innovation Group has been a major The Board views effective employee engagement support to transfer of best practice.
practices as crucial: critical to this is the frequency and There is a strong emphasis placed on face to face effectiveness of internal communication to employees.
communication with employees and senior managers The Chief Executive Officer communicates a mixture are required to cascade relevant information from of performance and corporate direction to a group Executive meetings to employees via face to face of approximately 230 employees once a month meetings.
These briefings generate feedback, via conference call and web-ex and this material consultation and employee interest.
Works councils is distributed to segmental CEOs and directors, and similar bodies are maintained and consulted with general managers and senior functional leaders for in accordance with local statutory requirements.
Senior cascade with their own performance material.
There is leadership are also encouraged to communicate face to constructive engagement between Executive Directors face with employees whenever they make site visits.
and the different operations within the Group enabling broad input on business strategic matters and corporate A whistleblowing policy is in place which enables direction.
The Chief Executive also communicates fully employees to bring matters of concern to the attention via senior operating leadership the logic and rationale of the Senior Independent Director in confidence.
matters were raised via this route in 2010.
Recently SDL set up a knowledge series initiative The Board is strongly supportive of providing which seeks to inform all employees through webinars employees with opportunities to invest and participate about SDLs different businesses, strategy, products in the wealth creation of the Group through and processes.
This initiative has been very popular in participation in the share save scheme.
The Board has engaging and keeping employees informed and is a screened target geographies, as committed, in 2010 very valuable training tool.
The Chief Executive Officer and will run a grant offer in the Netherlands in 2011 actively supports this initiative.
together with the UK scheme.
Plans are also in place to run schemes where possible in the US in 2011.
The The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for Board did not offer under this scheme in 2010. human resource issues encompassing all aspects of recruitment, development and retention and dispute Community, Charity and the SDL Foundation resolution, delegating as necessary to the members of SDL has a formal process to invest in community the executive management team or human resources relationships and all matters related to Charitable team.
The Chief Financial Officer seeks to ensure Support are channelled through the SDL Foundation, consistent dissemination of HR policy across the Group.
which is independently chaired by Alastair Gordon, the former CFO.
The business has been very active The SDL Executive Team meets approximately quarterly through the Foundation in 2010 and it has been very to discuss matters impacting the Group.
This meeting is pleasing to watch employee participation grow with attended and chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and some employees taking time away from the office to also attended by the Chief Financial Officer, segment participate directly in projects in underprivileged parts CEOs and functional leaders in the Group.
The primary investment goal of the Executive Team is the major decision making vehicle for SDL Foundation is to focus on sustainable causes which operational matters impacting the Group as a whole contribute to self help, sustainability, micro income Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65 Directors Report continued generation or building of infrastructure such as clean often a strong fit between energy use reduction and water or sanitation facilities.
The Foundation actively commercial return.
screens all proposals from employees and, where The environmental impact of disposal of outmoded appropriate, engages directly with the charities involved or obsolete equipment is minimized and provision to validate that projects effectively transfer aid and are of recycling facilities, reuse or donation schemes are in line with the objectives of the Foundation.
the projects supported by the SDL Foundation in 2010 are highlighted on page 25 of this report making a very Directors and Their Interests big difference to several supported communities.
The The directors and their interests in the share capital Foundation trustees again requested that the SDL Board of the Group as at 31 December 2010 all beneficially pledge another 250,000 to the SDL Foundation in held according to the register of directors interests are respect of 2010 operations and the SDL Board agreed to detailed as follows: this request.
2010 2009 Class Number Number The Group actively supports translation as a profession and has developed progressive relationships with Mark Lancaster Ordinary 537,983 317,572 several language facilities of universities in the countries Cristina Lancaster Ordinary 317,572 1,220,537 in which it operates.
This serves as a way for the John Hunter Ordinary 28,750 28,750 Group to develop the translation profession as well as Chris Batterham Ordinary 86,895 86,895 providing a valuable potential career outlet for students John Matthews Ordinary 15,000 15,000 and a source of potential future employees.
In 2010 Joe Campbell Ordinary - - we have developed relationships with a number of David Clayton Ordinary - - universities including School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, Johannes Gutenberg Jane Thompson Ordinary - - University Mainz and the University of Valencia.
The above list represents all persons who were directors Environment at any time during the year, with the exception of The SDL Group has no manufacturing processes so the Alastair Gordon who resigned on 31 March 2010. goal of any environmental projects needs to be focussed on facilities management and indirect impacts on the Details of options and long-term incentive plan shares environment such as travel.
During 2010 the Board held by directors at the year-end are given in the strengthened our commitment to the environment Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 62. and has recently engaged Carbon Clear Limited to There have been no further changes to any directors help us analyse our CO burden and ways to manage 2 interests in shares including options and long term or reduce CO emissions for the first time.
We set out 2 incentive plan shares since the end of the financial year these measures and our environmental program on up to a date that is not more than one month before page 22 of this Annual Report.
By raising awareness the date of the notice of general meeting.
of environmental matters SDL seeks to stimulate employees to directly help protect the environment Indemnification of directors and minimize the overall environmental burden of As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force operations.
SDL has raised consciousness about waste under which the company has agreed to indemnify generation, recycling and resource conservation in its the directors, to the extent permitted by law and the operations and recognising travel as a key driver to companys articles of association, in respect of all losses environmental impact, sought alternatives to minimize arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of travel via use of technology such as web conferencing their powers, duties and responsibilities, as directors of and more effective travel scheduling.
Cycle to work the company or any of its subsidiaries.
initiatives and car pooling schemes also aim to take employee related traffic off the road.
Compliance With the Combined Code The statements of compliance with the principles of the Environmental efficiency is always given consideration Combined Code on Corporate Governance published when selecting new office premises and energy by the FSA in 2008 are set out on page 39 of the Annual efficient systems are promoted and used where Report.
The Corporate Governance Statement on pages they provide shareholder return by reducing energy 39 to 54 forms part of the Directors Report.
The Board considers that there is 66 Statutory Information 9 the Companies Act 2006, were approved by Takeover Directive shareholders at the Annual General meeting on The Company has implemented the requirements of 23 April 2010. the Takeover Directive in the year and discloses the following information: The powers of the directors are given in the Articles of Association plus those granted by The structure of the Companys capital and the special resolution at the AGM dated 24 April 2009 rights and obligations attached to those shares are governing shares issuance.
given in note 17 to the accounts.
There are no significant agreements entered into There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities by the Company that take effect, alter or terminate of the Company, including limits on holdings and upon a change of control following a takeover bid requirements to obtain approval of the company or and the effect of such agreements.
The agreements between the company and its All persons with a significant holding, along directors for compensation for loss of office are with the value of that holding are given in the given in the Directors Remuneration Report on table below share price at 24 February 2011: page 58.
% of Issued Value of Contractual Relationships Holding at Share Holding There are no individual contracts which are considered Fund Manager 24 February 2011 Capital 000 to be significant or critical to the overall business of Blackrock 9,808,688 12.57 62,555 the Group.
Axa Investment Managers 5,778,674 7.41 36,853 Standard Life Investments 5,552,824 7.12 35,413 Creditor Payment Policy and Practice It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are F&C Asset Management 5,241,778 6.72 33,429 made in accordance with those terms and conditions Baillie Gifford 5,126,703 6.57 32,696 agreed between the Group and its suppliers, provided Old Mutual Asset Managers 4,060,081 5.2 25,893 that all trading terms and conditions have been complied Herald Investment with and that there are no disputes.
This policy was Managers 3,363,769 4.31 21,452 applied consistently in 2010 and the ethical treatment Legal & General Investment of suppliers is of importance to the supply relationships Management 2,957,773 3.79 18,863 with the extensive list of individual freelance translators Fidelity Investments 2,748,055 3.52 17,526 that form an integral part of the translation supply chain Aviva Investors 2,548,290 3.27 16,252 and on whom SDL relies.
Any changes in supplier terms State Street securities and conditions are through negotiation.
collateral account 2,461,748 3.16 15,700 At 31 December 2010, the Company had an average Montanaro Investment of 34 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors Managers 2,361,790 3.03 15,062 2009: 20 days.
There is no person holding securities with special Research and Development Activities control rights.
The Group conducts research and development All shares issued under employee share schemes activities in a number of locations including the UK, have rights which are directly exercisable by USA, Netherlands, Ukraine, Bulgaria and Romania.
These activities are concentrated on maintaining the Groups software products in providing Global There is no restriction on voting rights.
Information Management solutions in the form of There are no agreements between shareholders that Language Services, Language Technologies and may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities Content Management solutions.
During 2010, there or on voting rights.
was a significant increase in development expenditure as a result of the acquisitions made in 2009 and in Amended Articles, taking account of changes 2010, particularly on the Language Weaver BeGlobal in English company law brought about by launch and through further expenditure on roll out of Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67 Directors Report continued new products in the structured content management Responsibility Statement of the business and further expenditure on the integration Directors in Relation to the of the SDL technology platform and further planned Group Financial Statements product release.
In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm Financial Instruments to the best of their knowledge that: An explanation of the Groups financial instrument the financial statements, prepared in accordance risk management objectives, policies and strategies with the applicable set of accounting standards, are set out in the Operating and Financial Review on give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, pages 36 to 38.
Group policy prohibits operating units financial position and profit or loss of the company from entering into derivative or financial instrument and the undertakings included in the consolidation transactions and this must be done at Group level taken as a whole: and under the control of the Chief Financial Officer.
the Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement, Political and Charitable Donations Operating Financial Review and the Directors During the year no political donations were made.
Report include a fair review of the development Charitable donations amounting to 851 were made and performance of the business and the position to external charities and 250,000 was donated to of the issuer and the undertakings included in the the SDL Foundation as noted above.
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Auditors that they face.
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors will be put to the members at the Special Business at the Annual General Annual General Meeting.
Meeting At the Annual General Meeting, items 1 to 10 inclusive Directors Statement as to Disclosure of and 12 are proposed as ordinary resolutions and items Information to Auditors 11 and 13 as special resolutions.
These resolutions The directors who were members of the Board at the together with explanatory notes, as appropriate, are set time of approving the directors report are listed on out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors Where Shareholders are in any doubt as to what action and of the companys auditors, each of these directors to take in this matter they should consult appropriate confirms that: independent advisors.
Where all securities have to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, been sold or transferred by the person receiving this there is no information relevant to the preparation document, it should be passed to the person for whom of their report of which the companys auditors are the sale or transfer was affected for transmission to the unaware: and purchaser or transferee.
each director has taken all the steps a director might Company Number reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of The Company number of SDL plc is 2675207. relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board John Hunter Director 21 March 2011 68
