Key account growth Key Account Growth Cross Leverage 117 new enterprise customers SDL is proud to have the chose to adopt our solutions worlds leading brands 10 of our software clients went amongst its global client on to deepen their GIM solution list.
During 2010 we saw with SDL more of our clients adopting Technology Leadership We broadened our offering additional solutions from within 8 of our manufacturing and automotive clients our portfolio, as they grow and expand their Global 18 more financial services companies chose to select Information Management solutions from SDL strategies within their organisations.
Acquisition Partnership Geographic Expansion Operational E ectiveness Corporate Social Responsibility new enterprise customers 117 chose to adopt our solutions 12 Key Account Growth & Cross Leverage 2 Key account growth Virgin Money Case Study Cross Leverage Virgin Money Turns to SDL for a Consistent Global Website Virgin Money, part of the Virgin Group, is a rising star of the financial services sector.
Its main business line is the provision of credit cards and, today, 95 percent of Virgin Money credit cards are acquired through the website.
Its website has 40,000 visitors a day, with a 50 50 split between Technology Leadership new and existing customers.
Fast turnaround on new Virgin Money underwent a significant re-brand.
Its website was a key product launches component of this process.
The tone and functionality of the website had No IT involved in website to change and they could only undertake such a project on a stable and changes well-architected platform, SDL Tridion.
They are now able to launch a new product, without input from the IT department, making the turnaround Consistent look and feel time on new content for the site exceptionally fast.
The look and feel of of brand their site is consistent in the different countries in which they sell and Acquisition Partnership so they can provide a personalised and consistent experience to their worldwide customers.
Geographic Expansion Operational E ectiveness Corporate Social Responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 Key account growth Saab AB Case Study Cross Leverage Saab AB Selects SDL for Gripen Fighter Aircraft Program Swedish aerospace company Saab, with its five business areas of Aeronautics, Dynamics, Electronic Defence Systems, Security and Defence Solutions, and Support and Services, selected SDL for its SDL LiveContent, in order to fulfil requirements of the Gripen fighter aircraft program.
Technology Leadership Gripen is the first of the new generation, multi-role combat aircraft to Simultaneous deliveries of enter service.
fighter aircraft content for CD SDL provides an interactive delivery solution that provides advanced and Web distribution and viewing of content.
This is part of the Gripen IETP project Ensure the most accurate and which is a two-year, multi-phase project with simultaneous deliveries relevant information via CD and the Web to ensure that the most accurate and up-to-date information is available for the Swedish War Fighter.
Acquisition Partnership Geographic Expansion Operational E ectiveness Corporate Social Responsibility 14 Key Account Growth & Cross Leverage 2 Key account growth Dassault Systmes Case Study Cross Leverage Dassault Systmes Chooses SDL to Support Unified Research and Development Strategy Dassault Systmes is a leading provider of Product Lifecycle Management solutions, 3D simulation and CAD software.
The Global Information Management solution from SDL will support Dassault Systmes worldwide research and development strategy to centralise and streamline Technology Leadership localisation processes.
A complete integrated solution With the majority of the companys localisation based on user interface A dynamic platform and software documentation, the aligned Global Information Management that can support R&D strategy centralises the management of global multilingual product business processes content, allows for translation asset reuse and harmonises processes throughout the Dassault Systmes group.
As a dynamic company with Reuse and centralisation rapid growth from acquisitions and aggressive market and product of multilingual content strategies, the creation of a central, consistent, and unified translation improves efficiencies Acquisition Partnership platform is important to protect and drive Dassault Systmes highly focused customer experience.
Geographic Expansion Operational E ectiveness Corporate Social Responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15
