Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 30 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Main Board Executive Directors The main Board met a total of nine times during the period 5 Mark Rollins Group Chief Executive.
A Chartered Accountant, 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010. he joined the Group in 1998 from Morgan Crucible plc, and became Group Finance Director in 2000, when he joined the Board.
He Audit Committee became Group Chief Executive, and Chairman of the Health, Safety David Best Chairman, Ian Much and Michael Steel.
The Committee & Environment Committee, in March 2008.
He is a non-executive met three times during the year.
director of WSP Group plc.
Nominations Committee 6 Simon Nicholls Group Finance Director.
A Chartered Accountant, Martin Clark Chairman, David Best, Ian Much and Michael Steel.
he joined the Group and was appointed to the Board in 2008.
The Committee met once during the year.
He was previously Chief Financial Officer for Hanson plcs North American operations.
Remuneration Committee Ian Much Chairman, David Best, Martin Clark and Michael Steel.
Executive Committee The Committee met six times during the year.
The Executive Committee, although not formally appointed as a Committee of the Board, oversees the running of all Health, Safety & Environment Committee Senior Group operations.
Mark Rollins, Mike Sheppard Chief Executive of Flexonics, Jerry Goodwin Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures and The purpose of the Executive Committee is to assist the Group Launie Fleming Chief Executive of Aerospace Fluid Systems.
Chief Executive in the performance of his duties, including: The Committee met four times during the year.
James Pomeroy, t he development and implementation of strategy, operational the Group HSE Manager, also attended each Committee meeting.
plans, policies, procedures, and budgets: Apologies for non-attendance were received from Ian Much for the monitoring of operating and financial performance: one Audit Committee meeting.
With this exception, there was the assessment and control of risk: full attendance at every meeting of the main Board and of the Committees of the Board during the year.
the prioritisation and allocation of resources: and the monitoring of competitive forces in each area of operation.
Non-executive Directors 1 Martin Clark Non-executive Chairman.
Joined the Board in 2001 The Committee is also responsible for the consideration of all other and is also a non-executive director of Shepherd Building Group Ltd. matters not specifically reserved for consideration by the Board.
He was previously a non-executive director of BPB plc, Blick plc, A report on the Executive Committees activities is provided to Clarkson plc, and ICM Computer Group PLC.
He is Chairman of the Board by the Group Chief Executive at each Board meeting.
At the year-end, the Committee comprised two members 2 David Best Non-executive Director.
Joined the Board in 2007: of the Board: Mark Rollins and Simon Nicholls, together with was also a non-executive director of St Ives plc until November 2010.
Launie Fleming Chief Executive of Aerospace Fluid Systems, He is a Chartered Accountant and was formerly Group Finance Jerry Goodwin Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures and Director of Xansa plc.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and Mike Sheppard Chief Executive of Flexonics.
Biographies of the of the Trustee Board of the Senior plc Pension Plan.
The Board Committee members are set out below.
Bindi Foyle, Group Financial considers David Best to be independent.
Controller, acts as Secretary to this Committee and Peter Woolfrey, Head of Business Development, normally attends.
3 Ian Much Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director.
Joined the Board in 2005 and is also non-executive director 7 Launie Fleming A US citizen, he has worked for the Group for of Chemring Group plc and BTG PLC, having joined the latter in more than 10 years.
He joined the Executive Committee upon his August 2010.
He was formerly Chief Executive of fide la Rue plc.
appointment as Chief Executive of Aerospace Fluid Systems in He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Prior to that appointment he had been Chief considers Ian Much to be independent.
Executive of Senior Aerospace SSP.
8 Jerry Goodwin A US citizen, he joined the Group in June 2007 He was previously President of the Mechanical Systems business as the Chief Executive of Senior Aerospace AMT.
He was appointed of GE Aviation Systems formerly Smiths Aerospace.
The Board Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures and joined the Executive considers Michael Steel to be independent.
Michael Steel is to retire Committee in December 2009.
Prior to joining Senior, Jerry served from the Board at the Annual General Meeting 2011. as Vice President and General Manager at C & D Zodiac, a composites aerospace manufacturing company.
9 Mike Sheppard A US citizen, Mike is the Chief Executive of the Flexonics Division.
He has worked for the Group for more than 20 years and has been a member of the Executive Committee for more than 10 years.
A qualified engineer, Mikes previous positions within the Group included operational roles at the two largest Flexonics businesses: Pathway and Bartlett.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 31
