Report of the Directors The Directors present their Report and supplementary reports, issued shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and together with the audited Financial Statements for the year ended replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles 31 December 2010. of Association, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related Activities and Business Review legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of Senior plc is a holding company.
The nature of the Groups the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the operations and its principal activities are set out in the Operating Matters Reserved for the PLC Board, which may be found on the and Financial Review OFR on pages 10 to 24.
Its Principal Group Companys website, and in the Corporate Governance Report on Undertakings are shown on page 93 and comments on Divisional page 34.
Each year, shareholder approval is sought to renew the results and activities in 2010 are included in the OFR.
The OFR also Boards authority to allot relevant securities.
There are also a number includes details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a Group, expected future developments in the Groups business, an change of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, indication of its activities in the field of research and development, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements, and and details of the key performance indicators used by management.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Acquisitions and Disposals Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any On 16 August 2010, the Senior Group acquired 100% of the agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees issued share capital of WahlcoMetroflex, Inc. WMX, for a that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that total consideration of 8.9m US$13.9m : further details of this occurs because of a takeover bid.
business are given on pages 13, 82 and 83.
The WMX business is complementary to, and has been integrated into, Senior Flexonics Financial Instruments Pathway.
There were no disposals during the year.
Note 21 to the Financial Statements on pages 73 to 78 contains disclosures on Financial Instruments.
Results and Dividends The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income Directors Statement on page 48.
Details of the Directors who served throughout the year can be found on page 31.
The Directors interests in the shares of the An interim dividend of 1.00 pence per share 2009 0.90 pence Company are included in the Remuneration Report on page 43. has already been paid and the Directors recommend a final dividend None of the Directors has any interest in contracts with the of 2.12 pence per share 2009 1.70 pence.
The final dividend, Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
if approved, will be payable on 31 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 May 2011.
This would bring The provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the the total dividend for the year to 3.12 pence per share 2009 New Code which apply to financial years commencing after 2.60 pence.
29 June 2010, require that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The Board is Share Capital to adopt this requirement for the Annual General Meeting 2011 to The Company has one class of ordinary shares.
Each share carries be held in April 2011, and David Best, Martin Clark, Simon Nicholls, the right to vote at general meetings of the Company, but no right Ian Much and Mark Rollins will all stand for re-election at the AGM.
Changes in the Companys issued share capital Michael Steel is to retire from the Board at the conclusion of the during 2010 were: AGM 2011.
Shares in issue at 1 January 2010 399,663,293 Directors Indemnities Senior plc Long Term Incentive Plan 810,657 Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of the Directors were renewed by the Company during the year and Senior plc Savings Related Share Option Plan 432,136 remain in force at the date of this Report.
Shares in issue at 31 December 2010 400,906,086 Research and Development Further share capital details are given in Note 25 to the Financial In 2010, the Group incurred 10.6m 2009 9.7m on research Statements on page 80.
Details of employee share plans are set and development, before recoveries from customers of 1.4m out on pages 85 and 86.
Product development and improving manufacturing There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on techniques represent the primary focus of the Groups research and the transfer of shares, both of which are governed by the general development activities.
provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital, and all 32 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Charitable and Political Donations significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
During the year, the Group made charitable donations amounting Remuneration Report to 138,000 2009 43,000, principally to local charities serving The Companys policy on executive Directors remuneration is the communities in which the Group operates: 87,500 of this figure set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 45.
The relates to donations made by the Group following Mark Rollins Remuneration Report is to be put to shareholder vote at the decision to waive in full his 2009 performance bonus.
No political Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011. donations were made during the year.
Annual General Meeting Disabled Employees and Employee Consultation The Notice of Meeting describes the business to be considered at The Groups policies in respect of disabled employees and job the Annual General Meeting to be held on Thursday 28 April 2011 applicants, and employee consultation are set out in the Corporate at the offices of Royal Bank of Scotland, 250 Bishopsgate, London Social Responsibility Report on pages 26 to 28.
Policy on Payment of Creditors Acquisition of the Companys own shares The Groups policy is to set the terms of payment with its suppliers The Company purchased none of its ordinary shares during the when agreeing the terms of each transaction, and to seek to adhere year.
At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under to those terms.
Based on the ratio of Company trade creditors at the the shareholders resolutions dated 23 April 2010, to make end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by suppliers, market purchases of the Companys shares up to an aggregate the number of days outstanding at the year-end was 15 days 2009 nominal amount of 4.0m, which represented approximately 14 days.
Typical payment terms adhered to by the Company are 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
A resolution to estimated to be approximately 30 days.
renew this authority will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual Fixed Assets General Meeting.
In the opinion of the Directors there is no significant difference Auditor between the book value and the current open market value of Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of the Groups interests in land and buildings.
this Annual Report confirms that: Major Shareholdings s o far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit At 25 February 2011, the Company had been notified that the information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and following shareholders were interested in 3% or more of the issued t he Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as share capital of the Company: a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware BlackRock Inv Mgt UK 13.29% of that information.
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 7.24% Henderson Global Investors 6.65% This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
JP Morgan Asset Management 5.81% Legal & General Investment Management 5.38% A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys Auditor Aegon Asset Management 3.82% will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
So far as is known, no other shareholder had a notifiable interest By Order of the Board amounting to 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company, and the Directors believe that the close company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 as amended do not apply to the Company.
Andrew Bodenham Secretary Compliance with the Combined Code 25 February 2011 The statements of compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council are set out on page 34.
UK Corporate Goverance Code On 27 May 2010 the Financial Reporting Council FRC issued the UK Corporate Governance Code the New Code, which applies to financial years commencing after 29 June 2010.
The FRC has changed the tone of the Code to focus more on Board behaviour.
The Board of Senior does not anticipate that the requirements of the New Code will have a significant impact on its activities, and where possible has complied with the provisions of the New Code in these Annual Report & Accounts, in particular in respect of explanations relating to how the Board operates, the role of the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, annual re-election of all directors, disclosures on the Groups strategy and business model, and the Boards procedures for determining the nature and extent of Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 33
