s c i n o x e l F A e r o s t l r o u r c t t n u o r e c s n o i s s i m e e l S c t i r h u e c v t u d r n e a s L Market Overview Senior is a market-leading engineering solutions provider for its customers, delivering quality products on time, utilising its design and manufacturing engineering capabilities to optimise customer value.
Aerospace Fluid conveyance systems Structures Delivery of air, hydraulic fluids and fuel Focus on precision machined products to critical airborne system functions.
and assemblies for airframe structures Capability for end to end delivery and systems.
Ability to replace complex systems in a range of composite and assemblies with single piece monolithic metallic materials.
Adding value by kitting and free product solutions for harsh assembling for original equipment environments that are subject to high manufacturers.
temperatures, pressures and vibration levels.
heavy bias towards large commercial principal military aircraft, regional jet and aircraft in North America and the business jet markets are stable Sikorsky Black Hawk helicopter group is increasingly successful where healthy outlook in all major programmes it has product design content with forecast for increase in build rates to drive organic revenue growth excellent content on new programmes such as Bombardiers CSeries, next ramp-up of Boeing 787 production will be generation regional jets and the Lockheed highly beneficial Martin Joint Strike Fighter will provide a strong customer relationships provide foundation for future growth access to new programme opportunities exploiting technologies in allied nonincreased outsourcing by major aerospace applications, such as in the customers e. g. Boeing, Rolls-Royce, medical and semi-conductor industries Spirit and Sikorsky provides additional opportunities for increased market share Gas turbine engines Manufacture of precision engineered products that operate in a mission-critical, harsh environment.
Provision of engine core, ancillary systems and related structural products to major engine manufacturers.
Adding value through the development of advanced manufacturing processes.
market forecasted to grow at a healthy Markets rate, driven by increasing aircraft build rates A Large commercial aircraft 23% A B Military and defence 18% new technologies in development, aimed C R egional and business jets 9% at improving fuel efficiency, will provide D Other 9% growth opportunities major engine manufacturers are Products B undertaking outsourcing exercises, E Engine structures and mountings 14% providing further opportunities F High-pressure ducting 13% D C G Airframe structural parts 12% emphasis on operational excellence, as H Helicopter machined parts 5% customers generally own product designs I L ow-pressure ducting and other nature of these products generally require E composites 4% higher than average capital investment J Fluid control systems 3% F K Non-aerospace 8% G H K I J 2 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 I n d u s t r i a l p r o c e s s s m c e t o s n y t S r o d l i u l F s e n i g n e e c a e p n s o i r b e r A u t s a G s c i n Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information o x e l F A e r o s t l r o u r c t t n u o r e c s n o i s s i m e e l S c t i r h u e c v t u d r n e a s L Flexonics Land vehicle emission control Industrial process control Focus on development of emission control Design and manufacture of fluid products for the truck and off-highway conveyance products for a range of transport sector as well as select passenger industrial process control applications vehicle applications.
Adding value mainly in the petrochemical and power through design of engineered products generation industries.
Significant exposure for customers to meet an increasingly to maintenance and upgrade requirements stringent regulatory environment.
including provision of on-site services.
Increasing development of heat exchanger key truck markets in North America technologies for increased fuel efficiency and Europe are showing initial signs and to meet tightening emission standards.
of recovery market growth largely determined by passenger vehicle market outlook global GDP satisfactory with strength in Brazil, the USA growing steadily but Europe likely tightening emission legislation e. g. carbon to weaken in the short term reduction requirements for coalfired power stations assists demand for the consistent tightening of emission Groups products legislation in all developed markets will continue to drive increased demand group has a leading presence in large for the Groups existing products and expansion joints and dampers diverters in technological development expertise the USA, and also services global markets customers increasingly sourcing globally investment is occurring in new products to meet the increasing need for alternative combining centres of excellence for energy solutions, such as concentrated product development with manufacture solar power and fuel cell technology in low-cost countries to meet customer requirements increases in emerging market demand are likely to drive the requirement for additional production capabilities in these markets Markets F E A Passenger vehicles 14% D B Truck 8% C C Power and energy 6% B D Heating, ventilation and solar 5% E Petrochemical 4% F Other industrial 4% A Products G Exhaust flexes 9% H Emission control 7% I Fuel distribution 6% K J HVAC ducting 5% K Expansion joints, dampers, J diverters, bellows 14% I H G Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3 I n d u s t r i a l p r o c e s s s m c e t o s n y t S r o d l i u l F s e n i g n e e c a e p n s o i r b e r A u t s a G Key Growth Drivers Senior designs, manufactures and markets hightechnology components and systems for the principal original equipment producers in the worldwide aerospace, defence, land vehicle and energy markets.
Global GDP Content on New Programmes Growth in global GDP will have a direct impact on a number of Securing programme wins, in particular content on new aircraft the Groups global and regional market demand drivers.
The most or land vehicle programmes, is an essential component that drives notable of these are global passenger air miles flown, which will sustained long-term growth in the Groups revenue and profits.
The support higher demand for new commercial aircraft, and increased Group has developed strong relationships with its key customers to consumer demand which will result in increased sales of trucks and ensure that it is well placed to bid on new programmes as they passenger vehicles as well as higher energy usage.
Medium-term emerge and can provide genuinely effective and timely customer forecast trends in these areas are positive, which can be expected solutions.
The best examples of recent success in this area are the to underpin further increases in Group revenue.
significant content that the Group has secured on the new Boeing 787 Dreamliner, its largest shipset content ever, and the successful Environmental Legislation development of heat exchanger technology used in the Groups Demand for the majority of the Groups products is linked exhaust gas recycling coolers supplied to the new generation of either directly or indirectly to the increasingly stringent global Cummins heavy-duty diesel engines.
requirements for reduced carbon emissions.
This arises either Market Share through environmental regulation, principally evident today in the Provision of market-leading engineering solutions and highformof reduction targets for emissions from industrial process technology components in its chosen market sectors are key Group plants and from land vehicles, or through the drive for cost savings strategic objectives.
The Group also places significant emphasis on via increased fuel efficiency in engines that power aircraft, trucks operational excellence, driven by Lean Manufacturing techniques, and passenger vehicles.
These regulatory factors and costas an essential component of delivering relative performance that reduction motives are expected to increase in the coming years, which in turn should support increased demand for the Groups is consistently ahead of its peers.
In combination, achievement of existing products and its product development portfolio, such these objectives is a key driver of market share gains, evidenced as fuel cell and heat exchanger technologies.
by increasing shipset content on a number of major platforms achieved in recent years that will continue to support future growth.
Large Commercial and Military Aircraft Build Rates The Group has healthy shipset content on most key aerospace Acquisitions growth platforms in the large commercial, regional jet and military The Group has a good track record of acquiring and successfully aircraft markets.
The most significant existing platforms for the integrating new businesses, utilising an acquisition framework Group in the near to medium term are the Boeing 737 and 777, that has been developed as part of the strategic planning process.
the Airbus A320 series, Lockheed Martins C-130 military transport Significant balance sheet capacity has been generated in the last aircraft and Sikorskys Black Hawk helicopter.
Additional new two years through very strong free cash flow generation.
This aircraft platforms that are anticipated to become increasingly can now be utilised to support a targeted and complementary meaningful include the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, Bombardiers acquisition programme, aiming to build further on the Groups CSeries aircraft, Lockheed Martins F35 Joint Strike Fighter and capabilities in both the Aerospace and Flexonics Divisions.
Medium-term forecasts are for meaningful growth in all of the above platforms.
World annual traffic revenue passenger km World energy outlook 2010 18,000 Rest of world ICAO Airbus China total trafc GMF 2010 16,000 10 OECD Source: ICAO, Airbus Source: OECD IEA 2010 14,000 8 12,000 10,000 6 Air trafc forecast Air trafc has doubled 8,000 to double in the every 15 years next 15 years 4 6,000 4,000 2 2,000 0 0 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 90 95 00 05 10 15 20 25 30 35 Forecast annual growth in global passenger air traffic is the key driver of demand for Projected increases in global energy usage will drive higher revenue for Senior new commercial aircraft, and hence for many of Seniors core aerospace products.
through increased sales of large industrial expansion joints and other emissionrelated products.
4 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 RPK trillion Mtoe Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Heading Structures The Sikorsky Black Hawk helicopter is one of Seniors most important aerospace programmes.
The Group machines various magnesium and titanium components at its Sterling Machine facility in Connecticut, USA that are incorporated into the Black Hawks transmission and rotor hub assemblies.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5
