Section 2 Our business model 1 The Business Lifecycle Governance Process Selecting markets formalises our approach to value creation and We look for markets that: managing the associated risks.
It helps us to: O are politically and economically stable O determine the markets we want to be in O offer multiple contracts and good growth O bid successfully for contracts that add most value O provide appropriate margins and cash ow, and O transition these contracts to deliver this value, and O allow us to differentiate ourselves from the competition.
We also analyse many other factors, including: Summary of the Business Lifecycle O the markets drivers Governance Process O our understanding of the customers and the way they procure O ethical and human-rights issues, and 1 Selecting markets O whether we can provide an attractive working environment for our people.
In new markets, we also consider our entry strategy and whether we need an innovative contracting model.
2 Identifying opportunities 2 Identifying opportunities 3 Once we know the market is attractive, we identify opportunities Bidding to pursue.
We then test the quality of each opportunity, including: selectively O our understanding of the customers business and vision O their funding for the project, and 4 Transitioning effectively O how likely they are to procure.
We also compare opportunities against each other, to determine the best use of our resources.
5 Delivering operational excellence 6 Deciding to rebid Yes No 7 8 Rebidding Exit 10 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section2.
indd 10 14 03 2011 14:18 3 6 Bidding selectively Deciding to rebid Bidding can be expensive and take many months, so we only bid As we near the end of a contract, we decide whether or not to rebid it.
for opportunities that meet our criteria and where we have a strong chance of winning.
Although we usually rebid, we occasionally decide to exit a contract.
We might do this if, for example: The bidding stage has numerous steps, from our initial submission, to being shortlisted, to our final bid.
During the process, we develop O the market has stopped growing or become too price a detailed solution for the customer and test it thoroughly.
At every competitive, or step, we review the opportunity and confirm that we want to proceed.
O we can get a greater return elsewhere.
Once the customer selects us, the final step is to negotiate and sign the contract.
7 Rebidding 4 Our long-term relationships and service quality help us retain around Transitioning effectively 90% of our contracts at rebid and extension.
Effectively transitioning a new contract is vital.
We approach the rebid as if it were a new contract, designing ways We ensure that we have the right planning and controls in place to to deliver even greater quality and productivity.
Often the customer start work seamlessly on day one, as we implement the solution we requests more services over a longer term, so a rebid can be developed during bidding.
We also transfer knowledge from the bid considerably larger than the original contract.
team to the contract management, and continue to strengthen our customer and stakeholder relationships.
Once we have secured the rebid, we return to the transition phase, bedding-in our innovations and any new services we have taken on.
5 8 Delivering operational excellence We aim to deliver operational excellence and continual improvement.
Exit When we nish a contract, we do so in the right way.
Devolving responsibility to our contract directors allows them to innovate and respond to our customers needs.
It also makes our Where appropriate, we work closely with the incoming contractor business scalable, enabling us to manage a growing contract portfolio.
to protect the interests of both the customer and the people who will transfer from us when our contract ends.
This is also important The Serco Management System sets out our control framework, because we may have other contracts with the customer or want ensuring we work safely and responsibly, and safeguarding the needs to work with them in the future.
of our stakeholders and Serco.
Every decision we make must be in line with our Governing Principles see page 12.
Working in the right way helps us to build long-term relationships.
This often leads to the customer expanding our contract during its life, which is important for our growth.
It also positions us to win the contract at rebid.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 11 Serco AR10 Section2.
