Section 2 Our strategy and key performance indicators KPIs Each element of our strategy Strategy Building a balanced portfolio contributes to reducing our exposure to market uctuations, Description We aim to reduce risk and increase opportunities strengthening our position in by building a balanced contract portfolio, spread across markets.
This reduces our exposure to our markets and developing market uctuations, enables us to select the new skills and capabilities for best opportunities whichever market they are in, and allows us to transfer expertise from one the future.
Key achievements in 2010 We benefited from the breadth of our portfolio during the year, with strong growth in AMEAA, the Americas and UK Civil Government offsetting other slower UK markets.
We continued to strengthen our portfolio with 4.2bn of contract wins, and were appointed preferred bidder for a further 1.4bn of contracts.
Transferring our skills around the world enabled us to enter new markets.
We won our first home affairs contract in New Zealand, to manage the Mt Eden and Auckland Central Remand Prison, and were appointed preferred bidder for our first Australian health contract, at Fiona Stanley Hospital in Perth.
We won a contract with a new customer in the US, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and were awarded a number of transport consultancy contracts in new countries, We use the following KPIs including Saudi Arabia.
to monitor our performance over time.
They are split between financial and non-financial measures.
KPIs Financial Financial Financial Revenue m $GMXVWHG RSHUDWLQJ SURW m Adjusted earnings per share EPS p Revenue represents the amounts due for Adjusted operating profit is our operating profit Adjusted EPS is our profit for the financial year, the services we provided during the year, before the amortisation of intangibles arising excluding the post-tax charge for the and includes our share of revenue from on acquisition.
We believe it is the most amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition, joint ventures.
appropriate measure for assessing the divided by the weighted average number of profitability of our business.
shares in issue during the year.
Adjusted EPS provides a measure of shareholder return that is comparable over time.
The details of the calculation are shown in note 12 to the financial statements.
during 2010, representing an increase in margin per share.
Excluding currency effects, revenue growth of 19 basis points to 6.0%.
08 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section2.
indd 8 15 03 2011 15:14 Delivering excellent service Making strategic acquisitions Developing new models Delivering excellent service means meeting While we are primarily focused on organic We respond to emerging opportunities by and often exceeding customer expectations.
growth, we make acquisitions to gain skills which nding new ways to deliver services.
This may We do this by having the responsible behaviours will be important for future growth and to enter mean collaboration between our divisions, enshrined in our values at the heart of everything markets where we see strong opportunities.
bringing together skills and experience which we do.
few other companies can replicate, or it may mean partnering with our customer or the This enables us to build long-term customer voluntary sector.
Our ability to lead change relationships, to expand the scope and scale keeps us at the forefront of our markets.
of contracts during their life, retain contracts at rebid and win new contracts.
The quality of our service is reected in our In 2010, we acquired RB Solutions, a successful The partnering model we pioneered to deliver high bid win rates, which we maintained at 90% provider in the UK revenues and benets welfare to work services under the UKs Flexible for rebids and extensions, and one in two for market.
This strengthened our position in New Deal drawing on private and voluntary new bids.
this market and enabled us to win five new sector providers will form the basis for the contracts, including Dacorum Borough Council Governments new Work Programme.
This is During the year, we were named Britains and Dudley Metropolitan Borough Council, a tribute to the success of this model as well most-admired service company and the second to provide benets processing services.
as a substantial opportunity for Serco.
most-admired company overall by Management Today.
Other recognition included: We also continued to gain from the acquisitions The success of the model at GSTS Pathology, we have made in recent years, which have our ground-breaking joint venture with Guys the Operator and Service Excellence award provided a strong platform for organic growth.
and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, was in Australia For example, our US business, which we demonstrated when it became the UKs largest expanded with the acquisition of SI International provider of pathology services during 2010, with 23 awards and commendations from the in 2008, has delivered high organic growth.
the addition of Kings College Hospital NHS Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Foundation Trust to the joint venture.
in the UK, and We also created a strategic partnership with the Defense Enterprise Architecture Hertfordshire County Council.
This will improve Achievement Award and the None in its service delivery and go beyond the scope of a Million Federal Aviation Administration previous contracting models, by offering services award in the US.
to other public-sector bodies in the area, including district councils and the police authority.
Financial 1RQ QDQFLDO 1RQ QDQFLDO Reportable incident rate Carbon dioxide emissions URXS IUHH FDVK RZ m per 100,000 employees tonnes of CO m revenue 2 Group free cash ow represents the free cash Reportable incidents include work-related Reducing our carbon dioxide emissions is a key ow generated by our subsidiaries plus the fatalities, major injuries, injuries resulting in aim for Serco.
We measure our emissions in dividends we receive from joint ventures.
It absences from work of more than three days, relation to our revenue, to take account of the represents the cash ow to which the Group has work-related diseases and near-miss accidents.
The calculation of Group free cash ow The incident rate measures our success in is shown in the finance review on page 54. providing a safe and secure working environment.
The reportable incident rate increased slightly In 2010, we achieved a 7.3% reduction in during 2010 but remained substantially below tonnes of CO m of revenue, compared to 2 earlier years.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 09 Serco AR10 Section2.
