Section 4 Directors proles Alastair Lyons Christopher Hyman Andrew Jenner David Richardson Leonard V. Broese van Groenou Paul Brooks Alastair Lyons CBE 57 Job title: Chairman Appointment: Alastair was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Serco Group plc in March 2010, becoming Chairman at the conclusion of the Companys AGM in May 2010.
Responsibilities: Alastair is responsible for the effective operation of the Board and oversight of corporate governance.
He is Chair of the Nomination Committee.
Experience: In his executive career Alastair was Group Finance Director and subsequently Chief Executive of the National & Provincial Building Society.
When the society was acquired in 1996 by Abbey National he joined the Abbey National main Board as Managing Director of its Insurance Division.
In 1997 he became Chief Executive of the pensions specialist NPI where he led its demutualisation and acquisition by AMP, subsequent to which he joined NatWest in 1999 as Director of Corporate Projects.
A chartered accountant with an MA in economics from Trinity College Cambridge, Alastair has been a non-executive director of, successively, the Department for Work & Pensions and the Department for Transport.
External appointments: Alastair has been Chairman of Admiral Group plc, the direct motor insurer, since 2000: in 2008 he was appointed Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes Group PLC, one of the UKs leading quoted house builders: in March 2010 he was appointed Senior Independent Director and Audit Chair of Phoenix Group Holdings, the UKs largest closed life and pension fund consolidator: and in February 2011 he was appointed Non-Executive Director of the Towergate Insurance Group.
Christopher Rajendran Hyman CBE 47 Job title: Chief Executive Appointment: Christopher was appointed Chief Executive of Serco Group plc in 2002.
Responsibilities: Christopher is responsible for the formation and implementation of the Groups global strategy, as well as the day-to-day management of the business operations and our relationship with the City and key stakeholders.
He provides leadership and representation of the Group with major customers, shareholders and industry organisations.
Experience: Christopher graduated from Natal University in Durban, South Africa and qualied as a chartered accountant, serving with Arthur Andersen and Ernst & Young before joining Serco in 1994 as the European Finance Director.
He was appointed Group Company Secretary in 1996, Corporate Finance Director in 1997 and Group Finance Director in April 1999.
External appointments: Christopher is chairman of the Prince of Wales charity In Kind Direct, and a Trustee of the Africa Foundation.
He is also a Trustee Director of the Board for Business in the Community, a member of the UK Commission for Employment and Skills and is Chairman of The Princes Seeing is Believing Programme.
In the 2010 Queens Birthday Honours Christopher was awarded a CBE for his services to Business and Charity.
90 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Andrew Mark Jenner 42 Job title: Finance Director Appointment: Andrew was appointed Group Finance Director in May 2002.
Responsibilities: Andrew is responsible for the Groups financial management, reporting and control, operational efficiency and risk management and assurance.
He shares responsibility with the Chief Executive for our relationship with our key stakeholders and the City.
Experience: Andrew, a chartered accountant, joined Serco in 1996 as Group Financial Controller, having previously worked for Unilever and Deloitte & Touche LLP.
He became Corporate Finance Director with additional responsibility for treasury activities in 1999 before joining the Board in 2002.
External appointments: Andrew is a Non-Executive Director of Galliford Try plc, one of the UKs leading construction and house-building groups and is Chairman of its Audit Committee.
David Richardson 59 Job title: Senior Independent Director Appointment: David joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director in June 2003.
Responsibilities: David is Chair of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Experience: David, a chartered accountant, has previously held the position of Finance Director of Whitbread, where his roles in a 20-year career have included eight years as Strategy Director.
David was instrumental in transforming Whitbread from a brewing and pubs company into a market leader in hotels, restaurants and leisure clubs.
Until September 2010 David also served as a Non-Executive Director of Tomkins plc.
External appointments: David is the Chairman of Forth Ports plc and Director of the Supervisory Board of World Hotels AG.
Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 64 Job title: Non-Executive Director Appointment: Leonard joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director in April 2006.
Responsibilities: Leonard is Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Experience: Leonard was previously Vice-President Human Resources and member of the corporate executive committee of Pennsylvaniabased Air Products, a New York listed company serving customers in technology, energy, healthcare and industrial markets worldwide where he served for nearly 30 years.
His career at Air Products spanned numerous international roles including financial control, business planning, operational management and human resources.
External appointments: Leonard is the Chairman of the Netherlands Benevolent Society.
Paul Brooks 57 Job title: Non-Executive Director Appointment: Paul joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director in February 2011.
Responsibilities: Paul is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Experience: Paul qualied as a chartered accountant with KPMG, having graduated from Cambridge University with an economics degree.
He joined Experian in 1999 as Finance Director of its former International Division and has been Chief Financial officer of Experian since October 2001.
He was appointed to its board of directors in July 2006.
External appointments: Paul is an Executive Director of Experian plc.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 91 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG
