Section 3 Resources Business relationships Suppliers Customers Effective procurement signicantly Our ability to develop long-term relationships contributes to achieving our vision and with our customers is a central part of our delivering effective service to our customers.
Day-to-day responsibility for We aim to be professional in all our dealings meeting our customers needs lies with our with suppliers and to establish mutually contract directors.
Our approach to working beneficial relationships, in which suppliers with our customers is set out in our Governing want repeat business with us and have us Principles see page 12, which aim to as their customer of choice.
empower our contract directors and ensure that we deliver high-quality service.
We have a dedicated procurement and supply chain team which is responsible for putting We maintain relationships at all levels with this approach into practice.
As part of this, our customers, so they are aware of how we they continue to enhance our systems and can help them and we can anticipate their processes for choosing and managing our changing needs and identify opportunities suppliers.
This helps us to maximise the value at an early stage.
These relationships lie with of our supplier relationships, makes it quicker our divisional and Group leaders.
and cheaper for us to transact with them, and assists with understanding and monitoring Our reputation with our existing customers is areas such as environmental impact before also vital in winning new work.
Many factors our people make a decision to buy.
influence our reputation, including: Our businesses have many common O the quality of our service purchasing needs.
For this reason, we aim to work with carefully chosen preferred O our values and public-service ethos suppliers, enabling us to achieve better terms and conditions and make the most of our O our capacity to innovate, and economies of scale.
Our teams are also able to procure locally when appropriate, drawing O our engagement with our employees on the expertise of our divisional procurement and other stakeholders, such as specialists to manage the process effectively.
We continue to focus on developing our We believe that our high rebid and new bid relationships with all of our suppliers, win rates demonstrate the strength of our including small and medium-sized reputation with new and existing customers.
In 2011, we will be looking at ways to enhance this further.
We have a longstanding programme in place to improve the way we work with our suppliers.
Following the public attention on our relationships with our suppliers in November 2010, we looked again at the improvement programme we had in place and introduced a number of additional steps, including support to SMEs who often supply the specialist or local knowledge we need to deliver services to our customers.
Serco is a member of Minority Supplier Development UK, a not-for-profit organisation which provides a direct link between companies and ethnic-minority businesses, to enable the building of mutually beneficial business relationships.
68 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 68 14 03 2011 14:31 Joint venture partners Strategic partners Serco has a number of joint ventures with We often deliver services as part of a commercial partners and customers.
consortium, either as prime contractor or as a subcontractor.
This allows us to bring Our joint ventures with Abellio run Northern together companies with the skills to meet Rail, which is the countrys largest train the precise requirements of a bid.
franchise, and Merseyrail, the UKs most punctual train operator.
Our values and the open and honest way in which we work also make us an attractive AWE Management Limited, our highly partner for voluntary-sector organisations, successful joint venture with Lockheed who often lack the scale and experience Martin and Jacobs Engineering Group to access major government programmes.
Inc. manages the UKs Atomic Weapons Examples include: Establishment.
O our model for providing welfare to work In Australia, DMS Maritime, our joint venture services in the UK, which utilises a with P&O Maritime Services, is a key partner network of commercial and voluntaryfor the Australian Defence Force ADF and sector partners, and other agencies.
In partnership with Sodexo, we also deliver garrison support services O our contract to run Belmarsh West prison, to the ADF through Serco Sodexo Defence in alliance with voluntary-sector partners Services Pty Limited.
We also have successful joint ventures with Responsibility for relationships with our customers.
We created GSTS Pathology with strategic partners lies with the relevant Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, contract and divisional management.
to transform its pathology services.
In 2010, Kings College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust also became a partner in the joint venture.
ACCESS is our joint venture with Glasgow City Council, designed to streamline and maximise the use of the Councils property and ICT assets.
Strong relationships, based on mutual trust and respect and clarity of roles, are essential ingredients if a joint venture is to deliver excellent customer service.
Our divisional management teams are responsible for relationships with our joint venture partners, supported by members of the Group Executive Committee and Board as appropriate.
This includes holding regular strategy and review meetings with our partners.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 69 Serco AR10 Section3g.
