Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Business review Severn Trent Services Overview business improved when compared to the first half, reflecting an Our Severn Trent Services business is one of the improved operating environment and a lower cost base in the worlds leading suppliers of water and waste business.
This sequential growth in Severn Trent Services turnover water operational and treatment solutions.
We and profit was 5% and 49% respectively, with Water Purification the largest contributor at 16% and 67% improvement respectively.
are a respected global brand, known throughout Stronger market drivers, an increase in the pipeline of projects the world for operating at the forefront of and a healthy order book give us confidence in our position for sustainable growth.
advanced water technology and for our quality, Turnover in Severn Trent Services was 336.5 million in 2009 10, reliability and stability.
Profit before interest, tax and exceptional position in our selected markets.
Platform for growth We have three principal business groups Severn Trent Services remains focused on our core group skills of water and waste water treatment and operations complementary to Operating Services provides contract operating services to our UK regulated business, Severn Trent Water.
manage and maintain water and waste water plants and Our Operating Services business performed well and continued to networks worldwide.
We are a leading provider in the United show year on year growth.
States and United Kingdom, one of the few integrated water operators in Italy and are building our presence in Ireland.
The first half of the year was challenging, particularly in our Water Purification and Analytical Services businesses.
Our customers Water Purification is one of the leading global providers of found difficulty in accessing project financing due to the economic advanced technologies and products for water and waste slowdown, uncertainty about government economic stimulus water disinfection, filtration, adsorption and marine offshore packages, and declining oil prices.
We quickly addressed these waste water treatment.
issues by restructuring the parts of the business most impacted and by lowering costs so that we were better positioned for growth on a Analytical Services is a leader in UK environmental water global basis.
At the same time we made appropriate measured testing services.
investments to seed new markets and geographic areas, and to develop new technologies and products.
Second half results in the 207.2m 101.8m Turnover in our Operating Turnover in our Water Services business Purification business 2009 200.1m 2009 107.6m 27.5m Turnover in our Analytical More information about Services business Severn Trent Services 2009 31.6m www.
com While the global recession has resulted in a slowdown this year, the market for water and waste water products and services remains We kept our position and our strong with substantial prospects for growth customers, we maintained our in the four areas we serve.
That is because margins and we are ideally placed the drivers of the water and waste water for the economic recovery.
business water scarcity, population growth, climate change and higher regulatory requirements remain strong.
We focus on the higher growth and higher Len Graziano margin market segments and geographies President and Chief Executive Officer where our broad line of products and services meet the significant needs of our customers.
