58 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance Risk and assurance Risk management process standards, and assurance of the outcomes.
The board and other key stakeholders need a transparent methodology which delivers Cascading Company Performance and validates the outcome of activities.
objectives risk map monitoring and reporting The company expects roles to be performed in line with specific annual job objectives.
Employees performing their roles properly, Board & filter Committees preparing and reporting outcomes on time and to the required Business standard is a key component in our Assurance Framework.
Executive risk maps Businesses & Committee The company continues to embed the compliance, verification and Functions cut off filter performance management activities in Severn Trent.
These are within business areas and sometimes within discrete functions.
Departments, Teams & Individuals Specific risk These confirm that operational activities have been performed assessments, e. g. properly in the line.
safety asset project Lastly, the company maintains an independent perspective on the fraud process overall framework by obtaining confirmation that the components of the governance structure are working properly.
In Severn Trent, this Enterprise Risk Management is obtained from our assurance providers including Internal Audit.
Our Enterprise Risk Management process, as illustrated above, continues to be used for the identification and assessment of risks In order to provide an appropriate understanding of how these to significant business objectives.
The process ensures clear responsibilities come together for Severn Trent, the company has ownership for risks, mitigating controls and improvement actions by developed a description of the key elements over which assurance assigning accountability to relevant line management.
Risks are is required by the board.
This is maintained by the Director of reported to the Executive Committee and Audit Committee every six Internal Audit on behalf of the board.
Notwithstanding this, risks are normally reviewed within the A map details the areas over which Severn Trent has decided to business on a quarterly basis to ensure they remain at the forefront gain specific assurance.
These may vary from year to year.
The of the managements agenda, that no significant risks have been criteria by which each area for assurance is selected are: overlooked, that controls continue to be effective and mitigating actions are being addressed in a timely manner.
potentially damaging to reputation: Having established our approach to risk management over the material financial impact: and previous 18 months, this year we have started to implement further linked to the corporate KPIs.
improvements to our process regarding the risk of non-compliance with critical legal and regulatory obligations.
In particular, we are Internal Audit will confirm the details of the assurance provision looking to increase the visibility of measures in place across the to cover: company to help demonstrate compliance.
We are doing this for a who is responsible: number of reasons, including: what is the activity: and to improve our understanding of key compliance obligations how is this recorded.
and compliance control awareness generally: Internal Audit deliver an audit plan to confirm that key business to ensure that as specific processes are redesigned and risks are being mitigated.
improved as part of our Safer Better Faster initiative, compliance is built in such that by following the process, compliance will be achieved: and to provide transparency over compliance management to our executive and any interested external third parties.
In addition to this work we have continued to further embed our Enterprise Risk Management process within all areas of the business, including significant change programmes and with steps now being taken to roll out in our capital programmes.
Principal risks Our principal risks are described in the table on pages 59 to 60.
These and other risks have been monitored by the Executive Committee and Audit Committee during the past year.
Assurance framework Severn Trent has made solid progress in implementing the key components of its governance framework which are based on clear organisational structures and decision making, sound policies and Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59 Principal risk description Key mitigation activities Risks relating to the ongoing implementation of our We have a programme management office which monitors and coordinated change programme and achieving the significant coordinates the activities of the various change programmes and sustainable forecasted benefits.
See page 15 Having and ensures effective governance within each of the the lowest possible charges.
programmes, including ensuring that benefits are defined and tracked.
There are also defined escalation procedures, including Specific examples include: escalation to the executive committee, if problems are identified.
successful implementation of our IT strategy and our ability We ensure that significant training and support is provided to continue to provide a robust and secure technology before and after each implementation and business readiness platform to meet the needs of the business: for change is monitored by the programmes prior to going live.
the implementation of SAP and the potential impact of We have undertaken an upskilling programme to ensure that all the implementation on ongoing business activities: and our employees are able to work in different ways and the planned major change to processes including those understand how their work fits into the business as a whole.
necessitated by the successful implementation of our Our change programmes have processes in place to ensure SAP system.
extensive and effective consultation takes place with all those affected by the change.
For example, business deployment leads have been identified from each business area and work closely with projects prior to implementation to ensure all processes and systems are fit for purpose and business readiness for implementation to take place.
As a regulated business, we are subject to numerous and We continue to work closely with our regulators and other changing obligations with which we must comply and stakeholders to influence policy decisions in order to ensure management of these is often dispersed across and through the best possible outcome for our shareholders and customers.
We pay particular attention to management See page 16 Promoting an effective regulatory regime.
of risks in these areas, particularly in relation to changing legal We are improving our compliance management framework and regulatory requirements.
to further enhance transparency and consistency of our management of controls in place to ensure compliance with Specific examples include: key legal and regulatory obligations.
changes in the regulatory regime and market within which we operate including increased competition : the taking on of private sewers and lateral drains See page 13 Dealing effectively with waste water : and non-compliance with legal requirements.
External financial market factors could adversely impact on our We plan and monitor our cash flows and borrowings to ensure financial position.
that sufficient liquidity is available to meet our requirements.
We have policies in place which limit the available Specific examples include: counterparties and are designed to ensure a spread of developments in the capital markets which could affect our investments.
There is also regular monitoring of counterparties ability to attract funds: See page 25 Financial review section and investment performance.
See page 25 Financial counterparty exposure risks: review section.
our ability to meet our forecasted operating and capital We make use of cross currency swaps with the intention of expenditure targets: and eliminating foreign currency risks.
See page 25 Financial review section.
the impact of the financial environment on our pension funds.
We have processes in place to monitor and manage our long term pensions obligations with the intention of ensuring that they do not become a major drain on the company.
See page 26 Pensions information within Financial review section.
Governance 60 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance Risk and assurance continued Principal risk description Key mitigation activities include Due to the nature of our business we continue to face risks We are entering year three of a four year improvement plan to arising during our normal course of business, including risk of further enhance safety across all of our sites and operations failure of our assets, processes, or systems which could and will continue to monitor implementation of the agreed otherwise impact on the health, safety and security of our people improvements.
or customers, or on our financial position and our reputation.
We have developed a prioritised capital investment programme using models which take into account the consequence, Specific examples include: likelihood and severity of a service failure.
the health and safety of our people, contractors and visitors in We have an annual business planning process which ensures line with our Zero By Choice policy towards accidents : that the prioritisation of investment delivers the required physical security of our assets, security and safety of our service levels.
people, and security of our information: and We have robust processes for monitoring operating and effective prioritisation of our asset maintenance and capital spending.
investment activities to ensure our assets continue to be We are implementing a new model for working with our safe and fit for purpose.
key partners for delivery of our critical programmes over the next five years.
See page 16 Focus on innovation in our supply chain.
Whilst acceptance of the price determination from Ofwat leads We have detailed processes in place for planning and to greater certainty over what we need to achieve for the performance monitoring to ensure we achieve agreed coming AMP period, nevertheless we must still manage the regulatory outputs including targets for efficiency in our capital risk associated with our ability to effectively meet the challenging and operating expenditure.
An example of this is the achievement of our regulatory performance targets and objectives to ensure that these commitments are met.
Our ability to influence customer behaviour or to operate in an We have a holistic approach to communicating with the aim of environmentally responsible way could affect our financial ensuring that the importance of the efficient use of water and position and our reputation.
waste water resources is fully understood, and we continuously monitor the effectiveness of these plans.
An example of this is our reputation, as we recognise that our We are working to find ways to improve river quality while customers trust is essential to do business.
keeping carbon emissions and costs down, for example through our catchment management programme.
See page 13 Dealing effectively with waste water.
We are working to develop new sources of renewable energy and have set ourselves a target of 30% renewable energy by 2014 15.
See page 14 Minimising our carbon footprint.
In the challenging economic environment, we continue to closely We regularly monitor economic conditions and forecast growth monitor risks to the achievement of the growth plan for our to maximise the likelihood of achieving our growth targets for unregulated businesses.
this part of the business.
We have strong, market leading products and good market An example of this is our ability to effectively implement knowledge, and we are establishing a local presence in appropriate organisation, processes and systems to support our target markets.
See pages 20 to 21 Severn Trent the growth plan.
