34 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance Executive Committee 1 2 3 The Chief Executive is supported in his role by the executive management team and together they comprise the Executive Committee.
During the year, the Executive Committee comprised the executive directors and senior executive 4 5 6 managers responsible for key operational and central functions.
Photographs of the members of the committee, together with their biographies are set out opposite.
The Executive Committee oversees the development and execution of the 7 8 9 Severn Trent strategy.
It also has accountability for achieving business results.
The terms of reference of the Executive Committee are available on the companys website www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
10 11 During the year, the Executive Committee structured its meetings to focus on strategy, business management, policy and planning, and operational performance.
Michael McKeon MA CA Members of the Executive Committee 48 Chief Executive CEnv MICE MIWEM FIWO 53 Finance Director were delegated responsibility to sit on Please see full biography on 57 Director of Customer Please see full biography on steering groups overseeing the delivery page 33. page 33.
Relations of our strategy in such areas as our Please see full biography on technologies, our move to Severn Trent page 32.
Centre and our business planning.
Alec Luhaste BA 56 General Counsel and Econ, FCA, FIIA 52 Director of Human Company Secretary Director of Internal Audit Resources Joined Severn Trent in February Joined Severn Trent in June Joined Severn Trent in July 2006.
Fiona is a Solicitor and was 2007.
Prior to that, he worked for 2007.
Alec was previously Group previously General Counsel and Cadbury Schweppes Plc, leading Human Resources Director at Company Secretary at National the companys global internal audit Taylor Woodrow and has extensive Grid plc, where she worked for 15 service from 20002005.
Before experience in many areas of years, before becoming General joining Severn Trent, he worked for Human Resources including Counsel at Transport for London RSM Robson Rhodes as a Director change management, for two years, prior to joining and a member of the management organisational capability and Severn Trent.
board responsible for Risk development, compensation and Assurance Services.
Alec is a benefits, and employee relations.
Simon Cocks BA Hons Hons 49 Director of Hons MA Econ PhD 45 44 Waste Water Services Water Services Director of Strategy and Director Please see full biography on Regulation Joined Severn Trent in July page 32.
Simon is an electrical Please see full biography on engineer by training and began his page 32. career in military communications 10.
Len Graziano MBA working for Plessey and then GEC.
He previously worked for London 53 Chief Information BEng 64 President and Electricity in various operational Officer Chief Executive Officer, and management roles and, more Joined Severn Trent in April Severn Trent Services recently, for National Grid where 2008.
Myron has delivered major Joined Severn Trent in January he was Head of UK Operations IT strategic programmes, 2000.
Prior to joining Severn Trent Performance and Planning, then reorganised corporate IT units and Services, Len served as President Commercial Director for the gas deployed high performance IT of Chemineer, Inc. a unit of and electricity business in the UK practices in previous roles for NYK Robbins & Myers, Inc. a global and Europe and more recently held Logistics and Unipart.
Myron is leader in industrial mixing and the position of Chief Procurement the executive sponsor of the agitation equipment and Officer before joining Severn Trent.
He also served as a transformation programme.
President of Johnston Pump Company, a full line vertical pump, parts and repair company.
