6 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Severn Trent Water Our industry These successes have been driven by an effective regulatory The achievements of the water industry in framework which has incentivised companies to become more the 20 years since privatisation are well efficient, so keeping bills lower than they would otherwise have documented service to customers has been.
The framework has also provided investor confidence, allowing companies to attract financing for an investment improved, new drinking water standards have programme of around 85 billion over the last 20 years to been met, tighter environmental standards have deliver the improvements.
been achieved and new investment attracted.
However, the successes of the last 20 years have not been without consequences.
Water company debt has increased significantly, customers face higher bills and carbon emissions have increased.
Organisations that have an influence on how Severn Trent Water is run The policy and regulatory context for the water sector is complex, with a number of different stakeholders having different remits in relation to regulating the industry and developing the policy framework.
Wildlife organisations Political framework Including the Royal Including the Department Society for the Protection for Environment, Food and of Birds, National Trust Rural Affairs Defra and and the World Wildlife the Welsh Assembly Fund.
Environment Agency The Environment Agency Natural EA is a public body set up environment Water evaporates to protect and improve the Such as Countryside environment.
Council for Wales and Natural England.
Water flows back Clouds cool, causing rain Ofwat The economic regulator for the water and sewerage industry.
It makes sure that water companies use Water is cleaned customers money Water is collected efficiently and effectively.
Drinking Water Inspectorate Customers The Drinking Water Water is cleaned Inspectorate DWI makes sure companies supply Water is piped water that is safe to Health and Safety drink and complies Executive with all national and The Health and Safety European standards.
Executive HSE is the enforcing authority on Consumer Council for Water health and safety law.
Consumer Council for Water CCWater is an independent body designed to protect the rights of consumers.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 In addition, there is a significant projected level of capital investment We believe that implementing these changes would deliver better required over the next 20 years to deliver further statutory outcomes for customers, investors and the environment.
The report environmental improvements and adapt our services and provide is available on our website, www.
co. uk changingcourse asset resilience in the face of climate change.
We have engaged with our key stakeholders, including those Changing course described on page 6, in developing our thinking and we believe there Given these circumstances, we believe now is a critical time for all of is a degree of consensus about the need for, and the direction us with a stake in the industry to question what future direction we of, change.
We have therefore developed our position on these We will continue to develop our thinking on these issues and issues and published a report, entitled Changing Course: Delivering work with our stakeholders to influence the way in which the a sustainable future for the water industry in England and Wales, sector develops.
which sets out six key changes we believe are required to meet these continuing challenges.
Changing course six key changes required to meet future challenges There are some very significant Policy changes challenges ahead and we need More flexible implementation of EU Directives to ensure a better trade off to ensure we plan effectively between costs and carbon emissions.
Developing competition through water trading, which would also optimise resources nationally rather than Michael McKeon just regionally.
Weve taken the first step in setting out Finance Director Regulatory changes how we believe the industry should A more flexible approach to change.
We now want to work with government, our regulators and other environmental consents to allow for companies to make it happen.
An improved price setting process to Tony Ballance provide the right incentives for Strategy and Regulation Director sustainable financing, more sustainable solutions and increased innovation.
Industry changes Its no longer enough just to meet regulatory Companies must take the lead in driving requirements regulators and politicians innovation, both in terms of the strategic want to know youre prepared to go further.
and technical solutions they pursue As a business thats what we want too we and in shaping the wider direction the know weve got a lot more to give, thats one sector takes.
of the reasons were so excited about the Changes to the institutional framework future.
Government should prioritise national policy outcomes and ensure the regulatory framework is set up to Tony Wray deliver them.
Chief Executive Utility Company of the Year The judges believe the companys ability to learn the lessons of difficult years and use Severn Trent Water was named Utility them to transform performance will see Company of the Year in December 2009.
Severn Trent Water continue to make strides The award judges a cross section of in the future.
independent figures from consumer organisations, the industry, trade journalists and the City commended Severn Trent Water for its professionalism, willingness to engage and good practice in dealings across the spectrum from customers to the supply chain.
Overview 8 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 We provide 1.8 billion litres of drinking water each day Our region encompasses 3.7 million households and businesses across the Midlands and mid-Wales.
We maintain 46,000 km of water mains and 54,000 km of sewers, employing 5,686 staff.
We are committed to being the best water and waste water company in the UK, with the highest standards, the lowest possible charges for our customers and great people.
Howden Dam, Upper Derwent Valley
