28 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance Directors report Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited employees, based The directors present their report, together with the audited financial on performance against the KPIs.
statements of the group for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Research and development Principal activity Expenditure on research and development is set out in note 7 to The principal activity of the group is to provide and treat water and the accounts on page 76. remove waste water in the UK and internationally.
Treasury management Details of the principal joint ventures, associated and subsidiary The disclosures required under the EU Fair Value Directive in relation undertakings of the group at 31 March 2010 appear in notes 19, 20 to the use of financial instruments by the company are set out in note and 40 to the financial statements on pages 84 and 111.
21 to the accounts on pages 85 to 96.
Further details on our treasury Business review policy and management are set out in the financial review on page 26.
The Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives CE review, the Post balance sheet events report and performance reviews for the groups main businesses Details of post balance sheet events are set out in note 38 to the and the financial review on pages 9 to 27 provide detailed information group financial statements on page 110. relating to the group and its strategy, the operation of its businesses and the results and financial position for the year ended Dividends 31 March 2010.
An interim dividend of 26.71 pence per ordinary share was paid on 15 January 2010.
The directors recommend a final dividend of Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group are set 45.61 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 30 July 2010 to out in the risk and assurance section on pages 58 to 60. shareholders on the register on 18 June 2010.
This would bring All of the above are incorporated by reference in and are deemed the total dividend for 2009 10 to 72.32 pence per ordinary share to form part of this report.
The payment of the final dividend is subject Directors and their interests to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Biographies of the directors currently serving on the board are set Capital structure out on pages 32 and 33.
Details of the companys authorised issued share capital and of the Details of changes to the board during the year and of the directors movements during the year are shown in note 30 to the financial offering themselves for reappointment at the Annual General statements on page 103.
The company has one class of ordinary Meeting AGM are set out in the Chairmans letter on pages 35 to 40. shares which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the company.
The Details of directors service agreements are set out in the Directors issued nominal value of the ordinary shares is 100% of the total remuneration report on page 52.
The interests of the directors in the issued nominal value of all share capital.
shares of the company are shown on pages 55 to 57 of that report.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the Directors indemnities transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general The companys articles of association provide that directors of the provisions of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
company shall be indemnified by the company against any costs The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of incurred by them in carrying out their duties including defending any the companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as of securities or on voting rights.
directors in which they are acquitted or judgment is given in their favour or relief from any liability is granted to them by the court.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 33 to the financial statements on pages 104 to 107.
For shares held by the Employees Severn Trent Employee Share Ownership Trust, the trustee abstains The average number of employees within the group is shown in from voting.
note 9 to the financial statements on page 77.
No person has any special rights of control over the companys Severn Trent believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
factor in being a successful business.
Apart from ensuring an individual has the ability to do the job we do not discriminate in any With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the way and make every effort to ensure that those with disabilities are company is governed by its articles of association, the Combined able to be employed by us.
We ensure that training, career Code on Corporate Governance, the Companies Act and related development and promotion opportunities are available for all our legislation.
The articles may be amended by special resolution of employees irrespective of their gender, race, age or disability.
The powers of directors are described in the Board Governance document, the articles and the Chairmans The group actively encourages employee involvement and letter on pages 35 to 40. consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees informed of its activity and financial performance by way of briefings Under its articles of association, the directors have authority to allot and publication to staff of all relevant information and corporate up to 197,166,322 ordinary shares, subject to the aggregate nominal announcements.
To help develop employees interest in the amount limit set at the 2009 AGM.
companys performance, Severn Trent offers two employee share There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or plans.
The Severn Trent Sharesave Scheme, an HM Revenue and terminate upon, a change of control of the company, such as Customs approved SAYE plan, is offered to UK employees on an commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease annual basis.
The Severn Trent Share Incentive Plan, approved by arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are HM Revenue and Customs, makes an annual award of shares to considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 In 2008 09 a provision of 5 million was established for additional business of the group as a whole.
Furthermore, the directors are not contributions to the Severn Trent Charitable Trust as agreed with aware of any agreements between the company and its directors or Ofwat.
Severn Trent Water paid 2 million additional contributions employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or in that year and a further 2 million in 2009 10.
The remaining employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
1 million is due to be paid in 2010 11.
Substantial shareholdings Severn Trents policy is not to make any donations for political As at 24 May 2010 the company had been notified in accordance purposes in the UK, or to donate to EU political parties or incur EU with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the political expenditure.
Accordingly neither Severn Trent Plc nor its following major shareholdings: Percentage No.
of subsidiaries made any political donations or incurred political of voting rights ordinary expenditure in the financial year under review.
and issued shares of 17 19 Name of holder share capital 97 p each Under the provisions of the Political Parties Elections and Pictet Asset Management SA 7.6% 17,718,717 Referendums Act 2000 the relevant provisions of which are now Invesco Limited 5.0% 11,980,630 contained in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholder Legal & General Group Plc 3.9% 9,403,273 authority is required for political donations to be made or political expenditure to be incurred by the company or any of its subsidiaries Percentages rounded down to one decimal place in the EU and disclose any such payments in the annual report.
The Authority to purchase shares legislation gives a wide definition of what constitutes political The company was given authority at its AGM in 2009 to make donations and political expenditure including sponsorship, market purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum number of subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for employees 23,646,774 shares.
Similar authority will again be sought from fulfilling public duties and support for bodies representing the shareholders at this years AGM.
No market purchases were made business community in policy review or reform.
The company has by the company during the year ended 31 March 2010. therefore obtained limited authority from shareholders as a precautionary measure to allow the company to continue supporting Supplier payment policy the community and such organisations without inadvertently Individual operating companies within the group are responsible for breaching the legislation.
establishing appropriate policies with regard to the payment of their suppliers.
The companies agree terms and conditions under which At the 2009 AGM, shareholders gave the company authorities to business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
It is group make political donations or to incur political expenditure in the EU policy that provided a supplier is complying with the relevant terms which would not ordinarily be regarded as political donations up to and conditions, including the prompt and complete submission of all an aggregate annual limit of 50,000 for the company and its specified documentation, payment will be made in accordance with subsidiaries.
Pursuant to those authorities, during the year ended agreed terms.
It is also group policy to ensure that suppliers know 31March 2010 the group incurred costs of nil 2009: nil.
Those the terms on which payment will take place when business is authorities will expire at the 2010 AGM and, in line with market agreed.
Details of supplier payment policies can be obtained from practice to renew the authorities on an annual basis, the board has the individual companies at the addresses shown in note 40 to the decided to put forward a resolution to this years AGM to renew the financial statements on page 111.
Trade creditors for the group at authorities to make donations to political organisations and to incur the year end are estimated as representing 44.1 days purchases political expenditure up to a maximum of 50,000 per annum.
permitted under the Companies Act 2006, this resolution also covers any political donations made, or political expenditure Contributions for political and charitable purposes incurred, by any subsidiaries of the company.
Donations to charitable organisations during the year amounted to 326,382 2009: 352,201.
Donations are given to charities whose Internal controls projects align closely with our aim to promote the responsible use of The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal water resources and waste water services which provide the control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The board reviews the opportunity for longer term partnerships.
In addition we provide effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial, donations to employee nominated charities through a matched operational, compliance and risk management, at least annually in funding scheme and health and safety reward schemes.
We are accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the also committed to supporting WaterAid, the UKs only major charity guidance set out within it.
The system of internal control is reviewed dedicated to improving access to safe water, hygiene and sanitation for effectiveness and adequacy.
The internal control system can only in the worlds poorest countries.
Details of the groups financial instruments, provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material hedging activities and exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than described in note 21 to the group financial statements.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The groups principal operating subsidiary, Severn Trent Water, is a The Audit Committee reviews the risk management process and the regulated long term business characterised by multi year investment effectiveness of the system of internal control on behalf of the board.
The groups strategic funding objectives reflect this.
It also keeps under review ways in which to enhance the control and The group therefore seeks to attain a balance of long term funding audit arrangements in the group.
The Audit Committee receives or commitment of funds across a range of funding at the best reports every six months from the CE on the significant risks and possible economic cost.
Average debt maturity is 17 years and the uncertainties faced by the group, an assessment of the effective average interest cost during the year was 5.6%.
The group effectiveness of controls over each of those risks and an action plan is in a strong liquidity position with 227.8 million in cash and liquid to improve controls where this has been assessed as necessary.
reserves and 650 million of undrawn committed bank facilities, Any significant control weaknesses that have been identified as which are expected to be sufficient to fund its investment and cash requiring remedy are also reported to the Audit Committee.
The flow needs for at least the first year of the AMP5 period.
Internal Audit department provides objective assurance and advice on risk management and control.
The external auditors also report on Severn Trent Water operates in an industry that is currently subject significant financial control issues to this committee.
to economic regulation rather than market competition.
Ofwat, the economic regulator, has a statutory obligation to set price limits that The board confirms that procedures providing an ongoing process it believes will enable the water companies to finance their activities.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks and As a consequence the directors believe that the group is well placed uncertainties faced by the group have been in place for the year to to manage its business risks successfully despite the current 31 March 2010 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
External auditors The directors are proposing to increase the limit on the companys In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the company borrowing powers set out in its articles of association articles which at the date when this report was approved: are out of line with the companys current borrowing requirements so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit and require the directors to restrict the borrowings of the group to information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and two and a half times its adjusted capital and reserves.
This each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to amendment is part of a comprehensive update of the companys have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any articles to be proposed at the AGM to reflect the final provisions of relevant audit information and to establish that the companys the Companies Act 2006 which came into effect last year.
Whilst auditors are aware of that information.
carrying out this update the directors became aware that the groups borrowings were in excess of this restriction.
There was therefore a Relevant audit information means information needed by the technical breach of article 102. companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
The directors have reviewed the implications of this technical breach This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance and have plans in place to address it, including the above resolution.
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
They consider that the resolution to be proposed to the AGM is in Deloitte LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as the best interests of shareholders and are therefore confident that auditors.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed the resolutions will be passed.
After making due enquiries of this situation and of all other relevant The Audit Committee has recommended to the board the matters, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the reappointment of Deloitte LLP and a resolution to that effect will be company and the group have adequate resources to continue in on the agenda at the AGM.
The Audit Committee will also be operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they responsible for determining the audit fee on behalf of the board.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited Regulatory accounts for Severn Trent Water Limited are prepared Annual general meeting and sent to Ofwat.
A copy of these accounts will be available from The AGM of the company will be held at the International the website of Severn Trent Water Limited www.
co. uk or on Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11am on written request to the Company Secretary at the address given on Tuesday 20 July 2010.
The notice convening the meeting, together the back cover.
There is no charge for this publication.
with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is Going concern also available on the companys website: www.
com The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in By order of the board the Chief Executives review on page 5 and the business reviews of Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Services on pages 9 to 17 and 19 to 21.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review Fiona Smith on pages 23 to 26.
The groups objectives, policies and processes General Counsel and Company Secretary for managing its capital and its financial risk management objectives 27 May 2010 are described in the Financial review and in the Governance report
