20 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review Severn Trent Services Performance Expanding the scope of our operating services to existing In 2009 10 we made good progress with clients around the world positioning our business for sustainable growth.
This has been a successful year, with new business accruing from We delivered continued growth in our Operating several large contracts in the US as many municipalities struggled with budget shortfalls and looked to public and private partnerships Services business.
We ended the year in Water to help lower their costs.
In the City of Prichard, Alabama, a Purification with a strong order book and a high $1million contract to operate the waste treatment plant was expanded to a $6 million contract when we were asked to bid to level of projects in the pipeline.
Analytical operate the citys complete package of services, including water, Services looks forward to starting an important waste water treatment, meter reading and billing.
long term contract with Yorkshire Water.
In the UK, Coast to Coast C2C continued to extend its operational services outside of the 25 year contract with the Ministry of Defence.
Positioning our business for sustainable growth Severn Trent Select was also awarded a design build contract with a The backdrop for the year was undoubtedly the economic downturn.
major UK dairy and finished the year as a preferred supplier on Severn Trent Services felt the impact most noticeably in Water another design build contract.
However, we quickly took In Italy, we ended the year having been awarded one major waste action by restructuring selected parts of the business and invested water design, build and operate contract and as a preferred bidder in growth areas.
As a result of these actions and others, the order on another.
book for Water Purification was at an all time high during the last quarter of the year.
Enhancing products and operations to improve our effectiveness and efficiency Sometimes, conditions that cause problems in one area of a business This year we focused on making our operations more efficient.
This was certainly true for We saved costs by using centralised sourcing to make combined Operating Services, which reported another year of continued growth.
purchases of similar components from lower cost locations.
Given the strength of the fundamental drivers of our business, we Also, engineering services are being outsourced to India and remained confident the market would turn around.
We therefore assembly for membranes filtration projects is being sourced locally decided to make use of the slower period to position our company for regional markets.
We completed the reorganisation of our company In our Analytical Services business, we consolidated our facilities, into three business groups and four regions.
This will help us lower exited unprofitable lines of business and expanded services further.
our cost base and be better positioned for global competition.
Alongside these efficiencies we made investments to seed new Developing new technologies at the forefront of water and markets and technologies, for instance adding staff in the Middle waste water solutions East and China and progressing new product development projects.
Year on year, the proportion of sales coming from new products introduced in the last three years has increased by 80%.
Focus on our four key strategic growth initiatives We continue to build our innovation capability.
In the past year we Continuing the geographic expansion of our products and services have rolled out global best practice tools and processes across all In Europe, our acquisition of PS Apliclor SA near Barcelona created product and technology centres of excellence with the goal of a European hub from which we can expand our Water Purification improving our new product performance and cycle times.
Early business on the continent.
benefits include increased visibility and transparency of our product and technology investment programme.
Local product sourcing and hiring of key people in our China branch office has resulted in winning key filtration projects and positioning Additionally, we have developed an overarching technology strategy us to grow profitably.
and are now actively carrying this forward through both internal and collaborative development activity.
Our product development Our Operating Services business entered new regions where we have pipeline is robust.
For instance, we extended our strong presence in the UK into Ireland with a joint venture, Severn Trent Response, which has already won one long term contract and also received notice of award for a second.
Operating Services started, plant performance was dramatically improved, allowing the board and its announces it has renewed its public engineer to concentrate on capital private partnership improvement planning.
In the last two years, We have renewed our public private the Board and citizens of Prichard have partnership with the Water Works and Sewer benefited from improved operations and board the Board of the City of Prichard, performance, including reduced solids Alabama, through a competitive bid process.
inventory: improved discharge quality: the Severn Trent is responsible for the complete introduction of an asset management operation, maintenance and management of programme: identification of capital the citys water and waste water facilities, improvement projects: and the installation collection and distribution systems, meter of a comprehensive maintenance reading, billing and customer service management programme that schedules functions.
Shortly after the partnership predictive and preventive maintenance.
Prichard Water Tower Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Performance by business area We are committed to conducting our business in a responsible way Operating Services Our Operating Services business has performed well because We continue working to build corporate responsibility into our we are able to operate utility and municipal assets efficiently at strategy and embed it in our culture.
Our health and safety performance continues to improve.
This year We are one of the leading providers in the US, where we run nearly we reduced the number of lost time incidents per 100,000 hours worked by 22%, maintaining one of the best rates in our industry.
Two Operating Services businesses in the UK received awards In the UK and Ireland we combined all non-regulated UK from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
C2C businesses under one business unit, Operating Services UK received the Gold award and Integra received the Silver award.
and Ireland, and have worked with approximately 200 commercial In 2009 10 we introduced a new health and safety handbook, and industrial clients during the year.
offering support and training for all employees, in several languages.
Also in the UK, we reduced leakage in our C2C Ministry of Defence Our success depends on all of our employees.
During the year we contract despite the coldest winter in 30 years.
We have more than implemented a change management programme entitled Blueprint halved leakage since the contract started in 2005. for growth to help employees understand our core values, objectives, Key Performance Indicators, and the role they play in Water Purification helping our company improve and grow.
A slow start to 2009 10 for our Water Purification business meant we effectively lost a year of expected growth.
Cash-strapped We commissioned our second independent Employee Engagement municipalities slowed their investment in new equipment and while Survey in 2009 10 with employee engagement increasing four many orders were delayed, no significant orders were cancelled.
percentage points from the previous survey.
However, we restructured the business to lower our cost base.
We take carbon management seriously and continued to look at At the same time, we invested in selected growth areas.
As a result, ways to reduce our energy consumption.
For the second and as global markets recovered, our Water Purification business consecutive year we produced Site Energy Management Plans for achieved sequential growth during the second half of the year with five of our US sites and six of our UK sites.
Implementing these turnover up 16% and profits up 67% when compared to the first half.
plans has led to reductions in energy use and lower costs.
Notable contract wins during the year included a $15.7 million Outlook for the future contract for the worlds largest denitrification system in Baltimore, Maryland: a $7 million contract for the largest reverse osmosis sea In our Operating Services business we will continue to find more water system for an oil refinery in Pakistan: several new contracts in cost efficiencies and move into new areas as part of our plans to grow the business year on year.
A change in legislation in Italy China: and the first deep bed filtration system used for water reuse around the awarding of contracts is expected to yield more in Libya for Al Hadba Tripoli.
Increased growth is expected in the Middle East We ended the year with the highest order book in Severn Trent North Africa region, where we have a strong pipeline of prospects.
Services history and our key project pipeline continues to grow.
We start the financial year with a very strong order book and Analytical Services pipeline in our Water Purification business.
We will continue During the year we undertook a significant restructure of our lowering our cost base, focusing on our regional operations and business.
This has repositioned the business with a lower cost base delivering new products in this market, such as MicroDynamics ultraviolet disinfection, BALPURE ballast water treatment, and and a more resilient business platform.
OMNIPURE Series 55 marine offshore sewage treatment.
We received formal notification of UKAS United Kingdom Performance in Analytical Services is expected to improve as a result Accreditation Service accreditation for our newly constructed of the lower cost base, the innovations being brought into the business Wakefield facility, which will serve our new 10 year contract with and a greater number of long term contracts, including Yorkshire Water.
We have introduced new technologies to offer more methodologies, lower costs and faster output.
We have also While the strength and pace of the economic recovery continues to expanded our services to include on site testing and operator self be uncertain, we believe the continuing growth of the market is monitoring, both growth areas.
sustainable because of the strength of its fundamental drivers.
We will therefore continue implementing our growth strategy, focusing on our four key initiatives.
Analytical services analysis for Yorkshire Water, but will also service other customers in the region and opens new accredited laboratory provide back-up facilities for our two other in Wakefield water laboratories, offering Utility customers In March 2009, Severn Trent Services a more robust service.
The laboratory went secured a 10 year contract for delivery of into full operation on 1 April 2010 and is able water and waste water analysis to Yorkshire to handle in excess of a quarter of a million Water.
Since the contract win, we have samples per year.
constructed a brand new facility in Wakefield in Yorkshire.
The laboratory will deliver an extensive range of water and waste water Routine analysis being carried out on concentrated samples Business review 22 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 18.6% Increase in group profit before interest, tax and exceptional items Despite difficult global economic conditions the group has performed well on the financial front and continued to make process and efficiency improvements throughout its businesses.
The board is proposing a final dividend of 45.61p 2009: 41.05p to be paid on 30 July 2010.
This would give a total dividend of 72.32p per ordinary share, an increase of 7.4%.
