12 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review Severn Trent Water Performance The severe winters snow and ice prevented us reaching parts of our In the final year of AMP4 we continued to network, caused issues on production works and resulted in a 12% improve our financial and operational increase in the number of burst pipes.
Thanks to our teams rapid performance, and make our corporate response we were still able to achieve Ofwats leakage target for the third successive year.
However, there was an increase in the responsibilities part and parcel of the way we number of unplanned supply interruptions and this will remain an operate and plan for the future.
At the same time area of focus for us in 2010 11. we prepared for AMP5 with lead-in capital From AMP4 to AMP5 We have completed a major programme of capital works at investments, putting us in a strong position to our biggest treatment works in Frankley, Birmingham, investing meet the challenges of the new regulatory period 54 million to enable us to treat 120Ml d of water pumped from the and beyond.
River Severn at Trimpley works.
This additional supply resilience and capacity contributed to our improved Security of Supply Index SOSI, moving to 99, and fulfilling our section 19 undertaking with Ofwat.
Additionally we have installed a new works control system Focus on highest standards and have decommissioned the bulk chlorine gas system used for In 2009 10 and throughout AMP4 we continued to improve our disinfection and replaced it with a system using on site generation.
standards in water, waste water and customer services while Having removed this safety risk for local residents and employees minimising our carbon footprint.
we will continue our programme of bulk chlorine removal in AMP5.
KSI: Providing a continuous supply of quality water Building on lessons learned following the 2007 floods, we have In 2009 we delivered 99.97% overall compliance with DWI water included in our business plan 165 million of investment to improve quality regulatory standards, maintaining one of the best records in the resilience of our supply system.
We have commenced our the industry.
We completed our programme of pressure logger planning for AMP5 early and have made a good start to creating the deployment and implemented improvements to our network to one supply chain with our contract partners taking accountability reduce the numbers of customers experiencing low pressure from for the detailed design of our schemes as well as their construction.
AMP4 highlights included: During the year we have made significant organisational changes.
completing the Frankley scheme and reducing leakage to We designed and introduced a 24 7 shift system, giving us achieve a SOSI of 99 and fulfil the section 19 undertaking: distribution teams available at all times to meet customer needs.
We have also made major structural changes in our Asset Creation renewing 1,289 km of mains: and team to create the expert client capability we need as part of our reinforcing of the network in Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire, one supply chain strategy see page 16 for AMP5.
These Powys and Shropshire to improve water supplies during periods changes have been built upon and continue the Safer Better Faster of peak demand.
SBF process improvement programme way of working.
In AMP5 we will improve our asset investment processes using the improved operational and plant performance information, available due to our investments in information technology.
We will improve the resilience and performance of our assets through better maintenance and operation.
We will also continue to increase our standards and reduce our costs through process improvement and SBF.
KPI Opex vs final determination processes and performance.
SBF is becoming the way we work on a day to day Operating more efficiently through Safer basis.
The efficiency gains we are reporting Better Faster SBF process improvement and the new ways of working proved programme.
invaluable during the cold winter.
For Based on lean management techniques instance, we were able to call on staff from used widely in manufacturing but relatively our billing call centre and meter reading uncommon in our own industry, we teams to help tackle our leakage effort, and launched SBF in Severn Trent Water three transfer teams across regions to where they years ago.
The programme upskills were needed most.
managers and front line employees and enables them to continuously improve Team using communications as part of SBF Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 KSI: Dealing effectively with waste water we have continued to engage with regulators and government to put In 2009 10 we reduced the number of pollution incidents for the third in place the necessary regulatory and business response with the consecutive year, this time by 12.5%.
We successfully installed aim of delivering an efficient service to customers following transfer.
more remote monitoring on our sewerage network and rolled out A key challenge we face is the need to strike a good balance SBF to around 1,020 staff, saving over 2 million in operating costs between improving river ecology and carbon production.
Large whilst responding faster to customers needs.
We were also more scale capital projects are not always the best answer.
We need to effective when we responded, with an average of 90% of all jobs become more innovative, finding ways of improving river quality resolved first time, an improvement of 20% over two years.
while keeping down carbon emissions and costs.
One example is Due to a small rise in the number of failures at our works, particularly catchment management where we are working with farmers and during the first seven months of 2009, our sewage treatment breach industrialists, providing incentives for them to discharge less effluent of consents KPI deteriorated to lower quartile.
We are dissatisfied or toxic waste at their sites into water courses.
We have also joined with this position but as a result of detailed investigations, we do forces with the Environment Agency to explore options around the understand in each case why this has happened.
We have put in way sewage treatment discharge consents are set and enforced.
place a detailed performance improvement plan which will ensure KSI: Responding to customers needs the correct level of focus and activity whilst we get performance 2009 10 was a year of continuous improvement, where we have back on track.
built on initiatives already in place through staff training and From AMP4 to AMP5 capabilities.
For the third year running we reduced written customer Overall, we ended AMP4 with stable serviceability and continued complaints per 1,000 properties by 23% and our first time call improvements to our network.
The work we undertook through the resolution for billing improved slightly to 89%.
We also maintained period is now bearing fruit, with 15% fewer customer complaints and our first time job resolution performance at 96.5%.
Our goal of 34.3 12.5% fewer pollution incidents.
debtor days was harder to achieve because unemployment and insolvencies were higher than anticipated.
We achieved 32.6 days AMP4 highlights included: which, after allowing for increased levels of bad debt write off, was improving river quality through a 95% reduction in the number of aligned to last years performance.
This helped to mitigate the unsatisfactory intermittent sewerage discharges: impact on income through a difficult period.
sustaining high levels of effluent and sludge quality through a Following the launch of our online account management service 450 million maintenance programme: and over 100,000 customers have already registered.
They will now have direct control over their accounts, being able to update generating 176 gigawatt hours of renewable energy from personal details including changing address, choosing their sewerage and waste water, saving the equivalent of 95,776 payment methods and the option to receive their bill electronically.
The recession meant more vulnerable people needed help to pay In AMP5 we will continue to build on the successes we have had in their bills.
We invested 5.5 million in the Severn Trent Trust Fund in serviceability, customer services and the performance of our people 2009 10, set up to support customers in genuine need of financial and our assets.
A significant change for us and our customers in assistance, and helped over 4,000 customers through our AMP5 will be the transfer of individual customers private sewers WaterSure tariff.
More people signed up to Water Direct, a third into water company ownership.
This is designed to reduce the risk party deduction scheme from the Department for Work and of future liability and repair costs to the benefit of customers and Pensions, and opted to pay their bills through a payment plan or help promote the integrated management of the sewerage network.
We also set up a relationship team to work with The transfer is currently forecast to happen in October 2011.
This landlords such as councils and housing associations.
This will help will see approximately 37,000 km of existing private sewers transfer us tackle bad debt by encouraging landlords to provide us with into our ownership, along with responsibility for repair and information that can help track tenants moving in and out of maintenance.
We also expect that up to 4,000 private pumping properties, in particular those who move often.
stations will transfer on a phased basis over 5 10 years following the sewer transfer.
We await the consultation on the regulations which will confirm the scope and timing of transfer.
In the meantime, KPI Capex gross vs Final Determination Throughout the scheme we worked hard to minimise the impact on the local community AMP4 has seen the completion of a and businesses.
Public meetings, a resident significant number of investment engineer and drop in centres were programmes.
fundamental in establishing community wide In Albrighton, Shropshire, we invested trust and a shared vision.
a significant amount to improve the The successful delivery of the Albrighton infrastructure and, in turn, prevent scheme has directly benefited local sewer flooding.
internally and externally flooded properties and it now forms a key part of our strategic A 6 million investment provided the solution solution for Albrighton.
and took 15 months to complete.
This comprised installing a combination of tunnelled and open cut sewers.
The new Albrighton sewer Business review 14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review Severn Trent Water Performance continued From AMP4 to AMP5 From AMP4 to AMP5 We improved performance against many of our customer service We made good progress in developing other sources of renewable KPIs in AMP4, moving them from lower quartile to upper quartile a energy during this period and are now moving forward with the year ahead of schedule in 2010. planning and development of wind turbines as well as energy from a new crop plant at Stoke Bardolph in Nottinghamshire.
One of our challenges in AMP5 will be maintaining high standards AMP4 highlights include: while changing the way we measure our performance.
In AMP4 we measured our progress against one set of performance indicators: achieving the UK government goal of 20% renewable energy by in AMP5 we will shift to Ofwats recently set service incentive 2020, 10 years ahead of schedule, in 2010: measurements.
For instance, as well as measuring how quickly we receiving the Carbon Trust Standard by showing a reduction in answer a call we will also evaluate how happy the customer is with carbon emissions over the last three years and having a robust the interaction.
carbon management programme in place: and Benchmark tests show we are strong on process compliance and being on course to achieve our goal to produce 30% renewable have highly trained contact centre staff we will continue to focus energy by 2014 15.
We keep a close eye on government our efforts in improving further the service we provide to all our incentives in this area, where the economic or technological customers through continued upskilling of our teams.
With a strong viability of initiatives and processes are changing.
operating platform in place and opportunities to outsource routine back office processes, we will achieve these service improvements A safer workplace with minimal investment and without disruption to our service.
In 2009 10 we improved our lost time incidents per 100,000 hours to 0.36, a reduction of 16% on the previous year.
Our performance is For AMP5 we elected to retain optional metering.
Our research now close to best in class.
Our RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, showed customers preferred to have a choice and at this point we Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations rate was 0.31, do not feel compulsory metering is necessary.
New homes, falling short of our measure of 0.28. however, will continue to be metered.
As part of the business planning process we commissioned an KSI: Minimising our carbon footprint independent safety risk expert to analyse the risk profile of our We are always on the lookout for ways to reduce our energy usage, activities, allowing us to prioritise our improvement projects.
with targets set for every aspect of our business.
Overall company electricity usage was 897 gigawatt hours, a reduction of 19 gigawatt We won 18 awards, one of which was a company Gold award for hours when compared to 2008 09. our overall improvement programme.
As well as winning RoSPA Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents awards ourselves, In 2009 10 we focused on reducing energy usage at our small sites we organised a joint ceremony with RoSPA for our award-winning by initiating a read programme for all meters where bills were contractors and suppliers.
Twenty-two of our suppliers won RoSPA previously calculated on estimated readings.
awards in 2009 10, eight of which were gold.
The production of renewable energy reached a record level of 183 From AMP4 to AMP5 gigawatt hours, a 12% increase on the previous year and around The most significant shift in engaging people to make a safer place 20% of our total consumption.
This was despite the impact of the to work came about through fresh approaches to safety.
More cold weather which reduced the production of biogas from our employees are taking on the roles of Safety Representatives and sewage treatment works.
Safety Coaches, working with managers to improve our culture and environment.
The culture has improved to such an extent that, from 1 April 2010, health and safety will continue as the responsibility of specific business areas working on improvement plans with only a small central team to help with planning and coordination.
KPI Net Energy Use management approach and achievements, but is also an important metric for the Severn Trent Water has been awarded Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC, the Carbon Trust Standard, an said Andrew Gardner, General Manager independent assessment and Energy and Carbon Management.
endorsement of the companys carbon reduction and management The CRC is the governments carbon cap programmes.
and trade scheme which came into force in April 2010 and is part of its strategy to To achieve this third party recognition, reduce UK carbon emissions.
Severn Trent Water had to demonstrate a reduction in its carbon emissions and a robust carbon management standard.
Holding the Standard not only gives external recognition of our carbon Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 3 A ccommodation As we reported last year our accommodation Focus on lowest charges strategy is set and work is now well in hand to create the right To ensure we meet our commitment to have the lowest possible property portfolio to support us for the future.
The key project charges we need to make the right investments in the right within our programme is the construction of Severn Trent Centre programmes to deliver the right customer and environmental in Coventry.
This building has been certified BREEAM Building standards as efficiently as possible.
Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method excellent and its exceptionally low carbon output is matched by KSI: Having the lowest possible charges its exceptionally low water consumption.
From autumn onwards Despite continuing economic pressures during 2009 10 our financial 1,700 people will be moving into our new Centre.
and operational performance showed continued improvement across the board as we ended the fiscal year and closed out AMP4.
4 E nergy Investment in our renewable energy programme Trading was in line with our expectations, as were operating costs provides a natural hedge against rising wholesale energy prices.
The continuing rise in unemployment and a We are in the process of growing the UKs first commercial scale record number of insolvencies in the first half of the year meant the energy crop at Stoke Bardolph, Nottinghamshire, as well as bad debt charge moved up slightly to 2.5% of turnover.
While planning wind turbines and further renewable energy generation insolvency levels are returning to normal levels, we will continue to from sewage sludge.
KSI: Maintaining investor confidence From AMP4 to AMP5 This was a challenging price review, with the Draft Determination for The tough efficiency plans we set out in our Final Business Plan the AMP5 period, published by Ofwat in July 2009, being significantly are reflected in Ofwats Final Determination.
Considerable lead-in different to our Final Business Plan.
This prompted investor concerns investments during the final year of AMP4, however, mean we are over our ability to deliver the required outputs within the capital and well prepared to meet the requirements of AMP5.
The investments operational expenditure limits set, and to finance this investment.
We were focused in four areas: made a number of representations to Ofwat over the autumn, as well as encouraging our shareholders and other stakeholders to express their 1 Systems and technologies Phase 1 of SAP went live in own views.
December 2009 in Human Resources, Finance and Procurement.
Implemented on time and to cost, it has allowed us to make savings This was a constructive process, and the Final Determination in our business service areas early in AMP5.
published in November 2009 more closely reflected our Final Business Plan, the one remaining area of difference being the 2 People and processes We rolled out the Safer Better Faster weighted average cost of capital, which Ofwat set at 4.5% process improvement programme to more of our teams.
This helps compared with 5% in our Final Business Plan.
We have confidence us to make our processes leaner, improving our ability to get it in our ability to meet the challenges ahead.
right first time every time, upskilling our workforce to enable it to work in different ways and areas of the business, and giving our people a better understanding of how their work fits into our business as a whole.
KPI Lost time incidents process for reporting near misses and tracking closure of any remedial actions.
There is clear evidence to show that Following a successful trial the process was effective reporting of near misses helps fully implemented across Sewage Treatment.
to improve overall safety performance.
An objective of the project was also to An analysis of health and safety incident develop a process which could be replicated reporting in our Sewage Treatment team across other departments in Severn Trent suggested a significant under reporting Water.
The Water Distribution department of near misses.
has adapted the near miss reporting process To address this, a Near Miss Reporting and consequently has also had a marked Project Team was formed with the objective increase in near misses reported which has of developing a process that would increase helped to reduce its lost time injury rate.
the number of near misses reported within The implementation of the process has Sewage Treatment.
This, in turn lead to a helped to create a safer working environment safer working environment and a reduction and by involving staff in developing in the number of injuries.
Our teams in the field with the appropriate solutions has helped in overall improvement safety equipment The team produced a simple and clear of health and safety behaviour.
Business review 16 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review Severn Trent Water Performance continued From AMP4 to AMP5 Focus on great people We will continue to be open and proactive in our communications To become the best water and waste water company in the UK with shareholders and other stakeholders.
We have updated our we need to have the right people and provide them with the right KPIs to ensure they continue to demonstrate our drive for higher technology and facilities, and a safe, modern environment in which standards in the future, and to reflect the evolution of the regulatory to do their jobs both within the company and in our supply chain.
We will continue to report on our progress each year.
KSI: Having the right skills to deliver KSI: Promoting an effective regulatory regime The final year of AMP4 has been one of considerable change for our Our regulatory performance is on track and we are in a strong employees involving upskilling, an impending major office move, the position to tackle whatever challenges the future might hold.
introduction of new technology and a new pay system as we gear up From AMP4 to AMP 5 for AMP5.
We report that our employee surveys show our workforce We believe we have done more than many other water companies to remains positively engaged at 74% 2009: 83%, even though it was help shape the future of the regulatory framework and we are well challenged by many changes.
placed to contribute to the debate with policymakers and Ofwat.
We are committed to creating a diverse workforce which reflects the There is a growing consensus that the current policy and regulatory communities in which we operate.
We believe that a diverse and framework of the industry is not sustainable long term and we inclusive culture is a key factor in being a successful business.
We aim have made our own contribution to the debate with our Changing to have employees who are inspired and motivated and who are on a Course report, published in April 2010 and available on our website.
journey towards our vision of a diverse, engaged workforce.
Our We will continue to have discussions with shareholders and diversity strategy is aimed beyond basic compliance towards a more policymakers alike to help shape the future of our industry in the proactive approach.
We do not badge diversity, but ensure that it is an interests of our customers, the environment and our shareholders.
integral part of how we work by integrating the concepts of treating everyone fairly and valuing differences in how we think, behave and operate.
Our aim is to reflect the community we work in and serve and to ensure that we are an attractive employer.
We measure our diversity performance against external benchmarks and our recruitment and training initiatives are resulting in a gradual increase in the diversity of our people.
KPI Capital Process Quality and creating shared offices for our capital programme teams.
Such collaboration is Focus on innovation in essential if we are to continuously improve our supply chain and encourage the sharing of best practice.
Innovation has been a key theme of the latter part of AMP4 and will be central to meeting our targets during the next regulatory period.
Over the past year we further developed one supply chain with our contractors and suppliers in readiness for AMP5, investing in strengthening relationships, reviewing the way we share experiences and knowledge, Our one supply chain at work Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 From AMP4 to AMP5 One of the consequences of introducing new systems and By the end of AMP4 nearly 60% of our employees had been improving our performance is that we are able to operate more introduced to tools and techniques that help them continuously efficiently at a higher standard with fewer people.
Unfortunately, improve their performance through the SBF way of working.
Our that has led to the loss of around 275 posts in our central functions.
employees have shown tremendous commitment in improving our All of these will be through voluntary redundancy and we will ensure company by supporting the programme, which we will roll out to the everyone affected is treated with care and respect.
rest of the business over the next two years.
During the latter part of AMP4 we invested in technology and Looking forward to 2010 11 workplace improvements that will help us meet the efficiency savings of AMP5 and aid our business into the future: Looking forward to the next five years, we enter AMP5 in a we aligned our technology strategy to our KSIs, allowing us to stronger position, with our plans well advanced due to our measure how our IT investments are helping us improve our early start approach with contractors, SAP implementation business and services: and real estate rationalisation.
The business is well placed to the first release of our 70 million SAP implementation program achieve higher levels of operational excellence and we will went ahead without any significant disruption to our operations, continue to work hard to maintain the lowest charges for our improving our back office operations and reducing costs.
Release customers working with our great people.
2 is now in development and is planned to go live in summer 2010, improving operating systems for our operational workforce and asset management teams: following consultations with employees over the move to the Severn Trent Centre in Coventry we have developed support systems, such as assisted travel costs, to ease the transition and aid green travel plans: we have embarked on a 20 million transformation of the technology our people use to do their day to day work.
This includes a new, virtual desktop and a secure system that allows our employees to adopt mobile working practices, such as desk sharing and access to data and systems from wherever they need to: and through our Emerging Talent programme we are identifying and developing future leaders.
We also plan succession for our executive team and management population.
KPI Capex gross vs Final Determination category management and end to end technological innovation.
This will enable us Streamlining our procurement to optimise our contracts and continue to processes reduce the number of suppliers we do Ahead of AMP5, we selected seven business with.
contractors for the period to take design, build and work on our biggest infrastructure projects, compared to 22 for AMP4, and introduced new, innovative ways of working with them.
We have reorganised our procurement department to take full advantage of purchasing best practice by improving Suppliers working on an investment project Business review 18 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Water Purification secures contract to provide worlds largest fixed film denitrification system Severn Trent Services has been awarded a contract to supply their TETRA definite denitrification system for use at the Baltimore City Department of Public Works Patapsco Waste Water Treatment Plant.
The tertiary treatment system will help reduce the plants discharge of total nitrogen and total phosphorus, significantly reducing nutrients flowing to the Patapsco River and, ultimately, the Chesapeake Bay.
The Patapsco Waste Water Treatment Plant is undergoing upgrades and expansion over the next two years.
Once completed, it will be the largest installed fixed film denitrification system in the world.
