t x e t n s o s c e c c i o m r o P n o c E s e I l P p K o Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 Business review Severn Trent Water Our strategy Our strategic direction statement SDS sets out our direction of Our aim is to become the best water and waste travel.
To develop the statement, we consulted widely with key water company in the UK, delivering the highest stakeholders, such as the EA, DWI, Defra, Ofwat, CCWater and standards, lowest possible charges with great Natural England.
We also carried out detailed market research among our domestic and business customers.
people, through continuous improvement The proposals set out in our strategy are based on making the and innovation.
improvements our customers tell us they want, while ensuring that the economic and environmental impacts of our actions are sustainable.
They also address the complex and demanding long term challenges facing our industry.
Key Strategic Intentions Our strategic framework Our strategic direction is based Our goal... upon eight Key Strategic We do this by...
Intentions KSIs which reflect Our enablers are... what matters to our customers We measure our and wider stakeholder groups.
success by... We measure our performance within each KSI against our Training and 20 Key Performance Indicators development KPIs, and organise the information in this report around them: Employing and developing great 1.
Providing a continuous An improved people supply of quality water workplace 2.
Dealing effectively with waste water 3.
Responding to customers Is to be the best Ensuring needs water and waste the lowest 4.
Minimising our carbon water company charges footprint Simple in the UK Improving processes 5.
Having the lowest possible technology that work charges that works 6.
Having the right skills to Having the highest deliver standards 7.
Maintaining investor confidence Being paid for doing 8.
Promoting an effective the right things for regulatory regime our customers More information www.
co. uk Focusing on the next regulatory period 20102015 Our commitments at a glance Lower bills on average Our average household bills in todays prices will be 13 lower in 2014 15 than in 2009 10.
Our customers will start, and end, the five year period with the lowest average bills of any water and waste water company in England and Wales.
Further investment We are investing around 1.3 million a day in our services, ensuring we continue to deliver a safe, reliable supply of drinking water and carry away and treat waste water effectively.
A more efficient water We will continually improve the way we work to help keep bills down.
By 2015, our efficiency company improvements will help make up to 8 of the 13 reduction of the average household bill.
