2006. in respect of those liabilities for which the Directors may has the authority to examine any matters relating to the not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Directors and financial affairs of the Group.
This includes the appointment, Officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year terms of engagement, objectivity and independence of the and has renewed that policy.
external auditors, the nature and scope of the audit, reviews of the interim and annual financial statements, internal control The Companies Act 2006 introduced a statutory duty on procedures, accounting policies, adherence with accounting Directors to avoid conflicts of interest and shareholders standards and such other related functions as the Board may approved a resolution at the 2008 AGM giving Directors require.
The Committee also considers and reviews other risk authority to approve situations involving any such conflicts and management and control documentation, including the Groups to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with by the Board.
All policy on whistleblowing and security reporting procedures.
Directors are required to notify the Company on an ongoing During the year the Committee continued to strengthen risk basis of their other commitments and through the Company management with more formalised processes including the Secretary there are procedures for ensuring that the Boards rotational attendance of Managing Directors to present their powers for authorising directors conflicts of interest are country risk control plans.
Specified non-audit services may be provided by the external The table below details the number of formal Board and auditor subject to a competitive bid process other than Committee meetings held in the year and the attendance of in situations where it is determined by the Group Finance each Director.
in addition, the Board held a one day strategy Director that the work is closely related to the audit or when meeting with senior management in attendance.
There was a significant benefit can be obtained from work previously also regular communication between the Non-executive conducted by the external auditor.
whilst the Group Finance Directors without the presence of the Executive Directors.
Director may approve any new engagement up to the value Private meetings between the Audit Committee and the of 25,000, anything in excess requires Audit Committee external auditors were also held without the presence of the approval up to an agreed annual aggregate limit of 75% of the Executive Directors.
in exceptional circumstances this limit may be exceeded with the approval of the Board.
in determining Group Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee whether or not to engage the external auditor to provide any non-audit services consideration will be given to whether A Auer 18 18 n a 7 7 2 2 this would create a threat to their independence.
Similarly T Drury 18 18 n a n a n a the external auditor will not be permitted to undertake any P Johnson 18 18 3 3 7 7 2 2 advocacy role for the Group such that their objectivity may be S Riley 17 18 3 3 7 7 2 2 compromised.
Similarly the external auditor may not provide C Surch 16 16 n a n a n a services involving the preparation of accounting records or E van Amerongen 13 18 # 2 3 5 7 1 2 financial statements, the design, implementation and operation inclusive of two meetings specifically convened to conclude the of financial information systems, actuarial and internal control 2009 Rights issue and four regarding the approach made to the functions or the management of internal audits.
Board for the Company, discussions on which were terminated and announced to the Stock Exchange on 9 March 2010.
During the year the performance of the external auditors was formally reviewed and as part of the planned rotation process # Mr van Amerongens attendance during the year was impacted primarily by illness and also unavoidable clashes of additional short a new Engagement Partner has been identified to lead the notice Board meetings with scheduled meetings of other companies 2011 audit.
A resolution proposing the re-appointment of of which he is a director.
in all cases the Chairman sought Mr van  LLP as Group auditors will be put to Amerongens views prior to those meetings and also reported back shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
to him any Board decisions reached.
Figures in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings during the year Remuneration Committee in which each Director was a Board Committee member.
The Remuneration Committee, which met seven times in the year, is formally constituted with written terms of Audit Committee reference which are available on the Groups website.
The The Audit Committee, which met three times in the year, is Committee is comprised solely of Non-executive Directors: formally constituted with written terms of reference which are Mr E van Amerongen, Mr A Auer, Mr P Johnson and Dr S available on the Groups website.
The Committee is comprised Riley.
The Committee has been chaired since July 2007 by solely of Non-executive Directors: Mr P Johnson, Dr S Riley and Mr E van Amerongen and determines the Companys policy Mr E van Amerongen.
Mr P Johnson, who continues to have on remuneration and on a specific package for each of the current and relevant financial experience under Combined Executive Directors.
it also determines the terms on which Code requirements, chaired the Committee throughout the the Long Term incentive Plan and the Save As You Earn share year.
The external auditors, the Chairman and the Executive options are awarded to employees.
Directors are regularly invited to attend meetings and the Committee has access to the external auditors advice without the presence of the Executive Directors.
