The principal rights and obligations is determined by the order in which the names of the joint attaching to the ordinary shares are as follows: holders appear in the Companys register of members.
No shareholder shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting Dividend rights holders of the Companys ordinary shares in respect of any share held by him or her if any call or may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not other sum then payable by him or her in respect of that declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by share remains unpaid or if a shareholder has been served the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends.
with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for failure to provide the Company with information concerning distribution.
Unless the terms of issue of any share otherwise interests in those shares required to be provided under provide, dividends may be declared or paid in any currency the Companies Acts.
The Company is not aware of any and all dividends shall be declared and paid according to agreements between holders of shares that may result in the amounts paid up on the share in respect of which the restrictions on voting rights.
dividend is paid and dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro-rata according to the amounts paid up on a share during Return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the any portion of the period in respect of which the dividend Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions is paid.
Payment or satisfaction of a dividend may be made taking priority, the balance of assets available for distribution wholly or partly by distribution of specific assets, including will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares fully paid shares or debentures of any other company.
Such according to the amounts paid up on the shares held action must be directed by the general meeting which by them.
A liquidator may with the sanction of a special declared the dividend, by ordinary resolution, and upon the resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction recommendation of the Directors.
The Directors may deduct required by the Companies Acts, divide among the from any dividend payable to a member all sums of money if shareholders in kind the whole or any part of the Companys any payable by such member to the Company in respect of assets.
Alternatively, a liquidator may, upon the adoption of ordinary shares of the Company.
The Directors may withhold a special resolution of the shareholders, vest the assets in payment of all or any part of any dividends payable in whole or in part in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% of shareholders, but no shareholder is compelled to accept interest as defined in the Articles of Association if such any assets upon which there is any liability.
person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with Restrictions on the Holding or Transfer of Shares information concerning interests in those shares required to There are no restrictions under the Companys Memorandum be provided under the Companies Acts.
or Articles of Association that restrict the rights of members to hold or transfer the Companys shares.
However, certain Voting rights voting at any general meeting is by a show of restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations such hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands as insider dealing laws and pursuant to the Listing Rules of every shareholder who is present in person at a general the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees meeting and every proxy appointed by a shareholder and and the Directors require the approval of the Company to deal present at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the in the Companys shares.
The Company is not aware of any number of shares held by the shareholder or represented agreements between holders of its shares that may result in by the proxy.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present restrictions on the transfer of securities.
in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by that shareholder the deadline for exercising voting Control Rights Under Employee Share Schemes rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
A poll may The Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
be demanded by any of the following: a the chairman of Under one of those schemes, ordinary shares may be held by the meeting: b at least five shareholders entitled to vote trustees on behalf of employees.
Employees are not entitled to and present in person or by proxy at the meeting: c any exercise directly any voting or other control rights in respect shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and of any shares held by such trustees and the trustees have full representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the discretion to vote or abstain from voting at general meetings of total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to attend and the Company in respect of such shares.
vote at the meeting: or d any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and holding shares conferring Appointment and Replacement of Directors a right to attend and vote at the meeting on which there The Company shall appoint disregarding alternate directors not have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to not less less than two Directors.
The appointment and replacement of than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares Directors may be made as follows: conferring that right.
in the case of joint holders of an ordinary share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, the Companys members may by ordinary resolution appoint whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the any person who is willing to act to be a Director: exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
