Year in Review Market Overview Across the world, governments are urging the waste industry to support them in recovering more resources and energy from waste waste management is an essential service.
in the societies The market is also split between the industrial and where the Group operates there is a high level of regulation Commercial i&C sector and the municipal sector.
it is a sophisticated industry using most EU countries the municipalities have a statutory advanced technologies.
duty to deal with household waste, which they either do themselves or sub-contract to the private sector.
Due to in the European Union EU the level of environmental the larger volumes controlled by the municipalities and regulation is high, however unlike trade regulations there their longer term outlook, the municipal sector is typified are no common standards for waste management.
EU by large, long-term contracts which tend to be five to ten legislation on waste sets minimum standards which member years for collection and often in excess of twenty years nations must meet, however each member state is free to for treatment and disposal.
in the i&C sector the volumes exceed these standards in order to follow their own political generated by individual entities tend to be relatively small and environmental agendas.
The result is that, within the and their outlooks are shorter.
This market therefore tends EU, national regulations differ and there is no single market.
to be typified by shorter term contracts.
The waste management market is subdivided into nonMarket Trends and Drivers hazardous and hazardous waste.
The former tends to be a Across the world, governments are urging the waste local business, as the relatively low unit cost of treatment industry to support them in recovering more resources makes transport a significant part of the overall cost.
They are providing economic Hazardous waste treatment costs tend to be higher making incentives to increase recycling through taxation on it a more regional or national business.
landfill and in some cases incineration, alongside subsidies for treatment processes that support the production of Both the public and the private sectors are active in renewable energy from waste.
The general market trend the waste market.
The degree of privatisation varies can be summarised as: across Europe: it is high in the UK and France but lower in Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium.
Advancing EU Less waste legislation is necessitating substantial investment in new Increased materials recovery infrastructure.
This investment combined with budgetary constraints is driving privatisation initiatives in many EU Energy from waste countries.
within the private sector, consolidation of the Less landfill industry has been a feature for many years.
within the national markets a further distinction is made The high level factors behind this are climate change, the between collection, transfer and recycling and treatment price and security of supply of fossil fuels and an increasing and disposal.
Historically the former has had low barriers appreciation within society of the need to develop to entry and comprised both large and small players.
These factors are driving a However increasing recycling requirements are leading convergence between the waste, energy intensive and to greater investment in infrastructure which is moving power industries.
this market towards the larger players.
Treatment and disposal have high barriers to entry as facilities tend to be capital intensive and projects have long gestation periods.
These activities are the domain of larger well capitalised companies, often multinationals.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 20 YEAR iN REViEw in terms of specific legislative and market drivers these are setting minimum energy recovery criteria and introducing summarised as follows: statutory recycling targets for member states to achieve by 2020 both for municipal waste, 50%, and construction and The European Landfill Directive biodegradable waste demolition waste, 70%.
in landfill is a major source of methane emissions to the atmosphere.
Methane is a potent greenhouse gas with Industrial Activity Underpinning the key regulatory twenty one times the impact of a carbon dioxide emission drivers referred to earlier, is the level of industrial activity.
A key objective of this Directive is to Approximately 85% of the Groups activities are derived significantly reduce the landfilling of biodegradable waste, from i&C and Construction and Demolition C&D activities.
a major component of municipal waste.
Based on 1995 There is a close relationship between the level of industrial levels, the Directive requires a 25% reduction by 2010, activity and the amount of waste generated.
The Directive also aims therefore a key market indicator, albeit there is a time to reduce the polluting impact of landfills by substantially lag between movements in GDP and underlying business restricting other types of waste that may be landfilled.
activity in different sectors of our business.
The activity in the C&D sector is particularly important and although Landfill tax a significant mechanism being used by there is a time lag, the activity of the Group does mirror the many European states to divert waste from landfill cyclicality in these underlying markets.
to more environmentally acceptable options such as recycling and energy recovery.
in particular the UK The effects of these drivers vary by territory and are Government has announced that landfill tax rates will explained in the Business Reviews by country.
increase by 8 per tonne per annum to 80 per tonne by 2014 15.
The level from 1 April 2010 was 48 per tonne.
Energy prices and surety of supply these have increased the pressure to find alternative fuels: waste is one of these.
Carbon emissions quotas these have further increased the cost of using fossil fuels.
waste derived fuels can be exempt from carbon emissions calculations, increasing interest in this source of fuel.
Renewable electricity many waste based electricity generation projects qualify for renewable electricity subsidies and credits, available in various forms across Europe.
This is because a major component of waste derived fuels comprises renewable short carbon cycle materials, for example: wood, paper and other vegetable matter.
European Waste Framework Directive the revised European waste Framework Directive published in November 2008 provides further legislative support for recovering more resources and energy from waste by 21 YEAR iN REViEw
