Year in Review Chairmans Statement The Board is confident that the Group can deliver real growth in shareholder value over the medium term Adrian Auer it has been a very challenging year for the waste industry, However, on 8 March 2010 Carlyle indicated that it would with all the major players reporting reductions in revenue reduce any final offer it might make to 120p.
in response and profitability as the sharp downturn in economic activity the Board were unanimous in rejecting what they believed reduced the amount of waste produced.
in mainland Europe to be a material undervaluation of Shanks and discussions this resulted in significant over capacity in incineration with Carlyle were terminated.
which contributed to a sharp downward pressure on prices in Solid waste.
Throughout the engagement with Carlyle the sole objective of the Board was to secure for shareholders a price that in addition to adjusting to these difficult market conditions, in its opinion and that of our advisors, reflected the true during the year the Company has also successfully navigated value of the Company.
we were not able to achieve this its way through a number of significant corporate challenges.
and regretfully, in discharging this duty to shareholders, significant advisory costs were incurred and the senior Despite the uncertainties brought about by the credit management of the Company were diverted from the squeeze, which continued for some months, at the day-to-day demands of the business for an extended period.
beginning of 2009 the Groups medium term banking facility was re-negotiated.
This created the platform to However, the Board is confident that the Group can deliver strengthen our capital structure and in June 2009 the real growth in shareholder value over the medium term.
Group completed a Rights issue which was successful Shanks is a well managed Group with good strategic in raising net proceeds of 66.9m.
The Board would positioning in the evolving European waste markets.
we like to thank shareholders for their support for the have maintained investment through this recession and the issue which achieved an acceptance rate of 96%.
compelling regulatory and legislative drivers remain in place.
On 7 December 2009 the Board announced that it had Financial Performance received an unsolicited and highly conditional approach from a private equity firm, subsequently identified as the in line with declining waste volumes, and the pricing Carlyle Group, valuing the Company at 135p per share.
pressures in mainland Europe, underlying profit before Although the Board believed strongly that a price higher tax fell by 24% to 33.2m, on revenues down 0.2%.
than 150p was a more appropriate reflection of the Groups Given the severity of the downturn and our relatively value, following consultation with major shareholders the high exposure to construction markets, this represents Board agreed to provide Carlyle with detailed due diligence a commendable outcome, with the worst effects of the access, in order to support an improved offer price.
recession mitigated by reducing the cost base and tight control of cash resources.
3p total dividend per share for the year Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 14 YEAR iN REViEw
