Belgium Sustainable competitive advantage by securing long term energy from waste outlets at lower costs than landfill or mass burn incineration Market across Belgium and also in northern France.
The treatment in Belgium, environmental responsibility is devolved to the facility specialises in the preparation of waste derived three Regions: Flanders, wallonia and Brussels.
Flemish fuels and minerals for the cement industry which has major environmental legislation and landfill tax levels are very installations in both the east and west of wallonia.
Like similar to those in the Netherlands resulting in similar ATM in the Netherlands, the treatment facility also treats market characteristics: high levels of recycling, a reliance contaminated waste water streams using physio-chemical on incineration for final disposal and very little landfill.
it obtains green certificates for the electricity and heat it produces.
in the walloon Region landfill tax on i&C waste rose significantly on 1 January 2010 to an effective rate of The Sand Quarry is adjacent to the landfill in wallonia and is a 80 per tonne, which will promote increased recycling profitable but small activity.
and other forms of energy recovery.
Also, the walloon Region have adopted a strict interpretation of the Landfill Strategy Directive requirement for pre-treatment of non-hazardous in Belgium the strategy is to grow the i&C and Foronex waste which stopped residual waste collected from based biomass Solid waste businesses to replace the households from being landfilled without pre-treatment.
By focusing on solid recovered fuel SRF and biomass production we will be able The Brussels Region has little landfill capacity.
it has its to create sustainable competitive advantage by securing own incinerator but beyond that it is reliant on the other long term energy from waste outlets at lower costs than Regions for final disposal.
landfill or mass burn incineration.
Activities Further opportunities exist to invest in additional green The activities in Belgium are broken down into Solid waste, energy production at our Landfill and Hazardous waste Landfill and Power, Hazardous waste and a Sand Quarry.
These have already been partly realised through the Solid waste business is similar to that in the Netherlands, development of a bio-digester to create green energy on the however the division is less reliant on the C&D sector and Roeselare site, which has now been commissioned.
also includes the operation of municipal waste collection contracts, the largest being for the City of Liege under a Operational Review trends, performance and outlook ten year contract which was renewed in 2005.
Solid waste Overall trading profit after 1.0m of exchange gains was also includes Foronex.
This business, which was acquired in 28% down on the prior year.
The key developments were: 2008, is principally focused on the growing wood biomass market.
it also has a number of subsidiary activities including Solid Waste volumes fell 4% and prices 2% but second wood trading, tree bark and animal bedding.
half trends more stable: Foronex impacted by economic headwinds and revenue fell The Landfill and Power operations are situated in Mont St 17%.
Management actions included the decision to exit Guibert in wallonia where we have one of the largest landfills from loss making Animal Bedding, good price increases and in the walloon Region.
A major source of income for this cost savings: operation is from the generation of renewable electricity from the methane produced as the biodegradable waste decays.
Landfill profit decline impacted ahead of schedule with further significant drag expected in 2010 11: and The Hazardous waste division comprises industrial cleaning Hazardous Waste impacted by the recession and the activities and a main treatment centre at Roeselare in previously announced restructuring plan to reduce costs west Flanders.
The industrial cleaning businesses service has mitigated the impact.
the steel, cement, chemical and other large industries 27 YEAR iN REViEw Year in Review Business Review.
Belgium continued Benefits from investments made in both Solid Waste and Hazardous Waste will improve performance Although market conditions in the Belgian Solid waste the business has been strengthened and a decision made business have been more challenging than originally to exit the Animal Bedding business.
This business unit anticipated, the Solid waste business excluding Foronex was a major contributor to the losses in the current year.
has performed relatively well with stable i&C volumes we are confident that Foronex will make a significant and declines in C&D resulting in overall volume decline contribution to the results in the coming year.
The second half has seen some stabilisation and As anticipated, the Hazardous waste business has in the final quarter, despite the weather, volumes were experienced lower revenue and profits.
The previously up on the third quarter.
Also, in recent months there announced restructuring plan to reduce the cost base of the has been upward price pressure in certain regions.
in manual cleaning business has been implemented and is now addition, investments in the SRF line in Ghent have been starting to benefit results.
The investments in the green made that will increase the throughput and reduce costs energy plant are also now contributing to the results.
Landfill profitability declined by 22% principally The Foronex wood based markets have been adversely associated with the January 2010 increase in landfill impacted by the weak economic backdrop.
Overall tax and bans on landfilling of municipal solid waste.
revenue was down 17% year on year and the business was loss making.
The downturn in revenue has been The Power business remains relatively stable although partly mitigated by management action to reduce looking forward power prices are currently lower.
costs and increase prices overall by 10% particularly for previously low margin contracts.
One of the key Outlook attractions of the business is its ability to produce fuel As anticipated Landfill volumes going forward will be for the biomass industry from the wood waste and byat a significantly lower level than in 2009 10 and products it handles.
An investment recently completed at overall trading conditions are expected to remain the Bree facility to increase the supply of wood product challenging until the underlying economic recovery is into the electricity industry is now contributing after fully established.
Actions taken in the Foronex business initial start up difficulties.
Significant new contracts have and the benefits from investments made in both Solid also been signed with key electricity producers.
A recent waste and Hazardous waste will improve performance strategic review has reconfirmed the attractive growth over time.
potential within the biomass market.
The management of Belgium is focusing on Solid Recovered Fuel SRF and biomass production Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 28 YEAR iN REViEw Revenue by activity year ended March 2010 Revenue by Activity sand quarry hazardous Belgium: 000 waste Brussels Solid Waste Solid waste Land ll Power Hazardous waste Hazardous Power Sand Quan solid Landfill waste landfill Sand Quarry & power Belgium Revenue and Trading Profit by Activity Revenue Trading Profit 2010 2009 Variance 2010 2009 Variance m m m % m m m % Solid waste 144 154 10 -6% 5.3 9.7 4.4 -46% Landfill 15 20 5 -24% 5.7 7.3 1.6 -22% Power 7 7 0% 4.6 4.8 0.2 -4% Hazardous waste 51 60 9 -14% 3.9 5.7 1.8 -31% Sand Quarry 3 4 1 -10% 0.8 1.4 0.6 -47% Country Central Services 21 26 5 15% 4.5 5.3 0.8 16% Total m 199 219 20 -9% 15.8 23.6 7.8 -33% Total m at average FX rates 176 180 4 -2% 14.0 19.5 5.5 -28% Belgium Trading Margins by Activity Trading Margin 2010 2009 Variance % % % Solid waste 3.7 6.3 2.6 Landfill & Power 47.4 44.9 2.5 Hazardous waste 7.7 9.6 1.9 Sand Quarry 21.7 36.7 15.0 Total 8.0 10.8 2.8 29 YEAR iN REViEw
