Year in Review Business Review.
UK In the municipal market we will continue to bid for new PFI residual waste contracts, using those that we win as a base from which to expand our I&C business Market Another driver for the i&C waste market is the restriction of the type of waste that can be landfilled.
A significant The UKs historical heavy reliance on landfill means that milestone of the European Landfill Directive is the the imposition of the European Landfill Directive is having restriction on landfilling of untreated non-hazardous waste.
a major impact, particularly on the municipal sector.
The Government has introduced new legislation which implementation of the Directive requires waste disposal required pre-treatment of non-hazardous waste prior to authorities to develop new strategies to reduce the amount landfilling from October 2007. whilst the authorities have of Biodegradable Municipal waste BMw that they send taken a fairly soft-handed approach to the enforcement of to landfill.
Based on 1995 levels, the Directive requires a this legislation initially, it is expected it will be applied more 25% reduction in BMw landfilled by 2010, 50% by 2013 and rigorously in the future.
The UK Trade and investment authority has reported that the investment in new infrastructure required Activities to achieve this is between 9bn and 11bn.
The UK comprises Solid waste collection and recycling, four in an endeavour to secure least cost compliance the Municipal PFi contracts, contaminated land services and Government has introduced the Landfill Allowance Trading has recently set up an organic processing division.
Scheme LATS, a tradeable permit scheme between local authorities.
Here authorities who overachieve The Solid waste business, which has both i&C and C&D against their landfill diversion requirements may sell their customers is focused in three regions: Scotland, the East overachievement to an underachieving authority.
Failure by Midlands and the Northern Home Counties.
The four 25 year an authority either to meet its diversion requirements or Municipal PFi contracts include providing waste disposal to secure the necessary LATS, results in a 150 per tonne services for local authorities in East London, Dumfries and penalty for the excess.
Galloway, Argyll and Bute and Cumbria.
we are currently in the process of bidding for a number of further PFi contracts Also, discussions are now ongoing with DEFRA and the using both MBT and EFw technology.
The contaminated EU to define the total remit of the municipal legislation land services business provides advice and organises the under the EU Landfill Directive and it is likely that the rules treatment and disposal for various clean-up projects.
The that currently apply to municipal waste will be extended to organic processing business uses biodegradable organic elements of i&C waste.
waste to produce biogas energy and high quality compost.
As part of the 2009 Budget, the Government announced Strategy a strengthening of the existing drivers for diverting i&C in the UK, the aim is to make Shanks the preferred waste from landfill and provision of further financial support alternative to landfill.
in the i&C waste area, we are for alternative ways to deal with waste including reuse, building a resource management and reprocessing business recycling, energy from waste and anaerobic digestion.
The with improved margins by utilising the Benelux knowledge key element of this was an increase in the standard rate of and experience in this area.
we are focusing on building landfill tax by 8 per tonne on 1 April each year.
The November density in the three regions where we already have critical 2009 Pre-Budget report has extended the time period by one mass.
Having established an enabling platform of a strong year such that the rate of landfill tax will increase from 40 regional business with a differentiated and profitable per tonne in 2009 to 80 per tonne by 1 April 2014.
There business model, we may in future consider more aggressive are also ongoing discussions to redefine what constitutes consolidation options.
a taxable disposal of waste, so that a greater proportion of waste that ends up in landfill including materials used for in the municipal market, as well as running our existing cover and in construction of a landfill site is taxable.
plants as efficiently as possible, we will continue to bid for new PFi residual waste contracts, using those that we win as a base from which to expand our i&C business.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 30 YEAR iN REViEw Revenue by activity year ended March 2010 UK: 000 Solid Waste Solid waste Land ll & P Hazardous Landfill & Power PFI contract Hazardous waste PFi Contracts London At the same time we intend to secure a share of the Operational Review trends, performance and outlook significant UK demand for anaerobic digestion and The results of the UK are presented to reflect the sale of composting both in the municipal and i&C sectors the Avondale joint venture as a discontinued operation.
using Orgaworld as our base technology but also other The key developments for the year were: technologies as appropriate.
driven by a transformed and improving PFI result, in recent years we have established ourselves as a leading trading profits increased by 1.4m and operating margin player in the PFi market with the first mechanical biological increased from 2.1% to 3.1%: treatment MBT plant in the UK operational since 2006.
Solid Waste volumes fell 8% only 1% in the second half with a substantial number of opportunities coming to market and the profit impact was mitigated by price increases that require alternative solutions, as announced last year, we and cost reductions: have improved our technical offering through the strategic partnership with wheelabrator Technologies inc.
This has Cumbrian PFI performed well, ELWA improved recycling enabled us to offer Energy from waste solutions in addition performance and margins: to our MBT technology provided by EcoDeco.
short listed stage on six PFI opportunities: and The vision is to build on what is now essentially a logistics Directors valuation of the existing PFI portfolio of 65m business plus PFi and to develop an integrated recycling and to 80m.
organics business incorporating an expanded PFi portfolio.
UK continued An integrated recycling and organics business incorporating an expanded PFI portfolio United Kingdom Trading Margins by Activity Trading Margin 2010 2009 Variance % % % Solid waste 8.4 8.7 0.3 Landfill & Power 14.9 18.0 3.1 Hazardous waste 15.1 8.6 6.5 PFi Contracts 3.5 0.8 4.3 3.1 2.1 1.0 UK Operations in Solid waste, due to the difficult economic backdrop, The Scottish PFi contracts continue to have weak financial trading conditions have been challenging.
Overall trading performance which is expected.
A provision has been made volumes in the core Solid waste collections business were against the Dumfries and Galloway contract this year and down by 8% though this has been in part mitigated by further details are given in the Financial Review.
price increases together with strong action on costs where the restructuring programme implemented last year has The PFi market remains active with many authorities now delivered in line with expectations.
PFi bid costs were up 0.3m at 2.4m reflecting increased bidding activity.
The downturn in the UK construction market has adversely The next two years will see a large number of deals impacted our Hazardous waste activities which comprise being closed.
we believe that our extensive experience the contaminated land services business.
Here the number in bidding combined with the quality and breadth of our of site decontamination jobs from general construction offering positions us well to win our share of tenders.
activities is down substantially and we have consequently During the year we have proceeded to the next stage of lowered our headcount to reduce costs.
The contribution from our existing PFi portfolio was On the basis that we are now achieving the expected significantly up on the previous year partly due to the margins at ELwA following our improvement programme and contribution from Cumbria, which achieved financial close at Cumbria, to assist the market in valuing our PFi stakes, during the period and is performing well.
The margins on a Directors valuation has been performed.
Using the cash this contract are in line with our expectations.
Planning flows of the financing vehicles and the operating contracts permission for the two MBT facilities has been received and discounted at circa 0.8% the Directors estimate the value construction of the Hespin wood facility has commenced.
of the existing PFi contracts to be 65m to 80m.
Management actions have helped the ELwA PFi to show significantly improved results versus last year.
The margin Following the launch of Orgaworld in the UK we recently improvement is in line with our expectations and we expect announced a joint venture with Energen Biogas.
The to make further improvement in 2010 11. partnership will develop and operate a 60,000 tonnes per year Anaerobic Digestion AD plant capable of generating enough renewable electricity to power up to 3,000 homes.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 32 YEAR iN REViEw Legislative support for landfill diversion strategy continues to strengthen and as a result the UK has significant growth potential The plant will utilise proven Orgaworld AD technology to process a range of organic materials including supermarket waste, household and commercial kitchen waste, food processing waste and organic materials generated by existing Shanks operations.
The process will produce a high quality fertiliser for use on agricultural land and generate up to 3Mw of renewable electricity.
The site has been chosen as a result of the Scottish Governments clear strategic objectives to minimise the quantities of both commercial and municipal waste sent to landfill and maximise recycling.
it will provide a cost effective alternative to landfill and help local authorities and businesses increase their recycling rates.
The facility is under construction and is due to open in Autumn 2010.
Outlook Legislative support for landfill diversion strategy continues to strengthen and as a result the UK has significant growth potential.
we remain confident that the actions we are taking, including our strategic investments, put us in a strong position to take advantage.
Although, as in the other territories, the near term economic environment means that conditions remain challenging, we are confident that we will achieve significant benefit from the upturn.
in the UK Shanks continues to develop its recycling and organic processing activities 33 YEAR iN REViEw
