Year in Review Business Review.
The Netherlands The strategic goal for the Dutch operations is to maintain the strong operating margins and underlying free cash flow Market contaminated soils, pyrolysis of paint waste and biological and physio-chemical treatment of aqueous wastes.
Reym The Dutch Solid waste market is advanced, with supplies industrial cleaning services to the oil and gas, approximately 80% of the overall waste volumes of circa petrochemical and other industries.
Again both these 60m tonnes being recycled.
Volumes sent to landfill are businesses have good market positions being market very low at approximately 3% to 4%.
within these volumes leaders in their respective activities.
the construction and demolition market is important and accounts for approximately one third of the whole waste Organic Treatment comprises the Orgaworld business which market.
The other major sectors are general commercial consists of a number of treatment facilities for organic and industrial and municipal.
wastes by wet or dry anaerobic digestion AD or tunnel composting.
These waste streams originate from industry, The major players in addition to Shanks include AVR mainly from food processing companies and supermarkets, Van Gansewinkel and Sita with a number of other strong and source segregated organic municipal waste streams.
Strategy in Hazardous waste, this is a more specialist market and The strategic goal for the Dutch operations is to maintain the number of players is smaller due to the investment the strong operating margins and underlying free cash required to establish efficient competitive operations.
flow we currently enjoy and, over the long term, grow both the Solid and Hazardous waste businesses ahead of gross Activities domestic product.
This will be achieved by: There are three divisions: Solid waste, Hazardous waste and Organic Treatment.
The Solid waste business realising the benefits of our Fit for the Future comprises 22 recycling and transfer sites many of which programme designed to strengthen our market position are substantial in size, together with supporting collection vehicle fleets of 450 vehicles.
Overall the businesses and reduce costs through a more standardised business typically recycle and divert from landfill or incineration more model across Shanks Netherlands: than 80% of the waste they process.
in normal times, the upgrading existing recycling facilities to improve their business derives approximately half its trading profit from efficiency and thereby maintain our market leadership in Construction and Demolition C&D waste, the other half processing costs: being from more general industrial and Commercial i&C waste and other activities.
in the current recession the split moving into new markets such as bulky and electrical is 45% for C&D and 55% for i&C.
There is limited work from waste and exploring potential new mono-streams: the municipal sector, although this has increased in the expanding our organics footprint with the opening of current year, following the success of winning several bulky the Greenmills facility: waste contracts.
The business is principally based in the populous Randstad area to the west of the country, where investing in the expansion of the Hazardous Waste we have strong market positions.
facilities, particularly the waste water division which is growing strongly: The Hazardous waste business comprises two units: Afvalstoffen Terminal Moerdijk ATM, a treatment continuing the successful track record of tuck-in plant and Reym, which focuses on industrial cleaning.
acquisitions: and ATM is one of the worlds largest single site hazardous maintaining the current strong cash generation from waste facilities, processing almost 1.5 million tonnes of the business.
low contamination hazardous waste per annum.
There are three principal processes: thermal treatment of Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 24 YEAR iN REViEw Revenue by activity year ended March 2010 Amsterdam Netherland: 000 Solid Waste Solid waste Hazardous Organic Hazardous waste Organic Treatment Operational Review trends, performance and outlook The Solid waste business was impacted significantly by the economic downturn, particularly in the C&D sector.
Overall trading profit after 2.6m of exchange gains was The underlying decline in revenue of 10% reflected lower 18% down on last year.
The key developments were: volumes and increased pricing pressure.
The downturn was exacerbated by the worst weather conditions in thirty Solid Waste underlying revenues fell 10%, impacted by years which impacted the business from mid December the economic downturn and C&D exposure: to early March.
The cost reduction plans have somewhat 2m profit drag from lower recyclate prices but upward mitigated the downturn and the full year target of 5m trend through the second half: was exceeded.
in addition, actions have been taken to robust performance from Hazardous Waste and Revenue by Activity offset the downturn by pushing into new markets.
we have Organics: and successfully entered organic the Dutch municipal market with management actions, particularly cost reduction treatment contracts for 50,000 tonnes of bulky waste, 38,000 tonnes initiatives and lower Hazardous waste disposal costs of municipal collection and most recently a contract to have mitigated adverse volume and pricing trends.
collect and sort electrical waste.
The Netherlands continued Orgaworld continues to trade satisfactorily in its home market The Solid waste activity currently derives approximately and lower soil volumes, has been able to maintain gross 45% of its trading profit from C&D waste, with the balance margins through ongoing cost reduction initiatives.
being from more general i&C waste together with landfill Volumes in the waste water treatment plant are up on the and groundworks.
All sectors of the business have been prior year and investment in increased water treatment impacted by the economic cycle.
in the year, C&D and storage facilities is being made.
Reym has benefited i&C excluding landfill volumes were down 11% and 4% from its close alignment with the oil industry which has respectively.
The profitability of the Solid waste business remained relatively robust during the downturn.
The order was also impacted by the significant changes in recyclate books for ATM and Reym remain strong.
The significant downturn in the first half has been offset by a significant upward trend in the second half in Our Organic Treatment activity, Orgaworld, continues to both paper and metal prices.
However, the net adverse trade satisfactorily in its home market of the Netherlands, impact for the year 2009 10 was around 2m.
indications generating trading margins of 20%.
Overall margins are are that these higher recyclate prices will continue for the lower reflecting the increase in business development costs foreseeable future as the underlying driver is the continued as we increase our efforts to expand into new regions.
strong economic growth in Asia.
Actions have also been A large 100,000 tonne per annum anaerobic digestion taken to reduce the cost of disposal to incinerators which AD facility and 300,000 tonne waste water facility in has provided a small benefit in the second half and will Amsterdam, known as the Greenmills project, will come on deliver an increased benefit next year.
This is the largest industrial AD facility of its kind in Europe.
Excess capacity in the Continental European incineration market is exerting downward pressure on prices.
Although Outlook there is no direct impact on our business, we are taking The actions taken during the harshest trading conditions action to mitigate any indirect consequences.
This includes for many years, including reducing costs, maintaining the the renegotiation of disposal costs referred to above, the customer base and continuing to invest for growth position cost savings delivered this year and the plans to make this business well for the economic recovery additional cost savings that are well advanced and will in the medium term.
in Hazardous waste, both ATM and Reym held up reasonably well throughout the year.
Through continued investment ATM has maintained its relatively low unit costs and, despite quite significant pricing pressure ATM and Reym specialise in hazardous waste treatment Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 26 YEAR iN REViEw
