8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 38 38 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Board of Directors 1 4 Matthew Emmens 59 David Kappler 63 Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Mr Emmens was appointed Chairman on June 18, 2008 Non-Executive Director and has been a member of the Board since March 12, Mr Kappler has been a member of the Board since April 5, 2003.
He is also a member of the Nomination Committee.
He was appointed Senior Independent NonHe was the Companys Chief Executive officer from March Executive Director in July 2007 and Deputy Chairman in 2003 to June 2008.
Mr Emmens brings to the Board, June 2008.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee among other things, his operational knowledge of Shire and of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
Mr Kappler 1 and his wealth of international sales, marketing, integration brings to the Board, among other things, his extensive and operational experience in the pharmaceutical sector.
knowledge and experience in financial reporting, risk Mr Emmens also serves as Chairman, President and Chief management and internal financial controls.
Mr Kappler Executive officer of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc.
He is a also serves as a Non-Executive Director of Intercontinental former board member of Incyte Corporation.
Mr Emmens Hotels Group plc.
He was Non-Executive Chairman began his career in international pharmaceuticals with of Premier Foods plc until September 2010 and was Merck & Co, Inc. in 1974, where he held a wide range of a Non-Executive Director of Camelot Group plc from 1996 sales, marketing and administrative positions.
In 1992, he to 2002 and of HMV Group plc from 2002 to 2006. helped to establish Astra Merck, a joint venture between Mr Kappler retired from Cadbury Schweppes plc in April Merck and Astra AB of Sweden, becoming President and 2004 after serving as Chief Financial officer since 1995.
In 1999, he joined Merck KGaA He worked for the Cadbury Schweppes group between 2 and established EMD Pharmaceuticals, the companys US 1965 and 1984 and rejoined the company in 1989 following prescription pharmaceutical business.
He was later based its acquisition of the Trebor Group, where he was Financial in Darmstadt, Germany as President of Merck KGaAs Director.
Mr Kappler is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute global prescription pharmaceutical business and was a of Management Accountants.
Mr Emmens holds a degree in Business Management from Fairleigh Dickinson University.
5 Dr Jeffrey Leiden 55 2 Vice Chairman and Non-Executive Director Angus Russell 55 Dr Leiden has been a member of the Board since January 1, Chief Executive officer 2007, and Vice Chairman since April 2009.
He is a member 3 Mr Russell was appointed Chief Executive officer on of the Remuneration Committee and of the Nomination June 18, 2008 and has been a member of the Board since Committee and Chairman of the Science & Technology December 13, 1999.
He was the Companys Chief Financial Committee.
Dr Leiden brings to the Board, among other officer from December 1999 to June 2008.
He is also things, his extensive operational experience in pharmaceutical Chairman of the Companys Leadership Team.
Mr Russell companies and his operational and scientific experience in brings to his position, among other things, his operational clinical research, development and registration.
Dr Leiden is knowledge of Shire and his extensive finance, risk also a Managing Director at Clarus Ventures LLC, Chairman management, strategic and operational experience in the of the Board of Directors of TyRx Pharma, Inc. Lycera pharmaceutical sector.
Mr Russell is a former NonCorporation and Variation Biotechnologies Inc. and a Executive Director of the City of London Investment Trust member of the Board of Directors of Biolex Therapeutics Inc. 4 plc.
Between 1980 and 1999, he held a number of positions Catabasis Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Vertex Pharmaceuticals of increasing responsibility at ICI, Zeneca and AstraZeneca Inc. Dr Leiden served as President and Chief Operating PLC, including Vice President, Corporate Finance at officer, Pharmaceutical Products Group and Chief scientific AstraZeneca and Group Treasurer at Zeneca.
Mr Russell officer at Abbott Laboratories from 2001 to 2006: during is a Chartered Accountant and is a Fellow of the this time he was also a member of the Boards of Directors Association of Corporate Treasurers.
of Abbott and TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.
Prior to joining Abbott, Dr Leiden served as the Elkan R. Blout 3 Professor of Biological Sciences, Harvard School of Public Graham Hetherington 52 Health and Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School.
Chief Financial officer Previously, he was the Frederick H. Rawson Professor 5 Mr Hetherington has been the Chief Financial officer of Medicine and Pathology and Chief of the Section and a member of the Board since July 1, 2008.
He is also of Cardiology at the University of Chicago.
Dr Leiden was a member of the Leadership Team.
Mr Hetherington brings a founder of Cardiogene, Inc. a biotechnology company to his position, among other things, a broad range of specializing in cardiovascular gene therapy.
Dr Leiden earned international finance management and planning, audit, a bachelors degree in biological sciences, a doctorate risk management and M&A experience.
Mr Hetherington in virology and a medical degree, all from the University most recently held positions as the Chief Financial officer of Chicago.
He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Bacardi in 2007 and Chief Financial officer of Allied of Arts and Sciences and an elected member of the Institute Domecq plc from 1999 to 2005.
Mr Hetherington of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
com Governance 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 39 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39 6 9 William Burns 63 Anne Minto OBE 57 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr Burns was appointed to the Board on March 15, Ms Minto was appointed to the Board on June 16, 2010 and 2010 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Ms Minto is Group Mr Burns brings to the Board, among other things, Director Human Resources at Centrica plc and sits on the extensive experience in international sales, marketing, Centrica Executive Committee.
She was chair of the three integration and operational experience in the Centrica Pension Scheme boards for eight years until end pharmaceutical sector.
He also holds directorships at of December 2010.
She brings considerable experience 6 Crucell N. V. Roche Holdings Ltd, Chugai Pharmaceuticals to the Board including, her extensive legal, commercial and Genentech Inc. Mr Burns worked for many years and remuneration experience.
Following her law degree at for Roche: most recently as CEO of their Pharmaceuticals Aberdeen University and a post graduate diploma in Human Division and as a member of the Roche Group Corporate Resources she qualied as a lawyer and has an extensive Executive Committee.
Among his many achievements business career that includes senior management roles during his time with Roche, he had significant involvement at Shell UK, the position of deputy director-general of the in the acquisition and privatization of Genentech, he led Engineering Employers Federation and the position of the integration of Boehringer Mannheim Therapeutics Group Director Human Resources at Smiths Group plc.
and he played a lead role in the negotiations resulting She has also been a Non-Executive director on the boards in Roche becoming a majority owner of Chugai in Japan.
of Northumbrian Water plc and SITA UK.
Ms Minto is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel & 7 7 Development, the Royal Society of Arts and the London Dr David Ginsburg 58 City and Guilds and a Member of Law Society of Scotland.
Non-Executive Director Dr Ginsburg, MD was appointed to the Board on June 16, 10 2010 and is a member of the Science & Technology David Stout 56 Committee.
Dr Ginsburg is currently James V. Neel Non-Executive Director Distinguished University Professor of Internal Medicine Mr Stout was appointed to the Board on October 31, 2009 Human Genetics, and Pediatrics at the University of and is a member of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
Michigan and a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Mr Stout brings to the Board, among other things, extensive Investigator.
Dr Ginsburg brings much experience to the international sales, marketing, operational and supply chain 8 Board, including his clinical medical background in Internal experience gained in the pharmaceutical sector.
Mr Stout Medicine, Hematology-Oncology, and Medical Genetics, also holds directorships at Allos Therapeutics, Inc. Jabil as well as his extensive basic biomedical laboratory Circuit, Inc. and Airgas Inc.
Most recently he was President, research expertise.
He obtained his BA at Yale University, Pharmaceutical Operations at GSK.
In this position he had MD at Duke University and completed his medical and responsibility for pharmaceutical operations in the United research training at Harvard Medical School, before joining States, Europe, Japan and all other International Markets.
the faculty at the University of Michigan.
Dr Ginsburg Mr Stout was also responsible for global manufacturing and is the recipient of numerous honors and awards, including global Biologics vaccines at GSK.
Prior to that, he was election to membership in the National Academy of President of GSKs US Pharmaceuticals Business and before Sciences, the Institute of Medicine and the American that SmithKline Beechams North American Pharmaceuticals 9 Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Before joining SmithKline Beecham, Mr Stout worked for many years at Schering-Plough.
8 Patrick Langlois 65 Former Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director Mr Langlois has been a member of the Board since Kathleen Nealon 57 Non-Executive Director November 11, 2005.
He is also a member of the Audit, Ms Nealon was a member of the Board from July 27, 2006 to July 26, Compliance & Risk Committee and of the Remuneration 2010.
When Ms Nealon stepped down from the Board, she also Committee.
Mr Langlois brings to the Board, among stepped down from her role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee other things, his extensive experience in financial and as a member of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
10 Ms Nealon brought to the Board, among other things, her extensive reporting, audit and risk management.
Mr Langlois is a global legal, compliance and risk management experience gained Non-Executive Director of Scynexis Inc. Nanobiotix S. A. through roles held in multinational companies.
Ms Nealon is a NonExonhit S. A. and Newron Spa.
Mr Langlois previously Executive Director of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and a served as Vice Chairman of the Management Board of former Non-Executive Director of HBOS plc.
She is also a Senior Associate at the Judge Business School at Cambridge University.
Aventis S. A. having been Group Executive Vice President Ms Nealon was previously Group Head of Legal & Compliance at and Chief Financial officer for several years.
He also Standard Chartered plc until 2004.
She is a US qualied lawyer and spent many years in senior financial roles with the Rhnespent several years in her early career practising law in New York.
Poulenc Group, including three years as a member of the Executive Committee and Chief Financial officer.
Dr Barry Price 67 Non-Executive Director Mr Langlois holds a PhD in Economics and a diploma Dr Price was a member of the Companys Board from January 16, in banking studies.
1996 until his retirement from the Board on January 24, 2010.
He was a member of the Companys Nomination Committee and Science & Technology Committee until October 2009 and January 2010 respectively.
Dr Price brought to the Board, among other things, his wealth of experience in the operational and scientific aspects of clinical research and development.
He serves as Chairman of Antisoma plc and Summit Corporation plc.
In recent years he has held directorships at Chiroscience plc, Celltech Group plc, Pharmagene plc and BioWisdom Limited.
Dr Price worked for GSK for 28 years, where he held positions of increasing responsibility with that companys research group.
