8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 40 40 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Directors report The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group together Liquidity, cash flow and going concern with the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely December 31, 2010. to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans review, Chief Executive Officers review and Principal activity Financial review on pages 2 to 37.
The financial position of the Group, Shire plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described the Group or Shire is a leading specialty biopharmaceutical company in the Liquidity and capital resources section of the Financial review.
that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist physician.
The Financial review also includes information concerning the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital: its financial Shire focuses its business on attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, risk management objectives: details of its hedging activity: and its human genetic therapies and gastrointestinal diseases as well as exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Groups opportunities in other specialty therapeutic areas to the extent they financial instruments are disclosed in Note 21 to the consolidated arise through acquisitions.
The subsidiaries and equity-method investees principally affecting Shires balance sheet includes $550.6 million of cash and cash the profits and or net assets of Shire in the year are listed in Note 31 equivalents at December 31, 2010.
Substantially all of Shires debt to the consolidated financial statements, including their country relates to its $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bond which matures in of incorporation.
2014, although these bonds include a put option which could require repayment of the bonds in 2012.
In addition, in November 2010 Shire Business review entered into a new committed multicurrency revolving and swingline Shire is seeks to set out in this report a fair review of the business of facilities agreement of $1,200 million, which is currently undrawn, and the Group during the financial year to December 31, 2010, the position will mature in 2015.
Shires existing committed revolving credit facility of the Group at the end of that financial year, and a description of the was cancelled.
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has the Chairmans review on pages 2 and 3, the Chief Executive Officers adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the review on pages 4 to 7, the Financial review on pages 8 to 37 foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern and the Corporate governance report on pages 45 to 50 which are basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
incorporated in this report by reference.
The Financial review and Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements also provide a Corporate governance description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group The Directors are committed to business integrity and professionalism as well as risk management objectives and policies.
and as an essential part of this commitment the Board supports high standards of corporate governance.
Details relating to corporate There were no significant events subsequent to the balance sheet date.
governance for the 2010 financial year can be found on pages 45 to 50 and in the remuneration policy contained in the Directors Results and dividends remuneration report which can be found on pages 54 to 67.
The income from continuing operations before income taxes, and equity in earnings of equity-method investees for the year Share capital to December 31, 2010 was $769.3 million 2009: $643.0 million.
At December 31, 2010 the Companys issued share capital comprised The net assets of Shire at December 31, 2010 were $2,451.4 million 562,212,495 Ordinary Shares and 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares.
Further details of the authorized and called-up share capital of the Company as at December 31, 2010 and the changes during the year In respect of the six months to December 31, 2010 the Board resolved are set out in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
to pay a second interim dividend of 10.85 US cents 2009: 9.250 US cents per Ordinary Share.
Together with the first interim payment Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying back of 2.25 US cents 2009: 2.147 US cents per Ordinary Share, this its own shares represents total dividends for 2010 of 13.10 US cents 2009: 11.397 The Directors were granted authority at the 2010 Annual General US cents per Ordinary Share.
Meeting AGM to: i allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 9,366,113: and ii allot equity securities up to an aggregate ACS HR Solutions Share Plan Services Guernsey Limited Trustee, nominal amount equal to 18,732,227 after deducting from such limit trustee of the Shire Employee Benefit Trust, has waived its entitlement any shares or rights allotted or granted under i, in connection with to any dividends, which become due and payable in respect of shares an offer by way of a rights issue.
That authority will apply until the or other securities, which are registered in the name of the Trustee conclusion of the 2011 AGM.
or its nominee s, from time to time, except the right to receive 0.0001 pence per Ordinary Share.
The Company was given authority at the 2010 AGM to make market purchases of up to 56,196,681 of its own Ordinary Shares.
That authority will apply until the conclusion of the 2011 AGM.
Details of the new authorities to issue or buyback shares being sought at the 2011 AGM are contained in the Notice of the 2011 AGM, which accompanies this Annual Report and is also available on Shires website at www.
Governance 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 41 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 Directors service contracts and interest in material contracts Substantial shareholdings In the event of termination of employment within 12 months As at February 18, 2011 the Company had been notified of the of a change in control, the amount payable to Mr Russell and following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights Mr Hetherington is one years salary and the cash equivalent of in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company: one years pension, car allowance and other contractual benefits.
BlackRock Inc. has a holding of 5.93%: Any annual bonus payable is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and is capped at the contractual maximum level.
Capital Group International Inc. has a holding of 4.99%: and Legal and General Group plc has a holding of 3.96%.
Other than the insurance indemnity provisions disclosed under Directors liability insurance and indemnification below, none of the Political donations Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to Shire did not make any donations to EU political parties during the which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party year ended December 31, 2010 2009: $nil.
A Political Action during the period under review.
Committee PAC is run by a committee of employees in the United States.
The committee determines the political campaigns or political Related party transactions candidates the PAC will support.
Contributions are held by the PAC There were no related party transactions in the year to December 31, in a separate and segregated fund and Shire does not contribute 2010. financially to this fund.
The PAC is registered with the Federal Election Committee and attracts voluntary donations from US citizen Directors employees and certain US suppliers and vendors.
The following persons served as Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of this report: Charitable contributions Matthew Emmens During the year, donations to charities including matching of funds Angus Russell raised by employees, not-for-profit organizations and entities Graham Hetherington supporting medical education amounting to $7.0 million were made, David Kappler of which $0.7 million were made in the UK.
Dr Jeffrey Leiden William Burns appointed on March 15, 2010 For further information, please refer to Shires Dr David Ginsburg appointed on June 16, 2010 Responsibility website at www.
com Patrick Langlois Anne Minto appointed on June 16, 2010 David Stout Employee engagement Kathleen Nealon stepped down on July 26, 2010 As of December 31, 2010 Shire employed 4,183 personnel, of which Barry Price retired on January 24, 2010 71% are based in the United States, 11% in the UK, 2% in Switzerland and 16% in the rest of the world.
As Shire continues to grow, we remain Biographical details of Directors who have served on the Board during dedicated to creating an environment in which employees are highly the year appear on pages 38 and 39. engaged and committed to achieving Shires goals.
Directors interests in shares Engagement happens at every level of the business, from the Details of the current Directors interests in the share capital of the one-to-one performance discussions between managers and their Company, together with details of the share options granted to staff, to the regular all-employee meetings held at our major sites.
Executive Directors, are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report Shire communicates with all employees via an active internal on pages 54 to 67. communications program which includes a worldwide intranet, all-employee emails from the CEO, and a global employee magazine.
Directors liability insurance and indemnification During 2010, the CEO used a quarterly blog to communicate real In the year under review, the Group maintained an insurance policy for time and online with Shire employees around the world.
Within its Directors and Officers in respect of liabilities arising out of any act, each business HGT and SP, the Presidents have their own internal error or omission whilst acting in their capacity as Directors or Officers.
communications strategies and plans to ensure employees are kept Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions were also in place during the aware of priorities and have the opportunity to exchange views.
year under review for the benefit of Directors in relation to certain losses Shire believes passionately in having a progressive, collaborative and liabilities which they may potentially incur to third-parties in the and positive workplace in which everyone feels valued and is treated course of their duties.
fairly, and that is reflected in the way we work together, every day.
Research and development Equal opportunities Shire continues an active research and development program and as Shire operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat a result has incurred research and development costs of $661.5 million individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, ethnic in the financial year to December 31, 2010 2009: $638.3 million.
origin, disability or on any other basis.
Applications for employment are These costs have been charged to the consolidated income statement fully considered on their merits, and employees are given appropriate in accordance with Shires accounting policy.
training and equal opportunities for career development and promotion.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 42 42 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Directors report Disabled employees Additional information for shareholders It is Shires policy to ensure that applications for employment by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration, bearing in mind Rights and obligations attaching to shares the aptitude of the applicant concerned relative to the requirements Subject to applicable statutes and subject to and without prejudice to of the position in question.
In the event of members of staff becoming any rights attached to existing shares, shares may be issued with such disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with rights and restrictions as the Company may by special resolution decide Shire continues and that appropriate training or accommodation is or, if no such resolution has been passed or so far as the resolution arranged.
It is Shires policy that the training, career development and does not make specific provision, as the Board may decide.
Subject promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the Companies to that of other employees and that reasonable accommodation is Jersey Law 1991, as amended the Companies Act and other made wherever possible.
shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Health, safety and welfare Voting The Directors are committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare It is the Companys practice to hold a poll on every resolution at annual of Shires employees at work.
Accordingly, it is Shires policy to manage and extraordinary general meetings.
Every member present in person its activities so as to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable or by proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every share held by him.
risk to employees and those who may be affected by the Groups In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who business.
In addition, Shire takes its corporate responsibilities seriously, tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted and maintains an active Responsibility Co-Ordination Team as well to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this as a global environmental health and safety team devoted to promoting purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the employee safety at and outside work.
names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
Payment of creditors As at December 31, 2010, the Shire Employee Benefit Trust held 2.45% It is Shires policy to agree payment terms with all its suppliers, making of the issued share capital of the Company on trust for the benefit of sure the supplier is aware of those terms, and to abide by them.
As at participants of the Companys employee share plans.
The voting rights December 31, 2010 the Group trade creditors days outstanding were: in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee.
The Trustee may vote or abstain from voting in any way it thinks fit and in doing so 2010 2009 may take into account both financial and non financial interests of the Days Days beneficiaries of the Trust or their dependants.
Historically the Trust has not exercised its right to vote.
Group 29 20 Restriction on voting The Company is non-trading and accordingly has no trade creditors.
No member shall, unless the Board otherwise decides, be entitled to attend or vote at any general or class meeting in respect of any Financial instruments Details of Shires use of financial instruments can be found in the shares held if any call or other sum payable by him remains unpaid.
Also, a member may not be entitled to attend or vote if served with Financial review on pages 8 to 37 and in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
a restriction notice as defined in the Articles.
Capitalized interest The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
During the year the Group capitalized $6.3 million of interest in connection with the expansion of manufacturing capacity at LTP The holders of the 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares have no right in Lexington, Massachusetts LTP Expansion 2009: $2.7 million primarily in connection with the LTP Expansion.
to receive notice of or attend or vote at any general meeting of the Company, unless a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company Auditors or to vary the rights attaching to those Subscriber Ordinary Shares.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: The Company maintains an American Depositary Receipt ADR program in the US.
Each American Depositary Share ADS represents he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken three Ordinary Shares.
An ADS is evidenced by an ADR issued by JP as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant Morgan Chase Bank, N. A. as depositary, and is listed on the NASDAQ audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are Global Select Market.
Each ADS holder is entitled to the financial rights aware of that information: and attaching to such shares although the ADR depositary is the registered so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information holder of the shares.
of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
Dividends and other distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company A resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Group will be put to the AGM.
The Audit, Compliance & Risk may by ordinary resolution from time to time, declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the Committee reviews both the level of the audit fee and the level and nature of non-audit fees as part of its review of the adequacy and Companies Act, the Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, objectivity of the audit process.
in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
Governance 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 43 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends Articles of Association or other monies payable in respect of the shares from a person with The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the members a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such person has been of the Company.
served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those Powers of the Directors shares required to be provided under the Articles.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Articles and directions given by the Company in general meeting by special Shire has put in place income access share arrangements which resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board enable shareholders to elect to receive their dividends from a Shire which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to group company resident for tax purposes in the UK.
A shareholder the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, who holds 25,000 or fewer shares at the first dividend record date after the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow first becoming a shareholder will be deemed to have made an Income money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of the undertaking, Access Share IAS Election such that dividends will be paid from a property and assets present and future and uncalled capital of the UK tax resident company, unless the shareholder notifies the Company Company and, subject to the Companies Act, to issue debentures in writing to the contrary.
Pursuant to the Articles, where any dividend and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security, is paid by the Company, an amount is paid to the IAS Trustee for a debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of a third-party.
representing the dividend entitlement of persons who have elected to receive dividends from a UK resident company and such amount Appointment and replacement of Directors is paid by the IAS Trustee to shareholders who have made or are Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution deemed to have made an IAS Election.
The dividend which would or by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for otherwise be payable by Shire to such shareholders will be reduced a term of two years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-Executive by an amount equal to the amount paid to such shareholders by the Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more are IAS Trustee.
If the dividend paid on the income access share and onappointed for one year terms.
Re-appointment of Non-Executive paid by the IAS Trustee to shareholders is less than the total amount Directors following the expiry of their term of appointment is subject of the dividend announced or declared by Shire on its Ordinary Shares, to Board approval.
The Board may from time to time appoint one Shire will be obliged to pay a dividend on its Ordinary Shares equivalent or more Directors to hold any executive office for such period and to the amount of the shortfall.
The income access share arrangements on such terms as it may determine and may also revoke or terminate may be suspended or terminated at any time and for any reason by any such appointment.
the Company, without financial recompense to shareholders.
At each AGM all those Directors who have been appointed by the Holders of the 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares are not entitled to receive Board since the last AGM, or who held office at the time of the two dividends or distributions in respect of such shares.
On a winding up, preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, or who the holders of the 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares are entitled only to the has held office with the Company, other than executive office, for nominal value of each Subscriber Ordinary Share after the holders of all a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, other classes of share have received the nominal value of those shares.
shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-election by the members.
The Company may by ordinary resolution remove any Variation of rights Director before the expiration of his period of office.
The office of Subject to the Companies Act, rights attached to any class of shares a Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or offers to resign and the may be varied with written consent of the holders of not less than twoBoard resolve to accept such offer: ii his resignation is requested by thirds in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than excluding any shares held as treasury stock or with the sanction of a three in number: iii he is or has been suffering from mental ill health special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of those or becomes a patient for the purpose of any statute relating to mental shares.
At each such separate general meeting, except an adjourned health and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: iv he is absent meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends for six of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury stock.
consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: Restrictions on transfer of shares vi he is prohibited or disqualified by law from being a Director: There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, or vii he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act except: i that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : and ii pursuant to the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys Ordinary Shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 44 44 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Directors report Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise the following rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: under the $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 issued by the Company pursuant to a trust deed dated May 9, 2007 and a supplemental trust deed dated April 15, 2008, upon a change of control bondholders will, for 60 days after receiving notice of the change of control, be able to exercise their right to convert their bonds into Ordinary Shares in the Company at a more advantageous price than normal, as specified in the terms and conditions of the bonds, unless the change of control is effected by a Scheme of Arrangement which results in the interposition of a new holding company between the Companys shareholders and the Company, and certain other conditions are met an Exempt Scheme.
With respect to an offer or a scheme to acquire all or most of the Ordinary Shares in the Company, further requirements are also imposed on the Company, including a requirement to notify bondholders of the offer or scheme and to use reasonable endeavors to procure the making of an equivalent offer to bondholders, unless the scheme is an Exempt Scheme.
For these purposes, a change of control is defined as the acquisition, pursuant to an offer or a scheme, by a party of the ability to control more than half the votes at a general meeting of the Company: and under the $1,200 million credit facility agreement dated November 23, 2010 between, amongst others, the Company and a number of its subsidiaries, Barclays Bank plc as the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders, upon a change of control any lender may, following not less than 30 days notice, cancel its commitments and require prepayment of its participation in any outstanding loans.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains the ability to control more than half the votes at a general meeting of the Company or holds more than half the equity share capital of the Company.
A waiver of the mandatory prepayment provision would require the consent of each lender under the agreement.
As at February 23, 2011, no amounts are outstanding under the credit facility agreement.
By order of the Board Tatjana May Company Secretary February 23, 2011
