34 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 exteRioRs the roof is one of the most critical parts of any building.
it protects the integrity of the buildings structure and the buildings contents from the elements.
Repair and maintenance is often an urgent requirement and requires suitable products to be readily available on demand.
Revenue Growth drivers essential Rmi requirement 788.7m 30% Growth of specialist distribution as the main supply route new products The 344 trading sites in this division offer materials sig is also a leading supplier in the uk of reclaimed consumers or designers require certain styles or finishes, from the leading manufacturers of roofing materials and preused roof tiles and slates which have two key sig also provides Roof libraries which offer a very and supply products for pitched, flat, industrial and advantages over newly manufactured products.
wide selection of materials and facilitate the specification agricultural applications.
As the largest specialist supplier firstly, they remove the need for energy consuming process.
during the last few years, sig has also of roofing materials in Europe, the Group is able to manufacture and secondly, their aged and worn broadened its product offering to include roofline keep at the forefront of innovations and provide its character provides an aesthetically pleasing appearance products such as rainwater and guttering, soffit, fascia customers with a level of technical knowhow unrivalled that matches that of the local environment, something and barge boards.
in addition, for certain bespoke product that is increasingly important to local communities and solutions, the group also has inhouse manufacturing planning agencies.
sig has also expanded its range of photovoltaic products capability in the UK.
As well as specialist roofing which are supplied through the groups trading sites materials, each location offers a range of accessories the ongoing need for repair or replacement of existing in both france and germany.
the group also sells such as tools and fixings, ventilation, access equipment, roofs, whether as the result of natural wear and tear or photovoltaic products in the uk, although these sales safety products and insulation materials.
many of these of storm damage, creates a resilient market for roofing are predominantly made through the groups uk accessories are core product areas for other group materials.
the emergency nature of some repairs Energy Management division included within Insulation.
businesses and the exteriors business is able to draw on the requires materials to be readily available from local stock government initiatives are expected to support and experience and technical knowledge of its sister businesses and these demands dictate the nature of the market, drive demand for these products going forward.
as well as taking advantage of group procurement.
which is for a large number of depots holding a broad range of stock.
for newbuild applications, where Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts 35 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 1 single skin metal sheeting, fibre cement sheeting and bituminous sheeting 4 2 guttering 3 Roof lights 4 Flashings 5 Fixings 7 3 6 purlins 6 7 Composite Panels, 1 insulated metal tile 5 and twin skin metal 2 8 Cladding Composite 8 Architectural wall panels 1 Roof coverings 2 Roofline and Rainwater 3 3 Roof Accessories 2 1 4 Renewable Energies 1 and natural daylight 5 4 5 Roof Build Up 6 Roof structure 3 6 4 7 2 1 Waterproofing 5 Promenade Tiles and Roof Paving 6 5 2 vents and outlets 6 vapour barriers and vapour control layers 3 Roof build up 7 Compounds and Sealants 4 Roof Domes and Access Hatches
