32 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 insuLation and BuiLdinG enviRonments siG is the largest supplier of insulation and related products in europe.
insulation products have three main applications, being thermal management, fire protection and sound control.
in the longer term, demand for insulation products, driven by continued and more stringent government legislation and environmental issues, is expected to outperform overall construction demand.
Revenue Growth drivers the need to reduce energy consumption 1,020.6m 38% more stringent Government regulation Government initiatives around renewable energy the most widespread application for insulation is that of and industrial applications.
in general, insulation is used to The Group has 228 trading sites in Europe focused on the thermal management where insulation is most commonly control the transfer of heat and sound and provide resistance requirements of the insulation and building environment used to retain heat within a building or industrial process.
to fire, all of which are subject to the specific Building market and are able to provide expert advice, wide stock however, there are also applications, such as cold stores, Regulations in each country.
in addition, the goal of reducing holding and rapid service and delivery.
in the uk, the group where the requirement is to keep heat out.
fire protection carbon emissions driven by government policy and is also engaged in domestic insulation contracting, being is another important application for insulation where good regulation is placing increasing importance on the use of predominantly the retrofitting of thermal insulation in the design, material specification and installation are vital in appropriate insulation materials and systems.
As building walls and lofts of houses, thus improving the efficiency protecting buildings from the ravages of fire and ultimately Regulations, environmental issues and modern methods of existing residential properties.
demand for domestic help save lives.
the third application of insulation is that of of construction become ever more complex, customers retrofitting of insulation is driven through a number of sound control.
cities and towns are becoming increasingly increasingly rely upon the knowledge, support and impartial government supported schemes such as the carbon dense and the ability to minimise the transmission of noise advice only a specialist distributor can provide.
sigs sales Emissions Reduction Target CERT.
SIG has built upon between dwellings is now an integral part of building design.
and technical staff receive continuous training in the latest its extensive experience in the industrial and heating, the technical capabilities for this application are developing legislation, building methods, products and applications.
Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC insulation market apace and the group has positioned itself as a leader within to develop into the adjacent and complementary area of this area as well as the wider insulation market.
building methods and products are rapidly changing.
air handling and air conditioning materials with activities sig works closely with manufacturers to introduce spread across eight countries and thirteen trading sites high energy costs and environmental concerns drive the use wide ranges of new, specialist, sustainable products across europe.
this market offers excellent growth of insulation products across a wide range of construction to progress innovative building methods.
prospects driven by increasing regulation on thermal efficiencies in the non-residential environment.
"Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts 33 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 12 1 heating ventilating 5 Underscreed Isolation Materials Air Conditioning ""HVAC"" 6 external Renders 2 flat Roof insulation 1 7 Fire Protection Boards 3 Steel Framing System ""SFS"" 2 8 Heavy Duty Plasterboard Systems 13 4 Rainscreen Cladding 3 4 5 2 14 6 9 1 7 8 15 8 10 5 11 3 7 1 pitched Roof insulation 9 vapour control layer polythene 2 loft insulation10 chip board 4 3 breather membranes 11 damp proof courses 6 4 Cavity Wall Insulation 12 chimneys dormers 5 Acoustic Wall and Floor Insulation 13 velux windows 6 plasterboard metal stud 14 Cavity Closers Insulation DPC 7 Thermal Laminates 15 Foundation Systems 8 Floor Insulation"
