50 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Statutory InFormatIon PrinciPal activity and Business revieW , .
Themainproducts supplied are insulation, exteriors, interiors and specialist construction products.
As at the date of this report, there have been no important events affecting the business of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, which have occurred since the end .
directors : Mr. L. O. Tench   Mr. L. VandeWalle  appointedanindependentNon-ExecutiveDirectoron1October2010andon1February2011 Mr. C. J. Davies ChiefExecutive Mr. G. W. Davies Finance Director Mr. M. J. Chivers ExecutiveDirector Mr. C. V. Geoghegan Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Mrs. V. Murray  resigned16March2011 Mr. J. C. Nicholls  Mr. D. A. Haxby Senior Independent Non-Executive Director resigned 13 May 2010 .
V.  independent Non-Executive Director as soon as possible in order that the Company will return to compliance with Code Provision A.
3.2. of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which requires that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
There is no maximum number of Directors but there shall at no time be less than two.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
, remuneration and other conditions of appointment as they may determine and may revoke such appointment subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts.
election and re-election of directors All Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Acts, remove any Director before the expiration of his her periodofoffice.
: i he   : ii he  : iii he she  herofficeisvacated: iv he sheresigns: v he  herofficeisvacated: vi his her : vii he : viii he   sheremainsaDirector:or ix  of an investigation and the Directors resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of the Company that he she remains a Director.
In accordance with a new provision included in the Governance Code, all continuing Directors will seek re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
It is the view of the Board that each of the Non-Executive Directors standing for election or re-election brings considerable management experience and an independent , orappear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement.
review of the year Corporate governance accounts SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 related Party transactions , , anddidnotmakeloansto, related parties in the periods in which any Director is or was materially interested.
directors and officers liaBility insurance and indemnities  againstthem.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
No claims or qualifying indemnity provisions and no qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions have been made either during the year or by the time of approval of this Statutory Information Report.
Further details can be found in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
share caPital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10p each.
At 31 December 2010, the Company had a called up share capital  2009:590,829,339.
 are set out in Note 24 on page 105 which also contains details of options granted over unissued share capital.
 i. e. incertificatedform orheldinelectronic i. e. uncertificated forminCREST .
Subject to any restrictions below, Shareholders may attend any general meeting of the Company and, on a show of hands, every Shareholder or his representative who is present at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every Shareholder or his representative who is present has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which they are the registered Shareholder.
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a show of hands unless before or , ,   present in person and having the right to vote, or by any Shareholders or their representatives present in person having at least 10% of the total voting rights of all Shareholders, or by any Shareholders or their representatives present in person holding ordinary shares in which an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least one tenth of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Shareholders, offer any Shareholder the right to elect to receive new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the Company, unless the Directors decide otherwise.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed by the Shareholders, divide among the Shareholders all or any part of the assets of the Company and he can value any assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the members or different classes of members.
 accept any asset which would give them a liability.
votinG at General meetinGs Any Form of Proxy sent by the Company to Shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form or in electronic form, .
No Shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other right  whichconfersupon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant Section793notice, .
52 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Statutory InFormatIon ContInued transfer of shares ,  .
: i , duly stamped ifstampable,  : ii :and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
 regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of Shareholders.
The Board cannot suspend the registration .
variation of riGhts , : i %:or ii with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
The Company can issue new shares and attach any rights to them.
If there is no restriction by special rights attaching to existing shares, rights attaching to new shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or the new shares and the existing shares are deemed to be varied unless the rights expressly allow it by a reduction of paid up capital or if another share of that same class is issued and ranks in priority for payment of dividend or in respect of capital or more favourable voting rights.
aGreements With emPloyees and siGnificant aGreements  whetherthrough resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
2011 interim rePort , , in accordance with Shareholder preference.
This would enable the Company to use website communication with Shareholders as the default position.
The Company has at this time not made any decision as to whether to move to electronic communication as the default position.
Shareholders will therefore for the time being continue to receive paper copies of all the Group's Annual Report and Accounts.
Current regulations do however permit the Company not to have to send copies of its Interim Reports .
acquisition By the comPany of its oWn shares .
 shares pursuant to this authority.
The Company will seek to renew this authority at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
suBstantial shareholdinGs Asat16March2011,  : Number of % of ordinary shares issued voting Shareholder of 10p each share capital Avivaplc 53,901,172 9.12 BlackrockInc.
53,789,069 9.10  34,319,598 5.81 Schrodersplc 24,485,481 4.14 Legal&Generalplc 23,547,821 3.99 Payment to suPPliers , .
  2009:36. review of the year Corporate governance accounts SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 statement of the directors on the disclosure of information to auditors : , :and  Auditors are aware of that information.
GoinG concern After making enquiries the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the Accounts, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate .
The key factors considered by the Directors in making this statement are set out on page 31 of the Business Review.
annual General meetinG , BritanniaWay, Catcliffe, Sheffield, , together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights, is contained in a circular to be sent to Shareholders with this report.
Signed on behalf of the Board richard monro comPany secretary 16March2011
