38 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 speCiaList ConstRuCtion pRoduCts siGs specialist Construction products division distributes specialist, leading brand construction materials to a wide range of markets which are essential to the construction process.
detailed product knowledge and a keen understanding of specific technical applications are vital elements of customer support.
a large part of siGs sales in this market sector are into new construction projects.
Revenue Growth drivers investment in infrastructure and non-discretionary 197.4m spending by utilities 7% demand for high performance solutions and innovative products Supply chain efficiency and specific technical just-in-time project management sig supplies a wide portfolio of specialist construction the products supplied by sig are often of critical public sector investment in large scale infrastructure products such as concrete accessories, waterproofing importance to the whole building programme and projects together with nondiscretionary spending by systems, construction chemicals and admixtures, must perform to tight specifications and be available for utility companies generates high levels of continuing brickwork support systems, specialist fixings, safety use at the right time and right location.
consequently, opportunity for sigs products in this sector.
products and tools from 38 trading sites.
Typically, relationships throughout the supply chain with products are supplied to large commercial or civil manufacturers, major contractors and specialist major construction contractors are increasingly looking engineering projects.
examples include tunnels and subcontractors are vital.
the capability to resolve to shrink their supplier base and to outsource more bridges, schools and hospitals, retail developments, problems with expert technical advice and the ability to work to less suppliers.
sigs extensive range of hotels and office buildings.
offer rapid delivery times to maintain workflows on large products and service make it ideally positioned to take projects is a big point of differentiation on time critical projects.
Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts 39 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 1 2 9 3 8 5 4 7 6 1 scaffolding 6 Waterproofing 2 ppe and workwear 7 Groundwork Engineering 3 temporary fencing 8 Specialist Fixings 4 Masonry Components 9 concrete Repair and protection 5 Mechanical and Electrical Products
