Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 79 CRItICAl ACCountInG judGementS And key SouRCeS of eStImAtIon unCeRtAInty iMPaiRMENT OF NON-CURRENT assETs The Group tests goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that an impairment may exist.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for these value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, sales growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs.
The Directors estimate discount rates using pre tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the individual CGU.
For the majority of CGUs, the Group performs goodwill impairment reviews by forecasting cash flows based upon the following years budget and a projection of cash flows based upon industry growth expectations 0%-3% over a period of five years.
Where detailed five year forecasts for a CGU have been prepared and approved by the Board, which can include higher growth rates or varied results reflecting specific economic factors, these are used in preparing cash flow forecasts for impairment review purposes.
After this period, the growth rates applied to the cash flow forecasts are no more than 1% and do not exceed the long term average growth rate for the industry or economy.
The discount rates applied to all impairment reviews represent pre tax rates and range between 11% and 13%.
Assumptions regarding sales growth are considered to be the key area of judgement in the impairment review process, and appropriate sensitivities have been performed and disclosed in Note 12.
The carrying amount of non-current assets at 31 December 2010 was 805.2m 2009: 898.5m.
As a result of impairment reviews performed on all CGUs in the year, a number of CGUs have been impaired to reflect their recoverable amounts.
Details of the impairments are disclosed within Note 12 on pages 91 to 92.
POsT-EMPLOYMENT BENEFiTs The Group operates five defined benefit pension schemes.
All post-employment benefits associated with these schemes have been accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
As detailed within the Statement of Significant Accounting Polices on page 76, in accordance with IAS 19, all actuarial gains and losses have been recognised immediately through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
For all defined benefit pension schemes, pension valuations have been performed using specialist advice obtained from independent qualified actuaries.
In performing these valuations, judgements, assumptions and estimates have been made.
These assumptions have been disclosed within Note 28c on pages 107 to 109.
TaXaTiON Accruals for corporation tax contingencies require the Directors to make judgements and estimates as to the level of corporation tax that will be payable based upon the interpretation of applicable tax legislation on a country-by-country basis and an assessment of the likely outcome of any open tax computations.
All such accruals are included within current liabilities.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Therefore, judgements are required to establish whether deferred tax balances should be recognised.
shaRE-BasED PaYMENTs The Company provides share-based payments under five separate schemes.
In accordance with IFRS 2, share options are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined is then expensed in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value of the options is measured by use of the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The valuation of these share-based payments requires several judgements to be made in respect of the number of options that are expected to be exercised.
Details of the assumptions made in respect of each of the five share-based payment schemes are disclosed in Note 9 on pages 86 to 89.
PROvisiONs Using information available at the balance sheet date, the Directors make judgements based on experience of the level of provision required to satisfy all onerous lease and dilapidation commitments, to account for potential uncollectible receivables and unsaleable inventory.
REBaTEs PaYaBLE aND RECEivaBLE The Group has a number of customer and supplier rebate agreements, with the payable and receivable often being subject to negotiation after the balance sheet date.
At the balance sheet date, the Directors make judgements on the amount of rebate that will become both payable and due to the Group under these agreements.
