36 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 inteRioRs siG interiors businesses are leading designers, manufacturers and specialist distributors of all products required for interior fit out projects.
The interiors market place is demanding, sophisticated and fast moving with product innovation being essential to respond to changing legislation and standards.
Emphasis is on achieving a balance between efficient utilisation of space and the quality and comfort of the working environment.
there is also an added requirement of flexibility to meet the changing business requirements of todays world.
Revenue Growth drivers Refurbishment of non-residential buildings 661.3m e. g. schools, offices, hospitals, retail 25% Improving standards of internal fit out thermal, acoustic and safety standards the group has a combination of businesses within the or refurbishment projects.
the group supplies ceiling technical design and development of visual appearance, interiors market sector, incorporating both distribution and dry lining products from leading suppliers and together with logistics and delivery scheduling in order and manufacturing based businesses.
manufactures its own door and partitioning systems.
to meet the fit out requirements.
Delivery service is an important element of project planning as city locations the interiors products sold by the group include The Group has 219 trading sites 81 of which can often have difficult access and minimal space for ceilings, partitioning, dry lining, floor coverings, glass and also supply insulation products which blend the holding stock.
if materials are not available on time specialist door systems used in nonresidential buildings, requirements of small,  projects then contractors face lost downtime and potential together with a wide range of ancillary products supplied which require ready access to materials with those of time penalties.
All types of nonresidential larger, specification-based contracts where specialist buildings such as schools, hospitals, hotels, offices and advice, service and support are required to secure shops are supplied with products for either new build orders.
customer and client support may include Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts 37 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 1 5 6 4 10 7 2 3 8 9 1 lighting6 partitioning 2 integrated pumping systems 7 Graphics 3 washrooms 8 Floor Coverings 4 Doorsets including 9 Raised Access flooring emergency exits 10 storage wall 5 Suspended Ceilings
