DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES O ther disclosures Business review Research and development The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in the Directors report Innovative use of existing and emerging technologies will continue to be crucial a fair review of the business of the Company during the financial year ended to the successful development of new products and processes for the group.
18 September 2010 including an analysis of the position of the business at the The Company has a major technical centre in the UK at the Allied Technical end of the financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Centre.
Facilities also exist at ACH Food Companies in the US, Weston Technologies facing the Company the Business review.
The purpose of the Business review and AB Mauri in Australia and the Netherlands, and AB Enzymes in Germany.
is to enable shareholders to assess how the directors have performed their duties These centres support the technical resources of the trading divisions in the under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006, being the duty to promote the search for new technology and in monitoring and maintaining high standards success of the Company.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the of quality and food safety.
Business review can be found in the following sections of this report: Charitable and political donations Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5: Contributions to charitable organisations by the group during the year totalled Our group at a glance on pages 2 and 3: 2.8m 2009 2.4m.
No political donations were made during the year.
Operating review on pages 6 to 27, which includes a review of the external Financial instruments environment, key strategic aims and performance measures: Details of the groups use of financial instruments, together with information on our risk objectives and policies and our exposure to price, credit, liquidity, cash flow Financial review on pages 28 and 29: and interest rate risks, can be found in note 25 on pages 93 to 105.
Corporate responsibility on pages 30 and 31: Payments to suppliers Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 42 to 44: The Company has no material trade creditors but has a group policy on payment of suppliers set out in its business principles which states that the Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on page 107: and group settles its bills promptly, being a signatory to the Prompt Payment Code.
Information on essential contracts and arrangements on page 53.
Further information concerning this Code, and copies of it, can be found at www.
uk Principal activities The activities of the group principally concern the processing and manufacture of Employees food worldwide and textile retailing in the UK and continental Europe.
Comments Employees are the groups most important resource, and it therefore abides by on the development of the business during the period under review and on the the following principles: future outlook are contained within the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5 Equal opportunities it is committed to offering equal opportunities to all and the Operating review on pages 6 to 27. people in their recruitment, training and career development, having regard The Company is the holding company for the Associated British Foods group for their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Full and fair consideration is given the group.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on to applicants with disabilities and every effort is made to give employees who page 107. become disabled whilst employed by the group an opportunity for retraining.
It is group policy that the training, career development and promotion of disabled The audited financial statements of the group and Company appear on pages persons should, as far as possible, be the same as that of other employees.
Health and safety health and safety are considered as equal in importance Results and dividends to that of any other function of the group and its business objectives.
The consolidated income statement is on page 56.
Profit for the financial year The policy and a full global report is available on the Companys website attributable to equity shareholders amounted to 546m.
co. uk The directors recommend a final dividend of 16.2p per ordinary share, to be paid, if approved, on 14 January 2011 which, together with the interim dividend of 7.6p per share paid in July, amounts to 23.8p for the year.
Dividends are detailed on page 73.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 D IRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES O ther disclosures continued Harassment the group will not tolerate sexual, mental or physical harassment Appointment of directors in the workplace.
It expects incidents of harassment to be reported to the The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the directors power appropriate human resources director.
to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination committee Human rights managers must take account of the core International Labour for approval by the board of directors.
A person who is not recommended by the Organization labour conventions and strive to observe the UN Universal directors may only be appointed as a director where details of that director have Declaration of Human Rights, by respecting the dignity and human rights been provided at least seven and not more than 35 days prior to the relevant of its employees and in particular as stated below: meeting by at least two members of the Company.
The Articles also require Universal respect for an observance of human rights and fundamental directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual general freedoms for all without discrimination as to race, sex, language or religion.
meeting following appointment and all directors who held office at the time of the two preceding annual general meetings, and in any event not less than one It remunerates fairly with respect to skills, performance, its peers and third of the relevant directors excluding those directors who retire other than by local conditions.
rotation, to submit themselves for re-election.
In accordance with the Combined Communication the group will brief and consult employees and their Code, all non-executive directors who have served for more than nine years must representatives on all relevant matters on a regular basis in order to take their also submit themselves for election on an annual basis.
views into account with regard to decision-making and to achieve a common Articles of Association awareness of all the financial and economic factors affecting the performance The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Power of the directors Security the security of our staff and customers is paramount and the group The directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and will at all times take the necessary steps to minimise risks to their safety.
may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant Property, plant and equipment statutes, to any directions given by special resolution and to the Companys The groups property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements Articles.
The Articles, for example, contain specific provisions and restrictions at depreciated historic cost.
The properties are employed in the business and concerning the Companys power to borrow money.
As indicated above, many of them were acquired when market values were substantially lower than powers relating to the issuing of shares are also included in the Articles and such at present.
The directors consider that a surplus over book value exists, but have authorities are renewed by shareholders at the annual general meeting each year.
Significant agreements Substantial shareholding and controlling interest The group has contractual arrangements with many parties including directors, Details of a controlling interest in the shares of the Company are given in note 29 employees, customers, suppliers and banking groups.
The following arrangements on page 107. are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the group as a whole: As at 1 November 2010, the Company had received formal notification, under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following material interest in its shares: The group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various banking groups.
These facility agreements generally include change of control provisions Number of % of issued Date of notification Shareholder ordinary shares share capital of interest which, in the event of a change in ownership of the Company, could result in their renegotiation or withdrawal.
The most significant agreements are the AXA S. A.
39,350,240 4.97 10 November 2009 1.15bn syndicated loan facility which was signed on 13 July 2010 and under Power to issue shares which 33m was drawn down at the year end and the 120m Finance Contract At the last annual general meeting, held on 4 December 2009, authority was from the European Investment Bank which was signed on 5 December 2007 given to the directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the Company up and under which 120m was drawn down at the year end.
The syndicated to a maximum of an amount equivalent to two thirds of the shares in issue loan facilities for US$1.2bn signed on 12 October 2006 and for 320m signed of which one third must be offered by way of rights issue.
This authority expires on 14 October 2008 were both cancelled upon entering the 1.15bn on the date of the annual general meeting to be held on 10 December 2010. syndicated facility.
No such shares have been issued.
The directors propose to renew this authority at In addition to these bank facilities, in March 2009 the Company issued the annual general meeting to be held on 10 December 2010 for the following year.
US$610m of private placement notes to institutional investors.
In accordance A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the with the scheduled maturities, no repayment of these notes had taken place directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, without regard to the by the year end.
In the event of a change in ownership of the Company, pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority also expires on the Company is obliged to make an offer of immediate repayment to the the date of the 2010 annual general meeting and the directors will seek to renew note holders.
this authority for the following year.
In September 2010, the group entered into contracts for the supply to the The Companies Act 2006 empowers the Company to purchase its own shares UK businesses of electricity and gas.
subject to the necessary shareholder approval.
The Company has no existing These agreements include provisions which, in the event of a change of control authority to purchase its own shares.
of the Company, could result in the agreement being altered or terminated.
52 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES Essential contracts or arrangements Directors responsibility statement Individual companies in the group have contractual and other arrangements The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial with many third parties in support of the groups businesses activities.
Such Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the contracts and arrangements may be deemed essential to one or more operating assets, liabilities, financial position and profit for the Company and the companies but there are no contracts or arrangements considered to be essential undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and to the group as a whole, save that British Sugar has a contract with the National Pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Chapter 4, the following Farmers Union, the Inter Professional Agreement.
This consists of approximately sections of the Companys annual report contain a fair review of the 4,000 identical but individual contracts with sugar beet growers.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Further information Company, and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as Further information that fulfils the requirements of Part 6 of the Large and a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 that they face: and which should be treated as forming part of this report by reference are 1.
The Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5: included in the following sections of the annual report: 2.
Oper ating review on pages 6 to 27, which includes a review of the external details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the rights environment, key strategic aims future development and performance attached to the Companys shares set out on page 89: and measures: 3.
Financial review on pages 28 and 29: details of share schemes set out on pages 91 and 92, including the voting 4.
Other disclosures: Research and development: policy of the trustee of a trust holding ordinary shares of the Company.
Other disclosures: Financial instruments: Disclosure of information to auditors 6.
Other disclosures: Property, plant and equipment: The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report 7.
Other disclosures: Power of the directors: and confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information 8.
Other disclosures: Principal risks and uncertainties.
of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of On behalf of the board any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with the Charles Sinclair George Weston John Bason preparation of their report on page 55.
Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director 9 November 2010 Auditors In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Directors The names of the persons who were directors of the Company during the financial year and as at 9 November 2010 appear on pages 32 and 33.
Also in accordance with the Articles and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Galen Weston, who has served for more than nine years, Peter Smith and George Weston retire from the board.
These directors, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting.
Directors indemnities Three directors of operating subsidiaries, benefited from qualifying third-party indemnity provisions provided by the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, ABF Investments plc, during the financial year and at the date of this report.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 D IRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of directors responsibilities in respect o f the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the group The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose and regulations.
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
preparing a Directors report, Remuneration report and Corporate governance report that complies with that law and those regulations.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may directors are required to: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
54 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010
