D IRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS B oard of directors Charles Sinclair George G Weston Non-executive director Executive director age 62 age 46 Appointed a director in October 2008 and Chairman in April 2009.
He is George Weston is Chief Executive.
In his former roles as Managing Director a non-executive director of SVG Capital plc.
He was chief executive of Daily Mail of Westmill Foods, Allied Bakeries and George Weston Foods Ltd Australia and General Trust plc from 1989 until he retired from that role and the board in he has been a member of the ABF board since 1999.
He took up his current September 2008. appointment in April 2005.
He is also a non-executive director of Wittington Investments Limited and a trustee of the Garfield Weston Foundation.
Peter Smith John Bason Independent Executive director non-executive director age 53 age 64 Appointed Finance Director in May 1999, he was previously the finance director Appointed a director on 28 February 2007, he is chairman of Savills plc and of Bunzl plc and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc, and a non-executive England and Wales.
He is a trustee of Voluntary Service Overseas and is director of NM Rothschild & Sons Limited.
He is also a director of the Land deputy chairman of the charity FareShare.
Formerly, he was senior partner at  PwC, served for two years as chairman of Coopers & Lybrand International and as a member of the global leadership team of PwC and was chairman of RAC plc.
32 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Lord Jay of Ewelme GCMG Independent WG Galen Weston OC non-executive director Non-executive director age 64 age 70 Appointed a director on 1 November 2006, he was British Ambassador to A director since 1964, he is chairman and president of George Weston Limited, France from 1996 to 2001 and Permanent Under Secretary at the Foreign & Canada.
He is also chairman of Selfridges & Co. Limited, a non-executive Commonwealth Office from 2002 to 2006.
He is a non-executive director of director of Wittington Investments Limited and a trustee of the Garfield Candover Investments plc, Valeo, the French-based automobile parts company, Weston Foundation.
of Credit Agricole, the French-based international banking group and of Electricit fide France.
He has been an independent member of the House of Lords since 2006 and is Chairman of the House of Lords Appointments Commission.
Timothy Clarke Javier Ferrn Senior independent Independent non-executive director non-executive director age 53 age 54 Appointed a director on 3 November 2004, he was chief executive of Mitchells Appointed a director on 1 November 2006, he spent his earlier career with & Butlers plc, following its demerger from Six Continents PLC, until May 2009.
Bacardi Group, his last position being president and chief executive officer.
He joined Bass PLC in 1990 having previously been a partner of Panmure He is currently a partner at Lion Capital LLP, a London-based private equity firm.
He is currently a non-executive director of Timothy Taylor & Company Limited and Hall & Woodhouse Limited.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33
