THE BOARD AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The Boardof directors of Smith&Nephew as at 23 February 2011comprised: Initially elected or Director Position appointed John Buchanan Independent Non-Executive Chairman 3 February 2005 David J. Illingworth Executive Director, Chief Executive 8 February 2006 AdrianHennah Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer 15 June 2006 Ian E. Barlow Independent Non-Executive Director 5 March 2010 Genevive B. Berger Independent Non-Executive Director 5 March 2010 Dr. PamelaJ.
Kirby Independent Non-Executive Director 1 March 2002 BrianLarcombe Independent Non-Executive Director 1 March 2002 Joseph C. Papa Independent Non-Executive Director 1 August 2008 Richard fide Schutter Independent Non-Executive Director 1 January 2001 Dr. RolfW.
H. Stomberg Independent Non-Executive Director 1 January 1998 Directors Biographies John Buchanan, Independent non-executive Chairman.
John was appointed independent non-executive Deputy Chairman in 2005 and became Chairman in April 2006 and is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He is Deputy Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc and a non-executive director of BHP Billiton.
He was formerlyGroup Chief Financial Officer of BPplc.
David J. Illingworth, Chief Executive, joined the Group in May 2002 as President of Orthopaedics and was appointed a director and Chief Operating Officer in February 2006.
In July 2007 he was appointed Chief Executive.
He is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Prior to joining the Group he held posts within GE Medical, as Chief Executive Officer of a publicly traded medical devices company, President of a respiratory critical care company and President of a technology incubator company.
He will be retiring from the Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 April2011.
Adrian Hennah, Chief Financial Officer, joined the Group and was appointed a director in June 2006.
He was previously Chief Financial Officer of Invensys plc and held various senior positions within GlaxoSmithKline.
Adrian will be appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV and as a non-executive director of Reed Elsevier PLC, subject to shareholder approval at their respective Annual General Meetings, on 19 and 20 April2011.
Ian E. Barlow, Independent non-executive director.
Ian was appointed a director on 5 March 2010 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of the PA Consulting Group and the Brunner Investment Trust, Chairman of Think London and the Racecourse Association and a non-executive director of Candy & Candy.
Previously he was Senior Partner, Londonat KPMG.
Prof. Genevive B. Berger, Independent non-executive director.
Genevive was appointed a director on 5 March 2010.
She is Chief Research & Development Officer at Unilever plc and Unilever NV having previously served as a non-executive director.
Previously, she has been Chairman of the Health Advisory Board for the European Commission and a Professor at the University of Paris and Le Piti-Saptrire Teaching Hospital and Director General of the French Centre National fide La Recherche Scientifique.
Subject to her re-appointment by the shareholders, she willjoin the Ethics and  14 April2011.
Dr. Pamela J. Kirby, Independent non-executive director.
Pamela was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Remuneration and Ethics and Compliance Committees.
She is non-executive Chairman of Scynexis Inc and a non-executive director of Informa plc, Novo Nordisk A S and Victrex plc.
Subject to her re-appointment by the shareholders, she will be appointed Chairman of the Ethics and  14 April2011.
Brian Larcombe, Independent non-executive director.
Brian was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He is a non-executive director of gategroup Holding AG and Incisive Media Holdings Limited.
Previously he was Chief Executive Officer of 3i Group plc.
Joseph C. Papa, Independent non-executive director.
Joe was appointed a director in August 2008 and is a member of the Ethics and Compliance, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive of Perrigo Company.
Previously he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Pharmaceutical and Technology Services segment of Cardinal Health Inc. and President and Chief Operating Officer of Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. Subject to his re-appointment by the shareholders, he will be appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committeeon 14 April2011.
