KCI has appealed the courts judgement.
If KCI were to prevail, the Group could be prevented from selling that foam product in the US until patent expiration in 2014.
KCI has also pursued patent infringement claims in certain countries relating to pumps, canisters and other negative pressure wound therapy accessories.
The Group has won jury verdicts against Arthrex Inc. Arthrex for infringement of the Groups patents relating to suture anchors in the US District Court for Oregon and femoral fixation devices for ACL reconstruction in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
The Oregon decision was reversed on appeal and remanded to the District Court fora new trial, scheduled to begin in June 2011.
In a case filed in September 2008 in the US District Court for the Western District of Tennessee against the Group's US subsidiary, three individuals are seeking substantial royalty and other damages in connection with sales of certain products within the Groups Orthopaedics business based on various legal theories including alleged breach of contracts entered into in 1988-1999 and patent infringement.
The Group disputes these claims.
Trial is expected to commence in 2012.
Other Matters In April 2009, the Group was served with a subpoena by the US Department of Justice in Massachusetts requiring the production of documents from 1995 to 2009 associated with the marketing and sale of the Groups EXOGEN bone growth stimulator.
Similar subpoenas have been served on a number of competitors in the bone growth stimulator market.
Around the same time a qui tam or whistleblower complaint concerning the industrys sales and marketing of those products, originally filed in 2005 against the primary manufacturers of bone growth stimulation products including Smith & Nephew, was unsealed in federal court in Boston, Massachusetts.
A motion to dismiss that complaintwas denied in December 2010.
In June 2010 the Group was served with another subpoena by the US Department of Justice in Massachusetts requiring the production of documents relating to the distribution of samples of the Groups SUPARTZ joint fluid therapy product.
The Group is subject to country of origin requirements under the US Buy American and Trade Agreements Acts with regard to sales to certain US government customers.
The Group has voluntarily disclosed to the US Veterans Administration and the US Department of Defense that a small percentage of the products sold to the US government in the past, primarily from the Orthopaedics business, may have originated from countries that are not eligible for such sales except with government consent.
Government auditors subsequently conducted an on-site visit at the Groups Orthopaedics business.
In December 2008, three months after our initial voluntary disclosure, a whistleblower suit was filed in the US District Court for Massachusetts alleging these violations.
Smith & Nephews motion to dismiss the suit was denied in November 2010.
