Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The Groups reports filed with, or furnished to, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including this document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that may or may not prove accurate.
In particular, statements regarding expected revenue growth and trading margins discussed under Outlook and Trend Information, market trends and our product pipeline are forward-looking statements.
Phrases such as aim, plan, intend, anticipate, well-placed, believe, estimate, expect, target, consider and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results, to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by the statements.
For Smith & Nephew, these factors include: economic and financial conditions in the markets we serve, especially those affecting health care providers, payors and customers: price levels for established and innovative medical devices: developments in medical technology: regulatory approvals, reimbursement decisions or other government actions: product defects or recalls: litigation relating to patent or other claims: legal compliance risks and related investigative, remedial or enforcement actions: strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions and our success in integrating acquired businesses: and numerous other matters that affect us or our markets, including those of a political, economic, business or competitive nature.
Specific risks faced by the Group are described under Risk Factors on page 18 of this Annual Report.
Any forward-looking statement is based on information available to Smith & Nephew as of the date of the statement.
All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to Smith & Nephew are qualified by this caution.
Smith & Nephew does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in circumstances orin Smith&Nephews expectations.
Market Data Market data and market share estimates throughout this report are derived froma variety of sources including publiclyavailable competitors information, internal management informationand independent market research reports.
Documents on Display It is possible to read and copy documents referred to in this Annual Report at the Registered Office of the Company.
Documents referred to in this Annual Report that have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US may be read and copied at the SECs public reference room located at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
The SEC also maintains a web site at www.
gov that contains reports and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC.
This Annual Report and some of the other information submitted by the Group to the SECmaybe accessed through the SECwebsite.
2010Annual Report iv Description of the Group 4 The Business 10 Operating Activities 13 The Business and the Community 18 Risk Business Review, Liquidity and Prospects 24 Business Overview 43 Outlookand Trend Information 29 2010Year 44 Contractual Obligations 34 2009Year 44 Off-balance Sheet Arrangements 39 Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources 44 Related Party Transactions 41 Legal Proceedings Corporate Governance Statement 46 The Boardand Executive Officers 48 Governance and Policy 55 Accountability, Audit and Internal ControlFramework Directors Remuneration Report 59 Directors Remuneration Report Group Accounts 74 Directors Responsibilities forthe Accounts 80 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 75 Directors Responsibility Statement Pursuant to 81 Group Balance Sheet Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4 82 Group Cash FlowStatement 76 Independent Auditors UK Report 83 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 78 Independent Auditors USReport 84 Notes to the Group Accounts 80 Group Income Statement Company Accounts 129 CompanyAuditors Report 131 CompanyBalance Sheet 132 Notes to the CompanyAccounts Investor Information 136 Shareholder Return 147 Articles of Association 138  150 Cross Reference to Form20-F 141 Share Capital 152 Glossary of Terms 143 Selected Financial Data 155 Index 145 Taxation  2010Annual Report 1 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLYLEFT BLANK 2010Annual Report 2
