BUSINESS OVERVIEW Smith & Nephews operations are organised into three primary business units that operate globally: Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
Smith & Nephew believes that its businesses have opportunities for strong growth due to its markets benefiting from an ageing population, an increase in active lifestyles, trends toward less invasive medical procedures and the increasing demand in emerging markets.
Revenue by business segment as a percentage of total revenue was as follows: 2010 2009 2008 % % % Orthopaedics 55 57 57 Endoscopy 22 21 21 Advanced Wound Management 23 22 22 Total revenue 100 100 100 Revenue by geographic market as a percentage of total revenue was as follows: 2010 2009 2008 % % % United States 43 44 44 Europe Continental Europe and United Kingdom 33 35 36 Africa, Asiaand Australiaand Other America 24 21 20 Total revenue 100 100 100 Underlying Growth in Revenue Underlying growth in revenue is a non-GAAP financial measure which is a key performance indicator used by the Groups management in order to compare the revenue in a given year to that of the previous year on a like-for-like basis.
This is achieved by adjusting for the impact both of sales of products acquired in material business combinations and for movements in exchange rates.
The Groups management uses this non-GAAP measure in its internal financial reporting, budgeting and planning to assess performance on both a business segment and a consolidated Group basis.
Underlying growth in revenue reconciles to growth in revenue reported in accordance with IFRS by making two adjustments, the constant currency exchange effect and the acquisitions effect, described below.
The material limitation of the underlying growth in revenue measure is that it excludes certain factors, described above, which do ultimately have a significant impact on total revenues.
The Group measures the performance of local managers using underlying growth in revenue whilst the Groups management additionally considers GAAPrevenue each quarter and further assesses the excluded items by monitoringagainst internal budget amounts.
The constant currency exchange effect is a measure of the increase decrease in revenue resulting from currency movements on non-US Dollar sales.
This is measured as the difference between the increase in revenue translated into US Dollars on a GAAP basis i. e. current year revenue translated at the current year average rate, prior year revenue translated at the prior year average rate and the increase measured by translating current and prioryear revenue into USDollars using the prioryear closing rate.
The acquisitions effect is the measure of the impact on revenue from newly acquired business combinations.
This is calculated by excluding the revenue from sales of products acquired as a result of a business combination consummated in the current year, with non-US Dollar sales translated at the prior year average rate.
Additionally, prior year revenue is adjusted to include a full year of revenue from the sales of products acquired in those business combinations consummated in the previous year, calculated by adding back revenue from sales of products in the period prior to the Groups ownership.
These sales are separately tracked in the Groups internal reporting systems and are readily identifiable.
