The salary levels and multiples used in the various incentive plans differ according to level of seniority.
This is explained in greater detail within the discussion on each incentive plan.
Across the Group, base pay and benefits are referenced to median competitive levels for acceptable performance whilst incentive plans, both short and long-term, are designed to motivate and reward out-performance.
Total remuneration packages are benchmarked by reference to appropriate UK and US companies and where relevant other local markets.
Individual remuneration levels are based on measurable performance against fair and open objectives and there are no automatic pay adjustments unless required by law or local protocol.
The policies described in this Report have been applied throughout 2010 and it is intended that they will continue to apply throughout 2011.
The Remuneration Committee will however continue to monitor its policies against evolving market practice and relevant guidance which is particularlyrelevant in the current economicclimate.
The Remuneration Committee has a policy to consult with the Companys major shareholders and relevant stakeholders prior to implementing any significant change to the remuneration policy and places great value in developing a transparent relationship on such matters.
Principal Components of Remuneration The remuneration package for the Companys senior executives, which includes the executive directors and executive officers, comprises the followingelements: Basic salary and benefits: Annual incentive with a deferred element under the Deferred Bonus Plan: Long-termincentives,  and Share Options: and Pension entitlements.
As disclosed in last years Report, a full and detailed review of remuneration arrangements was carried out in 2009.
Afurther detailed review was therefore not considered to be appropriate in 2010 as the Remuneration Committee wanted the opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the changes introduced in 2009, some of which were only implemented in 2010.
During 2010 therefore, the Remuneration Committee continued to have regard to the latest developments in the economic and corporate governance environment, but proposed no further change to the overall structure of remuneration packages.
The Remuneration Committee continues to aim for incentive arrangements which are firmly linked to the long-term success of the business and based on balanced measures of corporate performance.
The Remuneration Committeebelieves that the changes implemented in 2009and retained in 2010continue to meet these objectives.
a Base Salary and Benefits Across the Group, base salary is determined both by the scope and the responsibility of the position and performance potential of the individual.
Salaries are reviewed annually with effect from 1 April each year.
Base salary is benchmarked by reference to the median for the relevant geographic market and employees are paid in a currency related to their home market.
The Group also provides certain benefits such as private healthcare and a company car or allowance in line with competitive practice for the applicable geographic market.
The Remuneration Committee also considers any pension consequences and costs to the Company when determining base salary increases for executive directors and executive officers.
With effect from1 April2010, the Remuneration Committeeagreed the followingbase salaries forthe executive directors: David Illingworth $1,407,000 AdrianHennah 530,000 Following the annual review conducted in February 2011, the Remuneration Committee determined that with effect from 1 April 2011, David Illingworths base salary would remain unchanged in view of his impending retirement on 10 August 2011.
Adrian Hennah continues to make, what the Board considers, an excellent contribution as Chief Financial Officer.
During 2010, he additionally took on responsibility for a number of significant aspects of the day to day handling of operational matters, beyond the remit of a conventional Chief Financial Officer.
In particular: Management of a number of initiatives to drive and achieve the Group strategy: Responsibility for addressing operational improvements, including field efficiencies and inventory levels in the Orthopaedics global business unit: Key role in establishing and driving marginimprovement performance.
2010Annual Report 60 He also continues to deliver outstanding individual performance and contribution to the Group.
Following a review of market positioning and in light of his enhanced role, the Remuneration Committee believes that a re-rating of his base salary is appropriate.
With effect from 1 April 2011, his base salary willtherefore be 580,000, which is an increase of 9.4%.
On 10 February 2011, the appointment of Olivier Bohuon as an Executive Director from 1 April 2011 and Chief Executive Officer with effect from 14 April 2011 was announced.
Olivier Bohuons base salary will be 1,050,000.
Further details of his remuneration package are disclosed on page 66.
In commonwith our practice across the Group, the executive directors are each paid in their home currency.
The committee is mindfulof salary increase forall employees when considering salaries forexecutive directors.
Average salary increases across the Group as a whole in 2011willrange between 2.5% and 3%.
b Annual Incentive with Deferred Element under the Deferred Bonus Plan An Annual Incentive Plan is operated across the Group.
The plan is designed to encourage outstanding performance without promoting excessive risk taking in order to achieve a short term incentive opportunity.
Senior executives also participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan under which a proportion of their annual incentive dependent upon their seniority in the organisation is compulsorily deferred into shares which vest in equal annual tranches over three years, subject to the participants continued employment.
No further performance conditions apply to these deferred shares.
The Deferred Bonus Plan is designed to encourage executives to build up and maintain a significant shareholding in the Company to encourage them to behave and act like shareholders.
Executive directors and officers participate in the same Annual Incentive Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan although the targets and maximum levels are different reflecting their differing roles and levels of responsibility.
During 2010, the maximum annual incentive opportunity for executive directors was 150% of annual base salary with an incentive of 100% for on target performance.
For executive officers, the maximum annual incentive opportunity was 140%.
A proportion of the annual incentive earned at and above target is compulsorily deferred into shares as explained above.
For executive directors, the amount deferred is one third and for executive officers it is one quarter.
The maximum cash incentive opportunity is therefore 100% of salary for executive directors.
There is no deferral of incentive for below target level performance.
The maximum and target incentive awards for executive directors will remain unchanged in 2011.
The performance measures for the Annual Incentive Plan are linked to the four strategic pillars for success set out on page 4 of this Annual Report: Customer led: outperformingour served markets by focusing on our customers: anticipating and innovating to deliver on their needs.
Efficient: delivering operating margin improvement and freeing up resources to invest in the business, through streamlining processes and systems re-engineering.
Investing forgrowth: driving additional sales fromnew opportunities such as biologics, emerging markets and adjacent technologies.
Aligned: aligning objectives across the business and developing our talent and organisation for consistent execution, through leveraging core functions and sharing best practices.
From these four strategic pillars, a scorecard has been developed for each Global Business Unit, which identifies the strategic imperatives for each part of the business.
Employees across the Group have performance objectives which link into the business scorecard and ultimately into these four strategic pillars.
The incentive bonus in 2010 for executive directors was subject to performance measures relating to revenue 30% of incentive, trading profit margin 30% and trading cash flow 15%.
The remaining 25% of the incentive payable was dependent on personal objectives.
In respect of 2010, the annual incentives earned by the executive directors were as follows: Incentive deferredinto an Total Incentive as percentageof base Incentive paid in cash award over shares salary David Illingworth $1,202,985 $602,196 128.3% AdrianHennah 453,150 226,840 128.3% 2010Annual Report 61 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  Over the period, underlying revenue growth was 4%, underlying trading profit growth was 11%, trading margin improved by 180 bps and trading profit to cash conversion was 85%.
Collectively, these performance measures triggered 60.5% of the maximum incentive and personal objectives triggered 25% of the maximumincentive forDavid Illingworth and 25% of the incentive forAdrianHennah.
In 2011, the Annual Incentive Plan will remain linked to the four strategic pillars for success and the business scorecard.
The performance measures will comprise revenue 30%, trading profit 30% and trading cash flow 15%.
The remaining 25% of the total incentive will be dependent on individual personal objectives.
c Long-Term Incentives The Group operates two main long-term incentive plans for executive directors: the 2004 Performance Share Plan and the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan.
Annual awards of 150% of salary are made under the 2004 Performance Share Plan and annual grants of options at 100% of salary are made under the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan.
In addition, there are some outstanding awards that were made under legacy plans no longer in operation.
Performance shares are also awarded and options granted to executive officers and other senior executives under the 2010Global Share Option Plan which was approved by shareholders in 2010. i 2004 PerformanceShare Plan PSP Under the 2004 Performance Share Plan, awards over shares are currently made to executive directors in the second half of the year.
Awards are made to executive officers and other senior executives at the same time under the Global Share Plan 2010 and further details of this plan are given below.
The initial market value of awards made to executive directors in 2010 was equivalent to 150% of their base.
The Remuneration Committee has agreed that for2011the level of these awards willremain the same.
Share awards under the 2004 Performance Share Plan will only vest if pre-determined levels of EPSA growth are achieved.
In addition, in order to drive enhanced shareholder value and maintain close alignment of executive and shareholder interests, the number of shares delivered to executives may be increased subject to the achievement of superior Total Shareholder Return TSR measured against the major companies in the medical devices industry.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the combination of EPSA and TSR measures encourages executives to achieve outstanding performance both in absolute terms looking at the EPSA measurement and also in relative terms compared to our peers looking at the TSR measurement.
A relative EPSA measure was used for awards made in 2009 and 2010.
The targets for growth in EPSA are related to growth of relevant markets, taking into account both volume and price changes in each of our major markets, and weighted according to our relative turnover in each of those markets to provide an estimate of global market growth calculated on an annual basis foreach year of the plan.
The actual EPSA growth over the three years will then be compared to the compounded EPSA growth targets to calculate the level of vesting.
Global market growth is derived froma range of publiclyavailable sources including individual  releases, quarterly results and analyst reports, as well as data purchased froma variety of industry surveys.
The followingtable sets out the performance measure used forawards made in 2010.
Annual Growth in EPSA over the three years ending 31 December2012 Percentageof award vesting Market Growth 2% per annum 25% Threshold Market Growth 5% per annum 50% Target Market Growth 8% per annum 100% Maximum None of the award will vest if the growth in EPSA over three years is less than Threshold and the award will vest pro rata on a straight line basis between the points given in the table above if growth in EPSAis between these levels.
If the Companys TSR is positioned above median when compared with the TSR of medical devices companies, then the number of vested shares delivered to participants followingthe achievement of the EPSAtargets willbe increased by a multiplieras follows: TSR Ranking within comparator group Multiplier Below orat Median 1.0x Upper quartile 1.3x Upper decile orabove 1.5x The multiplierincreases on a straight line basis between the above points.
2010Annual Report 62 TSR will be measured relative to a tailored sector peer group of medical devices companies.
The companies in the comparator group for the awards made in 2010are: Arthrocare KCI Bard Medtronic Baxter NobelBiocare Becton Dickinson Nuvasive Boston Scientific Orthofix ColoplastGroup Stryker Conmed St Jude Medical Covidien Synthes Edwards LifeSciences Corp Wright Medical Johnson &Johnson Zimmer The Groups TSR performance and its performance relative to the comparator group is independently monitored and reported to the Remuneration Committeeby Deloitte LLP.
The performance measures to be used for the awards to be made in 2011 to executive directors under the 2004 Performance Share Plan willbe on the basis of absolute measures of EPSAgrowth.
The followingtable sets out the performance measure which willbe used forawards to be made in 2011.
Growth in EPSA over the three years ending 31 December2013 Percentageof award vesting EPSAgrowth of 15% approximately 4.5% compounded annually over three years 25% Threshold EPSAgrowth of 20% approximately 6% compounded annually over three years 50% Target EPSAgrowth of 30% approximately 9% compounded annually over three years 100% Maximum None of the award will vest if the growth in EPSA over three years is less than Threshold and the award will vest pro rata on a straight line basis between the points given in the table above if growth in EPSAis between these levels.
In addition, as in previous years, if the Companys TSR is positioned above median when compared with the TSR of medical devices companies listed above, then the number of vested shares delivered to participants following the achievement of the EPSA targets will be increased by the multiplieras detailed in the table above.
The awards made in 2008 were subject to performance conditions determined in 2008.
EPSA growth over the three years ending 31 December 2010, adjusted to take account of the suspension of the share buy back programme in 2008, was 45% and this meant that 27% of the award will vest on the third anniversary of the award, being 15 August 2011.
Over the same period the Company was ranked 11th out of 21 companies in the medical devices comparator group which meant that a multiplier of 1 was applied to the number of shares vesting under the EPSAtarget with the result that the followingawards willvest on 15 August 2011: Number of shares under award Number of shares vesting David Illingworth 168,810 45,578 AdrianHennah 120,578 32,556 ii Executive Share Options Under the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan, share options are granted to executive directors in the second half of the year at the same time as awards are made under the 2004 Performance Share Plan.
Share options are granted to executive officers and other senior executives at the same time under the Global Share Plan 2010and further details of this plan are given below.
Under the rules of the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan, the maximum market value of options which may be granted in each year is equivalent to the base salary of the participant.
These options are granted at an option price no less than the market value at the date of grant and would vest on a change of control.
Share options are exercisable up to ten years from the date of grant and are only exercisable if the performance conditions over a three year performance period are achieved, beginning with the year in which the share option is granted.
2010Annual Report 63 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  The performance measurement for grants made in 2010 was based on Total Shareholder Return.
If the Companys TSR is positioned above median when compared with the TSR of certain medical devices companies over a three year period commencing 1 January 2010, then the options become exercisable as follows: TSR Ranking within comparator group Percentageof option vesting Below orat Median Nil Median 33% Upper Quartile 100% Options vest on a straight line basis between these points.
If the Companys TSR performance is below median, no options vest.
The comparatorgroup is the same forthe 2004PerformanceShare Plan, outlined above.
The Companys TSR performance and its performance relative to the comparator group is independently monitored and reported to the Remuneration Committeeby Deloitte LLP.
Options granted in 2008 were subject to performance conditions determined in 2008.
EPSA growth over the three years ended 31 December 2010, adjusted to take account of the suspension of the share buy-back programme in 2008, was 45% and this meant that 27% of the options granted willvest on 15 August 2011as follows: Number of options granted Number of options vesting David Illingworth 112,540 30,385 AdrianHennah 80,385 21,703 iii 2004 Co-InvestmentPlan The 2004 Co-Investment Plan was replaced by the Deferred Bonus Plan described above in 2009.
No awards were therefore made in 2009, 2010orwillbe made in future.
The 2004 Co-Investment Plan enabled executive directors, executive officers and certain senior executives to take part of their annual bonus in the form of shares.
Under this plan, the participant elected the level of bonus to be used for this purpose up to a maximum of one half of the annual gross bonus capped at 20% of base salary.
The net amount of the gross amount elected was then used to purchase shares.
The shares were then matched by the Company depending on growth in EPSA performance over a three year period, provided the shares are held for three years and the participant remains employed.
For awards made in 2008, the Remuneration Committee determined that no matching shares will vest for each share acquired with bonus as EPSA growth amounted to 45% over the three year performance period, which was below the threshold hurdle forthis award.
iv RestrictedStock Awards No issues of restricted stock awards were made to executive directors in 2010.
Restricted stock awards over a total of 82,305 shares were made to two executive officers in 2010on their appointment to the Companyortheir promotionto executive officer level.
v Global Share Plan 2010 The Global Share Plan 2010 was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held in 2010.
Certain executives and key employees below executive directors are eligible to participate in this plan.
The plan operates on the same basis across the world with a separate tax efficient schedule in the UK.
The plan is flexible and capable of delivering performance shares with performance conditions mirroring those of the 2004 Performance Share Plan and share options without performance conditions, both on an annual basis.
Restricted stock awards may also be granted under the plan on a one-off basis in particular circumstances.
Executive directors are not generally able to participate in this plan.
Executive share options under all plans are offered at no less than the market value at the date of grant.
These options would vest on a change of control.
d Pensions Pensions UK UK based executive directors and executive officers have a normal retirement age of 62.
Those in service pre-2003 participate in the Smith & Nephew UK Pension Fund and the UK Executive Pension Scheme, under which pensions have been accrued in the year at an annual rate of one-thirtieth of final pensionable salary up to a limit based on service of two-thirds of final pensionable salary, subject to HM 2010Annual Report 64
