PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT The table below summarises the mainproperties which the Group uses and their approximate areas.
Approximate area Square feet 000s Group head office in London, England 15 Group research facilityin York, England 83 Orthopaedics headquarters and manufacturing facilities in Memphis, Tennessee, US 1,052 Orthopaedics distribution facilityin Memphis, Tennessee, US 210 Orthopaedics manufacturing facilityin Aarau, Switzerland 117 Orthopaedics manufacturing facilityin Beijing, China Linhe 21 Orthopaedics manufacturing facilityin Beijing, China 192 Orthopaedics manufacturing and warehouse facilityin Warwick, England 90 Orthopaedics manufacturing and warehouse facilityin Tttlingen, Germany 63 Orthopaedics and Endoscopy distribution facilityand Orthopaedics European headquarters in Baar, Switzerland 63 Orthopaedics Biologics Global Operations headquarters in Durham, NorthCarolina, US 27 Endoscopy headquarters in Andover, Massachusetts, US 144 Endoscopy manufacturing facilityin Mansfield, Massachusetts, US 98 Endoscopy manufacturing and distribution facilityin OklahomaCity, Oklahoma, US 155 Advanced Wound Management headquarters and manufacturing facilityin Hull, England 439 Advanced Wound Management manufacturing facilityin Gilberdyke, England 70 Advanced Wound Management manufacturing facilityin Suzhou, China 144 Advanced Wound Management manufacturing facilityin Alberta, Canada 76 Advanced Wound Management USheadquarters in St. Petersburg, Florida, US 44 The Group Global Operations strategy includes ongoing assessment of the optimal facility footprint.
The Orthopaedics headquarters and manufacturing facilities in Memphis, Tennessee are largely freehold, a portion of Tuttlingen and the Advanced Wound Management facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke are freehold while other principal locations are leasehold.
The Group has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in other countries throughout the world, but no other is individually significant to the Group.
Where required, the appropriate governmental authorities have approved the facilities.
In 2010, Orthopaedics purchased a building in Cordova, Tennessee which will be its new headquarters and sales training building, and is exiting a smaller leasehold office facility in 2011.
The Group closed the manufacturing facility in Largo, Florida during 2009 and outsourced or relocated its manufacturing output the building was sold in 2010.
The Orthopaedics business has opened the new factory in Beijing, China, and the facility in Linhe is expected to close at the end of 2011.
The Beijing factory will supply implants to the local market and orthopaedic instruments forexport.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The global business units each manage a portfolio of short and long-term product development projects designed to meet the future needs of customers and continue to provide growth opportunities for the business.
The Groups research and development is directed towards all three operating segments.
Expenditure on research and development amounted to $151m in 2010 2009 $155m, 2008 $152m, representing approximately 4% of Group revenue 2009 4%, 2008 4%.
The Group continues to invest in future technology opportunities forclinicalneeds identified fromacross the Smith&Nephew businesses.
The Groups principal research facility located in York, England is now managed in conjunction with the Groups research facility in Durham, North Carolina, to provide research programmes that seek to underpin the longer-term technology requirements for its businesses and to provide a flow of innovative products.
In-house research is supplemented by work performed by academic institutions and other external research organisations in Europe, Americaand Asia.
Product development is primarily carried out at the Groups principal locations, notably in Memphis, Tennessee and Aarau, Switzerland Orthopaedics, Mansfield, Massachusetts Endoscopy and Hull, England Advanced Wound Management.
2010Annual Report 11 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
