Board Development Programme A number of training and development opportunities were identified for the Boardduring 2010.
As in previous years, training focused mainly on increasing the Boards understanding of the business and markets in which the Company operates.
Throughout the year, each global business unit presented to the Board on its business and the current challenges it faced.
These themes were explored in greater depth during the two day Strategy Review held in September.
In November, the Board visited the headquarters of the Endoscopy business based in Andover, Massachusetts, meeting with the senior management team and major customers and receiving presentations on our products and processes.
Two formal Board development sessions were also held which gave the Board technical briefings on, amongst other things, UK corporate governance requirements, the UK Bribery Act and remuneration trends and governance matters.
Tailored induction programmes were also held for Genevive Berger and Ian Barlowwho joined the Boardin 2010.
These programmesincluded a series of site visits to some of our principal sites and one to one meetings with members of the senior management teams in the global business units and head office functions.
All directors are encouraged to visit our principal sites and to meet with key members of staff to gain a more detailed understanding of particular areas of interest.
The Chairman continues to keep the training and developmental needs of each director under review.
Review into the Effectiveness of the Board Towards the end of 2010, the Board undertook a review of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of its key Committees.
The review was led by the Chairman and facilitated by the Company Secretary and took the form of a series of one to one discussions between the Company Secretary and individual Directors.
These discussions focused on certain areas identified in the previous effectiveness review.
The review concluded that the Board operated well under the effective leadership of the Chairman.
There was constructive debate within the Boardroom and directors were kept well advised of and consulted on relevant matters arising between meetings.
The Board welcomed the opportunity to meet and engage with members of the management team at site visits and at the Strategy Review.
The Effectiveness Review recognised that a number of improvements had been made to processes and communications during the year and has identified further improvements to be made throughout 2011.
Committees of the Board The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Ethics and Compliance Committees, each of which has its own terms of reference, which may be found on the Groups website at www.
The Company Secretary or her designate is secretary to each of the Committees.
For each of the Committees the Chairman of the Committee reports orally to the Board and minutes of the meetings are circulated to all members of the Board.
Audit Committee The principalduties of the Audit Committeeare: Finance and Accounting : - to monitor the integrity of the Groups accounts, ensuring that they meet statutory and associated legal and regulatory requirements: this includes reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them, reports on compliance with accounting standards, appropriate accounting policies and practices and any changes to these, accounting and reporting issues, going concern assumptions and anti fraud programmesand controls: - to monitorannouncements relating to the Groups financial performance: Internal Controls: - to monitorthe effectiveness of internal financial controls and review compliancewith s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: - to review the operation of the Groups risk management process: - to monitorthe controlenvironment mitigating complianceand quality management system risk Audit: - to monitorand review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: - to monitor and review the external auditors performance, the effectiveness of the audit process and their independence, approving their terms of engagement, remuneration and ability to supply non-audit services and recommending for shareholder approval the appointment, re-appointment orremoval of the external auditors, as appropriate: 2010Annual Report 50 Whistleblowing: - to review the arrangements by which staff mayraise complaintsagainst the Group regarding financial reporting orother matters.
The members of the Audit Committee are Ian Barlow Chairman and designated financial expert, Brian Larcombe, Richard fide Schutter, Rolf Stomberg and Joseph Papa.
Warren Knowlton served as Chairman of the Audit Committee up to 6 May 2010, when he retired from the Board.
All members of the Audit Committee are considered to be independent in accordance with the Code and are qualified as financial experts as defined by the DTR, SEC and NYSE rules.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer attend meetings of the Audit Committeeby invitation but are not members of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committeemet five times during the year including discussions with the auditors, without management present.
For 2010, the Audit Committee considered quarterly reporting, the preliminary results and the Annual Report.
Due consideration was given to compliance with accounting standards, appropriate accounting policies and practices, accounting and reporting issues, going concern assumptions and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the appropriateness of the Groups principal accounting policies, practices and judgments, including the identification of critical accounting policies which are those requiring the most use of managements judgment which includes the valuation of inventories, impairment review of goodwill, intangible and tangible assets and the valuation of retirement benefits, contingencies and provisions.
The Audit Committee also received a presentation from the Group Treasurer.
During the year, the Audit Committee additionally took on responsibility for monitoring controls that mitigate quality management system risk.
During the year, no concerns were raised with the Audit Committee about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee reviewed the activities of the Internal Audit department, its programme of work and resourcing requirements.
Specific activities of the Internal Audit department include: review of the internal controls over financial reporting compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, assessing the operating effectiveness of the risk management process and review of other internal control processes, including regulatory compliance, quality management systems and the prevention and detection of fraud.
The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups approach to internal financial control, its processes, outcomes and disclosures and considered the Groups risk management processes.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the work of the external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, and received reports on the scope and outcome of the annual audit and managements response.
These reports included accounting matters, governance and control and accounting developments.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviewed the audit, audit-related, tax and other services provided by the external auditors and ensured that all services provided by the external auditors were pre-approved in accordance with the Auditor Independence policy explained in greater detail on page 55.
As part of the review into the services provided by the auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors and was satisfied that it was appropriate to recommend to the Board their reappointment.
Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are Rolf Stomberg Chairman, Pamela Kirby, Brian Larcombe appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 7 September 2010, Richard fide Schutter and Joseph Papa.
Warren Knowlton also served on the Remuneration Committee up to 6 May 2010, when he retired from the Board.
With effect from 14 April, Rolf Stomberg will cease to be Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Joseph Papa will, subject to his re-appointment by the shareholders, be appointed Chairman in his place.
All members of the Remuneration Committee are considered to be independent in accordance with the Code, the New Code and SEC and NYSE requirements.
The Remuneration Committeemet four times during the year.
The principalduties of the Remuneration Committeeare reviewing: the remuneration, including pension entitlements, of executive directors and executive officers: the relationship between the remuneration of executive directors and that of other employees: the competitiveness of executive remuneration using data from independent consultants on companies of similar size, technologies and international complexity: the performance targets forthe incentive plan and long-term incentive plans and the performance against these targets: and the operation of the long-term incentive plans, share option plans and performance related incentive plan, determining the participants and overall grant levels.
The activities of the Remuneration Committee throughout 2010 are described in greater detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 71.
2010Annual Report 51 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  Nominations Committee The members of the Nominations Committee are John Buchanan Chairman, David Illingworth, Rolf Stomberg and Richard fide Schutter.
Rolf Stomberg and Richard fide Schutter are considered to be independent in accordance with the Code, the New Code and SEC and NYSE requirements.
David Illingworth will cease to be a member of the Nominations Committee when he retires from the Board on 14 April 2011 and Olivier Bohuon will, subject to his re-appointment by the shareholders, be appointed in his place.
The  eight times during the year and those meetings were attended by all members.
The principalduties of the : to review the Boardstructure, size and compositionand to make recommendations to the Boardaccordingly: to identify and nominate suitable candidates to the Board to fill any Board vacancies as they arise, evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience currently on the Boardand which maybe required in the future: to make recommendations to the Boardon the continuation in office, orotherwise, of any executive director ornon-executive director: to make recommendations to the Board regarding membership of the Board Committees and the fees paid to non-executive directors: and to consider and if thought fit approve the appointment of any executive director as a non-executive director of another company.
The principle work of the Nominations Committee in 2010 was to search for a Chief Executive Officer to replace David Illingworth, who had indicated his desire to retire as and when a suitable successor could be found.
A thorough search was undertaken using the services of an external firm of headhunters and internal candidates were also considered.
A number of meetings were held to define the role and the type of Chief Executive Officer required, to discuss potential candidates and, in 2011, finally to consider making a recommendation to the Board to appoint Olivier Bohuon.
The Nominations Committee also continued the process commenced in 2009 to search for new non-executive directors, recognising that a number of non-executive directors have served on the Board for periods of time which could give rise to questions about their continued independence.
Ian Barlow and Genevive Berger were appointed to the Board as non-executive directors in March 2010.
The search however has continued for additional directors to fit the profiles prepared by the full Board in 2009.
The services of a headhunting firm were utilised in this process and whilst a number of candidates were considered, no further appointments were made.
The search will continue into 2011.
Shouldthe need arise, the SeniorIndependent Director would oversee the process forthe appointment of a new Chairman.
Ethics and Compliance Committee The members of the Ethics and Compliance Committee are Richard fide Schutter Chairman, Pamela Kirby and Joseph Papa.
All members of the Committee are considered to be independent in accordance with the Code, the New Code and SEC and NYSE requirements.
David Illingworth, Chief Executive, attends every meeting.
With effect from 14 April 2011, subject to their re-appointment by shareholders, Pamela Kirby will replace Richard fide Schutter as Chairman of the Ethics and Compliance Committee and Genevive Berger will join the Committee as an additional member.
The Ethics and  four times during the year.
The principalduties of the Ethics and : to review and approve Group policies as they relate to ethics and compliancematters: to receive reports and review activities from executive and specialist groups managing ethical and compliance matters across the Groups operations: to review and approve implementation of ethics and complianceprogrammes: to receive and review reports of audits and monitoringof ethics &complianceprocedures and processes: to review ethics and compliance best practice and continuous improvement programmes by reference to appropriate external reports and benchmarking: to review, where appropriate, the Groups internal communications and training in relation to ethics and compliance policies and procedures: 2010Annual Report 52
