OUTLOOK AND TREND INFORMATION The discussion below contains certain forward-looking statements that may or may not prove accurate.
For example, statements regarding expected revenue growth and trading margins, market trends and our product pipeline are forward looking statements.
Phrases such as aim, plan, intend, anticipate, well placed, believe, estimate, target, consider, and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.
For Smith & Nephew, these factors include: economic and financial conditions in the markets we serve, especially those affecting health care providers, payors and customers: price levels for established and innovative medical devices: developments in medical technology: regulatory approvals: reimbursement decisions or other government actions: products defects or recalls: litigation relating to patent or other claims: legal compliance risks and related investigative, remedial or enforcement actions: strategic actions, including acquisitions and depositions and our success in integrating acquired businesses: and numerous other matters which affect us or our markets, including those of a political, economicbusiness orcompetitive nature.
For additional information on factors that could cause the Groups actual results to differ from estimates reflected in these forward-looking statements, can be found under Risk Factorswithin this document.
Information regarding the recent and longer term market growth trends is given for each of the Groups global business units in the relevant Market and Competition sections under Business Description on pages 4 to 9.
The Group has delivered another strong performance, with the majority of businesses outperforming their respective markets.
The current market challenges are well understood.
The Group is meeting them by supplying innovative products which offer clinical and cost benefit for our customers and continuing to execute efficiency programmes across our businesses.
The long-term growth drivers underpinning the Groups industry including demographics, emerging markets and patients desire to return to an active life remain strong.
During 2011, the Group expects Orthopaedic Reconstruction to grow at above the market rate, as the momentum in our knee franchise is expected to continue.
In Orthopaedic Trauma the Group made substantial improvements in 2010 and are committed to sustaining this performance.
In Endoscopy the Group expects to achieve above market growth in Arthroscopy sports medicine, driven by the repair product segment.
In Advanced Wound Management the Group believes it willcontinue to grow at above the market rate.
The Group made further trading margin progress during 2010, achieving a trading profit margin of 23.9% before the benefit of the BlueSky settlement, and continues to see many areas in our businesses which offer further efficiencies.
The Group also sees an increasing number of investment opportunities to drive top line growth, both geographically and in new products.
The Group is taking advantage of these opportunities and anticipates that in the short to mediumterm the cost of these investments willbroadlyoffset our further efficiency savings.
The Group believes it has a clear, balanced, plan for the future, based on the same strategic pillars which have maintained growth and investment during the recent global cyclicaldownturn, while delivering significant marginimprovement.
We are confident that, by offering our customers the right product, at the right time with the right value proposition, we are positioned to continue to deliver long term growth.
2010Annual Report 43 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
