Compliance and Reporting Risk Regulatory Compliance in theHealthcare Industry Business practices in the healthcare industry are subject to regulation and review by various government authorities.
In general, the trend in many countries in which the Group does business is towards higher expectations and increased enforcement activity by governmental authorities.
In the UK, a new Bribery Act was adopted in 2010 that will increase risks for companies that allow improper conduct on their behalf.
While the Group is committed to doing business with integrity and welcomes the trend to higher standards in the healthcare industry, the Group and other companies in the industry have been subject to investigations and other enforcement activity that have incurred and may continue to incur significant expense.
Under certain circumstances, if the Group were found to have violated the law, its abilityto sell its products to certain customers could be restricted.
Regulatory Approvals and Controls The medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that should be allotted to such development.
The Group is required to comply with a wide range of regulatory controls over the manufacturing, testing, distribution, marketing and sale of its products, particularly in the US, Europe and China.
Such controls have become increasingly demanding and costly to comply with and management believes that this trend will continue.
At any time, the Group is awaiting a number of regulatory approvals which, if not received, could adversely affect results of operations.
Regulatory approval of new products and new materials is required in most countries in which the Group operates, although a single approval may be obtained for all countries within the European Union.
Regulatory approval of new products may entail a lengthy process, particularly if materials are employed which have not previously been used in similar products.
In the US, the 510 k process by which manyof the Groups products are cleared forsale maybe revised in ways that could lead to delays or increased costs.
Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could have a number of adverse consequences, including withdrawal of approval to sell a product in a country, temporaryclosure of a manufacturing facility, fines and potential damage to companyreputation.
Other Risk Factors Smith & Nephew is subject to a number of other risks, which are common to most global medical technology groups and are reviewed as part of the Groups risk management process.
EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATE RISK AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Board of directors of the Company has established a set of policies to manage funding, currency and interest rate risks.
Derivative financial instruments are used only to manage the financial risks associated with underlying business activities and their financing.
See Note 20 of the Notes to the Group accounts forfurther details of these risks.
The Groups financial instruments are subject to changes in fair values as a result of changes in market rates of exchange and forward interest rates.
Financial instruments entered into to hedge sales and purchase transactions in foreign currency and interest rate exposures are accounted for as hedges.
Changes in fair values of effective financial instruments would not affect the Groups income statement immediately.
The movements in the fair value of financial instruments that are not accounted for as hedges offset movements in the values of assets and liabilities and are recognised through the income statement.
The net impact of these changes in fair value on the Groups income statement is not significant.
2010Annual Report 21 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLYLEFT BLANK 2010Annual Report 22
