INTRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL SUMMARY The Smith & Nephew Group the Group is a global medical devices business operating in the markets for orthopaedic reconstruction and trauma, endoscopy which includes arthroscopic procedures referred to as sports medicine and advanced wound management, with revenue of approximately $4 billion in 2010.
Smith & Nephew plc the Company is the parent company of the Group.
It is an English public limited company with its shares listed on the premium list of the UK Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Shares are also traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the formof AmericanDepositary Shares ADSs.
This is the Annual Report of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2010.
It comprises, in a single document, the Annual Report and Accounts of the company in accordance with UK requirements and the Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Smith & Nephews corporate website, www.
com, gives additional information on the Group, including an electronic version of this Annual Report.
Information made available on this website, or other websites mentioned in this Annual Report, are not, and should not be regarded as being, part of orincorporated into this Annual Report.
For the convenience of the reader, a Glossary of technical and financial terms used in this document is included on page 152.
The product names referred to in this document are identified by use of capital letters and are trademarks owned by or licensed to members of the Group.
Financial Summary 2010 2009 2008 Financial Highlights i iii $ million $ million $ million Revenue 3,962 3,772 3,801 Underlying growth in revenue % 4% 2% 6% Trading profit 969 857 776 Underlying growth in trading profit % 11% 15% 6% Trading profit margin % 24.5% 22.7% 20.4% Operating profit 920 723 630 Attributable profitforthe year 615 472 377 Adjusted attributable profit 654 580 493 Basic earnings per OrdinaryShare 69.3 53.4 42.6 EPSA 73.6 65.6 55.6 Growth in EPSA % 12% 18% 7% Dividends per OrdinaryShare ii 15.82 14.39 13.08 Cash generated fromoperations 1,111 1,030 815 Trading cash flow 825 771 612 Trading profit to cash conversion % 85% 90% 79% i Items .
ii The Board has proposed a final dividend of 9.82 US cents per share which together with the firstinterim dividend of 6.00 US cents makes a total for 2010 of 15.82 US cents.
The final dividend is expected to be paid, subject to shareholder approval, on 19 May 2011 to shareholders on the RegisterofMembers atthe close ofbusiness on3 May2011.
Key Performance Indicators The Directors Report includes a number of measures that management use as key performance indicators including those financial performance indicators set out in the Financial Summary above.
A discussion of the reasons for, calculation and limitations of the key financial performance indicators is set out below.
The Group is focused on continued delivery of sustainable profitable growth through four strategic pillars Customer led, Efficient, Investing forgrowth and Aligned as explained on page 4 of this document.
From these four strategic pillars, a scorecard has been developed which identifies the specific functional strategic imperatives for each part of the Group.
The performance against the scorecard is evaluated against a series of financial and non-financial indicators and measures.
2010Annual Report i The principal key financial performance indicators used in the scorecard, which measure performance against the Groups strategic pillars, are: i  Underlying growth in revenue is used to compare the revenue in a given year to the previous year on a like-for-like basis.
This is achieved by adjusting for the impact of sales of products acquired in material business combinations and for movements in exchange rates.
Underlying growth in revenue is not presented in the accounts prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and is therefore not a Generally Accepted Accounting Principle a non-GAAP measure.
An explanation of how this non-GAAP measure is calculated is presented in the Business Overview on page 24.
The Group believes that the tabular presentation and reconciliation of reported revenue growth to underlying revenue growth assists investors in their assessment of the Groups performance in each business segment and forthe Group as a whole.
Underlying growth in revenue is considered by the Group to be an important measure of performance in terms of local functional currency since it excludes those items considered to be outside the influence of local management.
The Groups management uses this non-GAAP measure in its internal financial reporting, budgeting and planning to assess performance on both a business segment and a consolidated Group basis.
Revenue growth at constant currency is important in measuring business performance compared to competitors and compared to the growth of the market itself.
The Group considers that revenue from sales of products acquired in material business combinations results in a step-up in growth in revenue in the year of acquisition that cannot be wholly attributed to local managements efforts with respect to the business in the year of acquisition.
Depending on the timing of the acquisition, there will usually be a further step change in the followingyear.
Ameasure of growth excluding the effects of business combinations also allows senior management to evaluate the performance and relative impact of growth from the existing business and growth from acquisitions.
The process of making business acquisitions is directed, approved and funded fromthe Group corporate centre in line with strategic objectives.
The material limitation of the underlying growth in revenue measure is that it excludes certain factors, described above, which ultimately have a significant impact on total revenues.
The Group compensates for this limitation by taking into account relative movements in exchange rates in its investment, strategic planning and resource allocation.
In addition, as the evaluation and assessment of business acquisitions is not within the control of local management, performance of acquisitions is monitoredcentrally until the business is integrated.
The Groups management considers that the non-GAAP measure of underlying growth in revenue and the GAAP measure of growth in revenue are , neither of which management uses exclusively.
ii Tradingprofitand tradingprofitmargin Growth in trading profit and trading profit margin trading profit expressed as a percentage of revenue are measures which present the growth trend in the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions or events that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents these measures to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
The Groups internal financial reporting budgets, monthly reporting, forecasts, long-term planning and incentive plans, focuses primarily on profit and earnings before these items.
Trading profit and trading profit margin are not recognised measures under IFRS and are therefore non-GAAP financial measures.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be adjusted and identified separately: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and impairments: significant restructuring events: gains and losses arising from legal disputes and uninsured losses: and taxation thereon.
An explanation of how trading profit is calculated is presented in Business Overview on page 25.
The material limitation of these measures is that they exclude significant income and costs that have a direct impact on current and prior years profit attributable to shareholders.
They do not, therefore, measure the overall performance of the Group presented by the GAAP measures of earnings per share and operating profit.
The Group considers that no single measure enables it to assess overall performance and therefore it compensates for the limitation of the adjusted earnings per share and trading profit measures by considering them in conjunction with their GAAPequivalents.
The gains orlosses which are identified separately arise fromirregular events ortransactions.
Such events or transactions are authorised centrally and require a strategic assessment which includes consideration of financial returns and generation of shareholder value.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles will occur each year, whilst other excluded items arise irregularly depending on the events that give rise to such items.
