THE BUSINESS HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT Group Strategy Smith & Nephews overall vision is to help improve people's lives by repairing and healing the human body.
To achieve this, the Group is focused on continued delivery of sustainable profitable growth, through four strategic pillars: Customerled: outperformingour served markets by focusing on our customers: anticipating and innovating to deliver on their needs.
Efficient: delivering operating margin improvement and freeing up resources to invest in the business, through streamlining process and systems re-engineering.
Investing for growth: driving additional sales fromnew opportunities such as emerging markets, biologicsand adjacent technologies.
Aligned: aligning objectives across the business and developing our talent and organisation for consistent execution, through leveraging core functions and sharing best practices.
Group History The Group has a history dating back over 150 years to the family enterprise of Thomas James Smith who opened a small pharmacy in Hull, England in 1856.
On his death in 1896, his nephew Horatio Nelson Smithtook over the management of the business.
By the late 1990s, Smith & Nephew had expanded into being a diverse healthcare conglomerate with operations across the globe, including various medical devices, personal care products and traditional and advanced woundcare treatments.
In 1998, Smith&Nephew announced a major restructuring to focus management attention and investment on three global business units advanced wound management, endoscopy and orthopaedics which offered high growth and marginopportunities.
Smith & Nephew was incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1937 and in 1999 the Group was also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
In 2001, Smith & Nephew became a constituent member of the FTSE-100 index in the UK.
This means that Smith & Nephew is included in the top 100 companies traded on the LondonStockExchange measured in terms of market capitalisation.
Today, Smith&Nephew is a public  and headquartered in the UK and carries out business around the world.
Recent Developments On 10 February 2011, the Group announced that David Illingworth will retire from the Board and as Chief Executive, at the Annual General Meeting on 14 April 2011.
It was also announced that Olivier Bohuon will join the Board as an executive director on 1 April 2011.
He will offer himself for re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and, subject to his re-appointment, shall assume the position of Chief Executive Officer at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 14 April2011.
In December 2010, the Group reviewed and replaced its principal banking facilities ahead of their maturity in May 2012.
The Group has reduced its $1 billion 5 year term loan to $500 million with effect from 20 December 2010.
Smith & Nephew has also cancelled its $1.5  revolving loan facilityand replaced it with a new 5-year $1  revolving loan facility.
BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Organisation Smith & Nephew is organised into three primary Global Business Units GBUs, which are also our reporting segments: Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
Included within the Orthopaedics segment are our biologics activities, which comprise research and development projects under the direction of a  all GBUs.
Smith & Nephew operates on a worldwide basis and has distribution channels in over 90 countries.
In the more established countries by revenue, the Groups business operations are organised by GBU.
In the majority of the remaining markets, operations are managed by country managers who are responsible forsales and distribution of the Groups product range.
These comprisethe emerging markets unit.
A head office team in London, England directs the overall business and supports the business units, primarily in the areas of business development, legal, companysecretarial, finance, human resources and investor relations.
2010Annual Report 4 Orthopaedics Overview Orthopaedics comprises reconstruction, trauma and clinicaltherapies products.
The Orthopaedics business is managed worldwide from Memphis, Tennessee, the site of its main development and manufacturing facility, with a European headquarters in Baar, Switzerland.
Products are also manufactured at smaller facilities in Switzerland, Germany, and the UK as well as by third-party manufacturers.
Anew facilityhas been constructed in Beijing, China.
Products Orthopaedic reconstruction implants include hip, knee and shoulder joints as well as ancillary products such as bone cement.
Orthopaedic trauma fixation products consist of internal and external devices and other products, including shoulder fixation and orthobiological materials used in the stabilisation of severe fractures and deformity correction procedures.
Clinical therapies products are those that are applied in an orthopaedic office ora clinicsetting and include bone growth stimulationand joint fluid therapies.
Knee Implant Systems The Orthopaedics business offers a range of products for specialised knee procedures.
The LEGION GENESIS II Total Knee System is a comprehensive system designed to allow surgeons to address a wide range of knee procedures from primary to revision.
LEGION TKS features VERILAST Technology, an advanced bearing surface.
The JOURNEY Active Knee Solutions, a family of advanced, customised products designed to treat early to mid-stage osteoarthritis patients, provides more normal feeling and motion through bone ligament preservation and anatomic replication.
Other knee systems include the PLUS Solution Knee Family and PROFIX Knee.
Our LEGION GENESIS II and JOURNEY also utilise VISONAIRE Patient-Matched Instrumentation, a new technology platform of patientmatched cutting blocks fortotal knee procedures.
Hip Implant Systems The Orthopaedics business offers a broad range of hip replacement systems.
In particular, the R3 Acetabular System includes a modular acetabular cup that provides a variety of advanced bearings within a single system.
The BIRMINGHAM HIP Resurfacing System is a system for hip resurfacing, a bone conserving approach, which utilises proven low wear metal-on-metal bearing surface technology.
Other hip systems include the SYNERGYHip System, ANTHOLOGYHip Systemand the SL-PLUSHip FamilySystem.
Bearingsurfaces The Orthopaedics business utilises a range of bearing surfaces in its implantsystems, including its proprietaryOXINIUM Technology.
Oxidised zirconium, branded OXINIUM, combines the enhanced wear resistance of a ceramic bearing with the superior durability of a metallic bearing.
When combined with highly cross-linked polyethylene XLPE it results in our VERILAST Technology.
LEGION Primary Knee, with VERILAST Technology, is the only knee system with a 30 year wear performance claim approved by the United States Foodand Drug Administration FDA morethan double the performance expectation forwear compared to conventional technologies.
Trauma Implant Systems The principal fixation products are the TRIGEN Intramedullary Nailing system, TRIGEN Meta Nail with expanded fixation and technique options, TRIGEN INTERTAN Intertrochanteric Antegrade nails for hip fractures, TRIGEN SURESHOT Distal Targeting System for Intramedullary Nailing and PERI-LOC Periarticular Locked Plating system which offers a comprehensive family of fracture specific plate and screw products forthe upper and lower extremity.
For external fixation and limb restoration, Orthopaedics offers the TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME Circular Fixation System and JET-X Unilateral Fixator.
Clinical therapies The principal clinical therapies products offered include the EXOGEN Ultrasound Bone Healing System which utilises low-intensity pulsed ultrasound to accelerate the healing of fresh fractures and to heal non unions.
DUROLANE Joint Fluid Therapy and SUPARTZ Joint Fluid Therapy are non-surgical,  therapies forosteoarthritis of the knee.
Strategy Orthopaedics maintains its commitmentto being customer-led by focusing on product innovation, sales excellence and physician education.
Whether through extending the life of implants, improving operating room efficiency, or promoting faster healing, Smith & Nephews innovations differentiate it and provide solutions to active patients seeking to regain quality of life while enhancing economic value for customers.
Orthopaedics provides peer-to-peer medical education, through KLEOS, tailored to individual surgeon needs utilising the worlds top orthopaedic specialists and key opinion leaders.
KLEOS is a medical education platform which offers seminars, fellowships, instructional videos and literature reviews.
The Orthopaedics business efficiency programmes continue to deliver savings to the business.
The current programmes are focused on improving inventory utilisation, reducing sourcing costs, improving manufacturing efficiency, reducing overhead costs and ensuring continual efficiency improvement.
2010Annual Report 5 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  The emerging markets continue to be an important component of investing for growth, China in particular remains a focus with several milestones achieved in 2010 including opening a new manufacturing facility near Beijing, integration of product development teams into the franchises, and opening of three surgical training centres.
Outside China, Orthopaedics is investing in sales teams in other emerging markets, extending physician training via KLEOS, developing tailored products to meet local needs and improving local infrastructure and logistics.
The Orthopaedics business aligns its organisation and develops its talent for consistent execution on the Groups plans.
Compensation for executives, managers and staff are carefully aligned to the execution of their objectives.
New Products In Trauma, Orthopaedics launched the TRIGEN SURESHOT Distal Targeting System for Intramedullary Nailing which simplifies the surgical technique, reducing surgery time and fluoroscopic X-ray exposure.
The VLP Foot and Ankle plating system, a comprehensive plate and screw system to manage fractures in the foot and ankle was also launched in the year bringing the advantages of variable angle plating to a rapidlygrowing segment of the market.
Reconstructive Orthopaedics continued the commercialisation of its VISIONAIRE Patient-Matched Instrumentation.
With VISIONAIRE, the patients MRI and X-rays are used to create customised cutting blocks that allow the surgeon to achieve optimal mechanical axis alignment as well as saving time and reducing instruments in the operating room.
Regulatory Approvals In 2010, several significant regulatory product and claimsapprovals were obtained around the globe.
In the US the SURESHOT Distal Targeting System for TAN Intramedullary Nails and accessories was approved.
In Japan, the LEGION TKS Posterior Stabilized and Revision Systems, 12 14 Taper OXINIUM Femoral Heads, the PERI-LOC Titanium Plating System, and ECHELON Titanium Hip Stems were all approved.
In the EU, we also received approval for the SURESHOT Distal Targeting System and VISIONAIRE Patient Matched Cutting Blocks.
Also, in the EU, DUROLANEwas approved fortreatment of mildto moderate osteoarthritis in a broader range of joints and followingjoint arthroscopy.
In the US, the Orthopaedics business received 510 k clearance from the FDA for VERILAST Technology wear claims for an estimated 30 years of normaluse forthe LEGIONPrimaryKnee system.
Around the globe, 20 additional approvals and clearances were obtained, including amongst others: BHR instrument upgrades, R3 Acetabular system additions, VLP FOOT Plating Screw System and accessories, the JOURNEY Select Knee System and LEGION Porous Plus HA .
In Europe, regulatory approval was secured for EXOGEN for use on all osseous defects and DUROLANE for osteoarthritis pain relief in all synovial joints and forpain relief post arthroscopicsurgery.
Seasonality Orthopaedic reconstruction revenues are lower in the third quarter of any year due to fewer elective surgeries in the summer and higher in the fourth quarter as elective surgeries increase.
Reconstructive trauma revenues are generally highest in the fourth quarter caused to a large extent by the relatively high number of accidents and sports related injuries which occur in the autumn and winter seasons in North Americaand Europe.
Marketand Competition Smith & Nephew estimates that the worldwide orthopaedic market, excluding clinical therapies, served by the Group grew by approximately 4% in 2010 and is currently worth approximately $17 billion per annum worldwide.
Management believes that the Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics business holds an 11% share of this market by value.
Principal global competitors in orthopaedics are Zimmer, Stryker, DePuy Johnson &Johnson, Synthes and Biomet.
In 2010, weaker economic conditions worldwide continued to create several challenges for the overall orthopaedic market, including increased deferrals of joint replacement procedures and heightened pricing pressures.
These factors contributed to the lower overall growth of the worldwide orthopaedic market compared to historic comparables.
However, over the medium-term, several catalysts are expected to continue to drive sustainable growth in orthopaedic device sales, including the growing, ageing population, rising rates of co-morbidities such as obesity and diabetes, technology improvements allowing surgeons to treat younger, more active patients, and the increasing 2010Annual Report 6 strength of the demand for healthcare in emerging markets.
Both the orthopaedic trauma and clinical therapies markets are expected to continue to grow due to a global population increasingly at risk from fractures due to age, osteoporosis, obesity and diabetes and also due to continuous advancements in the surgical treatment of fractures, and the need to manage pain in younger, moreactive patients.
Management estimates that the worldwide market for clinical therapies increased by 6% in 2010 and is currently worth more than $1.7 billion per annum.
Smith & Nephews primary market for clinical therapies is in the US.
In the US long bone stimulation market management estimates Smith & Nephews share to be 40%.
Principal competitors are Biomet, DJ Ortho and Orthofix.
In the US joint fluid therapies market, management estimates that Smith & Nephew maintains a share of 14%.
The principal competitors are Genzyme, Sanofi Aventis, DePuy Johnson &Johnson and Ferring Pharmaceuticals.
Endoscopy Overview Smith & Nephews Endoscopy business develops and commercialises endoscopic minimally invasive surgery techniques, educational programmes and value-added services for surgeons to treat and repair soft tissue and articulating joints.
The business focuses on the arthroscopy or sports medicine sector of the endoscopy market.
Arthroscopy is the minimally invasive surgery of joints, in particular the knee, shoulder and hip.
The Endoscopy business is headquartered in Andover, Massachusetts and manufacturing facilities are currently located in Mansfield, Massachusetts, and OklahomaCity, Oklahoma.
Major service centres are located in the US, the UK, Germany, Japan and Australia.
Products The Endoscopy business offers surgeons endoscopic technologies for surgery of the joints and ligament repair, including: specialised devices and fixation systems to repair damaged tissue: fluid management equipment for surgical access: digital cameras, digital image capture, scopes, light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation: radiofrequency wands, electromechanical and mechanical blades, and hand instruments forresecting damaged tissue.
Key products in repair are FAST-FIX for meniscal repair, ENDOBUTTON for cruciate fixation, and the FOOTPRINT Suture Anchor for rotator cuff repair.
Key products in resection are the wide range of DYONICS shaver blades, ACUFEX handheld instruments, and a range of radiofrequency probes.
The key product in Visualisation is the DYONICS560 HD camera.
Strategy Smith & Nephews strategic intent is to grow the business as the leading provider of endoscopic techniques and technologies for joint and ligament repair.
Management believes that the business capitalises on the growing acceptance of endoscopy as a preferred surgical choice among physicians, patients and payors, enhanced by a customer-led approach to growing the arthroscopymarket.
To sustain growth and enhance its market position, the Endoscopy business supports its strategy with investment in surgeon education programmes, global fellowship support initiatives, partnerships with professional associations and surgeon advisory boards.
The emerging markets, especially China, are expected to be a major driver of growth in future, and the business is also investing funds to accelerate this growth.
The business has a commitment to, and track record of, driving efficiencies, through a formal operational excellence programmeas well as a culture of continuous process improvement.
The Endoscopy business aligns its organisation to ensure all employees are working on common objectives, and to ensure consistent execution against the Groups wider objectives.
New Products In 2010, Smith & Nephew continued to expand its arthroscopic sports medicine portfolio with the launch of several new repair and resection products.
The BIORAPTOR Knotless Suture Anchor is a device used to repair a torn labrum in the hip and shoulder.
The ease of use provided by this knotless arthroscopicdevice provides surgeons with full controlover suture tension a criticalelement in the procedure.
BIOSURE SYNC Tibial Fixation System is designed to address the need for strong fixation on the tibial side of ACL reconstruction.
It employs a sheath and screw to achieve a 360 graft-to-bone contact throughout the tibial tunnel and can accommodate a variety of arthroscopic ligament reconstruction techniques.
2010Annual Report 7 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  The TWINFIX and FOOTPRINT suture anchor product lines were enhanced through the incorporation of ULTRABRAID suture, which provides stronger knot strength and a low profile knot stack.
Both are designed to provide easy, secure and strong repairs with precise control over final tensioning and are available in a wide variety of materials and sizes.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2010, the Endoscopy business obtained regulatory clearances for the following products in most major markets, except Japan where the approval process is more lengthy: FOOTPRINT Ultra PK, BIOSURE SYNC, TWINFIX Ultra HA, and TWINFIX Ultra Ti, all designed for the reattachment of ligaments, tendons or soft tissues to bone in knees, shoulders or other articulating joints: and various other arthroscopy instruments, devices and sterilisation trays.
In Japan, regulatory approvals included ENDOBUTTON CL Ultra, Ultra FAST-FIX KINSA RC and various TWINFIX suture anchors.
Seasonality Smith &Nephews Endoscopy revenues are generally at their highest in the fourth quarter of any year.
This is caused to a large extent by the relatively high number of accidents and sports related injuries which occur in the autumn and winter seasons in NorthAmericaand Europe.
Marketand Competition Management estimates that the global arthroscopy market in which the business principally participates is worth more than $3 billion a year and has recently been growing between 8% and 12% annually.
Arthroscopy growth rates are driven by increasing numbers of sports injuries, longer and more active lifestyles, patient desire for minimally invasive procedures, innovative technological developments and a need for cost-effective procedures.
The arthroscopy market has a particular focus on arthroscopic repair of the knee and shoulder using a broad range of technology.
The Group also expects to benefit fromthe demand forless invasive approaches to arthroscopichip repair.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew has a 22% share of the global arthroscopy market as at 31 December 2010.
Smith & Nephews main competitors in the global arthroscopy market in 2010 were Arthrex, Mitek Johnson & Johnson, Stryker, Arthrocare and Linvatec Conmed.
Advanced Wound Management Overview Smith & Nephews Advanced Wound Management business offers a range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to full wound closure.
These products are targeted at chronic wounds associated with the older population, such as pressure sores and venous leg ulcers.
There are also products forthe treatment of wounds such as burns and invasive surgery that impact the wider population.
The Advanced Wound Management business has its global headquarters in Hull, England and its North American headquarters in St Petersburg, Florida.
The products are manufactured at facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke, England, Suzhou in China, and also by third party manufacturers around the world.
Products The main products within the Advanced Wound Management business are for exudate management, predominantly the ALLEVYN brand, infection management, including the ACTICOAT brand and Negative Pressure Wound Therapy NPWT.
The ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressings range has been considerably enhanced by new versions, introduced in recent years, which management believes provide efficient fluid management and an optimal moist wound environment that promotes faster healing of the wound, reduced risk of maceration and protection from infection.
The range includes ALLEVYN Ag, a range of dressings combining the infection management capabilities of silver with ALLEVYN.
The ACTICOAT range incorporates the smallest crystallised silver used in the treatment of wounds and burns.
The silver reduces the risk of bacterial colonisationand acts to kill micro-organismsthat can cause infection and prevent ordelay healing.
NPWT delivers vacuum-assisted pressure to help promote healing.
NPWT consists of a wound dressing, a drainage tube, and a transparent filmthat is connected to a suction device.
Smith&Nephew offers the RENASYSEZ and RENASYSGO pump systems together with a range of foamand gauze dressing kits.
2010Annual Report 8 Advanced Wound Management also offers a range of other advanced products including films, such as OPSITE and IV3000, skin care treatments and gels.
Strategy Advanced Wound Managements strategy is to be customer-led and invest for growth by focusing on high growth, high value segments, in particular exudate and infection management, through improved wound bed preparation, moist and active healing and penetration of the NPWT market.
There has been a continued focus on operational efficiency and excellence.
Since 2007, efficiency improvements have been delivered through various projects including support function consolidation, outsourcing of manufacturing to low cost suppliers, distribution  and the start of manufacturing in Suzhou, China.
An aligned approach across the GBU is designed to ensure that our employees are developed and work on common objectives to deliver consistent execution of the Groups plan.
New Products During 2010, the ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressings range was extended further, reinforcing our position as the company offering what we believe is the most comprehensive foam dressing solutions with the addition of ALLEVYN Lite.
This new addition has the efficient fluid management properties of the existing ALLEVYN dressings and reduces pain on dressing removal for the patient, whilst improving comfort and wear through anatomicaldesign.
The infection management portfolio was expanded in Japan in 2010, with further improvements to the already successful CADEX product and our first silver dressing entry in the market with ALGISITE Ag, giving a strong portfolioforfuture growth in the region.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2010, Advanced Wound Management secured approval for a new formulation of No Sting SKIN PREP, ALGISITE Ag in Japan, OPSITE Visible Drain dressing and NPWT dressing kits with ports in the EU and US.
A new more conformable version of ALLEVYN Gentle Border, ALLEVYNGentle Border Lite, was also approved in the EU and the US.
Approval was obtained in the EU and US for the manufacture of the complete range of ACTICOAT dressings at Advanced Wound Managements Hull facility following transfer of conversion and packaging from Alberta and for the manufacture of OPSITE Post Op Visible in Suzhou.
We secured our first licence to sell domestically manufactured products in China following the transfer of ALLEVYN Adhesive manufacture to the Suzhou facility.
Seasonality Due to the nature of its product range there is little seasonal impact on the Advanced Wound Management business.
Marketand Competition Management estimates that the sales value of the advanced wound management market worldwide was $5.2 billion in 2010, an underlying increase of just under 4% from 2009.
During 2010, the market growth rate slowed slightly due to the weaker economic conditions.
The advanced wound management market is focused on the treatment of chronic wounds of the older population and other hard-to-heal wounds such as burns and certain surgical wounds and is therefore also expected to benefit from demographic trends.
Growth is driven by an ageing population and by a steady advance in technology and products that are more clinically efficient and cost effective than their conventional counterparts.
The market for advanced wound treatments is relatively unpenetrated and it is estimated that the potential market is significantly larger than the current market.
Management believes that the market willcontinue the trend towards advanced wound products with its ability to accelerate healing rates, reduce hospital stay times and cut the cost of clinician and nursing time as well as aftercare in the home.
Management estimates that Smith & Nephew had a 18% share of the advanced wound management market as at 31 December 2010.
Worldwide competitors in advanced wound management in 2010 include Convatec, Mlnlycke, Systagenix and Kinetic Concepts, who are active exclusively in the NPWT market.
2010Annual Report 9 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
