LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal proceedings, some of which include claims for substantial damages.
The outcome of these proceedings cannot readily be foreseen, but with the possible exception of those detailed below, management believes none of them willresult in a materialadverse effect on the financial position of the Group.
The Group provides foroutcomes that are deemed to be probable and can be reliably estimated.
There is no assurance that losses will not exceed the provision or will not have a significant impact on the Groups results of operations orfinancial condition in the period in which they are realised.
Product Liability Claims In August 2003, the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
A number of related claims have been filed, most of which have been settled.
The aggregate cost to date related to this matter is approximately $212m.
The Group has sought recovery fromits insurers.
To date the primary insurance carrier has paid $60m in full settlement of its policy liability.
An additional $22m was received from a successful legal settlement.
At 31 December 2010, at least $133m remains due, and the Group has sought coverage from five excess insurance carriers.
However, these excess carriers have denied coverage, citing defences relating to the wording of the insurance policies and other matters.
In December 2004, the Group brought suit against them in the US District Court for the Western District of Tennessee, and trialis expected to commence in 2012.
A charge of $154m was recorded in 2004 for anticipated expenses in connection with macrotexture claims.
Most of that amount has since been applied to settlements of such claims.
Management believes that the $20m provision remaining is adequate to cover remaining claims.
Given the uncertainty inherent in such matters, there can be no assurance on this point.
The Group faces other claims from time to time for alleged defects in its products and has on occasion recalled products to minimise risk of harmorclaims.
The Group maintains product liabilityinsurance subject to limitsand deductibles that management believes are reasonable.
Business Practice Investigations In March 2005 the US Attorneys Office in Newark, New Jersey issued subpoenas to the five largest sellers of hip and knee implants to US orthopaedic surgeons, including the Groups Orthopaedic business, asking for information regarding arrangements with orthopaedic reconstructive surgeons.
In September 2007, the Group and the other four companies involved settled the charges that could have resulted from this investigation, without admitting any wrongdoing as part of the settlement.
At the same time, the Group entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of the Inspector General OIG of the US Department of Health and Human Services which requires certain compliance efforts.
This agreement is in effect forfive years, until September 2012.
If the Group meets its terms, the OIG will not attempt to exclude it from receiving Medicare payments for its products.
The Group has devoted substantial effort to comply with this agreement and to enhance its  all of its business units.
In September 2007, the SEC notified the Group that it was conducting an informal investigation of companies in the medical devices industry, including the Group, regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA in connection with the sale of products in certain foreign countries.
The US Department of Justice subsequently joined the SECs request.
The Group is cooperating fully with the US Department of Justice and the SEC regarding these matters, has conducted a broader review on its own initiative, and has disclosed to them information indicating that at least one independent distributor of its products may have made payments that could have FCPA implications.
The Group is engaged in discussions to resolve these matters which might include a settlement by which the Group would pay certain amounts and submit to compliance reporting and oversight obligations.
There is no assurance that a settlement will be reached, however.
Intellectual Property Disputes The Group is engaged, as both plaintiff and defendant, in litigation with various competitors and others over claims of patent infringement and, in some cases, breach of licence agreement.
These disputes are being heard in courts in the United States and other jurisdictions and also before agencies that examine patents.
Outcomes are rarely certain and costs are often significant.
Since the Groups entry into the negative pressure wound therapy business in 2007, Kinetic Concepts, Inc. KCI has pursued claims of patent infringement against the Group in the US, UK, Germany and other jurisdictions.
In one case in the US District Court for the Western District of Texas a jury found that KCIs patents were valid but not infringed by the Group.
That ruling was upheld on appeal in February 2009.
In a subsequent case in the same court, relating to the Groups foam product, a jury concluded in March 2010 that KCIs asserted patents were valid and infringed.
But the court determined the relevant patent claims were invalid and entered judgement in favour of the 2010Annual Report 41 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
