GOVERNANCE AND POLICY Introduction The Board continues to be committed to the highest standards of Corporate Governance and this report together with the Directors Remuneration Report explains how the provisions and principles of the FSA Listing Rules, Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTR, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and the UK Corporate Governance Code the New Code have been applied throughout the year.
The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the NYSE and the Company is therefore subject to the rules of the NYSEas well as the USsecurities laws and the rules of the SECapplicable to foreign private issuers.
The Board considers that it has complied with all relevant provisions of the Code, the New Code, and the requirements of the SEC and NYSE throughout the year, except that the Nominations Committee is not comprised wholly of independent directors, as required by the NYSE, but consists of a majorityof independent directors in accordance with the Code.
With effect from the Annual General Meeting in 2011, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting in accordance with the New Code.
Whilst the remaining provisions of the New Code do not currently apply to the Company, the Board considers that it does comply with the provisions of the New Code except that, although the Chairman and entire Board have endorsed and approved this corporate government statement, none of our directors use any part of the annual report to make personal statements.
In accordance with the Code, the following paragraphs describe Smith & Nephews Corporate Governance policies and procedures and how it applies the mainPrinciples set out in section one of the Code.
The Board The Board of directors of Smith & Nephew consists of a non-executive Chairman, two executive directors and seven independent non-executive directors.
In 2010, the Board met on 10 occasions and individual attendance together with attendance at Board Committee meetings, is shown in the table on page 53.
In addition to formal Board meetings, informal telephone updates are held between Board meetings to ensure that directors are kept up to date with matters affecting the Group.
Genevive Berger and Ian Barlowjoined the Boardas independent non-executive directors on 5 March 2010.
On 10 February 2011, it was announced that Olivier Bohuon will be joining the Board as an Executive Director on 1 April 2011.
He will offer himself for re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and, subject to his re-appointment, will assume the position of Chief Executive Officer at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 14 April 2011.
David Illingworth will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
The Scope of the Board The Board is responsible for the strategic direction, overall management of the Group and the long-term success of the Company.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions which include the approval of certain policies, budgets, financing plans, large capital expenditure projects, acquisitions, divestments and treasury arrangements.
Otherwise, it delegates the executive management of the Group to the Chief Executive and certain specific responsibilities to Board Committees, as described on pages 50 to 53.
It reviews the key activities and performance of the businesses and considers and reviews the work undertaken by the Committees.
Succession planning is regularly reviewed and appropriate measures are taken to ensure the Board has the appropriate balance of skills and experience necessary for a major global medical devices company.
Non-executive directors meet regularly prior to each Board meeting without management in attendance.
The Senior Independent Director meets with the other non-executive directors annually to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is also responsible to the Board for ensuring that board and governance procedures are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Board members individually and Board Committees may obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, where they judge it necessary in order to fulfil their responsibilities as directors.
If directors are unable to attend a Board meeting or Board Committee meeting, they are advised of matters to be discussed and have an opportunity to make their views known to the Chairman or the Chairman of the relevant Committee priorto the meeting.
