DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors Remuneration Report the Report has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations and meets the relevant requirements of the Financial Services Authority FSA Listing Rules.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 14 April2011.
The Remuneration Committee Membership and Meetings The members of the Remuneration Committee are Rolf Stomberg Chairman Pamela Kirby, Brian Larcombe appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 7 September 2010, Joseph Papa and Richard fide Schutter.
Warren Knowlton also served as a member of the Remuneration Committee up to 6 May 2010, when he retired from the Board.
With effect from 14 April 2011, Rolf Stomberg will cease to be Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and will be replaced by Joseph Papa.
All members of the Committee are non-executive directors and are considered by the Board to be independent in accordance with the Combined Code, the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the SECand the NYSE.
The CompanySecretary acts as secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year and each meeting was attended by all members.
In addition, the Remuneration Committeeagreed on certain resolutions by e-mail when unable to meet physically.
At the request of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman, John Buchanan, the Chief Executive, David Illingworth and various members of the Human Resources function were invited to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
David Illingworth and the Human Resources function advise the Remuneration Committee on all aspects of the Groups reward structures and policies and John Buchanan offers a valuable perspective given his experience on the Boards of other companies.
None of these directors or officers is present forany discussion concerning their own remuneration.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee received information from a number of independent consultants appointed by the Company: Deloitte LLP on a broad range of remuneration issues and on long-term incentive plan comparative performance and Towers Watson and Mercer Limited on salary data when considering base salaries of executive directors and executive officers.
Deloitte LLP also provided taxation advice to the Group, while Towers Watson and Mercer Limited have provided general salary data and advised on various compensation matters below Boardlevel.
None of these advisors advised any director in respect of their own remuneration.
The Role of the Remuneration Committee The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committeeare available on the Groups website at www.
The Remuneration Committeereviews: The remuneration, including pension entitlements, of executive directors and executive officers: The relationship between the remuneration of executive directors and that of other employees: The competitiveness of executive remuneration using data from independent consultants on companies of similar size, technologies and international complexity: The performance targets forthe bonus plan and long-term incentive plans and the performance against these targets: and The operation of the long-term incentive plans, share option plans and performance related bonus plan, determining the participants and overall grant levels.
Remuneration Policy The remuneration policy as approved by the Remuneration Committee and the Board is designed to ensure that remuneration is sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate executive directors and executive officers of a calibre that meets the Groups needs to achieve its business objectives.
The policy is designed to ensure that remuneration is firmly linked with the success of the Group and achievement against the Groups key performance indicators, so that executive directors and executive officers are suitably incentivised to generate longterm and sustainable value forshareholders.
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for determining the individual remuneration packages for the executive directors and executive officers of the Company, as detailed on page 51 of this Annual Report.
In determining these remuneration packages, the Remuneration Committee has regard to the levels of pay and the structure of remuneration packages across the entire Group.
The shape of the remuneration packages for the executive directors and executive officers is broadly similar to the remuneration packages for other 2010Annual Report 59 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
