At the end of his period of employment, it is envisaged that David Illingworth will continue to be engaged by the Company in a consultancy capacity, advising and supporting Olivier Bohuon, on specific matters, as required.
It is initially expected that this consultancy arrangement will be in place for a period of six months to 10 February 2012 for a fee of $90,000 per quarter.
Such arrangement will be terminable on 30 days notice fromeither David Illingworth orthe Company.
Remuneration Terms for Olivier Bohuon On 10 February 2011, it was also announced that Olivier Bohuon would join the Board with effect from 1 April 2011 and would be appointed Chief Executive Officer at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 April 2011.
Olivier Bohuon will receive a base salary of 1,050,000 and will participate in the Annual Incentive Plan, the 2004 Performance Share Plan and the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan on the same basis as Adrian Hennah, his fellow executive director, as detailed elsewhere in this Directors Remuneration Report.
In addition, he will receive similar benefits and a contribution of 30% of his base pay into his pension arrangements.
He will be employed under a service contract with a notice period of twelve months from the Company and six months from Olivier Bohuon on the same basis as described below.
On leaving his previous employment, Olivier Bohuon is required to repay a cash amount and forfeit unvested restricted stock.
On joining the Company therefore, Olivier Bohuon will also receive a restricted stock award over 200,000 shares and a cash payment of 1,400,000 to enable him to repay the cash amount and to compensate him partially for the forfeited unvested shares.
The restricted stock award will not be subject to performance conditions and will vest in three equal tranches over a period of three years following the date of award, subject to continued employment.
In the event that he leaves the Company within 12 months of joining, he will be required to pay back the cash payment.
Service Contracts Details of the service contracts for each of the executive directors, including their notice periods, are set out below.
The notice period under executive directors service contracts is twelve months from the Company and six months from the executive director.
No payment will be made in the case of dismissal for cause.
On termination of the contract, the Company may require the executive director not to work his notice period and pay him an amount equivalent to the salary, pension and benefits he would have received had he been required to work his notice period.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to pay the executive director a proportion of the bonus he would have received had he been required to work his notice period.
This discretion will only be exercised in exceptional circumstances and the Remuneration Committee will take into account their policy of not rewarding failure and the executive director will be required, where possible, to mitigate the loss.
The Remuneration Committeemayalso enforce the non-compete clause in the executive directors contract.
Following a change of control, in the event that an executive directors employment is terminated or his responsibilities or duties are materially diminished, or there is a reduction in their overall salary and benefits package or a change in the location of his or her place of work within 12 months following such a change of control, the executive directors are entitled to receive 12 months base salary and 12 months bonus at target plus pension and benefits.
Date of Service Notice period from Executive director Contract EffectiveDate Expiry Date company David Illingworth 29 June 2007 1 July 2007 27 October 2015 12 months AdrianHennah 1 February 2006 1 June 2006 12 November 2019 12 months Executive directors may serve as a non-executive director of a maximum of one external company.
Such appointments are subject to the approval of the Nominations Committee and any fees earned are retained by the executive director.
Currently neither executive director holds such an appointment.
Adrian Hennah will be proposed for election to the Boards of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC at their Annual General Meetings to be held on 19 and 20 .
Non-Executive Directors Non-executive directors do not have service contracts but instead have letters of appointment.
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for terms of three years, terminable at will, without notice by either the Group or the director and without compensation.
The Chairman has a six month notice period.
The Nominations Committee determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors and aims to set fees that are competitive with other companies of equivalent size and complexity.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to receive awards under the Companys long term incentive plans and no part of their fees are paid in shares.
Non-executive director fees were reviewed and increased in May 2010.
Non-executive directors are paid a basic annual fee and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Ethics and Compliance Committees and the Senior Independent Director receive an extra fee in 2010Annual Report 66
