INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Smith & Nephew has a policy of protecting, with patents, the results of research and development carried out by the Group.
Patents have been obtained in a wide range of fields, including Orthopaedic reconstruction and trauma, clinical therapies, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
Patent protection for Group products is sought routinely in the Groups principalmarkets.
Currently, the Groups patent portfoliostands at approximately 4,000 patents in force and patent applications pending.
Smith & Nephew also has a policy of protecting the Groups products by registering trademarks under local laws of markets in which such products are sold.
The Group vigorously protects its trademarks against infringement.
Currently, the Groups trademark portfolio consists of approximately 4,000 trademarks, trademark applications and design rights.
For each major product, Smith & Nephews goal is to provide a collection of intellectual property, which may include patents, trade secrets and licences, that reduces the risk associated with failure of any individual piece of intellectual property.
Most individual pieces of intellectual property protect a relatively small proportion of the Groups annual revenue.
As a result, the Group tries to ensure that its overall business is not sensitive to the loss however caused of any single piece of intellectual property.
In addition to protecting its market position by filing and enforcing patents and trademarks, Smith & Nephew may oppose third party patents and trademark filings where appropriate in those areas that might conflict with the Groups business interests.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group enters into a number of licensing arrangements with respect to its products.
None of these arrangements individually is considered materialto the current operations and the financial results of the Group.
REGULATION The international medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that should be allotted to such development.
National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the design, development, approval, manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare products.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products.
Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that products be authorised or registered prior to manufacture, marketing or sale and that such authorisation or registration be subsequently maintained.
The major regulatory agencies for Smith & Nephews products include the Food and Drug Administration FDA in the US, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK, the Ministryof Health, Labourand Welfare in Japan and the State Foodand Drug Administrationin China.
The trend is towards more effective regulation and higher standards of technical appraisal.
In the US, many of the Groups products are brought to market following pre-market notification to the FDA under Section 510 k of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, with a request that FDA clear the product as being substantially equivalent in terms of safety and effectiveness to a previously approved device.
The FDA is considering changes in the 510 k clearance process that might delay or modify the path to clearance in some circumstances.
Regulatory requirements may also entail inspections for compliance with appropriate standards, including those relating to Quality Management Systems or Good Manufacturing Practices regulations.
All manufacturing and other significant facilities within the Group are subject to regular internal audit forcompliancewith national and Group medical device regulation and policies.
Payment for medical devices is governed by reimbursement tariff agencies in various countries.
Reimbursement rates may be set in response to perceived economic value of the devices, based on clinical and other data relating to cost, patient outcomes and comparative effectiveness.
They may also be affected by overall government budgetary considerations.
The Group believes that its emphasis on innovative products and services should contribute to success in this environment.
Management believes that the Groups operations currently comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
Although the Group continues to make capital expenditures for environmental compliance, it is not currently aware of any significant expenditure that would be required as a result of such laws and regulations that would have a material adverse impact upon the Groups financial position.
