Liquidity The Groups policy is to ensure that it has sufficient funding and facilities in place to meet foreseeable borrowing requirements.
In December 2010 the Group reviewed and replaced its principal banking facilities ahead of their maturity in May 2012.
The Group has reduced its $1,000m 5 year term loan to $500m with effect from 20 December 2010.
Smith & Nephew has also cancelled its $1,500m multi-currency revolving loan facilityand replaced it with a new 5 year $1,000mmulti-currency revolving loan facility.
At 31 December 2010, the Group held $207m 2009 $192m, 2008 $145m in cash and balances at bank.
The Group has committed and uncommitted facilities of $1,511m and $332m respectively.
Of the undrawn committed facilities totalling $884m, $7m expires in 2011 and $877m after two but within five years.
Smith & Nephew intends to repay the amounts due within one year by using available cash and drawing down on the longer-term facilities.
In addition, Smith & Nephew has finance lease commitments of $22m of which $10m extends beyond five years.
The principal variations in the Groups borrowing requirements result from the timing of dividend payments, acquisitions and disposals of businesses, the share buy-back programme announced as suspended in November 2008, timing of capital expenditure and working capital fluctuations.
Smith & Nephew believes that its capital expenditure needs and its working capital funding for 2011, as well as its other known or expected , can be met fromits existing resources and facilities.
The Groups planned future contributions are considered adequate to cover the current under funded position in the Groups defined benefit plans.
Further disclosure regarding borrowings, related covenants and the liquidity risk exposures is set out in Note 19 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
The Group believes that its borrowing facilities do not contain restrictions that would have significant impact on its funding or investment policyforthe foreseeable future.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Description of the Group section on pages 3 to 21.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Business Review, Liquidity and Prospects section set out on pages 23 to 40.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidityrisk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and its customers and suppliers are diversified across different geographic areas.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully despite the ongoing uncertain economicoutlook.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence forthe foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis foraccounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Payment Policies It is the Groups and Companys policy to ensure that suppliers are paid within agreed terms.
At the year-end the Company had no trade creditors.
