to review the Groups external communication and reporting in respect of ethics and compliance programmes and the operation of the Committee: to review the integration of ethics and complianceprocedures with the business risk management programme:and to review and approve ethics and compliancestrategy and plans.
During the year, the Ethics and : monitoredthe continued roll-outof the Enhanced Global ComplianceProgramme: reviewed progress in enhancing precautions with regard to third party sellers: received reports from management in relation to progress made under the Enhanced Global Compliance Programme, the activities of the USand Global  concerns raised through the Groups hotline and other channels: and considered the impact of the UK BriberyAct.
Board and Committee Attendance The table below details attendance of directors at Boardand Committeemeetings held throughout the year: Ethics and Remuneration Audit Nominations Compliance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 10 meetings 4 meetings 5 meetings 8 meetings 4 meetings John Buchanan 10 - - 8 - David J. Illingworth 10 - - 8 - AdrianHennah 10 - - - - Ian Barlow i 8 - 3 - - Genevive B. Berger i 8 - - - - PamelaJ.
Kirby 10 4 - - 4 Brian Larcombe ii 10 2 5 - - Warren D. Knowlton iii 2 1 3 - - Joseph C. Papa iv 9 4 5 - 4 Richard fide Schutter 10 4 5 8 4 RolfW.
H. Stomberg iv 8 4 5 8 - i Joined the Board on5 March 2010. ii Appointed tothe Remuneration Committee on7 September 2010. iii Resigned fromthe Board on6 May2010 iv Attended allscheduled meetings and wasunable toattend somemeetings arranged atshortnotice because ofpriorcommitments.
From time to time directors also attend Committee Meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman even if they are not members of the Committeein order to gain a better understanding of the activities of the Committee.
Liaison with Shareholders The executive directors meet regularly with investors to discuss the Companys business and financial performance both at the time of the announcement of results and at industry investor events.
During 2010, the executive directors held meetings with institutional investors, including investors representing approximately 54% of the share capital as at December 2010.
As part of this programme of investor meetings, during 2010, John Buchanan, the Chairman, met with investors representing 11% of the share capital.
Over the last three years, he has met investors representing in aggregate 35% of the share capital.
com contains information of interest to both institutional investors and private shareholders, including financial information and webcasts of the results presentations to analysts for each quarter, as well as specific information for private shareholders relating to the management of their shareholding.
2010Annual Report 53 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
