THE BUSINESS HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT Group Strategy Smith & Nephews overall vision is to help improve people's lives by repairing and healing the human body.
To achieve this, the Group is focused on continued delivery of sustainable profitable growth, through four strategic pillars: Customerled: outperformingour served markets by focusing on our customers: anticipating and innovating to deliver on their needs.
Efficient: delivering operating margin improvement and freeing up resources to invest in the business, through streamlining process and systems re-engineering.
Investing for growth: driving additional sales fromnew opportunities such as emerging markets, biologicsand adjacent technologies.
Aligned: aligning objectives across the business and developing our talent and organisation for consistent execution, through leveraging core functions and sharing best practices.
Group History The Group has a history dating back over 150 years to the family enterprise of Thomas James Smith who opened a small pharmacy in Hull, England in 1856.
On his death in 1896, his nephew Horatio Nelson Smithtook over the management of the business.
By the late 1990s, Smith & Nephew had expanded into being a diverse healthcare conglomerate with operations across the globe, including various medical devices, personal care products and traditional and advanced woundcare treatments.
In 1998, Smith&Nephew announced a major restructuring to focus management attention and investment on three global business units advanced wound management, endoscopy and orthopaedics which offered high growth and marginopportunities.
Smith & Nephew was incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1937 and in 1999 the Group was also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
In 2001, Smith & Nephew became a constituent member of the FTSE-100 index in the UK.
This means that Smith & Nephew is included in the top 100 companies traded on the LondonStockExchange measured in terms of market capitalisation.
Today, Smith&Nephew is a public  and headquartered in the UK and carries out business around the world.
Recent Developments On 10 February 2011, the Group announced that David Illingworth will retire from the Board and as Chief Executive, at the Annual General Meeting on 14 April 2011.
It was also announced that Olivier Bohuon will join the Board as an executive director on 1 April 2011.
He will offer himself for re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and, subject to his re-appointment, shall assume the position of Chief Executive Officer at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 14 April2011.
In December 2010, the Group reviewed and replaced its principal banking facilities ahead of their maturity in May 2012.
The Group has reduced its $1 billion 5 year term loan to $500 million with effect from 20 December 2010.
Smith & Nephew has also cancelled its $1.5  revolving loan facilityand replaced it with a new 5-year $1  revolving loan facility.
BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Organisation Smith & Nephew is organised into three primary Global Business Units GBUs, which are also our reporting segments: Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
Included within the Orthopaedics segment are our biologics activities, which comprise research and development projects under the direction of a  all GBUs.
Smith & Nephew operates on a worldwide basis and has distribution channels in over 90 countries.
In the more established countries by revenue, the Groups business operations are organised by GBU.
In the majority of the remaining markets, operations are managed by country managers who are responsible forsales and distribution of the Groups product range.
These comprisethe emerging markets unit.
A head office team in London, England directs the overall business and supports the business units, primarily in the areas of business development, legal, companysecretarial, finance, human resources and investor relations.
