Richard fide Schutter, Independent non-executive director.
Richard was appointed a director in January 2001 and is Chairman of the Ethics and Compliance Committee and a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
He is non-executive Chairman of Incyte Corporation and a non-executive director of Navicure Inc. and Slate Pharmaceuticals.
Subject to his re-appointment by the shareholders, he will be appointed Senior Independent Director and cease to be Chairman of the Ethics and Compliance Committee on 14 April2011.
Dr. Rolf W. H. Stomberg, Independent non-executive director and Senior Independent Director.
Rolf was appointed a director in 1998 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
He is Chairman of Lanxess AG and a non-executive director of Hoyer GmbH, Biesterfeld AG and Severstal OAO.
He will cease to be Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committeeon 14 April2011.
Executive Officers The Chief Executive of Smith & Nephew and other senior executives are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
In addition to the executive directors, the followingare executive officers of Smith&Nephew: Naseem Amin, Chief Scientific Officer.
Naseem joined the Group in 2009 prior to which he held a number of senior business development and research posts, most recently SeniorVP of Business Development at Biogen Idec.
Mark Augusti, President of Biologics & Clinical Therapies.
Mark joined the Group in 2003 as Vice President of Global Marketing for the Trauma Division, became President of Orthopaedic Trauma and Clinical Therapies in February 2006 and was appointed to his current role in January 2008.
He previously worked for GE Medical Systems in the US and Asia.
In 2009 Mark was also appointed to the board of Hutchinson Technology Inc. as an independent director.
John W. Campo, Chief Legal Officer.
Jack joined the Group in June 2008.
Prior to joining the Group he was employed by General Electric Companyfor14 years in a variety of roles, including seven years with GE Healthcare successor to GE Medical Systems in the USand Asia.
Joseph DeVivo, President of Orthopaedics.
Joe joined the Group in June 2007 as President of Orthopaedic Reconstruction and was appointed to his current role in May 2008.
Prior to joining the Group, he held senior executive positions with RITA Medical Systems Inc. Computer MotionInc.
and United States Surgical, a division of Tyco Healthcare.
Michael Frazzette, President of Endoscopy.
Mike joined the Group as President of Endoscopy in July 2006.
Previously he was President and Chief Executive Officer of a US manufacturer of medical devices and spent 15 years at Tyco Healthcare becoming President of the Patient Care, THC Canada and Health Systems divisions.
R. Gordon Howe, Senior Vice President Global Planning and Development.
Gordon joined the Group in 1998, and served in planning and business development roles in the Orthopaedics division.
He was appointed to his current role in August 2007.
Prior to joining the Group, he held management positions with United Technologies Corporation.
Kelvin Johnson, National Executive of China President of Emerging Markets.
Kelvin joined the Group in 1980 and has held a number of key roles within Smith & Nephew.
His role as President of Emerging Markets was expanded during 2010 to lead the Groups increased focus in China.
Priorto joining Smith&Nephew, Kelvin worked at the FordMotorCompany.
Roger Teasdale, President of Advanced Wound Management.
Roger joined the Group in 1989 and has held a number of key roles in businesses within Smith & Nephew, most recently as Senior Vice President of Advanced Wound Management.
Roger was appointed to his current role on 1 May 2009.
Company Secretary Susan Henderson, Company Secretary.
Susan joined the Group in May 2009, prior to which she held a number of senior company secretarial positions at Amershamplc and Prudential plc.
2010Annual Report 47 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
