The Role of Individual Directors Whilst the Chairman and Chief Executive collectively are responsible for the leadership of the Group, there is a clear division of respective responsibilities which has been agreed by the Board.
The Chairmans primary responsibility is leading the Board including setting its agenda and ensuring its effectiveness, by encouraging constructive challenge.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the performance, management and supervision of the Group in accordance with the strategy, policies, budgets and business plans approved by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is currently Rolf Stomberg, whose role includes consulting with members of the Board on issues relating to the Chairman and chairing meetings of the Nominations and Audit Committee in the absence of the Chairman or Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of contact with the Chairman or Chief Executive.
Rolf Stomberg will cease to be the Senior Independent Director on 14 April 2011, when Richard fide Schutter will, subject to his re-appointment by shareholders, be appointed in his place.
The role of the independent non-executive directors is to provide constructive challenge and to help develop proposals on strategy.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors The Board has determined that all the non-executive directors are independent in accordance with UK and US requirements.
None of the non-executive directors or their immediate families has ever had a material relationship with the Group either directly as an employee or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation that has a relationship with the Group.
They do not receive additional remuneration apart from directors fees, do not participate in the Groups share option plans or performance related pay schemes, and are not members of the Groups pension schemes nor do they serve as a director of a company or an affiliate in which any other director of Smith & Nephew is a director.
The Board recognises that a number of the independent non-executive directors have served on the Board for a period of time that might be considered to impact on their independence.
The Board has thoroughly considered the independence of each of these long serving directors Rolf Stomberg, Richard fide Schutter, Pamela Kirby and Brian Larcombe and has concluded that each continues to provide effective challenge both within and outside Board meetings.
In 2010, Ian Barlow and Genevive Berger were appointed non-executive directors on 5 March 2010, and the search for additional directors continued throughout 2010 and into 2011.
It is intended that as and when new directors are appointed and have spent some time settling into the Company, some of the longer serving non-executive directors will step down.
The Board believes that to provide continuity, it is useful for some non-executive directors to remain on the Board to assist in the period of transition.
Management of Conflicts of Interest None of the directors or their connected persons has any family relationship with any other director or officer nor has a material interest in any contract to which the Companyorany of its subsidiaries are orwere a party during the year orup to 23 February 2011.
Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the existing duty that a director owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
The Companys articles of association permit directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and to approve such situations.
Directors inform the Board of any situations which may give rise to a conflict of interest as they arise and this information is recorded in the Companys Register of Conflicts together with the date on which authorisation was given.
On an annual basis, directors certify that the information contained in the register is correct.
The Board has a procedure when deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest.
Firstly, only directors who have no interest in the matter under consideration are able to take the relevant decision.
Secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
In addition, the directors may impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
During the year, one director identified situations which could give rise to conflicts of interest.
Each of these situations was authorised by the Board, although no actual conflicts were identified.
Re-appointment of Directors Under the Companys articles of association, any director who has been appointed by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting of shareholders, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director, holds office only until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at which they are eligible for re-appointment by the shareholders.
In accordance with the New Code, with effect from the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2011, all directors will retire with effect from the conclusion of each Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election at that meeting.
However, David Illingworth will not seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 April2011.
The directors are subject to removal with orwithout cause by the Boardorthe shareholders.
2010Annual Report 49 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
