iii Adjustedearningsper ordinaryshare Growth in adjusted earnings per ordinary shares EPSA is another measure which presents the trend growth in the long-term profitability of the Group.
EPSAis not a recognised measure under IFRS and is therefore a non-GAAP financial measure.
EPSA excludes the same impact of specific transactions or events that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability as set out and discussed in the section on trading profit above, including the material limitations of such measures.
A reconciliation of adjusted attributable profit, which represents the numerator used in the EPSA calculation, to attributable profit is presented in Business Overview on page 26. iv Tradingcash flow and tradingprofitto cash conversionratio Growth in trading cash flow and improvement in the trading profit to cash conversion ratio are measures which present the trend growth in the long-term cash generation of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions or events that management considers affect the Groups short-term performance.
Trading cash flow is defined as cash generated from operations less net capital expenditure but before acquisition related cash flows, restructuring and rationalisation cash flows and cash flows arising from legal disputes and uninsured losses.
Trading profit to cash conversion ratio is trading cash flow expressed as a percentage of trading profit.
The nature and material limitations of these adjusting items are discussed in the sections above.
The Group presents these measures to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
The Groups internal financial reporting budgets, monthly reporting, forecasts, long-term planning and incentive plans focuses on cash generation before these items.
Trading cash flow and trading profit to cash conversion ratio are not recognised measures under IFRS and are therefore considered non-GAAP financial measures.
Areconciliationof trading cash flowto cash generated fromoperations is presented in Business Overview on page 27.
The material limitation of this measure is that it could exclude significant cash flows that have had a direct impact on the current and prior years financial performance of the Group.
It does not, therefore, measure the financial performance of the Group presented by the GAAP measure of cash generated from operations.
The Group considers that no single measure enables it to assess financial performance and therefore it compensates for the limitation of the trading cash flow measure by considering it in conjunction with the GAAPequivalents.
Cash flows excluded relate to irregular events or transactions including acquisition related costs, restructuring and rationalisation costs and cash flows arising fromlegal disputes and uninsured losses.
Presentation The Groups fiscal year end is 31 December.
References in this Annual Report to a particular year are to the fiscal year unless otherwise indicated.
Except as the context otherwise requires, Ordinary Share or share refer to the Ordinary Shares of Smith & Nephew plc of 20 UScents each.
The results of the Group, as reported in US Dollars, are affected by movements in exchange rates between US Dollars and other currencies.
The Group applied the average exchange rates prevailing during the year to translate the results of companies with functional currency other than US Dollars.
The currencies which most influenced these translations in the years covered by this report were Sterling, Swiss Franc and the Euro.
The Group Accounts of Smith & Nephew in this Annual Report are presented in US Dollars.
Solely for the convenience of the reader, certain parts of this Annual Report contain translations of amounts in US Dollars into Sterling at specified rates.
These translations should not be construed as representations that the US Dollar amounts actually represent such Sterling amounts or could be converted into Sterling at the rate indicated.
Except as where stated otherwise, the translation of US Dollars and cents to Sterling and pence appearing in this Annual Report has been made at the Bank of England exchange rate on the date indicated.
On 23 February 2011, the Bank of England rate was US$1.6238per 1.
The Accounts of the Group in this Annual Report are presented in millions m unless otherwise indicated.
