smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:21 Page 60 Board of directors 1 5 2 6 3 7 4 8 60 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:21 Page 61 1 Donald Brydon, CBE 5 Stuart Chambers # # Chairman Non-executive director Aged 65.
Donald Brydon was appointed to the Board in April Aged 54.
Stuart Chambers was appointed to the Board in 2004, becoming Chairman in September 2004.
He is Chairman of Royal November 2006.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Pilkington plc and Mail Holdings plc.
He had a 20-year career with Barclays Group, during then Group Chief Executive of Nippon Sheet Glass until September 2009. which time he was Chairman and Chief Executive of BZW Investment Prior to joining Pilkington plc in 1996, he spent ten years at Mars Management, followed by 10 years with the AXA Group.
He was also Corporation, latterly as Vice President, Sales & Marketing Mars formerly Chairman of the London Metal Exchange and of Amersham Electronics International.
A chemical engineer by training, he previously plc, and a director of Allied Domecq plc and Scottish Power plc.
He is spent ten years at Shell in a variety of European roles.
He is a nonChairman of the David Rattray Memorial Trust UK.
executive director of Tesco plc and of Manchester Airport Group plc.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
2 Philip Bowman 6 Anne Quinn, CBE # Chief Executive Non-executive director Aged 57.
Philip Bowman was appointed Chief Executive in Aged 59.
Anne Quinn was appointed to the Board as a December 2007.
He previously held the positions of Chief Executive at non-executive director in August 2009.
She worked for BP in the UK, Scottish Power from early 2006 until mid 2007 and Chief Executive at USA, Belgium and Colombia and held a number of positions, including Allied Domecq between 1999 and 2005.
He is currently the senior Group Vice President of Gas and Natural Gas Liquids.
She has also been independent director of Burberry Group plc.
Past board appointments a managing director of the energy private equity group, Riverstone LLP.
include British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, Scottish & Newcastle Group She was a non-executive director of BOC and is currently a nonplc and Coles Myer Limited as well as Chairman of Liberty plc and Coral executive director of Mondi plc.
She also serves on the Presidents Eurobet plc.
His earlier career includes five years as a director of Bass Advisory Committee to the Sloan School, MIT.
plc now Mitchells & Butler plc and Intercontinental Hotel Group plc, 7 Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG where he held the roles of Chief Financial Officerand subsequentlyChief # Non-executive director Executive of Bass Taverns.
Sir Kevin Tebbit was appointed to the Board in June 3 Peter Turner 2006.
He served widely in policy, management and finance posts in the Finance Director Foreign & Commonwealth Office, NATO and finally the Ministry of Aged 40.
Peter Turner was appointed an executive director of Defence, where he was Permanent Under-Secretary of State from July the Board in April 2010 and, after a brief handover period, become 1998 to his retirement in November 2005.
He is Chairman of Finance Director in June 2010.
He was Finance Director of Venture Finmeccanica UK and Chairman of the Defence Advisory Group to the Production plc from 2007 until its acquisition by Centrica plc in 2009.
He UKTI Defence and Security Organisation.
He is also Visiting Professor at spent the previous 11 years at the BOC Group plc where he held a Queen Mary, University of London.
number of senior finance posts including Director of Taxation and 8 Bruno Angelici Treasury, and Finance Director of the groups largest division.
He # Non-executive Director qualified as a Chartered Accountant whilst working for Aged 63.
Bruno Angelici was appointed to the Board as a .
He pursued a 20-year career with 4 David Challen, CBE AstraZeneca plc before retiring in 2009 as Executive Vice President, # Non-executive director International, after holding responsibility for its national operations in Aged 67.
David Challen was appointed to the Board in France and then in Japan.
Prior to this he held a number of senior September2004.
 European Investment management roles during a decade at Baxter.
He currently sits on the Bank and former Chairman of J Henry Schroder & Co Ltd.
He is senior Supervisory Board of Wolters Kluwer, a Dutch-based information  plc.
Heis alsoDeputyChairman services and publishing company, and is Chairman of the Supervisory of the Takeover Panel.
Board of Reims Management School.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Senior Independent Director Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee # Nomination Committee 61 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview
