smi ar10 middle aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:32 Page 72 Statement from the independent non-executive directors The Corporate governance statement sets out the Companys compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
As that statement makes clear, the Board believes that good governance is about more than adherence to the Code, or to its successor, the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The financial crisis and its consequences have made clearer than ever that boards of directors, and independent non-executive directors in particular, have a duty to scrutinise and challenge proposals made by executive management, to ensure that the balance of risk and reward has been properly considered in all significant business decisions.
At Smiths the Board is committed to ensuring that good governance systems and processes are in place and effective throughout the Group to promote sound decision making and a culture of doing business the right way.
The non-executive directors provide constructive challenge, and bring independence and different skills, perspectives and experience to the decision making process.
When Peter Jackson retired from the Board in November last year, I was pleased to take on the role of Senior Independent Director.
I aim to continue the work, championed by Peter and supported by all the non-executive directors, of providing critical yet constructive engagement with executive management on the key issues affecting the Company.
As set out in the statement from the non-executive directors in last years Annual Report, a number of structured processes exist throughout the Company to support good governance.
All the non-executive directors are members of all the principal Board Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration, which gives each of them insight into a cross-section of important areas, and informs Board discussions.
Accordingly, when Mr Angelici joined the Board on 1 July 2010, he also joined the three committees with immediate effect.
Mr Angelici brings a wealth of international management experience to the Board and the committees, as well as in depth knowledge of the health care industry.
Below Board level the structures and processes described in last years Annual Report, including the Executive Committee and the Divisional Boards remain in place and continue to work well.
The non-executive directors hear directly from the General Managers of each division at least twice a year at Board Meetings and more often when a specific issue relating to a particular division is under review by the Board.
Each Divisional General Manager also presents a detailed report to the Audit Committee once a year setting out the principal risks facing his division and the steps in place to manage those risks.
Where the Audit Committee or Board has follow up questions, or the non-executive directors require further information of any description, this is provided promptly and time is set aside for further review and discussion at subsequent meetings if required.
A key role for the non-executive directors is the review of the strategy and portfolio management of the Company.
At least once a year the Board has an extended meeting at one of the Companys manufacturing facilities.
As well as receiving detailed presentations on various aspects of the business, these visits provide the non-executive directors with opportunities for more informal discussions with a cross-section of staff.
The Board uses these extended meetings to take an in-depth look at the strategy for the relevant division and the rest of the Company.
The non-executive directors are regularly updated on shareholder views.
Following analyst or investor meetings with executive management or the Chairman, detailed briefings are circulated to the Board, including verbatim comments and feedback from those present.
The Board discusses issues raised by investors and takes soundings from the Companys external advisors on market perception of the Company and current issues.
As the Senior Independent Director, I regard myself as always available to shareholders.
All the non-executive directors are aware of our responsibilities and accountability to shareholders for our part in the leadership of the Company.
All the directors will be standing for annual re-election at this years Annual General Meeting in November, as agreed by the Board in July 2009.
This gives shareholders the opportunity, if they so choose, to provide feedback on our individual performance on an annual basis.
Performance evaluation is taken seriously by the non-executive directors and the Board as a whole.
Whilst appraisal is an ongoing process throughouttheyear, a  conductedeachyear.
This yeartheevaluation is basedon theresponsesto a , with separate sections on the functioning of the Board and each of the committees and the performance of each director.
At my request, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, additional detailed feedback has also been compiled on the Audit Committee, in order to collate views and shape future practice in areas such as the Committees oversight of risk.
As the Senior Independent Director, I am also responsible for the review of the Chairmans performance which utilises the responses to the questionnaire, in addition to feedback from discussion with the other directors, to help shape the Chairmans approach in the current financial year.
The independent non-executive directors are satisfied that the Companys corporate governance controls have been effective throughout the financial year ended 31 July 2010.
David Challen Senior Independent Director The Chairman is not a member of the Audit Committee, in accordance with the Code C. 3.1 and the Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee, but is invited to attend meetings.
72 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010
