smi ar10 middle aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:32 Page 62 Group directors report Principal activities The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group are and, during the year ended 31 July 2010, were the development, manufacture, sale and support of: advanced security equipment, including trace detection, millimetre-wave, infrared, biological detection and diagnostics, that detect and identify explosives, narcotics, weapons, chemical agents, biohazards and contraband: mechanical seals, seal support systems, engineered bearings, power transmission couplings, specialist filtration systems and other hardware for the oil and gas, chemical, pharmaceutical, pulp and paper and mining sectors: medical devices aligned to specific therapies, principally airway, pain and temperature management, infusion, needle protection, critical care monitoring and vascular access: specialised electronic and radio frequency products that connect, protect and control critical systems for the global wireless telecommunications, aerospace, defence, space, medical, rail, test and industrial markets: and engineeredcomponents includingducting, hoseassemblies andheatingelements  fortheaerospace, medical, industrial, construction and domestic markets.
The main manufacturing operations are in the UK, the Americas, Continental Europe and China.
Business review future development research and development The business review on pages 11 to 59 is incorporated by reference, forming part of this Directors report.
This is a review of the development and performance of the business of the Group, including the financial performance during the financial year ended 31 July 2010: key performance indicators: and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
It also includes information on likely future developments and activities in the field of research and development.
The cautionary statement set out on the inside front cover of this Annual Report forms part of this Annual Report and is incorporated by reference into the business review.
Results and dividends The results for the financial year ended 31 July 2010 are set out in the Consolidated income statement.
Sales for the year amounted to 2,770m 2009: 2,665m.
The profit for the year after taxation amounted to 310.6m 2009: 270.0m.
An interim dividend of 10.5p per ordinary share of 37.5p was paid on 23 April 2010.
The directors recommend for payment on 19 November 2010 a final cash dividend of 23.5p per ordinary share of 37.5p, making a total dividend of 34.0p for the financial year.
The retained profit of 310.6m was transferred to Reserves.
Changes in the Company and its interests during the financial year On 19 October 2009 the Company acquired the business and assets of Channel Microwave for US$6.0m in cash.
On 17 November 2009 the Company adopted new Articles of Association.
On 6 April 2010 the Company acquired all the issued share capital of Interconnect Devices, Inc. for US$187.9m in cash.
On 5 May 2010 the Company closed a euro-denominated bond offering totalling 300 million in Senior Notes.
The Notes have a seven year maturity and were priced at a fixed coupon of 4.125%.
On 7 July 2010 the Company announced that it had agreed a 10 year funding plan with both the trustees of the Smiths Industries Pension Scheme and the trustees of the TI Group Pension Scheme.
Post balance sheet events There have been no disclosable post balance sheet events.
Charitable and political donations During the financial year the Company made donations of 520,000 for charitable purposes.
This comprised payments totalling 300,000 to the Institute of Child Health, in sponsorship of the Smiths Medical Professor of Anaesthesia and Critical Care and the Portex Anaesthesia, Intensive Care and Respiratory Unit, and other donations made by the Companys businesses worldwide to miscellaneous charities.
No political donations were made.
Directors Messrs P. Bowman: D. H. Brydon, CBE: D. J. Challen, CBE: and S. J.
Chambers: Ms A. C. Quinn, CBE: and Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG, all served throughout the year.
Mr P. A. Turner was appointed as an executive director on 19 April 2010 and became Finance Director on 1 June 2010.
Mr B. F. J. Angelici was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 July 2010.
Mr P. J. Jackson retired as a non-executive director on 17 November 2009 and Mr J. Langston retired as Finance Director on 31 May 2010.
Reappointment of directors Mr Angelici and Mr Turner will retire from office at the Annual General Meeting AGM in accordance with Article 49 1.
Mr Angelici and Mr Turner are each willing and eligible to stand for election and resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to elect them.
Messrs Bowman, Brydon, Challen and Chambers: Ms Quinn: and Sir Kevin Tebbit will all retire voluntarily from office at the AGM and will seek re-election.
Separate resolutions to re-elect each of them as a director of the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
Directors remuneration report The Directors remuneration report is on pages 73 to 81.
An ordinary resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
62 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 middle aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:32 Page 63 Directors interests in contracts Details of the executive directors service contracts are as disclosed in the service contracts section of the Directors remuneration report on pages 78 and 79.
Details of the interests of the executive directors in the Companys share option schemes and plans are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 80 and 81.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 have remained in force for the directors during the financial year ended 31 July 2010 and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the current directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or may have incurred to third parties in the course of their professional duties.
Apart from the exceptions referred to above, no director had an interest in any contract to which the Company or its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
Interests in voting rights As at 25 September 2010 the Company had been notified, pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its issued share capital: Percentage of issued ordinary share No.
of shares capital BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited 38.8m 9.9% Legal & General Group plc 15.4m 3.9% Massachusetts Financial Services Company 19.1m 4.9% Newton Investment Management Limited 15.2m 3.9% Percentage of ordinary share capital in issue on 25 September 2010.
The interests of the directors, their families and any connected persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report on page 78.
Corporate governance statement The Corporate governance statement is on pages 67 to 71 and is incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
 LLP has reviewed the Companys statements as to compliance with the June 2008 issue of the Combined Code, to the extent required by the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
The results of its review are set out in the Independent auditors report on page 83.
Financial instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group: the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which hedge accounting is used: and the exposure of the Group to foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, financial credit risk and liquidity risk is outlined in note 21 of the Group accounts.
Going concern The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 11 to 59.
The financial position of the company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 48 to 50.
In addition, the notes to the accounts include the companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
At 31 July 2010 the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 660m which are due to expire in 2012 unless otherwise extended or reviewed.
Whilst these facilities have certain financial covenants they are not expected to prevent full utilisation of the facilities if required.
This, together with the maturity profile of debt, provides confidence that the Group has sufficient financial resources for the foreseeable future.
As a consequence,  well placedto manageits business  which increases risk and uncertainties see pages 52 to 54.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts of the company and the group.
Policy on payment of creditors The Companys policy and practice is to pay creditors including suppliers promptly in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The average time taken to pay an invoice was 31 days 2009: 28 for the parent Company and 36 days 2009: 31 for the Group as a whole.
Share capital and control As at 31 July 2010, the Companys issued share capital was 146,523,016.125 and comprised 390,728,043 ordinary shares of 37.5p each nominal value ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive theCompanys reports and accounts:to attendandspeakat GeneralMeetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carries any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares.
There are no arrangements of which the directors are aware under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements or restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Company operates an employee benefit trust, with an independent trustee, to hold shares pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Companys share schemes and plans.
On 31 July 2010 the trust held 32,858 ordinary shares in the Company.
The trust waives all but 0.1p per share of each dividend entitlement on its holding and abstains from voting the shares at general meetings.
The table on page 63 sets out the notifications received by the Company pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules, as at 25 September 2010, from persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Companys share capital.
63 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 middle aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:32 Page 64 Group directors report continued The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
New Articles of Association were approved by the Company in general meeting on 17 November 2009.
These were adopted primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act which came into force on 1 October 2009 and the implementation in the UK of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009.
The powers of the directors are determined by English law and the Articles of Association of the Company in force from time to time.
The directors have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 5.
The directors have authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
The powers to issue and allot shares and, subject to specified limits, to allot shares on a non pre-emptive basis, are referred to the shareholders at the AGM each year for renewal.
At the AGM the shareholders are also requested to renew the power to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
Any ordinary shares so purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury.
The Company has in place credit facility agreements under which a change in control would trigger prepayment clauses and has bonds in issue the terms of which would allow bondholders to exercise put options and require the Company to buy back the bonds at their principal amount plus interest if a rating downgrade occurs at the same time as a change of control takes effect.
The Companys share schemes and plans contain clauses which may cause options and awards to vest on a change in control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions at that time.
The Company is not party to any other significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
If there is a change in control of the Company prior to 10 December 2010, the terms of Mr Bowmans service contract allow him, at any time during the three months following the change in control, to resign and treat himself as redundant.
In this event, i Mr Bowman would be entitled to receive the sum payable on a Company-elected termination of his employment, as described on page 78, save that his bonus entitlement for the period from the start of the bonus year in which the termination falls to the end of any unserved notice period would be a minimum of 75% of base salary less any amount already paid to him in respect of the bonus year and ii all available discretions will be exercised under the Companys share schemes and in default the Company must indemnify Mr Bowman for the value of any awards that do not vest on the change in control.
No other director or employee is contractually entitled to compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a change in control except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a change in control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions at that time.
Purchase of shares No shares were purchased by the Company during the financial year ended 31 July 2010.
Corporate responsibility The Company has Group policies on environmental, health and safety matters and operates a Code of Business Ethics.
The Company seeks to minimise, as far as is reasonably practicable, any detrimental effects on the environment of its operations and products.
The Group HR director has responsibility for environmental, health and safety matters, which are subject to preventative, investigatory and consultative systems, overseen by the Group Environment, Health and Safety Committee, and reports regularly to the Board on these matters.
Issues relevant to the Company pension schemes are likewise covered by means of structured committees, including representation from recognised trade unions.
Further information on environmental, employee and health and safety matters, including key performance indicators, is contained in the Corporate responsibility summary in the business review on pages 55 to 59.
The full Corporate responsibility report is available online at www.
Annual General Meeting The 2010 AGM will be held at The Thomas Lord Suite, Lords Cricket Ground, Grace Gate, St Johns Wood Road, London NW8 8QN on Tuesday 16 November 2010 at 2:30 pm.
Authority to issue shares At the AGM shareholders will be asked to renew and extend the authority, given to the directors at the last AGM, to allot shares in the Company, or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company for the purposes of Section 551 of the 2006 Act the Allotment Resolution.
The authority in the first part of the Allotment Resolution will allow the directors to allot new shares in the Company or to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company up to a nominal value of 48,883,565, which is equivalent to approximately one third of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 25 September 2010.
The authority in the second part of the Allotment Resolution will allow the directors to allot new shares or to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company only in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal value of 48,883,565, which is equivalent to approximately one third of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 25 September 2010.
This is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
At 25 September 2010, the Company did not hold any shares in treasury.
There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new shares other than in connection with the Companys share option schemes and plans.
The directors intend to take note of relevant corporate governance guidelines on the use of such powers in the event that the authority is exercised.
If the resolution is passed the authority will expire on the earlier of 31 January 2012 and the end of the AGM due to be held in 2011.
Also at the AGM shareholders will be asked to pass a special resolution to renew the power granted to directors to disapply shareholders pre-emption rights under certain circumstances the Pre-emption Resolution.
If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities, or sell treasury shares, for cash other than in connection with an employee share scheme company law requires that these shares are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
64 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 middle aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:32 Page 65 The purpose of the first part of the Pre-emption Resolution is to authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the authority given by the first part of the Allotment Resolution, or to sell treasury shares for cash: a in connection with a pre-emptive offer: and or b , equivalentto5%, in each case without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
The purpose of the second part of the Pre-emption Resolution is to authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the authority given by the second part of the Allotment Resolution, or to sell treasury shares for cash in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
The directors intend to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
During the financial year ended 31 July 2010, the following ordinary shares in the Company were issued: 1,701,616 ordinary shares of 37.5p pursuant to the terms of the Companys shareholder-approved share option schemes and share plans.
No shares were issued in respect of the TI Group share option schemes.
Authority to purchase shares At the AGM the Company will seek to renew the authority, granted at the last AGM to the directors, to purchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The effect of the resolution is to renew the authority granted to the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares, up to a maximum of 39,106,852 ordinary shares, until the AGM in 2011 or 31 January 2012 whichever is the earlier.
This represents 10% of the ordinary shares in issue as at 25 September 2010 and the Companys exercise of this authority is subject to the stated upper and lower limits on the price payable, which reflect the requirements of the Listing Rules.
Pursuant to the 2006 Act as amended, the Company can hold the shares which have been purchased as treasury shares and either resell them for cash, cancel them, either immediately or at a point in the future, or use them for the purposes of its employee share schemes.
The directors believe that it is desirable for the Company to have this choice as holding the purchased shares as treasury shares would give the Company the ability to re-sell or transfer them in the future, and so provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised in respect of, treasury shares.
However, it is not the Companys present intention to hold shares in treasury in the event that any shares were to be purchased under this authority.
Shares will only be purchased if the directors consider such purchases to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and that they can be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share.
The authority will only be used after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
Shares held as treasury shares will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into account in future calculations of earnings per share unless they are subsequently resold or transferred out of treasury.
If any shares purchased by the Company are held in treasury and used for the purposes of its employee share schemes, the Company will count those shares towards the limits on the number of new shares which may be issued under such schemes.
As at 25 September 2010 there were 5.4m outstanding options granted under all share option schemes operated by the Company, which, if exercised would represent 1.4% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
If this authority were exercised in full, that percentage would increase to 1.5%.
Political donations A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the authority, granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the Company and its subsidiaries, to make donations to political organisations and to incur political expenditure.
Part 14 of the 2006 Act requires companies to obtain shareholders authority for donations to registered political parties and other political organisations totalling more than 5,000 in any twelve month period, and for any political expenditure, subject to limited exceptions.
The definition of donation in this context is very wide and extends to bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform and the representation of the business community.
It could include special interest groups, such as those involved with the environment, which the Company and its subsidiaries might wish to support, even though these activities are not designed to support or influence support for a particular party.
It remains the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur political expenditure as those expressions are normally understood.
To avoid  of the 2006 Act, the directors are seeking  for the Company and its UK subsidiaries to make political donations as defined in the 2006 Act and to incur political expenditure as defined in the 2006 Act for the period from the date of the AGM to the conclusion of next years AGM up to a maximum aggregate amount of 50,000.
Auditor Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to reappoint  LLP as auditor, to hold office until the next meeting at which the accounts are laid, and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Notice period for extraordinary general meetings Aspecial resolutionwill beproposed attheAGMtorenew theauthority, , tocall ageneral meeting of the Company other than an AGM with a minimum notice period of 14 clear days.
Changes made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increased the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, such approval is sought at the AGM.
Any exercise of this power by the Company will be conducted in accordance with any relevant corporate governance guidelines applicable at the time.
In particular, the shorter notice period will only be used where flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will comply with the requirement to provide appropriate facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic means at general meetings held on less than 21 clear days notice.
65 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 middle aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:32 Page 66 Group directors report continued Disclosure of information to the auditor As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps he should have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Proposed long-term incentive arrangements for 2010 11 In the 2008 09 Directors Remuneration Report the Company explained its intention to consider potential long-term incentives for participants in the Value Sharing Plan VSP during 2010.
Following a review by the Remuneration Committee, the Company believes that the broad structure of the VSP remains appropriate going forward.
As a result, it is proposed that awards be made under a new VSP, to be known as the Smiths Group 2010 Value Sharing Plan, as follows: Annual grants vesting after three years Individual VSP opportunities reduced by approximately two-thirds to reflect the proposed frequency of grants and following an assessment of the market competitiveness of the fair value of the total package For the Group VSP, awards granted in 2010 11 to comprise an Earnings Element and a TSR Element.
Approval for this new VSP will be sought at the Annual General Meeting on 16 November 2010.
Further details on the new VSP can be found in the notes accompanying the Notice of AGM.
com The 2006 Act recognises the growing importance of electronic communication e-communication and enables companies to provide documentation  viatheirwebsites,  printedpaper copies by post.
E-communication allows shareholders faster access to important information about the Company: saves the Company considerable overheads, by reducing its print production costs and postage: and helps the environment by saving the energy and raw materials that would otherwise be used in producing and dispatching printed documents.
At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 11 June 2007 shareholders approved the adoption of electronic communications.
Electronic copies of the Annual Report 2010 and the Notice of AGM will be posted on the Companys website, www.
The Companys announcements to the Stock Exchange and press releases are available online through the website.
Shareholding details and practical help on share transfers and changes of address can be found at www.
Shareholders wishing to change their election and receive documents in hard copy form can do so at any time by contacting the Companys Registrar or by logging on to www.
Electronic proxy voting The Company continues to provide electronic proxy voting for this years AGM.
Shareholders who are not Crest members can appoint a proxy and vote online for or against or consciously not vote on the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM by visiting the website www.
The onscreen instructions will give details on how to complete the appointment and voting process.
Crest members, Crest personal members and other Crest-sponsored members should consult the Crest Manual or their sponsor or voting service provider for instructions on electronic proxy appointment and voting.
The Company may treat as invalid a Crest proxy voting instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Paper proxy cards will be distributed with the Notice of AGM to all shareholders other than those who have elected for notification by email.
Shareholders who will not be able to attend the AGM on 16 November 2010 in person are encouraged to vote their shares by appointing a proxy and issuing voting instructions either electronically or by completing and returning their proxy cards.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrar not later than 48 hours before the AGM in order to be valid.
Registrar The address and contact details of Equiniti Limited, the Companys Registrar, are listed on the inside back cover of this report.
Individual shareholders access to their personal shareholder information is available online, through the www.
Dividend payments continue to be made through Lloyds TSB Bank.
The shareholder helpline telephone number is 0871 384 2943.
Note: calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a UK BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
Important information If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take in relation to the resolutions being proposed at the AGM, you are recommended to consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you received this document in printed form from the Company and have recently sold or transferred all your shares in Smiths Group plc, please pass this document to the purchaser or transferee or to the agent through whom the saleor transferwas effected fortransmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Recommendation Your directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the resolutions.
The directors intend to vote in favour of the resolutions in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By Order of the Board Sarah Cameron Secretary Smiths Group plc 2nd Floor, Cardinal Place 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL 28 September 2010 66 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010
