smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 14 Key strengths Implementing strategy by exploiting key corporate strengths.
Market insight and strong customer relationships Data-based decision-making Our businesses have a deep understanding of their markets and We have invested in better information systems to enhance data flow customers needs.
We have strong relationships with a customer and speed up decision-making.
Improved data at a Group and base that ranges from blue chip corporates to governments and divisional level has created major opportunities to leverage the related agencies such as the US Transportation Security Groups scale through procurement initiatives.
Better data on product Administration and US Department of Defense.
This knowledge of and customer profitability has helped us remove costs, increase our customers informs our new product development and supports pricing and reshape portfolios in, for example, Smiths Medical and our ability to provide engineered solutions to address their needs.
Our new systems have given us insight into operational efficiencies to improve margins.
New product development and product engineering Efficient management of the balance sheet and cash-flows Our leadership in innovation and leading-edge technology is a core We seek to optimise our balance sheet structure to generate strong competence.
We excel at product engineering and the practical cash-flows and increase returns for shareholders.
Our businesses commercial application of state-of-the-art technology so it is generally have low requirements for major upfront capital accessible and easy to use.
Products include the new generation commitments, allowing investment to be focused on research and of scanners for airports and borders, advanced testers for mobile development or bolt-on acquisitions.
After working capital and net phone networks, portable medication delivery systems and solarcapital expenditure, we have an operating cash-flow that is a high powered gas pumps for remote wells.
Our technology leadership percentage of operating profit.
supports growth and high margins.
Managing a complex supply chain Active management of the portfolio to deliver superior returns Smiths Group has reinvented itself many times in its 160-year history, Our strength in small-batch, low-cost manufacturing with access to a global sales and service footprint enables us to minimise costs from its origins in clocks and watches, through the significant growth in the automotive and aerospace sectors during the 20th century to its and sustain margins over the long term.
We employ more than current portfolio of assets which tap into high-tech markets with strong 23,000 people in over 50 countries and have undertaken a underlying growth characteristics.
We will continue to rebalance the programme of site rationalisation and relocation to low-cost portfolio to access growth markets, raise margins and increase returns.
countries, such as Mexico, China, India, Czech Republic, Costa Rica In recent years, Smiths Group has made several acquisitions to add and Tunisia.
We create efficiencies through lean divisional structures complementary technologies, leverage our infrastructure and extend and expanding in high growth markets such as China and India.
We have also freed up capital to redeploy in the business to command higher margins and deliver superior returns.
14 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010
