Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS INTRODUCING OUR DIRECTORS, WHO BRING A RANGE OF SKILLS, KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERTISE, WHICH IS CRITICAL TO SUCCESS 1 Rui fide Sousa 1 2 3 Title, age: Non-Executive Chairman, 55 Appointment date: July 1999 Committee membership: Nominations Committee Chairman Background and relevant experience: Rui fide Sousa has approximately 30 years experience in the energy sector.
He is currently a director of Quantic Limited, a director of Gazprombank-Invest 4 5 6 Lebanon SAL and the President of Quantic Mining.
2 Peter Kingston Title, age: Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, 68 Appointment date: April 1997 Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Chairman and Audit Committee Chairman 7 8 9 Background and relevant experience: Peter Kingston is currently the Executive Chairman of Tower Resources plc.
He is a Petroleum Engineer by profession and has more than 40 years of experience in technical, executive and advisory roles.
He was formerly a founding director and Managing Director Technical of Enterprise Oil plc and a director of Elf Enterprise Petroleum Ltd. Peter is also currently a director of Plexus Energy Limited, 10 11 a corporate governance, social and environmental advisory network.
3 Ed Story Title, age: President and Chief Executive officer, 67 Appointment date: April 1997 Committee membership: Nominations Committee Background and relevant experience: Ed Story has over 40 years experience in the oil and gas industry, beginning with Exxon Corporation, where he held various positions including seven years resident in the Far East.
He was formerly the Vice President and CFO of Superior Oil Company, a co-founder and Vice Chairman of Conquest Exploration Company and a co-founder and President of Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary.
Ed was a non-executive director of Cairn Energy PLC until 2008 and is currently a non-executive director of Cairn India Limited.
SOCO International plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GO Gover VERN na AN nce CE 4 Roger Cagle 7 Ettore Contini 9 John Norton Title, age: Executive Vice President, Deputy CEO Title, age: Non-Executive Director, 36 Title, age: Non-Executive Director, 73 and Chief Financial officer, 63 Appointment date: December 2001 Appointment date: April 1997 Appointment date: April 1997 Committee membership: None Committee membership: Audit and Committee membership: None Nominations Committees Background and relevant experience: Ettore Background and relevant experience: Roger Contini was formerly a director of Energia E Servize Background and relevant experience: John Cagle has over 35 years of experience in the oil and SpA and an asset manager in the private banking Norton is a Chartered Accountant by profession and gas industry including succeeding positions of division of Banca del Gottardo.
Ettore is currently was a partner at Arthur Andersen, heading the oil responsibility with Exxon Corporation and senior also a director of Eurowatt-Commerce.
and gas practice in Europe, the Middle East and management roles with Superior Oil Company.
He Africa, until his retirement in 1995.
John was was formerly the Chief Financial officer of Conquest formerly also a member of the Oil Industry 8 Ambassador Antnio Monteiro Exploration Company and the Chief Financial officer Accounting Committee and a director of the Title, age: Non-Executive Director, 67 of Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary.
Appointment date: June 2009 Roger is currently also the Non-Executive Chairman Committee membership: Audit and of Dominion Petroleum Ltd and a non-executive 10 Martin Roberts Remuneration Committees director of Vostok Energy Limited.
Title, age: Non-Executive Director, 67 Background and relevant experience: Appointment date: September 2004 Ambassador Antnio Monteiro has over 40 years of 5 Olivier Barbaroux Committee membership: Audit and experience with the Portuguese Ministry of Foreign Title, age: Non-Executive Director, 55 Remuneration Committees Affairs, including as Foreign Minister of Portugal, Appointment date: July 1999 and with international organisations, including as Background and relevant experience: Martin Committee membership: Remuneration and UN High Representative for Elections in Cte dIvoire Roberts is a solicitor by profession and was a Nominations Committees and currently as a member of the UN Secretarypartner at Slaughter and May, where he specialised Background and relevant experience: Olivier Generals Panel on the Referenda in the Sudan.
in oil and gas projects, until his retirement in 2002.
Barbaroux has over 20 years experience in the He was formerly the Ambassador of Portugal to energy and utilities sector.
He is currently the France and the Permanent Representative of 11 Dr Mike Watts Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Dalkia Portugal to the United Nations, where posts included Title, age: Non-Executive Director, 55 and a member of the Executive Committee of Veolia being President of the Security Council and of the Appointment date: August 2009 Environment.
He was formerly the Managing Security Councils Committee established by Committee membership: Audit and Director of Compagnie Gnrale des Eaux, President Resolution 661 1990.
Nominations Committees and Chief Operating officer of Vivendi Water S. A. Antnio is currently also a member of the Board of the Head of the Energy Sector of Paribas and the Background and relevant experience: the Angolan Bank BPA Banco Privado do Atlntico, Chief Executive officer of the oil and gas production Dr Mike Watts is currently the Deputy Chief a member of the Supervisory Board of the and exploration company Coparex International.
Executive of Cairn Energy PLC and has over 30 Portuguese Bank BCP Banco Comercial Portugus years experience in the oil and gas industry.
He Millennium, President of the Luso-Brazilian was formerly the CEO and Managing Director of 6 Robert Cathery Foundation Curators Council and a member of the the Amsterdam listed Holland Sea Search, which Title, age: Non-Executive Director, 66 Faculty of Human and Social Sciences General was acquired by Cairn Energy PLC in 1995, and Council of the Universidade Nova fide Lisboa.
Appointment date: June 2001 has held senior technical and management roles Committee membership: Remuneration and with Premier, Burmah and Shell.
Nominations Committees Background and relevant experience: Robert Cathery has over 40 years of City experience.
He was formerly the Managing Director and Head of Oil and Gas at Canaccord Capital Europe Limited, Head of Corporate Sales at SG Securities London Ltd. director of Vickers da Costa and director of Schroders Securities.
Robert is also currently a non-executive director of Vostok Energy Limited, Salamander Energy PLC and Central Asia Metals Limited.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 Governance ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS HOW THE DIRECTORS ENSURE THE COMPANY OPERATES TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS The Directors present their annual report, along Results and Dividends with the audited financial statements of the The audited financial statements for the year Group for the year ended 31 December 2010. ended 31 December 2010 are set out on pages 66 The Corporate Governance Report on pages to 90.
The Directors intend to devote the Groups 46 to 53 forms part of this report.
cash resources to its exploration and development activities and, accordingly, are not recommending Principal Activity and Business Review the payment of a dividend 2009 nil.
The Groups principal activity is oil and gas exploration and production.
The Group has its Directors headquarters in London and has oil and gas The Directors, all of whom held ofce throughout interests in Vietnam, Congo Brazzaville, the the year, and the dates of their current service Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa and contracts or letters of appointment, which are Angola.
The subsidiary undertakings principally available for inspection, are listed in the table affecting the profits or net assets of the Group opposite.
Relevant details of the Directors, which are listed in Note 17 to the financial statements.
include their Committee memberships, are set out on pages 40 to 41.
Further details of Information fullling the requirements of section Directors, their interests in the shares of the Cynthia Cagle 417 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act Company, their interests in any contracts relating Vice President and paragraph 4.1.
8 of the Disclosure and to the Companys business and Directors Finance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services contracts are included in the Directors Company Secretary Authority DTRs can be found within the reports Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 61. described below, which are incorporated into this report by reference.
A review of the performance Directors of the Company are appointed either by and development of the Groups business during the Board or by shareholders under the terms of the the year, its position at the end of the year and its Companys Articles of Association.
The business of future prospects is contained in the Chairman and the Company is managed by the Directors who may Chief Executives Statement on pages 6 to 9: the exercise all powers of the Company subject to the Review of Operations on pages 14 to 19: and the Articles of Association and law.
Financial Review on pages 20 to 25.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set In accordance with the Companys Articles out in the Financial Review on pages 24 and 25 of Association, Directors are subject to and, in respect of the principal financial risks and reappointment at least every three years.
uncertainties, in Notes 3 and 4 to the financial Notwithstanding this, the Company will voluntarily statements.
As set out in the Corporate submit all Directors, offering themselves for Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 35, which reappointment, for re-election at the forthcoming also forms part of this report, SOCO is committed Annual General Meeting of Shareholders AGM.
to high standards of corporate responsibility.
Mr Peter Kingston will retire at the 2011 AGM The financial and non-financial key performance to devote additional time to his other business indicators KPIs used by management are set interests.
Further, Mr Martin Roberts, having out on pages 7 and 20, and are summarised found it necessary to reduce his business along with pertinent denitions in the Five Year interests generally, will retire at the forthcoming Summary on page 92.
The KPIs adopted in respect AGM.
The other Directors will retire at the AGM Related sections of personnel, health, safety and environmental and offer themselves for re-election, being eligible and more information measures reect the small staff size and relatively and having been recommended for reappointment small size and scope of projects directly operated by the Nominations Committee.
Chairmans and Chief by the Company.
Additional KPIs will be developed Executives Statement p06 for reporting on these areas at an appropriate time The re-election of those Directors offering The Directors in the evolution of SOCOs operations.
Information themselves for reappointment is recommended p54 Remuneration Report about the use of financial instruments by the by the Board in consideration of the results of Company and the Group is included in Note 2 n individual evaluation and demonstrated continued and Note 23 to the financial statements.
satisfactory performance, commitment and SOCO International plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Gover Govern na an nce ce effectiveness.
The Nominations Committee Directors Holding Ofce during 2010 Supplier Payment Policy carefully considered its recommendations SOCOs policy is to settle the terms of payment regarding these reappointments with regard to the with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each Director Date of Contract policies and processes set out in more detail in the transaction to ensure that suppliers are made Rui C fide Sousa 12.07.99 Corporate Governance Report on pages 46 to 53, aware of and abide by the terms of payment.
Chairman and in particular in respect of each Directors As the Company is a holding company, it has Peter E Kingston 14.05.97 continued independence and the relevance of no trade creditors and accordingly no disclosure Dep Chairman & Senior Independent Director tenure.
The Board has given full consideration can be made of the year end creditor days.
Olivier M G Barbaroux 12.07.99 to the balance of skills, knowledge and unique breadth of experience on the Board and the manner Contributions Roger D Cagle 14.05.97 in which each of the retiring Directors contributes Information regarding the Companys global Robert M Cathery 19.06.01 to that balance.
In particular, the Board has charitable programmes, which are principally considered the value of continuity of leadership, carried out in the countries where the Group Ettore P M Contini 11.12.01 and these factors have been weighed in has operations, is contained in the Corporate Antnio V Monteiro 10.06.09 consideration of succession planning and the need Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 35.
The John C Norton 14.05.97 to refresh Board and Committee membership.
Companys policies prohibit political donations.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Martin J D Roberts 06.09.04 Chairman, having given consideration to the results Long Term Incentive Plan Edward T Story 14.05.97 of the Boards formal evaluation process and other Due to upcoming expiry of the SOCO International relevant factors, is satisfied that the retiring plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP in May 2011, Michael J Watts 21.09.09 Non-Executive Directors offering themselves for the Board has recommended the introduction Denotes those determined by the Board to be independent reappointment continue to demonstrate the of a new plan which will be submitted for Non-Executive Directors as described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 46 to 53. commitment level appropriate to the effective shareholder approval at the 2011 AGM the New fullment of the responsibilities of the role.
The New LTIP is intended to provide a continued mechanism for motivating and retaining The Non-Executive Directors fees, and SOCOs Directors and senior staff members in a way that process for setting those fees, are set out in the is aligned with shareholders interests.
The New Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 61.
LTIP is substantially similar to the LTIP it is In consideration of increasing demands placed on replacing, incorporating certain best practice Non-Executive Directors generally and market features which have evolved since adoption of data indicating increasing fee levels, a resolution the LTIP.
Further details of the proposals are will be placed before the AGM to increase the included in the circular to shareholders maximum aggregate annual amount of Directors accompanying this Annual Report and Accounts.
fees to be paid out for their services as Directors Details of outstanding incentive awards are set from 650,000 to 800,000.
Although there is no out in Note 27 to the financial statements.
current intent to utilise the increased aggregate in the short term, it is intended to provide adequate Share Capital headroom to ensure the Company is able to attract Details of changes to share capital in the period high calibre candidates to the Board, maintain a are set out in Note 25 to the financial statements.
market competitive fee structure and retain the The Company currently has one class of share exibility to appoint additional Non-Executive in issue, ordinary shares of 0.05 2009 0.20 Directors if it would be in the best interests of the each, all of which are fully paid up, and reecting Company to do so.
a resolution passed at the 2010 AGM to approve the subdivision of each of the Companys former SOCO provides liability insurance for its Directors ordinary shares of 0.20 each into four new and ofcers.
The annual cost of the cover is not ordinary shares of 0.05 each.
Each ordinary material to the Group.
The Companys Articles of share in issue carries equal rights including one Association allow it to provide an indemnity for vote per share on a poll at general meetings of the the benefit of its Directors, which is a qualifying Company, subject to the terms of the Companys indemnity provision for the purpose of section Articles of Association and law.
treasury carry no such rights for so long as they SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 Governance ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED are held in treasury.
Votes may be exercised The Company is not aware of any agreements by shareholders attending or otherwise duly between shareholders that may result in represented at general meetings.
Deadlines for restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting the exercise of voting rights by proxy on a poll at rights.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2011 The Board has given a general meeting are detailed in the notice of AGM, as is customary, to authorise the Directors meeting and proxy cards issued in connection to exercise all powers to allot shares and approve full consideration to with the relevant meeting.
Voting rights relating a limited disapplication of pre-emption rights.
to the shares held by the SOCO Employee benefit Further information regarding these resolutions the balance of skills, Trust are not exercised.
The Companys Articles is set out in the circular to shareholders knowledge and of Association may only be amended by a accompanying this Annual Report and Accounts.
unique breadth of resolution of the shareholders.
A resolution will also be proposed at the 2011 experience on the No shareholder, unless the Board decides AGM, as is also customary, to renew the otherwise, is entitled to attend or to vote either Directors existing authority to make market Board and the personally or by proxy at a general meeting or purchases of the Companys ordinary share manner in which to exercise any other right conferred by being a capital, and to limit such authority to purchases each of the retiring shareholder if he or she or any person with an of up to 34,030,940 ordinary shares of 0.05 interest in shares has been sent a notice under each, representing up to approximately ten per Directors contributes section 793 of the 2006 Act which confers cent of the Companys issued ordinary share upon public companies the power to require capital excluding treasury shares at 22 March to that balance information with respect to interests in their 2011.
Shares purchased under this authority may voting shares and he or she or any interested either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after Substantial Shareholdings delivery of that notice.
The Board may also As at 22 March 2011, the Company had been decide that no dividend is payable in respect notied, in accordance with the DTRs, of the of those default shares and that no transfer of interests in the issued share capital of the any default shares shall be registered.
These Company as set out in the table opposite.
restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of Auditors the shares or all the information required by the A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP Deloitte relevant section 793 notice, whichever is earlier.
as the Companys auditors will be proposed by The Directors may refuse to register any transfer the Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Deloitte of any share which is not a fully-paid share, also provide non-audit services to the Group although such discretion may not be exercised which are set out in Note 9 to the financial in a way which the Financial Services Authority statements.
The Directors are currently satisfied, regards as preventing dealings in shares of that and will continue to ensure, that this range of class from taking place on an open or proper services is delivered in compliance with the basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse any relevant ethical guidance of the accountancy transfer of a share in favour of more than four profession and does not impair the judgement persons jointly.
or independence of the auditors.
Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report The Company is not aware of any other confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in relevant audit information, being information the Company other than certain restrictions that needed by the auditors in connection with may from time to time be imposed by laws and preparing their report, of which the auditors are regulations for example, insider trading laws : unaware.
Each Director has taken all steps that and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial he ought to have taken, having made such Services Authority whereby certain employees enquiries of his fellow Directors and the auditors of the Company require approval of the Company and taken such other steps as are required under to deal in the Companys shares.
his duties as a Director, to make himself aware SOCO International plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Gover Govern na an nce ce of any relevant audit information and to establish performance and cash ows of the Group for that Directors Responsibility Statement that the auditors are aware of that information.
In preparing those accounts the Directors The Directors confirm that, to the best of each This conrmation is given and should be are required to select suitable accounting policies persons knowledge: interpreted in accordance with the provisions and then apply them consistently: present a the financial statements set out on pages of section 418 of the 2006 Act.
information and accounting policies in a manner 66 to 90, which have been prepared in that provides relevant, reliable and comparable accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Going Concern information: and state that the Company and the and International Financial Reporting Standards It should be recognised that any consideration Group have complied with applicable accounting as adopted by the European Union, give a true and of the foreseeable future involves making a standards, subject to any material departures fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position judgement, at a particular point in time, about disclosed and explained in the accounts.
and profit of the Company and of the Group taken future events which are inherently uncertain.
as a whole: and Nevertheless, at the time of preparation of these The Directors are responsible for keeping proper b the management report, which is incorporated accounts and after making enquiries, the accounting records which disclose with into this report, includes a fair review of the Directors have a reasonable expectation that reasonable accuracy at any time the financial development and performance of the business and the Group has adequate resources to continue position of the Company and the Group and the position of the Company and the Group taken operating for the foreseeable future.
For this enable them to ensure that the accounts comply as a whole, together with a description of the reason, and taking into consideration the with relevant legislation.
They are also responsible principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
additional factors in the Financial Review on for safeguarding the assets of the Company and page 20, they continue to adopt the going the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps By order of the Board concern basis in preparing the accounts.
for the prevention and detection of fraud and 22 March 2011 other irregularities.
Directors Responsibilities for the Cynthia Cagle Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for the maintenance Company Secretary The Directors are responsible for preparing the and integrity of the corporate and financial annual report and the financial statements in information included on the Companys website.
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Information published on the internet is accessible and International Financial Reporting Standards in many countries with different legal as adopted by the European Union both for the requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Group and the Company.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation The Directors are required to prepare financial in other jurisdictions.
statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and of the Group and the financial Substantial Shareholdings Issued Shares Name of Holder Number % Held Pontoil Intertrade Limited 80,644,255 23.70 BlackRock, Inc. 34,022,486 10.00 Chemsa Ltd 24,378,600 7.16 Edward T Story 12,856,794 3.78 Legal & General Group Plc 11,892,856 3.49 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45
