Delivering our strategy Supply and Manufacturing Maximising efficiency for the reliable provision of high quality medicines Our strategy is to balance in-house manufacturing in efficient plants with external manufacturing capabilities, particularly in relation to the early stages of our production process.
As discussed 23 in the Sales and Marketing section above, we 23 manufacturing sites in 16 countries also see opportunities to use outsourced production in our branded generics business.
This balance is designed to give us product integrity and quality assurance while affording 23 us cost efficiency and volume exibility.
23 inspections from 13 different regulatory authorities Continuous improvement We seek to maximise the efficiency of our supply chain through a culture of continuous improvement.
We focus on what adds value for our customers and patients, and what eliminates waste.
This programme has delivered significant benets in recent years, $333m including reduced manufacturing lead times and lower stock levels, Capital expenditure on supply and manufacturing facilities totalled both of which improve our ability to respond to customer needs and approximately $333 million reduce inventory costs.
Changes have also been achieved without compromising customer service and quality.
We have been applying Lean business improvement tools and ways of working to improve the efficiency of our manufacturing plants for a number of years, and are now applying them to the whole of our supply chain.
In 2010, we reinforced our commitment to creating a Lean supply and manufacturing organisation with a global campaign to recruit more Lean experts into our manufacturing sites and supply chain functions.
This has included the creation of a new global centre of excellence comprising Lean experts from a broad range of industrial backgrounds to provide support and co-ordination to the accelerated development of our Lean supply system.
This enables us to learn from other industries how to operate our supply chains at a much higher performance level Key to our continued business success is our than is generally found in the pharmaceutical sector.
ability to provide our customers with a reliable The inauguration of a new regional packing centre in Wuxi, supply of high quality medicines worldwide, China in 2010 was a key milestone.
We operate this centre to when they want them, and to do so in the most our global standards and apply a broad range of Lean techniques cost-effective way and principles.
We believe it will improve our competitiveness in Asian markets.
David Smith Product quality Executive Vice-President, Global Operations and We are committed to delivering product quality that underpins both Information Services the safety and efcacy of our medicines.
We have a comprehensive quality management system in place designed to assure the quality of our products and regulatory compliance.
34 Delivering our strategy Supply and Manufacturing AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The WHO estimates that between 1% and 30% rising to 50% on the internet of medicines sold worldwide are counterfeit.
Every year, thousands of patients are seriously harmed or killed as a result of taking these products rather than the real thing.
Counterfeiting is particularly prevalent in the developing world and with medicines bought online.
To combat the problem we have a comprehensive product security strategy which includes: partnering with others to strengthen enforcement and raise awareness securing products through pack features and enhanced integrity of the supply chain What is being combating illegal operations through proactive investigation of suspicious activity and reported incidents.
done to make In 2010, a life-threatening counterfeiting operation was thwarted following an investigation in Colombia.
Twenty four sure my medicines members of a criminal gang were arrested in May on charges relating to making and selling a counterfeit of our antibiotic, are genuine?
Suspicions first came to light in 2007 when we received reports from employees about suspect Meronem bearing the same batch number.
A painstaking investigation was carried out, including the use of undercover techniques Because health connects us all to gather evidence.
By early 2010, we were able to hand For more information on our work to prevent and over enough evidence for the Colombian police to conduct detect counterfeiting, go to our website, a series of raids.
Manufacturing facilities and processes for medicines must observe During 2010, we also opened a small packaging plant in Indonesia.
rigorous standards of quality and are subject to inspections by We operate sites for the manufacture of APIs in the UK and regulatory authorities to ensure compliance with prescribed Sweden, complemented by the efficient use of external sourcing.
Authorities have the power to require changes and Our principal tablet and capsule formulation sites are in the UK, improvements to facilities and processes, to halt production and Sweden, Puerto Rico and the US, and we also have major impose conditions that must be satisfied before production can formulation sites for the global supply of parenteral and or inhalation resume.
Regulatory standards are not harmonised globally and do products in Sweden, France and the UK.
Some 600 permanent and an additional 250 seasonal people are We hosted 23 inspections from 13 different regulatory authorities employed at our four principal biologics commercial manufacturing in 2010.
All observations from such inspections are reviewed along facilities in the US Frederick, Maryland and Philadelphia, with the outcomes of our own internal inspections and improvement Pennsylvania : the UK Speke : and the Netherlands Nijmegen actions are put in place as required to ensure ongoing compliance with capabilities in process development, manufacturing and with expectations.
If required, we take action to improve quality distribution of biologics, including worldwide supply of MAbs and enhance compliance across the organisation.
The knowledge and inuenza vaccines.
Our biologics production capabilities are obtained from the inspections is shared across the Group.
scalable, which enables efficient management of our combined small molecule and biologics pipeline.
We continue to be actively involved in providing input into new product manufacturing regulations, both at national and Managing sourcing risk international levels, through our membership of industry Given our announced intention to outsource all API manufacturing, associations primarily in the EU, the US and Japan.
we place particular importance on our global procurement policies and integrated risk management processes which aim to ensure Our resources the uninterrupted supply of sufciently high quality raw materials.
These and other key supplies are purchased from a range of Capital expenditure on Supply and Manufacturing facilities totalled approximately $333 million in 2010 2009: $360 million: 2008: suppliers.
We focus on a range of risks to global supply, such as disasters that remove supply capability or the unavailability of key $369 million.
As part of our overall risk management, we carefully consider the timing of investment to ensure that secure supply raw materials, and work to ensure that these risks are effectively mitigated.
Contingency plans include the appropriate use of dual chains are in place for our products.
We have a programme in place to provide appropriate supply capabilities for our new products.
or multiple suppliers and maintaining appropriate stock levels.
Although the price of raw materials may uctuate from time to time, our global purchasing policies seek to avoid such uctuations At the end of 2010, approximately 9,300 people at 23 sites in becoming material to our business.
16 countries were working on the manufacturing and supply of our products.
Approximately 8,350 people work in formulation and packaging and 350 people work in active pharmaceutical ingredient We also take into account reputational risk associated with our use of suppliers and are committed to working only with suppliers that API supply.
Our principal small molecule manufacturing facilities are in: the UK Avlon and Maccleseld : Sweden Snckviken and embrace standards of ethical behaviour that are consistent with our own.
For more information, see the Responsible Business section Grtuna, Sdertlje : the US Newark, Delaware and Westborough, from page 40.
Massachusetts : France Reims : Japan Maihara : Australia North Ryde : China Wuxi : Puerto Rico Canovanas : Germany Wedel : Mexico Lomas Verdes : Brazil Cotia : and Argentina Buenos Aires.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy Supply and Manufacturing 35
