Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team Board of Directors at 31 December 1 2 3 6 7 8 1 Louis Schweitzer 68 4 Michele Hooper 59 Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination and Senior independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Governance Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee Committee and member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Appointed as a Director in March 2004 and as Chairman in January Appointed as a Director in July 2003 and as Senior independent 2005.
Louis Schweitzer has extensive leadership experience at both Non-Executive Director in April 2007.
Michele Hooper is a executive and non-executive levels in large, multinational companies.
recognised corporate governance expert and has considerable He is Non-Executive Chairman of AB Volvo and a Non-Executive healthcare industry expertise.
She is President and Chief Executive Director of BNP-Paribas, Veolia Environnement SA and LOral SA.
officer of The Directors Council, a private company which she Previously he has held the roles of Non-Executive Chairman, co-founded in 2003, that works with corporate boards to increase Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Renault SA.
their independence, effectiveness and diversity, and a nonexecutive member of the boards of UnitedHealth Group Inc. 2 David Brennan 57 PPG Industries, Inc. and Warner Music Group, Inc.
Previously she was President and Chief Executive officer of Stadtlander Executive Director and Chief Executive officer Drug Company, Inc. and Corporate Vice-President and President, Appointed as a Director in March 2005 and as CEO in January International Businesses of Caremark International Inc. 2006.
David Brennan is President of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations IFPMA and 5 Bruce Burlington 62 a member of the executive board of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations EFPIA.
He is a Non-Executive Director and member of the Science Committee past Chairman of the board of the Pharmaceutical Research and Appointed as a Director in August.
Bruce Burlington is a Manufacturers of America PhRMA and remains a member of the pharmaceutical product development and regulatory affairs PhRMA board.
From 2001 until January 2006, he was President consultant and brings extensive experience in those areas to the and Chief Executive officer of the Companys North American Board.
He is also a non-executive board member of Cangene subsidiary.
He was Chairman of the board of the Southeastern Corporation and a member of the scientific advisory boards of the Pennsylvania Chapter of the American Heart Association 2004- International Medica Foundation and H. Lundbeck A S. Previously 2006.
He began his career in 1975 at Merck, where he started as he spent 17 years with the FDA, serving as director of the FDAs a sales representative in the US division and later worked in sales Center for Devices and Radiological Health as well as holding a and marketing management in the US and international divisions.
number of senior roles in the Center for Drug Evaluation and He joined Astra Merck in 1992 and helped to build the joint venture Research.
After leaving the FDA he served in a series of senior into a multi-billion dollar business in the US.
He is an alumnus of executive positions at Wyeth now part of Pzer Inc.. Gettysburg College where he studied Business Administration.
6 Jean-Philippe Courtois 50 3 Simon Lowth 49 Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee Executive Director and Chief Financial officer Appointed as a Director in February 2008.
Jean-Philippe Courtois Appointed as a Director and as CFO in November 2007.
Simon has over 25 years experience in the global technology industry Lowth is also a Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC.
and is President of Microsoft International, Senior Vice-President He was previously at ScottishPower where he was Finance Director, of Microsoft Corporation, a board member of PlaNet Finance a position he left following completion of the sale of the company to and Microsofts ofcial representative at the Institut Montaigne.
His move to ScottishPower followed 15 years experience Previously he was Chief Executive officer and President of with the global management consultancy, McKinsey & Company, Microsoft EMEA and has served as co-chairman of the World where he advised leading multinational companies on a wide range Economic Forums Global Digital Divide Initiative Task Force and of strategic, financial and operational issues.
He has an engineering on the European Commission Information and Communication degree from Cambridge University and an MBA from the London Technology Task Force.
In 2009, he also served as an EU Business School.
Ambassador for the Year of Creativity and Innovation.
106 Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 4 5 9 10 11 7 Jane Henney 63 10 John Varley 54 Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee, the Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Nomination and Governance Committee and the Science Committee and member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Appointed as a Director in September 2001.
Jane Henney has Appointed as a Director in July 2006.
John Varley was formerly extensive clinical and health policy expertise and is currently Group Chief Executive of the Barclays Group, having held a Professor of Medicine, University of Cincinnati, a non-executive number of senior positions with the bank during his career, member of the boards of AmerisourceBergen Corporation and including that of Group Finance Director.
He brings additional CIGNA Corporation and a board member of The Commonwealth international, executive business leadership experience to the Fund and China Medical Board.
Previous positions within the health Board.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock, Inc. industry include her role as Commissioner of Food and Drugs at the Chairman of Business Action on Homelessness, President of FDA and Senior Vice-President and Provost for Health Affairs, the Employers Forum on Disability, a member of the International University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center.
Advisory Panel of the Monetary Authority of Singapore and Honorary President of the UK Drug Policy Commission.
8 Rudy Markham 64 11 Marcus Wallenberg 54 Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Director and member of the Science Committee Appointed as a Director in September 2008.
Rudy Markham has Appointed as a Director in April 1999.
Marcus Wallenberg has significant international business and financial experience, having international business experience across a broad range of formerly held a number of senior commercial and financial positions industry sectors, including the pharmaceutical industry from his worldwide with Unilever, culminating in his appointment as Chief directorship with Astra AB prior to 1999.
He is the Chairman of Financial officer of Unilever.
He is currently Chairman and NonSkandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, AB Electrolux and Saab AB, Executive Director of Moorelds Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Vice-Chairman of Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson publ and a Trust and a non-executive member of the boards of United Parcel Non-Executive Director of Stora Enso Oyj and the Knut and Alice Services Inc. the UK Financial Reporting Council, Standard Wallenberg Foundation.
Chartered PLC and Legal & General plc.
He is also a non-executive Other ofcers of the Company at 31 December included members of the Senior Executive member of the board of the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Ofce, Team, as set out on page 108, and Adrian Kemp, Company Secretary.
a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and a Fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Shriti Vadera was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 1January 2011.
9 Dame Nancy Rothwell 55 Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Science Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee Appointed as a Director in April 2006 and has responsibility for overseeing Responsible Business.
Nancy Rothwell is a distinguished life scientist and academic and is the President and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Manchester.
She is also President of the Society of Biology.
Previously she has served as President of the British Neuroscience Association and has been on the councils of the Medical Research Council, the Royal Society, the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, the Academy of Medical Sciences and Cancer Research UK.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team 107 Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team Senior Executive Team at 31 December 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 David Brennan the Wellcome Foundation in the UK.
He subsequently spent nine years in the consumer goods sector working for Este Lauder and Chief Executive Of cer Timberland in senior supply chain roles.
In 2003, he returned to the See page 106. pharmaceutical sector and joined Novartis in Switzerland.
2 Simon Lowth 6 Lynn Tetrault Chief Financial Of cer Executive Vice-President, Human Resources and Corporate Affairs See page 106.
Lynn Tetrault was appointed Executive Vice-President, Human Resources and Corporate Affairs in 2007, having previously been 3 Martin Mackay Vice-President, Corporate Affairs.
She has also held the role of President, Global R&D Vice-President HR, Global Drug Development and Vice-President, Martin Mackay joined AstraZeneca in July.
He was previously at HR for the US subsidiary of AstraZeneca following the merger P zer Inc. where he was Head of PharmaTherapeutics R&D and a between Astra and Zeneca.
She started her career in private law member of the P zer Inc. executive leadership team.
Prior to joining practice where she specialised in general corporate and healthcare P zer Inc. in 1995, he held several discovery and development roles law.
She joined Astra USA in 1993 as Associate General Counsel culminating in his appointment as Head of Molecular and Cell in the companys legal department.
She received her bachelors Biology, CNS Research at Ciba-Geigy.
He has a degree in degree from Princeton University and her law degree from the microbiology from Heriot-Watt University and a PhD in molecular University of Virginia Law School.
genetics from the University of Edinburgh.
7 Tony Zook 4 Jeff Pott Executive Vice-President, Global Commercial Operations General Counsel Tony Zook was appointed Executive Vice-President of Jeff Pott was appointed General Counsel in January 2009 and has AstraZenecas global Commercial organisation in January 2010. overall responsibility for all aspects of AstraZenecas Legal and He has responsibility for worldwide sales and marketing activities, Intellectual Property function.
He joined AstraZeneca in 1995 and as well as the commercial infrastructure in support of those efforts.
has worked in various litigation roles, where he has had Prior to his current role, he was President and CEO for responsibility for intellectual property, anti-trust and product liability AstraZenecas US business and headed AstraZenecas Global litigation.
Prior to joining AstraZeneca, he spent five years at the US Marketing function.
He was also President of MedImmune.
He has legal rm Drinker Biddle and Reath LLP, where he specialised in held various other positions in AstraZenecas sales and marketing pharmaceutical product liability litigation and anti-trust advice and organisation.
He joined Astra USA in 1997 as Vice-President, litigation.
He received his bachelors degree in political science from Marketing and Sales, having begun his pharmaceutical career at Wheaton College and his Juris Doctor Degree from Villanova Berlex Laboratories.
He earned a bachelors degree in biology from University School of Law.
Frostburg University and an associates degree in chemical engineering from Pennsylvania State University.
He is a member of 5 David Smith the board for First State Innovation, the Pennsylvania Division of the Executive Vice-President, Global Operations and Information Services American Cancer Society and is a member of the Board of Trustees David Smith joined AstraZeneca in 2006 as Executive Vicefor the Healthcare Leadership Council.
He leads AstraZenecas global manufacturing and supply organisation and is also responsible for the Safety, Health and Environment: Regulatory Compliance: Procurement: and Engineering functions and has overall responsibility for Information Services.
He spent his early career in pharmaceuticals, initially with 108 Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
