Corporate Information History and development of the Company Preference Shares represent 0.01% of the Companys total share capital these percentages have been calculated by reference to the AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in England and Wales on 17 June 1992 under the Companies Act 1985.
It is a public limited closing mid-point US$ GBP exchange rate on 31 December as published in the London edition of the Financial Times newspaper.
company domiciled in the UK.
The Companys registered number is 2723534 and its registered ofce is at 2 Kingdom Street, London As agreed by the shareholders at the Companys AGM held on 29 April 2010, the Articles were amended with immediate effect to W2 6BD telephone 44 0 20 7604 8000.
From February 1993 until April 1999, the Company was called Zeneca Group PLC.
On 6 remove the requirement for the Company to have an authorised share capital, the concept of which was abolished under the April 1999, the Company changed its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
Each Ordinary Share carries the right to vote at general meetings of the Company.
The rights and restrictions The Company was formed when the pharmaceutical, agrochemical attaching to the Redeemable Preference Shares differ from those and specialty chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical Industries attaching to Ordinary Shares as follows: PLC were demerged in 1993.
In 1999, the Company sold the specialty chemical business.
Also in 1999, the Company merged with Astra of Sweden.
In 2000, it demerged the agrochemical The Redeemable Preference Shares carry no rights to receive dividends.
business and merged it with the similar agribusiness of Novartis AG to form a new company called Syngenta AG.
The holders of Redeemable Preference Shares have no rights to receive notices of, attend or vote at general meetings except in certain limited circumstances.
They have one vote for every In 2007, the Group acquired MedImmune, a biologics and vaccines 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares held.
On a distribution of assets of the Company, on a winding-up or other return of capital subject to certain exceptions, the holders The Group owns and operates numerous R&D, production and of Redeemable Preference Shares have priority over the holders marketing facilities worldwide.
Its corporate headquarters are at 2 of Ordinary Shares to receive the capital paid up on those shares.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has the right to redeem the Redeemable Preference Articles Shares at any time on giving not less than seven days written Objects notice.
The Companys objects were originally set out in its Memorandum of Association.
By operation of law, on 1 October 2009, these There are no specic restrictions on the transfer of shares in the objects were deemed to be provisions of the Articles.
However, by a Company, which is governed by the Articles and prevailing special resolution of the shareholders at the Companys AGM held legislation.
on 29 April 2010, those deemed objects were deleted from the Articles.
The Companys objects are now unrestricted.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or that Any amendment to the Articles requires the approval of shareholders may result in restrictions on voting rights.
by a special resolution at a general meeting of the Company.
Action necessary to change the rights of shareholders Directors In order to vary the rights attached to any class of shares, the The Board has the authority to manage the business of the consent in writing of the holders of three quarters in nominal value Company, for example, through powers to allot and repurchase its of the issued shares of that class or the sanction of an extraordinary shares, subject where required to shareholder resolutions.
Subject resolution passed at a general meeting of such holders is required.
to certain exceptions, Directors do not have power to vote at Board meetings on matters in which they have a material interest.
General meetings AGMs and other general meetings, as from time to time may be The quorum for meetings of the Board is a majority of the full Board, required, where a special resolution is to be passed or a Director is of whom at least four must be Non-Executive Directors.
In the to be appointed, require 21 clear days notice to shareholders.
absence of a quorum, the Directors do not have power to determine Subject to the Companies Act 2006, other general meetings require compensation arrangements for themselves or any member of 14 clear days notice.
For all general meetings, a quorum of two shareholders present in The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow person or by proxy, and entitled to vote on the business transacted, money.
Variation of these borrowing powers would require the is required unless each of the two persons present are corporate passing of a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
representatives of the same corporation: or each of the two persons present are proxy of the same shareholder.
All Directors must retire from ofce at the Companys AGM each year and may present themselves for election or re-election.
Shareholders and their duly appointed proxies and corporate Directors are not prohibited, upon reaching a particular age, from representatives are entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
submitting themselves for election or re-election.
Limitations on the rights to own shares Within two months of the date of their appointment, Directors are There are no limitations on the rights to own shares.
required to beneficially own Ordinary Shares of an aggregate nominal amount of $125, which currently represents at least 500 shares.
Property Substantially all of our properties are held freehold, free of material encumbrances and we believe that such properties are t for their Rights, preferences and restrictions attaching to shares purpose.
As at 31 December 2010, the Company had 1,409,023,452 Ordinary Shares and 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares in issue.
The Ordinary Shares represent 99.99% and the Redeemable 216 Corporate Information AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
