Delivering our strategy Research and Development Focused on delivering innovative and valued medicines We are committed to using the best science and technology to invent and acquire, produce and distribute innovative medicines that make a meaningful difference to peoples health around 6 the world.
This commitment is matched by our Focus on six areas of healthcare recognition that a substantial improvement in R&D productivity is needed if we are to be certain of securing targeted levels of return on our investment.
92 92 projects in clinical development, including 9 in Phase III We are transforming our single R&D organisation to meet this or under regulatory review.
34 withdrawn during the year challenge.
By appointing new world-class leaders and conrming the best internal people in leadership positions, we are creating an environment that allows our scientists to drive innovation and collaborate successfully with internal and external partners to bring forward valued new medicines.
Our strategy for change comprises the following elements: $4.2bn Core investment of $4.2 billion in our R&D organisation prioritising our resources in those areas where we believe we can be most successful through a focused disease area strategy ensuring shareholders funds are invested wisely, using an effective and exible R&D operating model building the capabilities we need to ensure delivery of our strategy ensuring we access the best new opportunities, regardless of their origin.
Disease area focus We are prioritising our resources and focusing our internal discovery activities on those diseases within our existing therapy areas where we believe there is the greatest potential.
This process of prioritisation is designed to ensure that, as we look ahead, the projects we have in our pipeline constitute the programmes which we believe are most likely to deliver technical and commercial we are creating an environment that success.
The Disease areas table opposite indicates where we will be focusing our activities within our therapy areas.
It also allows our scientists to drive innovation and indicates those areas that we consider to be less attractive and collaborate successfully with internal and where we will be decreasing our discovery investment or exiting external partners to bring forward valued an area altogether.
new medicines While we will be exiting in-house discovery research in some disease areas, we will continue to look at new therapeutic areas via Martin Mackay externalisation, ensuring that we optimise our own assets and look President, Global R&D at in-licensing or acquiring opportunities where we believe there is further value.
26 Delivering our strategy Research and Development AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Disease areas High attractiveness Medium attractiveness Low attractiveness Diabetes glucose Obesity Re ux Cardiovascular plus metabolism Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease Thrombosis Gastrointestinal Haemophilia bleeding disorders Diabetes complications including nephropathy Atrial brillation conversion maintenance Breast cancer Hepatocellular cancer Ovarian cancer Oncology Lung cancer Gastric cancer Bladder cancer Prostate cancer Haematological cancers Colorectal cancer Systemic Lupus Rheumatoid arthritis biologics Systemic scleroderma Respiratory & Erythematosus SLE Severe asthma In ammation biologics Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD Alzheimers disease Nociceptive pain Schizophrenia bipolar Neuroscience modi cation Cognition Depression Neuropathic pain Anxiety Resistant bacterial Respiratory syncytial virus RSV treatment vaccine Other vaccines Infection infections In uenza Hepatitis C We have also reviewed the projects we are working on within this iMeds: We have formed nine innovative medicine units, or iMeds, narrower portfolio.
Our aim has been to ensure we put our effort which focus on particular disease areas and work across discovery behind those projects we believe are most likely to be successful.
and early development: Our measure is not the number of candidate medicines, it is the number of fide-risked, value adding, proof of concept medicines, Small molecule iMeds that is where there is evidence that gives us a high degree of Oncology con dence of success.
Our focus is on identifying and resourcing Infection key projects that have the potential to deliver a differentiated, Respiratory & In ammation commercially attractive medicine to patients in the first wave for Aligned small molecule and biologics iMeds any given mechanism.
Cardiovascular and Gastrointestinal Neuroscience 1 Our pipeline includes 92 projects in the clinical phase of development.
As shown in the Development projects chart overleaf, we now have Biologics iMeds a total of 34 projects in Phase I, 32 projects in Phase II, 9 projects Oncology in late stage development, either in Phase III or under regulatory Infection review, and we are running 17 signi cant life-cycle management Respiratory & In ammation projects.
During 2010, across the clinical portfolio, 24 projects have A ninth, New Opportunities iMed, will focus on identifying successfully progressed to their next phase including 14 projects opportunities in disease areas outside, or complementary to, our entering first human testing : 34 projects have been withdrawn.
This will be done by seeking to acquire Further details are set out in the Therapy Area Review from page 50 commercially viable late stage assets as well as by generating and in the Development Pipeline table from page 206. additional value from existing internal assets through alternative uses of such assets in disease areas of high unmet medical need.
Operating model As demonstrated by the Life-cycle of a medicine overview on All iMeds are responsible for sourcing innovation from both inside page 20, our R&D activities span the entire life-cycle of a medicine.
and outside AstraZeneca and are accountable for delivering To help our focus on quality and reimbursable medicines, we have fide-risked, differentiated proof of concept potential medicines to created a new organisational structure which brings together drug Global Medicines Development that target the right area and show discoverers and developers to focus and collaborate in speci c a medical bene t for patients.
The operating model we have adopted is shown on page 29 and comprises the following key elements: 1 Includes seven life-cycle management projects re-introduced from BRIC-MT and Japan.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy Research and Development 27 Delivering our strategy Development projects 34 32 9 17 2010 14 44 34 11 2009 34 31 10 23 2008 20 24 41 10 2007 23 18 5 25 2006 Clinical Phase I Phase II Phase III Line Extensions Global Medicines Development GMD : Later stage value of medicines to payers, AstraZeneca signed a collaboration development is undertaken by GMD.
It provides a single, global agreement with HealthCore, which maintains the largest commercially platform dedicated to conducting trials for small molecules and insured population data environment in the US.
The collaboration biologics of the highest quality.
It is accountable for delivering the enables us to signi cantly upscale our real world studies of the regulatory packages in support of new medicine launches that are key health outcomes that are increasingly important to payers.
Additionally, through our membership in the European Healthcare Leadership Network, we are working with payers and other external Operation and governance: A key strength of our new R&D stakeholders to fide ne early on the basis for demonstrating value.
An AstraZeneca diabetes drug in Phase I is the focus of one of the organisation is that it facilitates a more entrepreneurial climate, increases the transparency of risk and drives stronger links between first pilots.
early discovery activities and Phase II studies.
This is complemented by rigorous oversight of Phase IIa IIb studies to the launch of a Personalised healthcare: Identifying patients most likely to new medicine and beyond.
The Portfolio Investment Board PIB bene t from our medicines is the goal of the newly formed evaluates projects to help ensure AstraZeneca is developing the Personalised Healthcare and Biomarker function.
This group kind of medicines that will make a difference for patients and return supports internal biomarker development and has established vital shareholder value.
The PIB provides the necessary focus for our strategic alliances with external diagnostic companies to support R&D investment and provides appropriate oversight of investment our drug projects.
We now have 25% of our clinical development opportunities across disease areas and modalities.
It is also portfolio progressing personalised healthcare strategies.
charged with delivering a pipeline of products capable of generating attractive returns on invested capital.
Further information about Predictive science: We are integrating modelling and simulation the PIB can be found in the Corporate Governance Report section into many different aspects of R&D.
Examples include safety from page 109. screening models that enable rapid assessment of common toxicities and in silico modelling of human exposure which has Investing in capabilities guided the design of antibodies with differentiated properties and The success of our R&D transformation rests in part on building subsequently informed their clinical development.
industry leading capabilities to bring more valued and reimbursable medicines to market.
In 2010, we announced an investment of more New therapeutic modalities: In 2010, we continued to make than $200 million over five years to develop the tools and people signi cant investments in new biologics technologies to generate to help us reshape R&D performance.
This investment supports novel and highly differentiated biologic therapeutics.
For example, scienti c collaborations, development of existing staff, recruitment in neurology, we have engineered a human protease to effectively of new talent and provision of new infrastructure, including informatics degrade beta amyloid, which holds great potential for treating platforms.
We are making steady progress across all these areas.
We have also entered into external collaborations to develop new approaches in the areas of small Payer considerations: Our R&D and Commercial organisations interfering ribonucleic acids siRNAs and regenerative medicine.
are working together to deliver the best global reimbursement dossier for our medicines.
Within GMD, we are building a Payer Evidence Group that supports both Commercial and R&D.
In 2010, as part of our strategy to be an industry leader in demonstrating the 28 Delivering our strategy Research and Development AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information R&D operating model Late-stage Discovery and early development development Internal Innovative Medicines Units Global Market and Biologics led medicines external development opportunities Innovative Medicines Units Small molecules led Small molecules focused Aligned biologics and small molecules Portfolio Investment Board decision Strategic Portfolio Investment Board governance chaired by the CEO Operational Separate committees for small Product Review Board governance molecules and biologics Clinical trial design and interpretation: To ensure these We are also committed to making our compounds available to capabilities are rmly integrated into our drug development organisations pursuing new therapies.
In a collaboration with the programmes and that we realise the bene ts of clear clinical UKs Medical Research Council, we are sharing access to our decisions, we have also invested to improve the quality of our compound libraries to aid the search for potential new treatments design capability for clinical trials.
Culture: We are progressing an integrated programme to drive In all our collaborations, we recognise that one size does not t cultural change throughout the R&D organisation.
We seek to partner and collaborate in novel ways that maximise step was the appointment of new leadership teams, together with not only the collective scienti c knowledge of all participants, but an evolution of our business systems to facilitate a move towards also the unique knowledge that each partner brings to the process, a more innovative, collaborative and creative culture.
It is this approach that underpins our exclusive worldwide licence agreement with Rigel for the global development and commercialisation of fostamatinib External focus We intend to increase our externalisation efforts to access the formerly known as R788, Rigels late-stage investigational product for rheumatoid arthritis, and our collaboration with Dainippon best, most cutting-edge science, whatever its origin, with a target of 40% of our pipeline sourced from outside our laboratories by Sumitomo for a potential asthma treatment.
By bringing together the best minds to address medical problems, we aim to facilitate ground-breaking discoveries, Our resources either within our organisation or through a public or private At the end of 2010, we had a global R&D organisation with partnership focused on the problem.
As part of this approach, approximately 15,700 people 12,400 full time equivalent employees we are involved in the Innovative Medicines Initiative IMI which at 14 principal centres in eight countries.
brings together the European pharmaceutical industry and the European Commission with the aim of improving the tools, As communicated last year, our plans for transforming R&D include technologies, methodologies and knowledge management to a number of site changes which will result in a simpli ed site bring new medicines to market.
Over the next 10 years, IMI footprint with a clear role for each facility.
These changes will affect participants have pledged a total of $2.7 billion, half from the approximately 3,500 employees, with a net reduction of 1,800 private sector and half from the public sector.
In the UK, we have exited R&D activities in Avlon, KuDOS and Arrow Therapeutics, and we will exit all R&D activities in our Charnwood site during 2011.
In North America, we have exited all AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy Research and Development 29
