Our Strategy and Performance Our business model Our strategy Our business model is based on using the best innovative science and technology to invent or acquire, produce and distribute medicines that make a meaningful difference to peoples health around the world.
We span a broad range of therapeutic modalities, Each year, at the beginning of our business as well as primary and specialty care in a number of therapy areas, planning cycle, we assess the challenges and and are active in over 100 countries around the world.
Our commitment to scienti c innovation is coupled with our belief that opportunities presented by our marketplace, success will require more external collaboration, including more test our shortand long-term planning collaboration with industry and academic partners.
assumptions, and critically assess our The Life-cycle of a medicine overview on page 20 illustrates the capabilities as an organisation.
We do so to value chain of discovery, development and commercialisation.
assure ourselves that, whatever our past It starts with the identi cation of unmet medical need and market successes, the strategic path we are following opportunity, the search for a potential medicine, through clinical trials, regulatory submission, a medicines launch and management is the right one.
This section summarises our of its life-cycle.
strategic plans for the future as well as our performance against our targets in 2010.
An inherent element of our business model is the creation, protection and subsequent sharing of intellectual property assets Our vision as shown below: The executive team, with the endorsement of the Board, believes that the most value-creating strategy for AstraZeneca is to be a Creation and acquisition of intellectual focused, integrated, innovation-driven, global, prescription-based property through innovative R&D biopharmaceutical business: focused in that we will continue to be selective about those areas of the industry in which we choose to compete, targeting those product categories where medical innovation or brand Application for patents to protect the equity will continue to enable us to make acceptable levels of intellectual property assets developed return on our investments in a potential medicine integrated in that we believe the best way to capture value within this industry is to span the full value chain of discovery, development and commercialisation, while remaining open to working with partners and outsourcing to capture operational Clinical development programmes generating further ef ciencies innovations in the use of the potential medicine and innovation-driven in that we believe our technology base will continue to deliver innovative products that will bene t patients intellectual property rights in the data required for and for which payers will pay regulatory submissions global in that we believe we have the ability to meet healthcare needs in both established and emerging markets ef ciently and effectively.
Period of intellectual property protection for an We believe that there are ongoing opportunities to create value innovative medicine which allows a return to be made for those who invest in pharmaceutical innovation, and that AstraZeneca has the skills and capabilities to take advantage of on the investment undertaken these opportunities and turn them into long-term value through the research, development and marketing of medicines that make a difference in healthcare.
For us, this is the core of our responsibility to our stakeholders and society.
Successful Expiry of intellectual property rights and pharmaceutical innovation, delivered responsibly, brings bene ts commoditisation of knowledge which typically sees for patients, creates value for shareholders and contributes to the generic versions of a medicine entering a market economic and social welfare of the communities we serve.
14 Our Strategy and Performance Our strategy AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information A key goal for our planning process is to ensure that we can These priorities are underpinned by determined efforts to improve employee engagement and to build a high performance culture continue to sustain the cycle of successful innovation and, as a result, continue to refresh our portfolio of patented products and whose hallmarks are creativity, courage and collaboration.
so generate value for shareholders.
A good reputation is critical to our business success.
We therefore Our strategic priorities to 2014 need to earn and maintain the trust of customers, partners and stakeholders if we are to deliver our strategy.
This requires us to We have identied the following medium-term strategic priorities as necessary to support the delivery of our strategic ambitions.
do things in the right way to behave in accordance with our values and to act with integrity.
We also need to connect with our They have confirmed our view that the pace of change across the business needs to accelerate if we are to be successful in meeting stakeholders, including patients, doctors, regulators, governments and payers, if we are to understand their needs better and deliver our goal of creating enduring value for shareholders by being one of the best-performing biopharmaceutical companies.
on our commitment to improving patient health.
Our commitment to acting responsibly and to the sustainable Pipeline While we are confident that long-term growth in demand for development of our business underpins our work to implement our strategic priorities.
To that end, our responsible business innovative biopharmaceuticals will remain strong, it is clear that substantial improvement in R&D productivity is needed if we are to objectives are closely aligned to, and support delivery of, our business strategy.
In the light of dialogue with stakeholders, we be certain of securing the targeted levels of return on the investment required to create shareholder value on a sustainable basis.
To have reviewed and reshaped our corporate responsibility priority action plan during the year.
We have put at the top of the agenda achieve that improvement, we intend to follow a more focused approach to R&D investment with the intention of improving the those areas most impacted by our business changes and which are therefore instrumental enablers of our business strategy.
quality of R&D output and thereby increasing its returns.
This focus involves a reduction in the number of disease area targets, We will focus on sales and marketing practices, access to healthcare, research ethics including animal welfare, human consolidation onto a smaller number of sites and a reduction in headcount.
It also involves investment in building industry-leading rights and supplier management.
We will be maintaining focus on all other aspects of our corporate responsibility, such as capabilities and accessing the best opportunities from outside our laboratories.
patient safety and the environment.
Medium-term planning assumptions Deliver the business Our enhanced programme of external collaboration in our R&D When we announced our full year results for 2009, we set out a series of medium-term planning assumptions which we updated activities includes working with payers to build an industry-leading capability in payer partnering.
In this way, when we develop our new in January 2011.
We continue to plan on the basis that revenue for the five years to 2014 will be in the range of $28-$34 billion a year, medicines we will also develop the required health economics, cost benefit information and value-in-use data required by payers.
as revenue growth from key franchises that retain exclusivity and Emerging Markets is pressured by the loss of market exclusivity on This will help us gain global reimbursement, broad market access and optimal pricing for our medicines.
Our latest risk-adjusted view is that revenue contribution from recently launched products and the pipeline is in the range of $3-$5 billion.
In terms of the commercialisation of our products, we will continue to build on our leading positions in Established Markets.
Our plans Based on continued productivity improvements including for growth will also build on the investments we have made in Emerging Markets.
In addition to commercialising the current and successful completion of restructuring initiatives, our planning assumption remains that Core operating margin, before investment new product offerings being developed internally, we will drive further growth by selectively supplementing our Emerging Markets in research and development Core pre-R&D operating margin will be in the range of 48% to 54% of revenue.
These levels of portfolio with branded generic products sourced externally and marketed under the AstraZeneca brand.
revenue and margins would generate the requisite operating cash ow over the planning period to support the reinvestment needs of the business, debt service obligations and shareholder distributions.
Business shape Over the planning period, we expect that between 40% and 50% We continue to use business improvement programmes, such of our pre-R&D post-tax cash ows will be reinvested in internal as Lean, to drive efficiencies across the Group.
We will also move and external R&D and capital investments to drive future value further towards a more exible cost base which will enable us to and growth.
respond rapidly as our requirements change.
To do this, we will continue to make greater use of outsourcing and strategic collaborations with other organisations.
People and values We recognise that talented, motivated and capable people are critical to the successful achievement of our strategic ambitions.
As a result, we are focusing on building new critical capabilities, such as: payer partnering and personalised healthcare further improving leadership and management capability acquiring and retaining talent, for example in support of our growth plans in Emerging Markets increasing the diversity of our talent pool, so that it better reects our future business shape.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Our Strategy and Performance Our strategy 15 Our Strategy and Performance Business objectives and key performance indicators Quarterly reports provide the Board and the SET with shared Within AstraZeneca, each business function is subject to an annual insight into progress against current year objectives and milestones budget and target-setting process that includes developing financial for longer-term strategic goals.
Performance is assessed using and business forecasts, conducting sensitivity and risk analyses, quantitative, comparative market, operational and financial and setting relevant objectives.
Regular reviews are undertaken in measures, and qualitative analysis.
order to monitor and assess progress against business and budget targets, and to assess key risks and mitigating actions.
In setting our objectives we sought to ensure that they were aligned with our medium-term planning assumptions for the five years to 2014.
For each of our objectives we have developed KPIs by which What drives the What challenges What do we want growth of our do we face?
See Our marketplace section See Our strategic priorities to 2014 section business?
See Our marketplace section from page 10.
Pricing pressure Financial Sustain annual revenues of $28-$34 billion 1 Sustain Core pre-R&D operating margins of 48%-54% Expanding Reinvest 40%-50% of pre-R&D post-tax patient cash ows in R&D and capital investments populations Achieve target return on invested capital R&D productivity Pipeline Average of two or more commercially valuable first approvals in major markets per year 40% of our pipeline sourced from outside our laboratories 2 Unmet medical need Deliver the business Grow market share of key brands that Tougher regulatory retain exclusivity environment Successfully commercialise recent launches and the next wave Sustain double digit sales growth in Emerging Markets 3 Business shape Maintain gross margin in excess of 80% Advances in Improve Sales and Marketing science and effectiveness and ef ciency Generic technology Procurement savings across all functions competition and Focus on working capital management patent expiry People and values Achieve global high performing norm rating for employee engagement Achieve a step change in our leadership and management capability Ensure a culture of ethics and integrity is embedded in all business practices 16 Our Strategy and Performance Our strategy AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information we have measured our success in delivering our strategy.
During the year we also sought to ensure that we managed the business appropriately both to optimise our opportunities and mitigate the risks we faced.
The chart below illustrates this relationship and summarises our objectives for 2010.
The Performance in 2010 section that follows sets out our performance against our KPIs during the year.
Our KPIs What might stop us from See Performance in 2010 section on page 18. achieving our objectives?
See Risk section from page 94.
We face a diverse range of risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect any one or Revenue more parts of our business.
Our Core pre-R&D operating pro t margin Core EPS approach to risk management Reinvestment rate is designed to encourage clear Cash ow decision making as to which riskswe take as a business and how we manage those risks, in each case informed by an understanding of the commercial, Product approvals financial, compliance, legal Regulatory submissions and reputational implications Phase III investment decisions Licensing deals acquisitions of these risks.
Market share of key brands Revenue from new product launches Emerging Market sales growth Gross margin SG&A costs R&D cost ef ciency Procurement savings Employee engagement Leadership communications DJSI ranking Sales and marketing breaches AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Our Strategy and Performance Our strategy 17
