Our Strategy and Performance Performance in 2010 Financial Overall strong financial performance.
Exceeded targets for revenue, Core EPS and cash ow Global revenue was unchanged at CER at $33.3 billion.
This Reinvestment rate was just below the medium-term planning was ahead of target primarily as a result of strong operational assumption range of 40% to 50% due to the better than expected performance, delayed generic entry and less generic erosion pre-R&D post-tax cash ows.
AstraZeneca continues to expect across the US and Europe than assumed in our targets.
this range to hold over the planning period although anticipates Core pre-R&D operating margin was 53.5%, near the top end variances within any particular year.
of the medium-term planning assumption range of 48% to 54%.
Net cash in ow before nancing activities of $8,340 million re ects Core EPS increased by 5% at CER to $6.71.
This was ahead the strong business performance.
of target as a result of the above revenue performance and See Financial Review from page 78 for more information.
Pipeline Achieved major market approvals for Vimovo and Brilique: made submissions for dapagli ozin and Zinforo, but disappointments on other pipeline products Vimovo approved in the US and the EU: Brilique approved in Dapagli ozin and vandetanib NDAs submitted in the US and the the EU with Complete Response Letter received for Brilinta EU: Zinforo and Axanum MAAs submitted in the EU: Recentin in the US: Kombiglyze XR Onglyza metformin combination trials data did not support regulatory submissions: no approved in the US: additional indications approved for Crestor submissions planned for zibotentan.
in the US and the EU and for Seroquel XR in the EU: decisions Completed deal with Rigel for the development of fostamatinib.
made in December to discontinue development of Phase III trials started for fostamatinib and TC-5214.
See Therapy Area Review from page 50 for more information.
Deliver the business Global revenue was unchanged at $33.3 billion Strong double-digit sales growth for Crestor, Symbicort and Achieved target of double-digit growth in Emerging Markets Seroquel XR.
Annual Crestor and Seroquel sales exceeded with revenues over $5.1 billion, a 16% increase over 2009.
See Financial Review from page 78 and Therapy Area Review Launches under way and planned for Brilinta Brilique, Vimovo from page 50 for more information.
Business shape Achieved or exceeded targets Core gross margin of 81.2% slightly ahead of 80% target.
Achieved $541 million of procurement savings against a target Achieved planned improvement in Core SG&A costs with of $500 million.
See Financial Review from page 78 for more information.
Achieved Core R&D ef ciency savings with spend of $4.2 billion.
People and values Improvement in senior leader communications, but slight decline in employee engagement.
Continued focus on application of Code of Conduct Employee engagement score as measured by our global Maintained position in the DJSI World Index the top 10% of employee survey FOCUS reduced from 84% in 2009 to 83% the largest 2,500 companies as sustainability leader, as well in 2010. as listing on the DJSI STOXX European Index.
Improvement of 4% in senior leader communications measure 11 con rmed breaches of external sales and marketing in 2010 over 2009 as measured by FOCUS.
See People section from page 36 and Responsible Business section from page 40 for more information.
18 Our Strategy and Performance Performance in 2010 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Research tells us that many patients prescribed drugs do not take their medicine as they should whether the right amount, at the right time or in the right way.
The position is worst for inhaled medicines, which include some of our asthma medicines.
Research also tells us that we can use packaging which is usually our only way of communicating directly with patients to improve adherence to a medicines instructions.
The opportunity for AstraZeneca to use packaging design to in uence behaviour is being pursued through a range of initiatives.
These include customising packaging to address patient needs better and making the pack part of the treatment.
At the same time we are simplifying processes where possible and aim to improve the ef ciency with which we use packaging materials by 20% by 2015.
One example of our work is the packaging for our childrens asthma inhalers in Spain, which now features an image of a kite associated with fresh air and physical activity to help children feel more positive about taking their medicine.
Better packaging can help make our medicines more effective.
That helps us and our patients, and improves treatment outcomes.
What will help me take my medicine?
Because health connects us all For more information go to the Supply and Manufacturing section from page 34.
