Delivering our strategy Sales and Marketing Reinforcing our leading positions and investing in new regions Our global marketing and sales operations organisation is active in over 100 countries.
As well as building on our leading positions in the US and Other Established Markets, 100 such as Canada, Japan and Western Europe, Active in over 100 countries we continue to increase our strength through strategic investment in Emerging Markets, where GDP growth and changing disease demographics present significant opportunities.
100 See the Market denitions table on page 217 Portfolio of more than 100 generic products being licensed across for more information on AstraZenecas 30 Emerging Markets for marketing under the AstraZeneca brand market denitions.
We work to ensure success in individual markets by having highly accountable local leaders who understand their markets and have a strong focus on profitable business growth.
They are supported $5bn by a single global Commercial organisation that develops global Annual Crestor and Seroquel sales exceeded $5 billion each product strategies, leverages best practice and drives synergies.
It also ensures a strong customer focus and commercial direction in the management of our pipeline and marketed products.
All our work is underpinned by a strong set of global standards which build on our Code of Conduct and our planned new Global Policy on External Interactions.
For more information on this Policy, see the Sales and marketing ethics section on page 43.
Driving commercial success Delivering commercial success requires us to be able to maximise the value of our portfolio across the whole life-cycle of a medicine, from early in a products R&D phase to maximising the earnings from our more mature medicines.
At an early stage in the medicine discovery process we define what All our work is underpinned by a strong set we believe the prole of a medicine needs to be, in order to work most effectively in combating a particular disease.
These disease of global standards which build on our Code target product proles are based on the insights we gain through of Conduct and our planned new Global Policy our relationships with healthcare professionals, patients and others on External Interactions for whom the medicine must add value, including regulators and payers.
They help shape our therapy area and marketing strategies.
More information on payer considerations can be found in the Tony Zook Investing in capabilities section from page 28.
Executive Vice-President, Global Commercial Operations 32 Delivering our strategy Sales and Marketing AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Activities in 2010 focused on ensuring continued commercial healthcare and to society in general.
Our pricing also takes account of the fact that, as a publicly owned company, we have a duty to excellence through growing the market share of our key products that retain market exclusivity, such as Crestor, Seroquel XR and ensure that we continue to deliver an appropriate return on investment to our shareholders.
In addition, we must ensure that we successfully TM commercialise recently launched medicines, such as Onglyza and Vimovo, or prepare for the launch of the next wave of Meeting the needs of payers is an increasingly important medicines, such as Brilique Brilinta.
At the same time we do not requirement for us.
In order to develop products that meet those lose sight of the need to optimise the value of our mature medicines needs, we are focusing even more on understanding the priorities and drive their growth in new markets.
For example, in 2010 we and requirements of both payers and healthcare providers.
Building signed an agreement with Daiichi Sankyo for the co-promotion and on this information we can then demonstrate to our customers how supply in Japan of Nexium, which is already approved in more than our products offer value and support cost-effective healthcare 120 countries.
Under this agreement, we will develop and manufacture delivery.
Our medicines play an important role in treating medical the product, Daiichi Sankyo will be responsible for its distribution needs and in doing so they bring economic as well as therapeutic and both parties will promote it after it is approved for use.
Effective treatments can help to lower healthcare costs by reducing the need for more expensive care, such as hospital stays Global strategies tailored to meet local needs or surgery, or through preventing patients from developing more serious or debilitating diseases that are costly to treat.
They also All our markets have an important role to play in delivering our commercial strategy.
They are the base from which we drive contribute to increased productivity by reducing or preventing the incidence of diseases that keep people away from work.
growth and achieve business performance, while both ensuring that costs remain under control and our capabilities are strengthened.
Nevertheless, we need to prioritise our investment in markets to We continually review our range of medicines both those on the ensure we allocate resources in the most cost-effective way.
We market and in the pipeline to identify areas where they may meet did so in 2010 according to criteria such as market size and growth, a particularly critical healthcare need but where for a number of risk prole, our current position in a market and its commercial reasons patient access may be challenging.
This allows us to identify those markets of major needs may be either where our medicines treat diseases that are signicance to us, those that will become important drivers of or are becoming prevalent in developing countries, or where they our business in the future and those Established Markets where are potentially a leading or unique therapy addressing an unmet we need to change our approach to deliver sustained success.
medical need and offering significant patient benefit in treating a We are supporting our work in these markets with investment in serious or life-threatening condition.
In such cases, where appropriate, the capabilities necessary to deliver our business objectives.
we aim to provide patient access to these medicines through expanded patient access programmes.
Examples of such programmes exist worldwide.
We also support the concept of Emerging markets It has been estimated that emerging markets will contribute around differential pricing in this context, provided that safeguards are in place to ensure that differentially priced products are not diverted from 70% of pharmaceutical industry growth in the next five years, and branded generics represent approximately 50% by value in them.
patients who need them to be sold and used in more afuent markets.
We are continuing our programme of investment in large emerging markets such as China, Mexico, Brazil and Russia as well as high An effective sales force growth, medium-sized and smaller markets.
We sell our medicines in more than 100 countries around the world.
Most of our sales are made through wholly-owned local To maximise our opportunities, we are launching a range of marketing companies.
Elsewhere, we sell through distributors or local representative ofces.
Our products are marketed primarily branded genericised medicines.
This range will comprise a complementary portfolio of differentiated products that will be to doctors both primary care and specialist as well as to other healthcare professionals.
Marketing efforts are also directed promoted alongside our patented original medicines in markets where we already have a developed commercial infrastructure, towards explaining the economic as well as the therapeutic benets of our products to governments and others who pay for healthcare.
existing relationships with healthcare professionals and a strong reputation.
In 2010, we continued the programme of launches we began in India in 2009 and launched a generic anti-infective Face-to-face contact is the traditional marketing method and medicine in a number of markets.
In addition, we have identied a our efforts are focused on making this channel as effective and portfolio of more than 100 generic products which we are currently efficient as possible with the use of telephone sales teams and licensing across 30 Emerging Markets for marketing under the dedicated customer service staff.
Increasingly, our sales force is AstraZeneca brand.
To help us license these dossiers and source being complemented by our use of the internet.
In the US, where the molecules, we are working with a number of companies in it is an approved and normal practice, we also use direct-toIndia who work to our rigorous quality and process standards.
consumer advertising campaigns for some products.
This includes an agreement with Torrent to supply us with a portfolio of generic medicines for which Torrent already has licences in Our rapid growth in Emerging Markets is driving demand for a range of countries.
Internally, we have created a dedicated central commercial support, particularly in respect of sales force cross-functional team to support our branded generics business.
Core sales and marketing training programmes have been adapted for, and deployed in, local environments.
The main Pricing our medicines focus of these programmes is to embed core commercial skills and Continued innovation is required to address unmet medical need.
to strengthen sales managers coaching and planning skills.
Our challenge is to deliver innovations that bring benets for patients and society at a level of investment and internal productivity that Sales and marketing ethics is appropriate, given that the external environment is placing The pharmaceutical sector is subject to increased oversight by significant downward pressure on drug pricing.
regulators, competition and other authorities.
As we drive the growth of our business and reshape our geographic footprint, Our global pricing policy provides the framework for optimising we remain committed to the responsible delivery of commercial the profitability of all our products in a sustainable way.
You can read more about our standards of ethical practice many different factors, including ensuring appropriate patient and 2010 performance in the Responsible Business section access.
When setting the price of a medicine, we take into from page40.
consideration its full value to patients, to those who pay for AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy Sales and Marketing 33
