Board of Directors Front row, left to right: John OHiggins, John Hughes, Clive Watson Back row: Russell King, John Warren, Peter Chambr, Jim Webster, Roger Stephens Nomination committee Audit and risk committee John Hughes chairman John Warren chairman Peter Chambr Peter Chambr Russell King Russell King John OHiggins John Warren Senior independent director John Warren Remuneration committee Russell King chairman Peter Chambr John Hughes John Warren 34 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 1 John OHiggins, Chief Executive John OHiggins joined Spectris in 2006.
Prior to joining Spectris, he was with Honeywell, latterly as President of Automation and Control Solutions, Asia Pacific.
He began his career with Daimler Benz in Stuttgart.
John has engineering degrees from University College Dublin and Purdue University and an MBA from INSEAD.
John is a non-executive director of Exide Technologies, a company listed on NASDAQ.
2 John Hughes CBE, Chairman John Hughes was appointed to the Board in 2007 and became non-executive Chairman in 2008.
John was previously executive vice-president and chief operating officer of defence, aerospace and electronic systems company Thales Group SA.
He is currently non-executive chairman of Sepura plc and Telecity Group plc, and a non-executive director of Nice Systems Limited, a company listed on NASDAQ.
John is an adviser to private equity firm Advent International and also serves as an Ambassador for the Alzheimers Society.
3 Clive Watson, group finance director Clive Watson joined Spectris in 2006.
He was previously at Borealis, a leading provider of plastics solutions, where he was chief financial officer and executive vice president for business support.
Prior to this, he was group finance director at Thorn Lighting Group and before that group finance director Europe with Black & Decker.
Clive is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and the Chartered Institute of Tax and holds a Bachelors degree in Commerce and Accounting from the University of Birmingham.
He is a non-executive director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
4 Russell King, non-executive director Russell King was appointed to the Board in October 2010.
Until October 2009, Russell was chief strategy officer of Anglo American PLC and between 2006 and 2009 was a non-executive director of Anglo Platinum Ltd.
Prior to that, he spent over 20 years in senior roles at ICI, gaining worldwide experience in its fertiliser, petrochemical and paint businesses.
Russell is also a non-executive director of Aggreko plc.
5 John Warren, non-executive director John Warren was appointed to the Board in 2006.
From 2000 to 2005, John was group finance director at WH Smith PLC.
Prior to that he was with United Biscuits Plc for 19 years, latterly as group finance director.
He has been a non-executive director of Rexam Plc, RAC plc, Arla Foods UK plc and BPP Holdings plc and is currently chairman of Uniq plc and a non-executive director of The Rank Group Plc and Bovis Homes Group PLC.
6 Peter Chambr, non-executive director Peter Chambr was appointed to the Board in 2006.
He is chairman of Xellia Pharmaceuticals and 7TM Pharma, both private companies, and a non-executive director of BTG plc.
He is also an adviser to private equity company 3i.
Peter was formerly chief executive officer of Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc and prior to that was chief operating officer of Celera Genomics Group and chief executive of Bespak plc.
7 Jim Webster, business group director Jim Webster, a metallurgy graduate, joined Spectris in 1993.
He is responsible for the operational supervision of a number of the groups trading companies.
He was previously general manager of the European Wire and Cable Division of Raychem Corporation.
8 Roger Stephens, head of commercial and company secretary Roger Stephens is an economics graduate and chartered company secretary.
Prior to joining Spectris in 1997, he held commercial roles in the power and construction sectors, specialising in contract negotiation, litigation and claims resolution, IP exploitation and property development.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 35
