Business Model In order to execute our strategy successfully, we are organised in a way that combines the benefits of a multinational group whilst maintaining the entrepreneurial culture of our operating companies.
Organisational Operating structure model Best practice Control transfer framework Product Strong manufacturing customer focus Acquisitions Powerful revenue drivers Organisational structure Our group comprises four business segments which reflect the end-user industries and applications we serve, as shown on page 3.
Each segment contains a number of operating companies, with dedicated management teams having a high degree of responsibility and accountability, and operating within a framework of group management and control.
Operating model Central to this approach is a limited group structure which, together with the Board, sets the strategy and drives and monitors its implementation.
In addition, the centre provides knowledge, advice and selective support services such as legal, tax and treasury, mergers and acquisitions, emerging market infrastructure and best practice sharing among businesses.
Control framework The group has developed a robust internal control framework in keeping with our operating model, values and culture.
This comprises common policies, procedures, principles and processes and provides the minimum requirement for the controls the businesses should have in place.
04 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Building off this central model, each operating company is required to implement its own system of internal controls, consistent with the size and complexity of its business.
The effectiveness of the internal control framework is routinely monitored through a combination of certification, self-assessment and a rolling programme of reviews by internal and external audit functions, complemented by a sound risk management process, as outlined on page 40.
Strong customer focus Values Within each business segment, each operating company has developed its own brands Our values define who we are and sales and service channels, tailored to its target industrial markets.
The key benefit and how we do business, both of this results-driven structure is that management teams have local ownership and can as individuals and as a company.
focus on their priorities and react quickly to changing customer and market needs.
Honesty All of our businesses are strong players in niche markets where there are significant Acting with absolute integrity in all barriers to entry.
We aim to build long-term relationships with our customers and our that we do.
experienced engineers work with customers to understand the business and productivity challenges they face, and offer solutions, based on standard product platforms.
In Empowerment addition, much of our technology and applications know-how is proprietary and Creating an environment of autonomy patent-protected.
in our operating companies where people are expected to take the Powerful revenue drivers initiative and to succeed.
Our products typically involve relatively low capital expenditure for customers, but provide a significant and rapid payback.
Customer benefits include improving production Ownership efficiency, reducing downtime, eliminating wastage, reducing time to market, and Taking personal ownership of the ensuring compliance with safety and quality regulations.
In addition, after-sales service responsibility of our roles.
and support is an important part of our business and over 25% of our revenue is derived from consumables and services.
Delivery Performing to the highest standards Acquisitions against the commitments we make We seek to enhance the growth potential of our businesses by pursuing an active but both internally and, especially, externally disciplined approach to acquisitions.
Stand-alone acquisitions must share our business to our customers.
characteristics and have the management strength to operate as autonomous units within the Spectris group.
Bolt-on acquisitions are merged with one of our existing businesses to create a stronger and more broadly-based growth platform.
Speed Ensuring that our business decisions are Product manufacturing made and actions executed with a sense We focus on our core competencies of research and development, product design, and of urgency.
assembly and test, whilst outsourcing the majority of component and sub-assembly production to qualified suppliers.
As a result, our businesses are capital efficient.
Low cost sourcing initiatives by the groups strategic purchasing teams continue to drive down the costs of procurement whilst optimising quality and supply chain performance.
Best practice transfer Despite the specific industry and technology focus of each of the businesses, considerable emphasis is placed on knowledge sharing across the group and the transfer of best practice.
This can be especially valuable when entering new end-user markets or geographical regions, and was of real benefit to many companies when moving into China and, more recently, Latin America.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 05
