Directors Report The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the 31 December 2010. company, and to either cancel the shares or hold them as Treasury shares which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or transferred Principal activities for the purposes of the companys share plans, depending on the Spectris designs, develops and markets  best interests of the companys shareholders at the time.
No such instrumentation and controls.
The businesses are grouped purchases were made during the year.
At the close of business into four segments for management and segmental reporting on 24 February 2011, the company had 125,005,123 ordinary purposes: Materials Analysis, Test and Measurement, In-line shares in issue, of which 9,063,279 were held in Treasury.
During Instrumentation and Industrial Controls.
Further details of the the year 419,815 shares were transferred out of Treasury to meet trading companies within each segment can be found in the the companys obligations under its share plans and no shares Operating Review pages 14 to 23.
Developments in the groups were cancelled out of Treasury.
An authority to make further business activities are discussed in the Chairmans Statement market purchases of the companys ordinary shares, if believed page 10, the Chief Executives Review page 12 and the appropriate, will be sought at the forthcoming Annual General Business Review pages 2 to 33.
Meeting although the Board has no present intention of so doing.
Acquisitions Also included in the special business of the 2011 Annual General During the year five acquisitions were made.
The assets of Meeting are proposals to renew the directors authority to allot Reologica Instruments AB, a Swedish company specialising in shares up to prescribed limits.
the design and manufacture of rheometers, were acquired by Malvern Instruments and provide access to additional technologies At 24 February 2011, interests notified to the company in and intellectual property that will support the continued accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency development of Malverns rheometry product offering.
Zhuhai Rules comprised: Omec Instruments Co. Ltd, a privately-owned Chinese company specialising in particle characterisation, extends the groups Black Rock Inc. range of instrumentation in the Materials Analysis segment.
15,048,498 shares 12.98% material interest Malvern Instruments acquired from Sysmex Corporation the Japanese distribution and service business for both Malverns Standard Life Investments Limited own instruments and Sysmexs FPIA analysers and CDA particle 8,229,088 shares 7.1% material interest counters.
N-Tron Corporation, a producer of rugged industrial networking components based in Mobile, Alabama, USA, is a Global Aegon Asset Management Group leading manufacturer of ethernet switches the products used 8,156,408 shares 7.04% material interest to connect multiple ethernet devices to each other and to build network infrastructure and associated components for the F & C Asset Management plc industrial, infrastructure and power generation markets.
The 6,128,308 shares 5.29% material interest business will become part of the Industrial Controls segment, operating in close co-operation with Red Lion Controls.
Finally, Massachusetts Financial Services Company within the In-line Instrumentation segment, the acquisition 5,611,725 shares 4.84% material interest of Delta F Corporation adds trace and ultra-trace oxygen and moisture analysis capability to Servomexs product offering.
Legal & General Group Plc The total cost of acquisitions during the year was 63.0 million, 4,603,565 shares 3.99% material interest including 0.8 million for cash acquired.
Of this, 4.1 million is attributable to the fair value of deferred and contingent Takeovers directive consideration expected to be paid in future years.
Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is required to Disposals disclose certain additional information.
The disclosures not covered There were no disposals during the year.
elsewhere in this annual report are as follows: Share capital The companys Articles of Association Articles give power to The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 5p the Board to appoint directors, but require directors to submit each: each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting of the company.
The authorised and issued share capital of the following their appointment and for re-election where they company, together with movements in the companys issued have been a director at each of the preceding two Annual share capital during the year, is shown in Note 24 on page 86.
The General Meetings and were not appointed or re-appointed by Articles of Association of the company, available on the companys the company at, or since, either such meeting.
The Articles may website, contain provisions governing the ownership and transfer be amended by special resolution of the shareholders and are of shares.
available to view on the companys website.
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised The Board of directors is responsible for the management of the the directors to make market purchases of the companys business of the company and may exercise all the powers of the ordinary shares up to a maximum number of 12,500,000 shares, company subject to the provisions of the relevant statutes and the 36 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements companys Articles.
The Articles contain specific provisions and 2010 are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on restrictions regarding the companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by In accordance with Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 the shareholders each year at the Annual General Meeting.
directors disclose a qualifying third-party indemnity provision entered into between the company and its directors and officers There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or which was in force at the date of approval of this report.
This terminate upon a change of control of the group following a indemnity gives contractual force to the Indemnity of Officers takeover, such as bank loan agreements and company share provision contained in the companys Articles.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the group as a whole.
Auditors In addition, there is a service contract between the company and Separate resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors one of its directors which provides for compensation for loss of and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will be office or employment following a change of control of the group proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
please refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on page 46 for further explanation.
It is also possible that funding arrangements Annual General Meeting for the groups defined benefit pension arrangements would need The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at the to be enhanced following a change of control if that resulted in a companys offices on Friday 13 May 2011 at 11.30 a. m. is weakening of the employer covenant.
contained in a separate letter from the Chairman accompanying this report.
Dividend Results for the group are set out in the consolidated statement of Corporate Governance income on page 52 and in the supporting notes.
A final dividend Combined Code statement of compliance of 20.9 pence per ordinary share is proposed for the year to 31 Spectris plc is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate December 2010 2009: 17.85 pence.
With the interim dividend, Governance the Combined Code that is appended to the this makes a total for the year of 28.0 pence 2009: 24.25 pence.
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Combined Code The final dividend will be paid on 24 June 2011 to shareholders on sets out principles and provisions relating to the good governance the register on 3 June 2011. of companies.
Research and development Corporate governance has been and remains the responsibility Expenditure committed to research and development is focused of the whole Board.
This statement describes how the company on new product development, applications engineering and applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the process integration.
Costs are expensed as incurred, except where Combined Code during 2010.
The Board considers that it was the expenditure meets certain strict criteria for capitalisation.
throughout the year and continues to be in full compliance with the In the year to 31 December 2010, amounts expensed totalled provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, save that: 62.4 million 2009: 58.2 million, and no expenditure met the criteria for capitalisation 2009: nil.
Between 19 May and 19 October 2010 comprising the period between the retirement of Anthony Reading and the Fixed assets appointment of Russell King at least half the Board, excluding Whilst the market values of some properties differ from book the Chairman, did not comprise independent non-executive values, the directors believe that the differences are not material.
directors, as required by provision A3.2.
Payment of suppliers Board composition and procedures The groups policy on payment of suppliers is to ensure that terms The Board meets formally at regular intervals throughout the of payment accord with contractual and legal obligations.
The year to consider developments in relation to the companys company had no trade creditors at the year end 2009: nil.
strategy and long-term objectives and to review trading results and operational and business issues.
In particular, it deals with Directors those matters reserved to it for decision, including the acquisition The directors of the company are named on pages 34 and 35. and disposal of businesses, major capital expenditure, the appointment and, where necessary, removal of directors and In accordance with the requirement of the UK Corporate Board and senior management succession planning.
Additional Governance Code, which the company is adopting early with meetings are convened as required to consider specific topics regard to annual election of directors by shareholders, each requiring immediate decision.
Usually, two meetings each year director has agreed to resign at the 2011 Annual General Meeting are held at operating locations and encompass a detailed review and put themselves up for re-election.
A change to the Articles, of the relevant business.
Through these meetings, the induction reflecting the resignation of each director at every Annual process on appointment and the access given to the companys General Meeting and their submission for re-election at each such operations and its staff, all directors gain the knowledge of the meeting, will be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
company required for them to discharge their duties.
Operational The directors total remuneration for the year and their interests decisions are delegated by the Board to senior management at in the shares of the company and its subsidiaries at 31 December trading company level, over which the executive directors exercise Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 37 Directors Report continued supervision.
All directors receive detailed progress reports one Board and committee meeting attendance 2010 week prior to each Board meeting.
Remuneration Audit Nomination Board committee committee committee The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive Total meetings directors and three non-executive directors.
The Board considers during year 14 4 3 2 its non-executive directors Peter Chambr, Russell King and John J L M Hughes Warren to be independent, in that none of them are or have Chairman 14 4 N A 2 ever been holders of an executive office with the company.
The J A Warren senior positions of Chairman, Chief Executive and senior independent independent director 14 4 3 2 director are held by separate individuals and, in accordance with P A Chambr 14 4 3 2 the Combined Code, the Board has adopted written profiles for R J King 2 2 the first two of these.
The non-executive directors have all had senior experience in other organisations and offer independent J E OHiggins judgement on Board matters.
The Chairmans other significant Chief Executive 14 N A N A 2 listed company interests are as non-executive chairman of Sepura C G Watson 14 N A N A N A plc and Telecity Group plc.
The Board believes that the Chairmans J C Webster 14 N A N A N A obligations to the company are unaffected by these directorships.
A J Reading 7 1 2 1 There are procedures for individual Board members to receive R J King and A J Reading held office for part of the year only.
R J King attended two induction and training as appropriate and to solicit independent of the three Board meetings and all of the remuneration committee meetings which professional advice at the groups expense where specific expertise he was eligible to attend.
A J Reading attended all of the Board meetings and all of is required in the course of exercising their duties.
The Chairman the audit, nomination and remuneration committee meetings which he was eligible annually reviews and agrees with each director their training and to attend.
All directors have access to the company secretary, who is responsible for ensuring compliance with Board appointments and performance evaluation appropriate statutes and regulations.
The nomination committee consists of the Chairman, Chief Executive and all non-executive directors.
It is chaired by the The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Board committees, Chairman, save in the event of discussions relating to his notably the nomination, remuneration and audit and risk succession when the senior independent director takes the chair.
The terms of reference of these committees are published on the companys website and the following additional Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of a new documents are available to shareholders on application to the director is appropriate, the duty of the committee is to present company secretary: for Board consideration suitably qualified candidate s. In making such recommendations, the committee evaluates the balance schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and develops responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the a description of the role and required capabilities.
Due regard is non-executive directors: given to the benefits of diversity on the Board and consideration relations with shareholders: is given to the time commitment expected for the Chairman and performance evaluation: non-executive director positions.
Candidates are then identified procedure for taking independent professional advice.
for interview, external search consultants being engaged as part of this process.
The committee also makes recommendations to The Board has adopted the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and the Board regarding the re-election and or re-appointment of any Administrators Guidance Note of September 2009 on Board director.
Similar selection processes apply for the appointment of Meeting Etiquette.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation Recommendations are also made to the Board concerning where he has, or may have, a direct or indirect interest that succession plans for both executive and non-executive directors conflicts, or may conflict, with the companys interests.
During the and, in particular, for the key roles of Chairman and Chief year, in accordance with the powers and duties of directors laid Executive.
The committee also recommends to the Board suitable down in the companys Articles, directors were asked to declare candidates for the position of senior independent director.
any such conflict or potential conflict of interest to the Board for the Boards authorisation of a matter which otherwise may The nomination committee meets as the need arises.
Its terms of have given rise to a conflict of interest.
No such conflicts have reference can be found on the companys website.
The operation of the Board and its committees is reviewed by the Board as a whole annually.
The executive directors and company secretarys performances are appraised annually against objectives established for the prior year.
The contributions of the Chairman and non-executive directors are reviewed in advance 38 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements of the conclusion of their initial three-year term, by the senior the external audit.
Its meetings are normally attended by the independent director and the Chairman respectively, prior to Chairman, the Chief Executive, the group finance director, the their being proposed to shareholders for re-election.
Additionally, company secretary and the external and internal auditors.
All the Chairman holds periodic meetings with the non-executive executive directors attend the year end audit committee meeting directors only and, led by the senior independent director, the and processes requiring the disclosure of relevant information non-executives have the opportunity to meet at least annually by individual directors to the auditor have been adopted.
The without the Chairman present.
committee confers annually with both the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors without the attendance of executive An evaluation of the operation and performance of the Board directors.
Additionally, both the external audit partner and the was conducted in 2010 by external facilitators, Egon Zehnder.
The Head of Internal Audit have the right of direct access to the audit process included submissions from all Board members in response and risk committee chairman.
The committees terms of reference to a structured questionnaire covering a range of issues, which can be found on the companys website.
were then reviewed by the Board as a whole.
Areas addressed and reviewed included strategy, Board structure and organisation, The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the development plan input for the directors, Board dynamics, the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and performance of the Chairman, information flows, shareholder then for approving the external auditors remuneration, terms of reporting, the Board committees, succession planning and risk engagement and scope of work.
A number of action items identified to enhance the Boards governance were agreed.
Egon Zehnder are additionally The committee has also adopted procedures governing and retained by the company as search consultants.
restricting the appointment of the external auditor for non-audit services.
The following services are precluded: Shareholder relations Spectris conducts regular dialogue with institutional shareholders book-keeping or other services related to the accounting and divulges such information as is permitted within the guidelines records or financial statements of Spectris plc: of the Listing Rules.
The content of presentations made after financial information systems design and implementation: results announcements may be accessed by individual investors on appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution the groups website, www.
in kind reports: actuarial services: All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General internal audit outsourcing services: Meeting, where the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the management functions or human resources: chairmen of the audit and risk, remuneration and nomination broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking committees are available to answer questions.
The results of proxy services: votes are declared at the Annual General Meeting after each legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit.
resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
These are then published on the groups website.
A cumulative annual cap of 200,000 is established for all other non-audit services save for acquisition due diligence and taxation The Board is kept informed of the views of major shareholders services above which all engagements are subject to prior through periodic reports from the Chief Executive and the approval by the audit and risk committee.
companys joint brokers J P Morgan Cazenove and RBS Hoare Govett.
The Chairman and non-executive directors have the The Head of Internal Audit is employed by the group to perform opportunity to attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
internal control reviews across the group according to a work programme agreed by the committee.
The Head of Internal Audit Shareholders representing in excess of 3% of the companys is assisted in this by two further internal auditors.
The nature and issued share capital receive a standing invitation to meet the scope of the groups internal control review resources is reviewed Chairman, the senior independent director or new non-executive by the audit and risk committee annually.
The audit and risk directors.
Such meetings would supplement if necessary, but not committee receives reports twice a year on the results of internal replace, the regular meetings with the Chief Executive and group control reviews.
The committee has considered the risk of the withdrawal of Audit and risk committee their auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, from the market in their risk The audit and risk committee comprises the non-executive evaluation and planning and has concluded that the risk is small.
directors and is chaired by John Warren, who has recent and In the event that the companys auditor did exit the market, a relevant financial experience as the former group finance director replacement appointment would be made from audit firms of of both United Biscuits plc and WH Smith PLC.
Mr Warren is also equivalent standing.
KPMG Audit Plc were appointed as the the current chairman of the audit committees of Bovis Homes companys auditors on 12 May 1998.
The position of auditor to Group PLC, The Rank Group Plc and Uniq plc.
The committee the company is kept under regular review, but KPMG Audit Plcs meets at least three times each year to consider the effectiveness in-depth understanding of the companys operations is considered of the groups internal controls, policies and procedures, the by the committee to be of benefit to both the company and its process of internal audit and the conduct and outcome of shareholders.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 39 Directors Report continued There were no contractual obligations that acted to restrict the committee.
The necessary actions are taken by the audit and committees choice of auditor.
risk committee to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified by its review of the internal control system: Internal controls the executive directors report to the Board on changes in the The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups system of business and external environment which present significant internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The group finance director provides the Board with a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure monthly financial information which includes key performance to meet business objectives and can provide only reasonable and indicators and information on the groups operating segments.
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Regular reports on significant legal, ethics and compliance issues and insurance matters are received from the company Consistent with the guidance provided for directors on internal secretary.
control by the Financial Reporting Council Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Going concern Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Having reviewed the groups plans and available financial facilities, evaluating and managing assessed significant risks faced by the the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group has group, that this has been in place for the year under review and adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, that foreseeable future.
For this reason it continues to adopt the going this process has been reviewed by the Board during the year and concern basis in preparing the groups accounts.
that the group accords with the guidance.
The Board affirms the importance it attaches to the continuous review and application of Business Review the guidance, the regular and systematic assessment of the risks The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business facing the group and the value of embedding risk management Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, and internal control systems within its business processes.
The and which should be treated as forming part of this report by group has an internal audit function which reviews the design and reference, is included in the following sections of the annual effectiveness of internal controls across the groups operations, report: including financial, operational and compliance controls.
Chairmans Statement on pages 10 and 11.
The processes which the Board and the audit and risk committee Chief Executives Review on pages 12 and 13. have applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the groups system Group Overview on pages 2 to 5. of internal controls are summarised below: Operating Review on pages 14 to 23, which includes a review of the external environment.
an established process is in place whereby each business Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 8 unit regularly assesses, evaluates and reports risks of group to 9. significance.
Each business unit is required to document the Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on management and mitigating actions in place and proposed: pages 14 to 23. regular review of the status of risks and corresponding Financial Review on pages 24 to 28. mitigating actions ensure that risk management is embedded Corporate Social Responsibility on pages 29 to 33, which in day-to-day management processes and decision-making as includes the companys policy on treatment of its employees.
well as in the annual strategic planning cycle: the effectiveness of risk management and mitigating actions is Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the reviewed regularly by the executive directors and twice yearly annual report and the financial statements by the audit and risk committee: The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and additionally, the executive directors consider those risks to the the group and parent company financial statements, in accordance groups strategic objectives which are not addressed within with applicable law and regulations.
the business units and develop appropriate approaches to managing and mitigating these risks: Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent annual financial plans for each business unit, significant company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that capital investments or contractual commitments and major law they are required to prepare the group financial statements acquisitions or divestments are all subject to review and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards approval by the Board: IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected a Group Accounting and Policies Manual sets out the minimum to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance standards and procedures to be applied in relation to those risk with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally areas which are regarded as significant in a group context: Accepted Accounting Practice.
a process of self-assessment of compliance with the Manual and reporting thereon has been established, providing Under company law the directors must not approve the financial for a documented trail of accountability from business statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair unit presidents and finance directors to the audit and risk view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and 40 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are annual report required to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the consistently: applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair make judgements and estimates that are reasonable view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or and prudent: loss of the company and the undertakings included in the for the group financial statements, state whether they have consolidation taken as a whole: and been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: the information that is cross-referred from the Business Review for the parent company financial statements, state whether section of the Directors Report includes a fair review of the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, development and performance of the business and the position subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation the parent company financial statements: taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis risks and uncertainties that they face.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies R J Stephens Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as Secretary are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group 25 February 2011 and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 41
