Group Overview Spectris is a leading supplier of  instrumentation and controls.
Our products, applications and services help customers to improve product quality and performance, improve core manufacturing processes, reduce downtime and wastage and reduce time to market, providing solutions across a wide range of industries.
Our customers are multinational, blue-chip companies in a diverse range of end-user markets around the world.
2010 Sales by destination Europe North America 36% Asia 25% excluding China 20% China 12% Latin America 3% Other rest of world: 4% Figures shown are % of total reported group sales 02 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements The group comprises four business segments which reflect the applications and end-user industries we serve.
Our businesses are leaders in the markets they serve with strong brands and market-leading products.
Laboratory off-line Process manufacturing Our products help customers to improve accuracy and speed of materials Our products and applications provide precision measurement and control analysis in the laboratory and in process manufacturing applications.
in challenging operating environments, ensuring process quality, asset We also provide test and measuring equipment for research and uptime, safety and improved yield.
We also provide automation and development applications.
control products for the discrete manufacturing industries.
Materials Analysis Test and Measurement In-line Instrumentation Industrial Controls Provides a wide range of Supplies test, measurement and Provides process analytical Supplies automation and analytical instrumentation and analysis equipment and software measurement, asset monitoring control products for the discrete systems for particle and material for product design optimisation, and on-line controls for both manufacturing industries.
manufacturing control and primary processing and the environmental monitoring.
Applications Applications Applications Applications Material characterisation Measurement Quality control Product tracking Contamination detection Data acquisition and processing Process technology Machine interface Quality control Simulation Safety Industrial networking Industries Industries Industries Industries Pharma life sciences Automotive Process industries General manufacturing Metals mining Aerospace Pulp and paper Machine building Semiconductor electronics Electronics Energy Distributors Research institutes Environmental Converting Group contribution Group contribution Group contribution Group contribution 30% 28% 33% 24% 30% 41% 7% 7% Sales Profit Sales Profit Sales Profit Sales Profit Operating companies Operating companies Operating companies Operating companies Malvern Instruments Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration Beta LaserMike Microscan PANalytical HBM Brel & Kjr Vibro Red Lion Controls Particle Measuring Systems BTG Group Fusion UV Systems NDC Infrared Engineering Servomex Reported sales Adjusted operating profit S Sp pe ec ct tr riis p s pllc c A An nnu nua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 03 03
