Business review continued Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA Constant 2010 2009 Change currency Revenue 230.0m 225.5m 2% 3% Operating profit 36.8m 35.6m 3% 5% Operating margin 16.0% 15.8% Sales increased modestly to 230.0 million up 3% at The overall financial performance from our factories in the constant currency as the region benefited from the overall UK and France improved markedly from 2009, which had economic recovery but markets in Europe remain mixed been impacted by some internal destocking particularly in the and we saw large individual variations in performance first half year.
We benefited from much higher volumes and year-on-year, both positive and negative.
There was a small achieved good operating efficiencies, despite the expense negative impact to sales on translation due to the weaker of equipment relocations associated with the consolidation euro.
In line with the first half year, sales and profit continued of our manufacturing sites in Cheltenham.
We also benefited well ahead in Germany for the full year.
Our business in Russia from lower overall material costs but, as expected, saw the performed superbly, with sales and profits well up on 2009 benefits start to erode in the second half year.
We expect to we anticipate that Russia will become one of our larger complete most of the consolidation activities in Cheltenham operations within the region over the next few years.
We also by mid 2011 and anticipate incremental cost benefits of saw a nice rebound in our M&M valve business in Italy as approaching 2 million in 2011, followed by a further 2 million OEM activity recovered from a steep decline in 2009.
Trading in 2012, from all our manufacturing investments, including conditions were challenging for our larger companies in Italy relocation of capacity to China.
and France and sales and profits were down, although we Operating profit of 36.8 million was up 3% from 35.6 million saw some improvement in demand in the fourth quarter.
At constant currency the operating profit was up 5%, Sales in the UK domestic market were higher in the second driven largely by increased profitability from our UK factories, half and up marginally for the full year but profits were down.
the success of our Russia and Germany businesses, the recovery in our M&M business and the full year benefit of the acquisition of our distributor in Turkey.
The segment result includes an asset write down charge of 1.2 million following a decision to rationalise the product ranges manufactured in South Africa.
The operating margin improved to 16.0% 2009: 15.8%.
Delivering value everyday in the UK Spirax Sarco steam system audit helps Dairy Crest achieve energy target Dairy Crest reduced gas consumption at its In addition, the steam system audit performed by Dairy Crest noted that since the initial savings Kirkby, England, factory by 18%, thanks to a Spirax Sarco highlighted a number of other energy from the first system audit, they saw a further combination of energy saving measures, including saving measures, such as repairing and installing 8% energy saving last year.
This has been made steam system improvements recommended by pipeline insulation, improving the blowdown possible by the annual Spirax Sarco steam Spirax Sarco.
One of the major improvements was control on the boiler and repairing or replacing surveys that identify potential problems and raising the temperature in the boiler feedtank from any malfunctioning steam traps.
As part of the ensure consistent energy savings.
80C to 96C through more efficient condensate system audit, Spirax Sarco engineers compiled an recovery, which resulted in increasing the asset list of all steam traps on the site and Dairy proportion of hot, treated water recycled back Crest has now engaged Spirax Sarco to carry out to the boiler from 76% to 94%.
annual inspections and servicing of their entire steam trap population.
10 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Delivering value through proactive technical support It is not our products alone that provide the value to our customers it is the application of our extensive knowledge Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Financial statements Governance CS CSR R Financial review Business review Overview
