Board of Directors Bill Whiteley BSc, FCMA Mark E Vernon BSc Hons Gareth Bullock MA Chairman Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Committees Committees Committees Finance Committee Chairman, Finance Committee, Nomination Committee, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee Chairman Risk Management Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman Experience Experience Experience Joined the Group as an independent NonJoined the Group in 2003 as President of the Joined the Group as an independent Executive Director in 2002 and was appointed Groups steam business in the USA.
Mr Vernon Non-Executive Director in 2005.
Mr Bullock has Chairman in July 2009.
Until his retirement in 2008 was appointed to the Board in 2006, with director had a varied career in banking, recently retiring Mr Whiteley was Chief Executive of Rotork plc, responsibilities for operations in North and South from the board of Standard Chartered plc where, where he had been a Director since 1984.
He became Chief Operating Officer in following roles in Technology and Operations, is a Non-Executive Director of Brammer plc and 2007 and was subsequently appointed as Group Strategy and Northeast Asia, he was most recently is Senior Independent Director of Renishaw plc.
Mr Vernon has had responsible for Africa, Middle-East, Europe and Mr Whiteley also serves as Chairman of a long career in the industrial engineering industry, the Americas as well as for the Risk function.
Hill & Smith Holdings plc and the British Valve serving previously as Group Vice-president of Mr Bullock also currently serves as a and Actuator Association.
He has been awarded Flowserves Flow Control Business Unit, Group Non-Executive Director of Tesco plc.
an honorary Doctorate of Engineering at the Vice-president of Durco International and University of Bath.
President of Valtek International, a global controls business.
Neil Daws CEng, FIMechE Mike Gibbin BSc Eng, CEng, IMechE David Meredith FCMA Executive Director Asia Pacific Executive Director Supply Finance Director and Latin America and North America Committees Committees Committees Risk Management Committee Risk Management Committee Finance Committee, Risk Management Committee Experience Experience Experience Joined the Group in the UK in 1978.
Mr Daws Joined the Group in 1988 as Group Accountant.
Joined the Group in 2007 as UK Supply Director has wide manufacturing experience within the Mr Meredith was appointed to the Board as and was appointed to the Board in 2009 as Group, having held positions in production and Finance Director in 1992 and is also responsible Group Supply Director with additional responsibility design engineering prior to being named as UK for the Groups Watson-Marlow business.
He for the North America steam business operations Supply Director.
Mr Daws was appointed to the trained as an Accountant with Redman Heenan and the Groups health, safety and environmental Board as Group Supply Director in 2003, including International, a specialist engineering group, and matters.
He started his career at Nissan, prior to responsibility for the research and development was appointed Accountant at their Heenan Drives joining Honda UK Manufacturing as Senior UK activities of the Groups steam business.
Mr Meredith later joined English Manager.
Mr Gibbin joined Comau Systems AB he was appointed Divisional Director for & American Reinsurance Company where he held as UK Engineering Director and was subsequently Asia Pacific and Latin America.
finance positions prior to joining the Group.
appointed Business Development Director in Sweden before being named as Chief Executive of Comau Sweden AB in 2005.
26 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Krishnamurthy Rajagopal FREng, CEng, Tony Scrivin Clive Watson B Comm Acc, ACA, CTA FIET, FIMechE, FIE, FCMI, PhD Executive Director EMEA Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Committees Committees Committees Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Risk Management Committee Audit Committee Chairman, Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee, Remuneration Committee Experience Experience Experience Joined the Group as an independent NonJoined the Group in the UK in 1963.
Mr Scrivin Joined the Group as an independent Executive Director in 2009.
Dr Rajagopal is was appointed to the Board in 2005 and is now Non-Executive Director in 2009.
Mr Watson is an a Non-Executive Director of W S Atkins plc, responsible for the Groups steam business Executive Director and Group Finance Director Bodycote plc and e2v technologies plc.
He also operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
He held several tax and finance serves as Chairman of UMIP Ltd. On completing He has held a number of sales and operations roles before joining Black & Decker in 1988 as his Doctorate in 1980, he became Manufacturing roles within the Group, including Export Manager Director of Tax and Treasury Europe, and was Systems Manager for Edwards High Vacuum and head of Group Information Systems.
later appointed Vice-president of Business part of the BOC Group plc before being Mr Scrivin was named President and General Planning and Analysis in the USA.
He then joined appointed a UK General Manager and then Manager of Spirax Sarco, Inc. in the USA in 2000, Thorn Lighting as Group Finance Director before Operations Director.
Dr Rajagopal was later and later returned to the UK as General Manager working for Borealis as Chief Financial Officer and appointed Managing Director of the Vacuum of one of the Groups largest manufacturing and Executive Vice-president of Business Support.
Technology Division, prior to being named Chief engineering centres in Cheltenham.
Mr Watson joined Spectris plc in 2006 as Executive of BOC Edwards and Executive Director Chief Financial Officer.
He retired from BOC Edwards plc in 2006.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27 Financial statements Governance CSR Financial review Business review Overview
