Business review continued Asia Pacific Constant 2010 2009 Change currency Revenue 131.5m 104.7m 26% 16% Operating profit 34.3m 23.1m 48% 27% Operating margin 26.0% 22.1% Sales increased in Asia Pacific by 26% to 131.5 million The operating profit increased from 23.1 million in 2009 to 2009: 104.7 million as most of our markets recovered and 34.3 million, an increase of 48%, including a 2.0 million overall volumes were up sharply, although some weakness gain on the disposal of our old premises in China.
At constant remains in parts of South East Asia.
Favourable exchange currency operating profit increased by 27%.
We saw rates had a positive effect on sales, as the Korean won and widespread profit gains from most operations.
As expected, the Australian dollar strengthened against sterling.
At constant we had a very strong second half year in Korea as we shipped exchange, Asia Pacific sales were up by 16%.
We saw good several large projects: we also saw a strong second half sales and profit growth in most of our markets and product in China.
The overall operating profit margin in Asia Pacific segments within the region and benefited from higher levels improved to 26.0% in 2010 2009: 22.1%.
Both sales and of maintenance spending by our customers as well as profit were well ahead at our India operation reported as exceptional project sales in Korea, China and Singapore: an Associate.
at this time we are not expecting the same level of project activity in Korea in 2011.
We continued to invest in the region by adding sales people and restructured our management team in Japan to drive improved performance.
Our new premises in China were opened in June 2010 and production is being ramped up to better serve the expanding markets in China and South East Asia.
Delivering value everyday in Australia Solving a steam production problem reduced costs and improved sterilisation for a hospital in Western Australia The St John of God Hospital in Western Australia, In consultation with the customers sterilisation A wet load costs the hospital approximately like many hospitals, has a central sterile supply team, Spirax Sarco engineer Phil Hopkins and A$1,500 1,000 as well as delays in supplies department with up-to-date sterilisers and a boiler his team determined that a properly sized steam and lost staff time.
The Spirax Sarco solution to supply steam to the sterilisers.
Despite being a accumulator could supply the four sterilisers at has eliminated entirely the wet loads, whilst modern hospital, St Johns had major problems peak demand with high volumes of steam as being able to supply peak steam demand from with wet loads in their sterilisers from an required in short, sharp bursts.
The normal boiler the customers existing boiler.
This has restored improperly designed steam system.
This meant, capacity and previous system design could not confidence in the customers sterilisation in extreme cases, a shortage of sterile supplies.
provide the instantaneous flow rates required department and ensured timely provision during peak loads.
of sterile supplies to all areas of the hospital.
12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Delivering value through leading-edge manufacturing and distribution We are near the end of a four-year 50 million capital investment programme to improve our manufacturing processes, expand capacity and move more of our manufacturing to where our business is growing the fastest in order to shorten delivery times and increase local product availability Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 Financial statements Governance CS CSR R Financial review Business review Overview
