34 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements N ANR 1.
Duncan Lewis 59 Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Alex Walker was appointed to the Board on 22 December 2006 and Duncan Lewis was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007.
He was chief was appointed Chairman of the Company on 4 March 2010, having executive officer of Vislink plc until 31 March 2011, when he stepped previously served as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and down after completing its restructuring.
Until October 2008 he was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was chief executive of senior adviser to The Carlyle Group, assisting them in developing Yule Catto & Co. plc until 17 August 2006 and, until 23 April 2010 was strategy and identifying investments in the telecommunications and a non-executive director, chairman of the remuneration committee media sectors worldwide.
and member of the audit and nomination committees of Rotork plc.
Bill Burns 43 Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer Tom Maxwell was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2007 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Until September 2007, he Bill Burns was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 6 November 2008, having previously led the Groups Communications division.
was investment director and head of the UK Growth & Income Product He is responsible for overall leadership, strategy, investments, Group at Martin Currie Investment Management in Edinburgh.
He is a coordination of resources and leveraging Spirents breadth and Member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland and a depth of technology across all of Spirents business units.
Member of the Society of Investment Professionals & CFA Institute.
Eric Hutchinson 55 Statements on the independence of Board members are given in the Chief Financial Officer Directors statement on corporate governance on page 41.
Eric Hutchinson was appointed Finance Director on 1 January 2000, having previously been responsible for all financial reporting and Further biographical details of the directors can be found on the control within the Group.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Association Companys website at www.
of Certified Accountants, and a member of the Financial Reporting A Review Panel.
Member of Audit Committee N Member of Nomination Committee ANR R 4.
Ian Brindle 67 Member of Remuneration Committee Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Ian Brindle was appointed to the Board on 22 December 2006 and is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was previously UK chairman of  and deputy chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
He serves as non-executive chairman of Sherborne Investors Guernsey A Limited and as a non-executive director on the boards of F&C Asset Management plc, 4imprint Group plc and Elementis plc.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 35
