the Board 1 2 3 4 1. dr Keith Hellawell qpM 2.
Mike ashley Non-Executive Chairman aged 68 Executive Deputy Chairman aged 45 dr Hellawell, was appointed to the Board on 24 november Mike ashley established the business of the Group on 2009 and is also chairman of the nomination committee leaving school in 1982 and was the sole owner of the and a member of the remuneration and audit committees.
business until the companys listing in March 2007.
Mike is the executive deputy chairman and is responsible for prior to joining sports direct international plc, formulating the vision and strategy of the company.
dr Hellawell spent over forty years in public sector management being a former chief constable of two British police forces.
Between 1998 and 2002, working 3. dave Forsey directly for the prime Minister, he wrote and coordinated Chief Executive aged 44 the united Kingdom national and international anti drugs policy.
dave Forsey has been with the business for over 24 years, during which he has acquired significant knowledge He has been involved in the private sector since 1998 and experience.
He is chief executive and has overall when he joined evans of leeds, a fully listed property responsibility for the business.
since then he has served on the boards of both dalkia plc and sterience limited, subsidiaries of the French company Veolina env.
Bob Mellors a non-executive director of Mortice plc, a singapore Group Finance Director aged 60 based facilities management company and a director of Huddersfield Giants super-league team.
He was nonBob Mellors has been the Groups Finance director executive chairman of Goldshield Group plc, a marketing since 2004. a graduate in economics, he qualified with led pharmaceutical and consumer health company, from  in london before joining eacott May 2006 to its sale in december 2009.
He has held a Worrall, where sports direct became a client in 1982.
He number of other non-executive board positions in private was managing partner and head of corporate finance at companies including vehicle manufacturing and it.
eacott Worrall before joining the business.
He runs his own management and training consultancy company.
section 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE 5 6 7 5. simon Bentley 7. david singleton Senior Independent Non-Executive Director aged 55 Non-Executive Director aged 59 simon Bentley was appointed to the Board on 2 March dave singleton joined the Board on 25 october 2007. dave 2007 and was acting chairman from 31 May 2007 to spent 25 years with reebok international limited.
He is also chairman of the audit stepped down in april 2007 having helped to successfully committee and a member of the remuneration and integrate reebok following its acquisition by adidas Group nomination committee.
simon qualified as a chartered in January 2006.
For eight years he was Vice president accountant in 1980 and in 1987 joined Blacks leisure northern europe region & uK and since 2003 was senior Group plc where he was chairman and chief executive Vice president europe, Middle east & africa.
dave has an for 12 years until 2002. simon chairs and is on the board extensive senior management record and brings valuable of a range of companies and organisations.
among these, experience of international sports brand operations.
He is he is chairman of the swiss dominos pizza franchisee, chairman of the Boards remuneration committee and a Global Brands sa, and is deputy chairman of the countrys member of the Boards audit and nomination committees.
premier leadership in management organisation, the He is also a director of Bolton lads & Girls club.
He is chairman of the hotelier Maypole Group plc and is the principal owner and chairman of the leading mobile atM operator, cash on the Move.
He has lengthy experience of the sporting goods industry and is a director of the countrys leading running retailer, Brasher leisure.
Malcolm dalgleish Non-Executive Director aged 58 Malcolm dalgleish joined the Board on 25 october 2007.
Malcolm is currently head of retail in the europe, Middle east and africa area at cB richard ellis.
in 2005 cBre acquired dalgleish - the leading retail real estate services specialist in the uK, which Malcolm founded in 1979 and of which he was the principal shareholder.
Malcolm is a member of the Boards audit, nomination and remuneration committees.
sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 37
