directors report results for the Year the directors of sports direct international plc present the trading results for the Year and the Groups financial their annual report to shareholders, together with the position as at the end of the Year are shown in the attached audited consolidated financial statements for the company Financial statements, and discussed further in the chief and its subsidiaries for the 52 weeks ended 25 april 2010 executives report and Business review and in the the Year.
Financial review on pages 6 to 24 and 26 to 34 respectively.
this document contains a number of forward-looking statements relating to the company and its subsidiaries Business review and future the Group with respect to, amongst others, the following: financial conditions: results of operations: developments economic conditions in which the Group operates: the the statutory Business review required by the companies business of the Group: and future benefits of the current act 2006 the 2006 act is included in the chief executives management plans and objectives.
the Group considers report and Business review, and in the corporate any statements that are not historical facts as  report on pages 6 to 24 and 58 to 63 looking statements.
they relate to events and trends that respectively.
a review of Group activities during the are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the Year, together with the factors likely to affect its future actual results and financial position of the Group to differ development, performance and conditions, is included in materially from the information presented in the relevant the chief executives report and Business review on pages forward-looking statement.
When used in this document 6 to 24. the financial position of the Group, its cash flow, the words estimate, project, intend, aim, believe, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described expect, should, and similar expressions, as they relate in the Financial review on page 34. the chief executives to the Group and the management of it, are intended to report and Business review also describes on page 18 identify such forward-looking statements.
readers are to 22 the principal risks and uncertainties that face the cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forwardGroup, and note 3 to the Financial statements includes the looking statements which speak only as at the date of Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its this document.
neither the directors nor any member of capital, its principal financial risk management objectives, the Group undertake any obligation publicly to update or details of its financial instruments and hedging activities revise any of the forward-looking statements, whether as a and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
details result of new information, future events or otherwise, save of the Groups Key performance indicators by reference in respect of any requirement under applicable laws, the to which the development, performance and position of listing rules, and other regulations.
the business can be measured effectively are stated in the chief executives report and Business review on page 16. principal activities the corporate responsibility report on pages 58 to 63 reports on environmental matters, including the impact of the principal activities of the Group during the Year were: the Groups businesses on the environment, the Groups employees, and on social and community issues.
retailing of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment: Wholesale distribution and sale of sports and leisure Going concern clothing, footwear and equipment under Group owned or licensed brands: and as highlighted in note 22 to the Financial statements, the Group finances its day to day working capital requirements licensing of Group brands.
and has made investments and conducted a share buy-back programme in the past, using a facility with Further information on the Groups principal activities the Bank of scotland that is due for renewal in april is set out in the front of this document and in the chief 2011. the current economic conditions however, create executives report and Business review on pages 6 to 24. some uncertainty in the economy and particularly in respect of the exchange rate between sterling and the us dollar which impacts on the cost of the Groups products manufactured in the Far east and the availability of bank finance in the foreseeable future.
section 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE the Groups forecast and projections, taking account of the ordinary shares have all the rights that usually attach reasonably possible changes in trading performance, to such ordinary shares, including the right to receive show that the Group should be able to operate within dividends if paid or declared, to receive notice and attend the level of the current facility.
the Group has opened and vote at meetings of shareholders and subject to negotiations with bankers and at this stage has not sought what is said concerning redeemable preference shares any written commitments.
no matter has been drawn to to receive a share of the assets of the company on any its attention to suggest that a facility would not be made winding up.
available to the Group on acceptable terms.
indeed, the the redeemable preference shares do not carry any right directors expect an adequate facility to be made available to receive a dividend or to participate in any distribution of on acceptable terms.
the profits or assets of the company, or to vote at meetings the directors have thoroughly reviewed the Groups of shareholders, but holders of redeemable preference performance and position relating to historical results, shares have the right to receive notice and attend meetings current trading, forecast performance, cash reserves of shareholders and on any winding up of the company and financing arrangements.
additionally, the directors the redeemable preference shares are redeemed at par have also considered the Groups reliance upon its key in priority to any distribution to the holders of ordinary stakeholders including customers and suppliers and shares.
no redeemable preference shares are in issue.
found no over reliance on any particular stakeholder.
there are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares the directors are therefore confident that the Group will which are governed by the provisions of the articles of continue in operational existence for the foreseeable association and prevailing legislation.
on this basis, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for the preparation of the financial during the Year the Group increased the issued share statements.
capital by 50,000, so that 640,502,369 ordinary shares of 10p are in issue and fully paid of which 64,000,000 are currently held in treasury.
appropriations the directors are not aware of any agreements between the Group has agreed not to recommend a final dividend holders of the companys shares that may result in this Year.
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
details of executive and employee share schemes are set Group structure and operations out on page 51 to 53. no votes are cast in respect of the shares held in the employee Benefit trust and dividends during the Year the Group acquired the remaining minority are waived.
interest of antigua enterprises inc. the usa golf, sporting and leisure goods wholesaler and delisted it from the toronto stock exchange.
it also acquired a further 7% interest in Warrnambool, the parent company of the irish powers to issue shares retail chain Heatons to take the company shareholding to 50%.
at the companys annual General Meeting on 9 september 2009 the directors were generally and unconditionally authorised to allot relevant securities in the capital of the company up to an aggregate nominal amount share capital of 19,215,078 being approximately one third of the then issued share capital for the period expiring at the authorised share capital of the company is the conclusion of the next annual General Meeting 100,000,000 divided into 999,500,010 ordinary shares of of the company.
a further authority to allot shares 10p each and 499,990 redeemable preference shares of up to a maximum nominal value of 2,882,618 being 10p each.
approximately 5% of the then issued share capital as if statutory pre-emption rights did not apply, was also approved.
sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 39 directors report continued powers to issue shares continued the authorities expire at the close of the next annual other than through his interest in the company, not have General Meeting of the company, but a contract to allot any interest in any business which sell sports apparel shares under these authorities may be made prior to the and equipment subject to certain rights, after notification expiry of the authority and concluded in whole or part after to the company, to acquire any such interest of less than the annual General Meeting, and at that meeting similar 20% of the business concerned, and certain other limited authorities will be sought from shareholders.
exceptions, without receiving the prior approval of the non-executive directors: and not solicit for employment in line with guidance from the association of British or employ any senior employee of the company.
insurers the company proposes at the next aGM to request authority to issue a further third of the issued as at 22 July 2010, the following party had a significant share capital to a nominal amount of 38,433,491 being direct or indirect share holding in the shares of the approximately 35% of the issued share capital.
Further company: details will be provided in the circular to shareholders.
percentage of issued Number of ordinary share capital Nature shares held with voting rights held of holding the companys power to purchase MasH Holdings limited 410,400,000 71.2% direct shares at the companys annual General Meeting on 9 september MasH Holdings limited is wholly owned by Mike ashley.
2009 the company was generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 10p each in the company of up to a maximum aggregate number 57,645,236, representing 10% of the companys suppliers issued ordinary share capital.
it is the policy of the Group to agree appropriate terms the above authority expires at the close of the next annual and conditions for its transactions with suppliers ranging General Meeting of the company, and at that meeting a from standard written terms to individually negotiated similar authority will be sought from shareholders.
no contracts and for payment to be made in accordance with shares were purchased during the Year.
these terms, provided the supplier has complied with its obligations.
the number of days purchases outstanding for the Groups shareholders uK operations as at 25 april 2010 was 37 days 2009: 36 days.
no shareholder enjoys any special control rights, and, except as set out below, there are no restrictions in the transfer of shares or of voting rights.
contracts essential to the business of Mike ashley and the company have entered into a the company relationship agreement, pursuant to which Mike ashley undertook to the company that, for so long as he is entitled the chief executives report sets out on page 16 to exercise, or to control the exercise of, 15% or more of information about persons with whom the company has the rights to vote at general meetings of the company, he contractual or other arrangements which are essential or will: material to the business of the Group.
conduct all transactions and relationships with any member of the Group on arms length terms and on a normal commercial basis and with the approval of the takeovers non-executive directors: the directors do not believe there are any significant exercise his voting rights or other rights in support of the contracts that may change in the event of a successful company being managed in accordance with the listing takeover of the company.
details of the impact of any rules and the principles of good governance set out in successful takeover of the company on directors the combined code and not exercise any of his voting or bonus and share schemes are set out in the directors other rights and powers to procure any amendment to remuneration report on page 53. the articles of association of the company: section 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE equal opportunities executive directors service contracts and non-executive the Groups policy for its employees and for all applicants directors appointment letters contain no specific for employment is to fit the abilities and aptitude of each provisions relating to any takeover of the company.
individual to an appropriate job, irrespective of gender, race, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age, disability or ethnic origin.
the company and other Group companies will not tolerate discrimination in any form.
applications employee share schemes for employment by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration for all vacancies in accordance with details of the performance share plan and Bonus share their particular aptitudes and abilities.
the Group does scheme are set out in the directors remuneration all that is practicable to meet its responsibilities towards report on pages 51 to 53. the 2007 performance share the training and employment of disabled people, and to plan period has been completed and as the eps and tsr ensure that training, career development and promotion targets were not met, these awards lapsed.
opportunities are available to all employees.
at the next annual General Meeting of the company the the Group makes every effort to provide continuity of company intends to seek approval of the establishment of employment in the same or similar job where an employee the executive Bonus share scheme and the 2011 employee becomes disabled including offering retraining in order Bonus share scheme, full details are set out in the that the employees employment within the Group may circular to shareholders.
employee involvement research and development the Group employs 17,360 employees.
those employees the Group designs clothing and some footwear for sale are fundamental to the future success of the Group.
the in stores and has arrangements with suppliers for the Group communicates with its people through a wide research and development of goods for the Brands variety of channels, including briefings held at Head division.
office, information transmitted through line managers and an employee Forum at the Head office and national distribution centre at shirebrook.
the companys open management style encourages employees to develop and charitable and political donations to contribute to the development of the business.
during the Year, the Group made charitable donations all uK permanent employees of the Group in uK retail, of 4,000 2009: 50,000 to the childrens trust Brands and Head office participate in the Bonus share additional non cash items are contained in the corporate scheme.
the scheme is intended to motivate and provide responsibility report.
no political donations were made those employees with a direct and substantial link 2009: nil.
between Group performance and their remuneration, and encourage employee participation in the Group.
the Bonus share scheme will operate in addition to the current directors workplace bonus schemes, which are directly related to specific workplace performance.
directors who served during the Year were: the Group has entered into an agreement with the trade Date of appointment union unite in respect of collective bargaining of the pay, hours and holidays of certain groups of employees at the Mike ashley 21 december 2006 Groups national distribution centre at shirebrook.
simon Bentley 02 March 2007 Malcolm dalgleish 25 october 2008 Further information on relationships with employees can be found in the corporate responsibility report on page dave Forsey 08 February 2007 58 to 59.
Keith Hellawell 24 november 2009 Bob Mellors 21 december 2006 dave singleton 25 october 2007 sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 41 directors report continued directors continued deeds of indemnity details of directors, their roles, responsibilities, the company has entered into deeds of indemnity for achievements and significant external commitments are the benefit of each director of the company and for the set out on pages 36 and 37 and, in respect of directors benefit of each person who was a director during the Year, standing for reappointment, in the annual General Meeting in respect of liabilities to which they may become liable notice, which is sent to shareholders with this report.
in their capacity as director of the company and of any company in the Group.
these indemnities are qualifying the appointment, retirement and reappointment of third party indemnity provisions within the meaning given directors are governed by the companys articles of to that term by sections 234 and 235 of the 2006 act, and association, the combined code, the companies act all these indemnities remain in force.
the articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
the powers of directors are described in the Boards terms of annual General Meeting reference and in the corporate Governance statement on pages 43 to 46. the annual General Meeting of the company will be held on 7 september 2010 at unit d, Brook park east, the Board believes that each director standing for shirebrook, nG20 8rY.
the meeting will commence at reappointment continues to demonstrate commitment, is 3.00 pm.
the Board encourages shareholders to attend an effective member of the Board, and contributes to the and participate in the meeting.
balance of skills, knowledge and experience identified by the Board as being required.
the Board is satisfied that the chairman is not precluded from devoting sufficient auditors time to his duties to the company by reason of his other commitments.
the Board recommends reappointment of Grant thornton uK llp has expressed a willingness the directors standing for reappointment.
in accordance with section 489 4 of the companies act 2006, resolutions to reappoint information on service contracts and details of the Grant thornton uK llp as auditors and to authorise interests of the directors and their families in the share the directors to determine their remuneration will be capital of the company at 25 april 2010 and at the date of proposed at the annual General Meeting.
this report is shown in the directors remuneration report on pages 53 and 56 respectively.
copies of the service contracts of executive directors and of the appointment By order of the Board letters of the chairman and non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys registered office Bob Mellors during normal business hours and at the annual General company secretary Meeting.
22 July 2010 no director has a directorship in common or other significant links with any other director except in the case of executive directors holding directorships of subsidiary companies of the company.
directors conflicts of interest the Board has put in place procedures to deal with directors conflicts of interest.
during the Year the Board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved certain situational conflicts of interest that were reported to it by directors, and a register of those situational conflicts is maintained and reviewed.
also during the Year the Board noted any transactional conflicts of interest concerning directors that arose and were declared.
no director took part in the discussion or determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a transactional conflict of interest.
