41 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information section to Moray.
The hub is at When their numbers become significant, undertake preliminary construction the centre of a potential innovative electric vehicles could change greatly the works this year, with a value of around three-ended Y configuration, with volume and pattern of electricity demand, 50m, with a further four summers legs from Caithness and Shetland and it is for this reason in addition to of construction work required to to accommodate substantial planned supporting the low-carbon objectives complete the new line.
renewable energy developments in behind them that SSE is so actively k Western Isles: SSEs proposal for an the far north east of Scotland and the involved in the ULCVD project.
electricity transmission connection Northern isles.
between the Western Isles and the north west of Scotland features, Looking to the longer term, SSE has for the 77km mainland section, an participated in the Electricity Networks under ground cable between the west Strategy Group, sponsored by Ofgem coast of Sutherland and the Beauly and the UK Department of Energy and substation.
SHETL submitted to Climate Change and involving all of the Scottish Ministers an application for transmission companies in Great Britain.
consent to construct the connection It has identified a potential need for subin October 2008.
The connection will sea cable links between Scotland and be required to transmit renewable England known as bootstraps.
SSE Future transmission developments energy from the Western Isles, and expects to be a major participant in this Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission a significant milestone was reached and other transmission developments SHETL is responsible for operating, in January 2010 when a developer over the next decade and beyond.
maintaining and investing in the received approval for a 118MW wind transmission network in its area, which farm at Eishken.
Electricity distribution and transmission serves around 70% of the land mass of k Shetland: In July 2009, SHETL priorities in 2010 11 and beyond Scotland.
As the licensed transmission submitted planning applications for During 2010 11 SSEs priorities in company for the area, SSE has to ensure converter stations associated with the electricity networks are to: there is sufficient network capacity for proposed 320km subsea high voltage those seeking to generate electricity from direct current HVDC transmission k maintain safe and reliable supplies renewable and other sources within it.
link between the Shetland Islands of power and to restore supplies as and Moray on the Scottish mainland quickly as possible in the event of Four major developments currently under to accommodate renewable energy interruptions: way have the potential to transform the developments in Shetland.
It would k respond effectively to the new scale and scope of SSEs electricity also connect properties in Shetland arrangements in electricity distribution transmission business: to the mainland electricity network for allocating costs between support for the first time.
Related to this, activities expenses and networks k Knocknagael,  December 2009, the European capital : Kintore and Beauly-Dounreay: In Commission announced that SSE had k deliver successfully its investment plans January 2010, Ofgem announced been successful in securing a capital in its electricity distribution networks: authorisation of pre-construction grant of 74m under the European k d eploy innovative techniques to and construction funding for these Energy Programme for Recovery.
The maximise the returns from good three upgrades in the SHETL area, grant is towards the incremental cost of including an intermediate offshore performance in electricity networks: and which form part of the first tranche of HVDC hub off Caithness on the route k make further progress in upgrading transmission projects to help connect of the proposed Shetland link and the transmission network in the renewable energy to the electricity increasing the capacity of the southern north of Scotland.
These projects have a total value of almost 200m and should all be completed by 2014. k Beauly-Denny: Scottish Ministers announced in January 2010 that they have granted consents, with associated conditions, to install a Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission 400,000 volt overhead electricity transmission line to replace the SHETL is responsible for operating, existing 132,000 volt overhead transmission line between Beauly maintaining and investing in the and Denny.
The existing line will be dismantled.
The final cost of replacing transmission network in its area.
As the the Beauly-Denny line can only be established once analysis of all of licensed transmission company for the the conditions associated with the consent has been completed: and full area, SSE has to ensure there is sufficient construction work can only begin once it is clear that all of the conditions network capacity for those seeking to can be satisfied and Ofgem is able to confirm the investment is necessary, generate electricity from renewable efficient and economical.
SSE has concluded it should be able to and other sources within it.
