Scottish and Southern Energy 08 Annual Report 2010 Strategic overview 2009, and the EU Renewable Energy Purpose, strategy and principles than do other companies with less Directive, which came into force in May SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy diversity within their business model.
The Directive requires Member people need in a reliable and sustainable States to deliver on average 20% of their way.
In line with this, its strategy is to deliver Delivery against purpose, strategy final energy consumption by 2020 using sustained real growth in the dividend and principles renewable energy sources.
The UK target payable to shareholders through the efficient The Board is recommending a final is that 15% of all energy electricity, operation of, and investment in, a balanced dividend of 49p per share, making a heat and transport should come from range of market-based and  dividend of 70p, an increase of renewables by 2020.
This target is the regulated businesses in energy production, 6.1% on the previous year.
The full-year most challenging of any EU Member State storage, distribution, supply and related dividend payment for 2009 10 is covered because, to achieve it, around 30% of the services, mainly in the UK and Ireland.
1.57 times by SSEs adjusted profit after electricity consumed in the UK will have to tax and is double the dividend per share come from renewable sources, compared Implementation of this strategy continues paid seven years ago, in 2002 03. with just 5.5% at present: for Ireland a to be founded on SSEs well-established similar step-change in renewable energy financial principles.
These principles are the: The first full-year dividend was paid by output will be necessary.
SSE in 1999, so the recommended full-year k effective management of core dividend increase of 6.1% represents the In February 2010, the second report of the businesses: eleventh successive above-inflation dividend UK Industry Taskforce on Peak Oil & Energy k maintenance of a strong balance sheet: increase since then.
SSE is one of just seven Security, of which SSE is a member, was k rigorous analysis to ensure FTSE 100 companies to have delivered published.
Called The Oil Crunch, the investments are well-founded and,  dividend growth every report said it seems inevitable that global where appropriate, innovative: year during this period, and ranks fourth demand will move to a point where it k deployment of a selective and amongst that group in terms of compound consistently exceeds supply.
The effect disciplined approach to acquisitions: and annual growth rate over that time.
must be a structural increase in oil prices, k use of purchase in the market of the coupled with the prospects of oil shortages Companys own shares as the This real growth in the dividend, sustained and a consequent increase in market benchmark against which financial since SSE was formed, has been supported volatility.
The only questions are how soon decisions are taken.
by growth in SSEs main business areas, achieved as a result of operational efficiency, and by how much?.
At the same time, investment and, in some cases, acquisition: some analysis suggests that natural gas It is the application of these principles produced from shale could become an which supports the fulfilment of SSEs k through investment and acquisition, increasingly important source of energy first responsibility to shareholders: the the Regulated Asset Value RAV of over the next decade.
delivery of sustained real dividend growth.
SSEs energy networks businesses has doubled in five years, to over 4.9bn: In addition, the period to 2020 will see: SSEs strategy provides it with three key k also through investment and advantages: acquisition, the capacity of SSEs k the closure of a number of coaland oilpower stations has almost doubled fired power stations by 2015, under the k while energy is at their core, SSE in six years, to 11.3GW: and EUs Large Combustion Plant Directive: has a diverse range of businesses: k as a result of effective operation k many nuclear power stations reaching k within those businesses, SSE has of core businesses, the number of the end of their design lives, with a diverse range of assets: and customer accounts to which SSE a number of advanced gas-cooled k to add to those assets, SSE has a supplies energy has doubled in eight reactor AGR stations scheduled diverse range of investment options.
to close from 2014 onwards: k the age and relative efficiency of SSE is the only energy company listed This, allied to SSEs expansion in a number of older gas-fired power on the London Stock Exchange that owns contracting, connections, metering, gas stations becoming an increasingly and operates  storage and other businesses makes SSE significant issue: and businesses, such as electricity networks, the biggest and broadest-based energy k the growing use of electricity to meet and market-based businesses, such as company in the UK and the fastestheat and transport needs so that its electricity generation and energy supply, growing energy company in Ireland.
share of total energy demand in the UK.
This means it is able to pursue increases significantly.
operational, investment or acquisition Future environment opportunities throughout the electricity The need to secure energy to heat In July 2009, Ernst & Young estimated that and gas sector to achieve consistently the and power homes, organisations and 199bn of investment is needed by 2025 levels of profitability required to support businesses, and the need to safeguard to meet the UKs energy goals.
In October sustained real dividend growth.
the environment for future generations, 2009, the UK energy regulator, Ofgem, means the framework within which energy published a comprehensive review of It also means that SSE is able to derive companies operate is, and will remain, a Britains energy supplies which concluded stable and more predictable levels of major public policy issue in the UK and that investment of up to 200bn is needed profit from some of its activities and Ireland and in the EU as a whole.
to secure energy supplies and meet carbon more variable levels from others which, emissions targets excluding UK Continental in turn, have greater potential for growth.
The context for energy policy in the UK Shelf gas production.
It updated its review As a result of this balance, SSE has and Ireland, SSEs principal areas of in February 2010 and stated that the risks greater resilience to risks associated operation, is set by the EU 2020 Climate to gas security of supply remain high in with shorter-term trends or issues and Energy Package, adopted in April the latter half of this decade.
within its sector or the wider economy 09 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information The coming decade will also see, in Great Dividend pence per share Britain, the installation of smart meters in every home, to allow the quantity and value of electricity and gas used by the 2010 70.0 customer to be continuously monitored 2005 42.5 and to ensure that information about its use and cost is available to the customer and exchanged with the supplier through Networks regulated asset value bn two-way electronic communications.
The new UK government has agreed to 2010 4.9 implement a programme of measures 2005 2.5 to fulfil its ambitions for a low-carbon and eco-friendly economy.
It has agreed to seek to increase the target for energy Power station capacity GW from renewable sources, subject to the advice of the Climate Change Committee.
It also proposes to establish an emissions 2010 11.3 performance standard that will prevent 2005 9.9 coal-fired power stations being built unless they are equipped with sufficient carbon capture and storage CCS to meet an emissions performance standard.
SSE is confident it will be able to continue to work with MPs from all parties to ensure UK energy policy can deliver secure, the EU Climate and Energy Package and growing energy company in Ireland, is in a affordable and lower-carbon energy.
Renewable Energy Directive, the prospect good position to help provide the services of an oil crunch, the requirement to and infrastructure that energy customers in Economic development safeguard energy supplies and the the UK and Ireland will need and thus secure Investment on the scale required introduction of smart meters will mean continuing, sustained real dividend growth.
demonstrates how the transition to a lowthe following priorities will feature in its carbon economy represents a substantive business activities: Outlook for 2010 11 and beyond opportunity to create jobs in the UK and The economic outlook for 2010 11 continues Ireland.
For example, in October 2009, k Generation: developing new capacity to be uncertain.
In this context, SSE offers SSE selected Glasgow as the location for to produce electricity in a sustainable three key advantages, enabling it to deliver its new Centre of Engineering Excellence way that supports the transition to a a consistent financial performance: for Renewable Energy, in partnership with lower-carbon economy: the University of Strathclyde.
This will k Supply: helping to keep electricity and k its core purpose is to provide energy, lead to the creation of around 300 skilled gas bills as affordable as possible by which is something that people need, professional green jobs over the next offering ways to enable and encourage rather than want: three years.
Already, SSE directly employs customers to be more efficient in their k its strategy of maintaining a balanced over 800 people in the development or use of energy: range of  and operation of projects or programmes k Fuel Production and Storage: securing market-based energy businesses to reduce the carbon dioxide impact of gas supplies to meet future energy reduces the risk associated with any energy production and consumption.
needs and helping maintain dependable particular business activity and supplies by providing more storage provides a broad platform from which The Offshore Valuation Group, an informal capacity for the UK, as imports of to maintain sustained real dividend collaboration of government and industry gas rise: growth: and organisations, concluded, in May 2010, k Networks: ensuring the distribution k i ts over-riding financial goal sustained that the rapid development of the UKs of energy remains reliable through real dividend growth is straightforward offshore resource using fixed wind, investment in networks, as sources and and moderate.
floating wind, tidal stream, tidal range and use of electricity and gas change: and wave technologies could generate the k Services: meeting customers Taking account of the current and electricity equivalent of one billion barrels requirements for energy products future environment and its impact on the of oil per year, or the same as the average and services that are needed for the energy sector in the UK and Ireland, SSEs annual output of UK North Sea oil and gas transition to a lower-carbon economy.
operational priorities during 2010 11 are to: over the past four decades.
It estimates that the supply chain necessary to achieve As the UK becomes increasingly dependent k carry out all work in a safe and this would have annual revenues of on imports of energy, and as the need for responsible manner, with a lower over 60bn in 2050 and could employ action to replace its ageing infrastructure Total Recordable Injury Rate: around 145,000 people in manufacturing, and to fide-carbonise its economy continues k deliver maximum efficiency installation, operations and maintenance.
to intensify, the importance and value of throughout all business activities: efficient electricity generation and energy k maintain and build on sector-leading Priorities for SSE storage, distribution, supply and services will performance in all aspects of SSE welcomes the focus on sustainability all increase.
SSE, as the broadest-based customer service, from energy and security in energy, and believes that energy company in the UK and the fastestsupply to energy networks: Scottish and Southern Energy 1 0 Annual Report 2010 Strategic overview continued k increase the total number of k the Total Recordable Injury Rate, adding to established opportunities in energy supply and home services which includes lost-time, reportable renewable energy, thermal generation, customer accounts across the Great and medical treatment injuries, was electricity networks and gas storage.
Britain and Ireland markets, while 0.14 per 100,000 hours worked, supporting progress towards compared with 0.16: Following the general decline in UK dividend increased energy efficiency: k the Accident Frequency Rate lost-time payments in 2009, SSE remains acutely k ensure power stations maintain a and reportable injuries was 0.03 per aware of the importance of sustained real high level of availability to generate 100,000 hours worked, compared with growth in the dividend.
It is also mindful electricity in response to customers 0.07: and of the need to ensure that any future needs and market conditions: and k the total working days lost from injury dividend targets are realistic, attainable k focus on cost control and customer was 73, down from 361. and consistent with financing future relationship management to sustain its investment in assets which, in turn, energy services businesses through the SSEs target for any given year is zero will provide the additional cash flows current period of economic uncertainty.
environmental incidents which result to support further dividend growth.
in it being served with a formal statutory Its investment priorities are to: notice by a government environment Against this background, and taking protection agency.
There were two such account of the breadth of operational k deliver additional assets in renewable incidents in 2009 10: fuel spills at Havant and investment opportunities that exist energy, electricity networks and gas and Tummel Bridge.
In November 2009, throughout its business, SSEs new target storage which contribute to secure SSE was fined 20,000 under the Water is to deliver annual increases in the and lower-carbon supplies of energy: Environment Controlled Activities dividend of at least 2% more than Retail k meet other key milestones in its Scotland Regulations 2005 and the Price Index RPI inflation in each of the investment programme in generation, Water Environment and Water Services three years to March 2013, with sustained electricity networks and gas storage: Scotland Act 2003 following an real growth thereafter.
For this purpose, and escape of diesel from a holding tank inflation is defined as the average annual k take forward the additional options that rate across each of the 12 months to at its Loch Carnan power station on it has identified for investment from the March.
SSE believes that these targets Uist in November 2008. middle of this decade onwards.
can be achieved while maintaining a dividend cover consistent with its Risk management The delivery of a strong operational established range.
SSEs overall business model, and strategy performance and the achievement of its and culture, is designed with risk firmly investment priorities should enable SSE Assuming inflation of 2.8% the average in mind.
It has: to discharge its first responsibility to rate in the five years to March 2010 shareholders: to deliver its full-year over each of the next three years, the k a clear and moderate financial goal dividend target.
achievement of these above-inflation sustained real growth in the dividend: targets will mean SSEs full-year dividend k a well-established strategy based on Future dividend per share in 2013 will reach at least 80p, a balanced range of  to Capita Registrars Dividend which is more than three times the first regulated and market-based energy Monitor, published in February 2010, dividend it paid, in 1999. businesses: dividend payments by UK companies fell by k a business model which features 15% in 2009, compared with the previous Throughout this three-year period, SSE diversity of assets within those year.
As Capita said: Dividends matter.
will be undertaking a major programme businesses, thereby limiting the of investment in assets which, in turn, value and extent of, and exposure Dividends have always mattered to will earn revenue to support sustained to, any single risk: SSE, as the delivery of above-inflation real dividend growth in the period from k a limited appetite for, and tolerance increases in every year since it was 2013 onwards.
of, business risk: formed demonstrates.
In the period to k a commitment to effective 2003, dividend growth was supported Safety and environment identification, monitoring and principally by efficient operations: While SSEs first responsibility to management of risks: and securing the synergies arising from shareholders is to deliver sustained k a clear and transparent decisionthe original merger of Scottish Hydro real growth in the dividend, it will only making process.
Electric and Southern Electric in 1998. be able to achieve this if it exercises a wider corporate responsibility to others, On Board decision-making, specific In the subsequent period, it continued such as customers and employees, on findings from the independent review of to be supported by efficient operations, whom its success ultimately depends.
SSE Board effectiveness, carried out in some capital investment and principally by It seeks to do this by maintaining a the autumn of 2009 by Independent Audit acquisitions which were successful because strong emphasis on its six core values, Ltd, included a remarkable consensus they were founded on SSEs key financial the SSE SET of Safety, Service, Efficiency, of opinion on the following: principle for deal-making: discipline.
In particular, SSE believes that the k there is an open, informal This period culminated in the acquisition effective management of safety issues atmosphere which encourages of Airtricity in February 2008, one of the is a barometer of effective management everyone to contribute: stated objectives of which was to provide of all operational issues.
k discussion is rigorous: and SSE with a major new range of investment k the Executive Directors respond opportunities from which to secure In 2009 10, SSEs safety performance was as positively and constructively dividend growth over the next decade, follows comparisons with the previous year : to challenge.
