27 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information the scope of the environmental impact of their maximum availability to generate onshore wind, offshore wind, hydro statement that would accompany planning electricity, compared with 96% in the and dedicated biomass in operation, applications for the schemes, currently previous year.
Their average load factor under construction or with consent for planned to be submitted during 2012. was lower than expected, at just over 26%, development in the UK and the Republic Construction is unlikely to start before compared with 29% in the previous year, of Ireland.
2014 at the earliest, and progress of the due to the unusually still weather conditions schemes and other such developments experienced in the winter of 2009 10.
Not included within this total is the will be dependent upon a satisfactory foreshore lease that SSE holds to develop public policy and regulatory framework, Wind generation investment overview in excess of 500MW at the fully-consented including TNUoS charges.
When SSE entered into the agreement Arklow Bank site in the Irish Sea.
The to acquire Airtricity which has since been timing of future developments at Arklow They would be the first brand new pumped re-named SSE Renewables for renewable Bank will be dependent upon, amongst storage schemes to be developed in Great energy development in January 2008, the other things, the extent of financial Britain since work began on the Dinorwig combined business had just over 870MW support for offshore wind farms available scheme in Wales in 1974.
Subject to final of onshore wind farm capacity in operation, from the Irish government.
agreements and design, it is envisaged in construction or with consent for development in the UK and Ireland.
This that the proposed schemes would each In December 2009, SSE and DONG Energy capacity now totals 1,780MW, comprising: have an installed capacity of between announced an agreement to form a 50:50 300MW and 600MW: and each would be joint venture to develop three offshore k 840MW in operation: able to produce in excess of 1,000GWh of wind farms in the Dutch sector of the k 790MW in construction or electricity in a typical year to help meet North Sea with a total capacity of just over pre-construction: and peak demand.
1,000MW, which SSE previously had the k 150MW with consent for development.
As a result, SSE In both cases, the upper reservoirs would also now has around 800MW of offshore SSE has also submitted for approval by be large, enabling electricity generation wind farm capacity with consent for the relevant planning authorities in the UK to continue for longer periods, without the development in northern Europe, and Ireland proposals for onshore wind need to pump water from the loch below, including the Dutch sector of the North farms with a total capacity of 1,400MW.
than is the case for other pumped storage Sea.
This agreement, and that to acquire Beyond this, SSE has around 2GW of schemes in Great Britain.
Both schemes Walney, demonstrated SSEs flexible onshore wind farm capacity development would require the construction of a dam approach to the development of its wind opportunities in the pre-planning phase to impound water and create the upper energy capacity, with acquisitions and in the UK and Ireland and over 3GW under reservoirs, but it is currently envisaged disposals both being considered to development in mainland Europe.
that water pumping and electricity optimise the overall portfolio.
generation at both developments will In addition to its onshore capacity, be carried out under ground, thereby Wind generation investment approach SSE has offshore wind farm capacity in avoiding any visual impact in the Great While capacity, as measured by operation or under construction totalling Glen itself.
megawatts, is of central importance in almost 350MW, comprising: onand offshore wind farm development, there are four other critical factors which k a 50% stake in the 10MW Beatrice help determine the electricity output offshore wind farm in the Moray Firth: from that capacity and thus the value k a 50% share of the 500MW Greater of any development: Gabbard development now under construction in the outer Thames k site selection: Estuary: and k wind analysis carried out by a k a 25.1% share of the 367MW Walney specialist team: offshore wind farm now under k site optimisation to maximise output, construction in the Irish Sea.
Wind generation operations including turbine layout: and As at 31 March 2010, SSE owns and k turbine selection to match turbine All of this means that SSE now has operates 840MW of onshore wind farm characteristics with wind conditions 3,660MW of renewable energy capacity capacity in the UK and Ireland, compared and ensure reliability.
Of the 2010 total, 370MW is in the Republic of Ireland.
SSE also has 2MW of onshore wind farm capacity in Portugal.
Onshore wind capacity MW Output from SSEs portfolio of wind farms in 2009 10 was comparison with previous 2010 840 year in brackets : 2009 690 k 1,007GWh in the UK, 953GWh : and 2008 600 k 854GWh in the Republic of Ireland, 765GWh.
2007 160 2006 40 On average, the turbines at SSEs wind farms in the UK and Ireland achieved 97%
