Scottish and Southern Energy 56 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued How the Board works the operational and financial performance The framework of corporate governance Meeting in 2010, to reflect the full of, and issues facing, the Company.
The Board is accountable to the Companys implementation of the Companies Act shareholders for the good conduct of the 2006 and the implementation of the Biographical information on the Chief Companys affairs.
This report sets out how Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK.
Executive is set out on page 49. the Company applies the principles of the An explanation of the changes being Combined Code on Corporate Governance proposed are contained in the Notice Balance of the Board the Code issued by the Financial of Annual General Meeting 2010.
There are four Executive Directors and five Reporting Council in June 2008. independent non-Executive Directors, in Board decisions addition to the Chairman, Lord Smith of Throughout the year the Company A formal list of matters is specifically Kelvin.
This gives the Board a good balance monitored developments in corporate reserved to the Board for its decision, of independence and experience, ensuring governance best practice and participated including: that no one individual or group of individuals in the consultation process on changes to has undue influence over the Boards the Combined Code and Audit Committee k Group strategy: decision-making.
The composition of the governance.
Due regard is also given to k annual budget: Board and its Committees is regularly the policy guidelines of organisations k approval of interim and final financial reviewed to ensure that this balance and representing major institutional investors.
statements: mix of skills and experience is maintained.
In addition, internal procedures are k interim dividend payments and regularly reviewed and updated by the recommendation of final dividends: Non-Executive Directors Board and the various Board Committees.
k significant changes in accounting The non-Executive Directors: policy and practice: Combined Code compliance k the Groups corporate governance k scrutinise, measure and review The Board remains committed to ensuring and system of internal control: the performance of management: that the highest standards of corporate k Board and Committee membership: k assist in the development of strategy: governance are maintained.
The Board k major acquisitions, mergers, disposals k review the Group financial information: confirms that the Company has, throughout and capital expenditure: k ensure systems of internal control the period under review, complied with all k changes in the capital and structure and risk management are appropriate provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
of the Group: and and effective: k approval of key policies such as safety, k manage the relationship with the health and the environment.
external Auditors: and Organisation k review the remuneration of and The list is reviewed regularly by the Board and structure succession planning for the Board.
and is published on the SSE website.
Role of the Board Independence and experience Roles of Chairman and Chief Executive The Board is collectively responsible for of non-Executive Directors The roles of the Chairman and the Chief creating and sustaining shareholder value The Board has assessed the independence Executive are separate and clearly defined.
through the overall management of SSE of the non-Executive Directors against whilst ensuring that a sound system of the criteria set out in the Code and is The Chairman: internal control and risk management satisfied that they are all independent in k is responsible for the operation, is in place.
In line with the leadership and governance of the Board recommendations of the Code, at least half ensuring that the Board operates The Directors are fully briefed in advance the Board, excluding the Chairman, are effectively whilst providing appropriate of Board meetings on all matters to be independent non-Executive Directors.
Lord challenge to management: and discussed, including regular business Smith of Kelvin was also independent when k meets with analysts and other and financial reports, and they also receive appointed Chairman.
representatives of institutional investors, copies of analysts and brokers reports and participates in both the interim on the Company.
The non-Executive Directors are chosen for and annual results presentations.
their wide range of skills and experience.
The Board receives detailed financial and Their continuing independence of The Chairman regularly meets with operational information to allow it to monitor judgement is confirmed in the annual managers and employees at locations effectively the performance of the key areas Board performance evaluation process.
It also receives regular Non-Executive Directors serve on the updates on the progress and performance Board Committees of Audit, Nomination, Biographical information on the Chairman of investments and other major decisions and Remuneration, and one serves on is set out on page 49. made by it, together with business reports the Safety, Health and Environment and presentations from senior management.
Further details on The Chief Executive: k is responsible for the operational the membership and operation of these Memorandum and Articles of Association management of SSEs business: and Committees are set out on pages 60 to 74.
The powers of the Directors are k implements the strategy and policy determined by UK legislation and the as agreed by the Board.
The Chairman and non-Executive Companys Memorandum and Articles Directors met during the year without of Association, which are available on the In discharging his responsibilities, the the Executive Directors being present.
Amendments to the Chief Executive is advised and assisted Memorandum and Articles of Association by senior management and a number of All of the non-Executive Directors have are being proposed at the Annual General specific Leadership Teams which oversee been appointed for fixed terms of three 57 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Attendance at Board meetings years.
Their appointment letters Board conference are available on the SSE website.
Board meetings call meetings Senior Independent Director Lord Smith of Kelvin 6 6 4 4 Susan Rice is the Senior Independent Gregor Alexander 6 6 4 4 Director.
She undertook management Thomas Andersen 6 6 4 4 visits during the year and also attended Nick Baldwin 6 6 3 4 a meeting of the Risk and Trading Richard Gillingwater 6 6 4 4 Committee.
She is available to meet Colin Hood 6 6 4 4 with major shareholders on request and Ian Marchant 6 6 4 4 attended the City presentation of SSEs Ren Mdori 6 6 4 4 results.
Susan carried out the Chairmans Alistair Phillips-Davies 6 6 4 4 performance evaluation, together with Lady Rice 6 6 4 4 the other non-Executive Directors.
Director appointments In accordance with the Code and the the Board on any current issues.
A Board focused on subjects where they have specific Companys Articles of Association, decision or approval may be required at knowledge or expertise, such as energy all Directors are required to retire by the Update Conference Call if the matter trading, operational matters and customer rotation and stand for re-appointment cannot wait until the following Board service.
The site visits by individual nonby shareholders at the first AGM following meeting.
In these circumstances the call Executive Directors during the year included their appointment and for re-appointment is recorded as an ad hoc Board meeting.
major project offices, main customer at least every three years.
Nick Baldwin, Participation in the four ad hoc Board service centres, and power stations.
Richard Gillingwater and Alistair Phillipsmeetings is also shown in the table above.
Davies will stand for re-appointment at this The Board believes that given the years AGM.
The Board evaluation process experience and skills of the Directors and confirmed that the performance of the Board effectiveness the briefings referred to above, any further Directors standing for re-appointment personal training needs can be left to the continued to be effective and that they Information and professional development discretion of the individual.
The Company continue to demonstrate commitment in The Directors receive accurate, timely and makes the necessary resources available their respective roles.
Biographical details clear information, with all Committee and should any Director request training.
for all the Directors are set out on page 49.
Board papers being issued for review in advance of meetings.
At each meeting, the There is an agreed procedure for Directors Attendance at Board and Chief Executive presents an update report to be able to take independent professional Board committee meetings on all aspects of the Groups business and advice, if necessary, at the Companys There is normally full attendance at the Finance Director presents a report on expense.
The prior approval of the Board and committee meetings, although financial performance.
Chairman is required where such advice occasionally there may be non-attendance is likely to exceed 10,000.
Any advice due to unforeseen circumstances or During the year, the Board and Board obtained shall be made available to the prior commitments which could not be Committees were kept up to date with other members of the Board, if the Board rearranged.
If unable to attend a meeting developments through a programme where so requests.
This procedure was not the Director will provide comments and briefings are given by Executive Directors required to be used during the year.
feedback to either the Chairman, and senior management on their business Committee Chairman or Company areas.
Additional specialist briefings and All Directors have access to the advice Secretary, who ensure that the comments presentations were given on areas such as and services of the Company Secretary.
received are raised at the meeting.
corporate governance, regulation, public affairs, health and safety, major projects, The Company continues to operate The Board has six full Board meetings and the Companys major business activities advanced performance coaching for some during the year.
These start with an evening generally.
Separate more informal meetings of the Executive Directors and for other meeting when the Board is normally given were also held with senior management.
members of senior management which a presentation by senior management on a is designed to develop and enhance particular business topic.
The meeting then On joining the Board, Directors receive a individual and Company performance.
continues the following day and is often comprehensive induction course tailored followed by a meeting of one of the Board to their individual requirements which Executive Directors other directorships Committees such as the Remuneration includes meetings with the Executive Executive Directors may be invited to Committee or the Health, Safety and Directors and senior management, become non-Executive Directors of Environmental Advisory Committee.
visits to key sites, and meetings with key other companies.
Approval may be given The table sets out the attendance of the stakeholders.
It also covers a review of the to accept such invitations recognising Directors at these full Board meetings.
Groups governance, policies, structure the benefit to the individual and to the and business including details of the risks Company.
Any such appointments are In addition, the Board has an Update and operational issues facing SSE.
included in the biographical information Conference Call in the month between set out on page 49. the bi-monthly full Board meetings.
All the non-Executive Directors had These calls usually last for around one individual meetings, briefings and site visits Conflicts of interest hour and are used to update the Board during the year, separate from the full During the year a review of the Board on the business performance and brief schedule of Board meetings.
The briefings members interests and appointments Scottish and Southern Energy 58 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued How the Board works continued was carried out by the Company Secretary.
obligations in regard to the identification, Board committees The Board considered and authorised each release and control of inside information.
Directors reported actual and potential The Board has delegated authority to five conflicts of interest at the Board meeting Copies of all announcements can be principal committees to carry out certain in January 2010.
In accordance with the accessed on SSEs website.
tasks as defined in each committees Companys Articles of Association and terms of reference.
The terms of relevant legislation, each Director abstained Relations with shareholders reference for all committees are set by from approval of their own position.
The The Company continued work to develop the Board, are reviewed regularly, and are Board continues to monitor and review an effective dialogue with all shareholders, available on the SSE website.
Membership potential conflicts of interest on a regular based on a mutual understanding of is determined by the Board, on the basis.
The Nomination Committee will keep objectives.
The Board believes that this recommendation of the Nomination under review any conflict or potential conflict is fundamental to ensuring that the Committee and in consultation with of interest situations authorised by the Board Companys strategy is understood and each committee chairman.
Minutes and determine whether it is appropriate that any questions or issues are dealt of committee meetings are included on for such matter to remain so authorised.
the agenda of the next Board meeting.
Performance evaluation The Company maintains regular contact The relationship between the Board, its The Board, the Board committees and with institutional shareholders, fund committees and the management of the the individual Directors participate in an managers and analysts through a Company can be summarised as shown annual process of performance evaluation.
programme of dialogue, meetings, in the table below.
presentations, events and site visits led by The Board evaluation process this year the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
In addition, there are a number of senior was carried out by external facilitators, The Investor Relations Manager has dayexecutive Leadership Teams which Independent Audit Ltd.
This was the first to-day responsibility for communications assist the Executive Directors in their time that the Board evaluation had been with institutional shareholders.
Brokers responsibilities for the governance carried out by an external party.
The reports and analysts briefings are and management of the Group.
evaluation process involved individual regularly distributed to Directors.
The meetings with each Director, the Company Board receives regular reports on the Details of each committee, including Secretary and senior managers who have various issues raised by institutional membership, meetings, role and activities experience of the Board and committee shareholders, fund managers and in 2009 10, are set out in the committee meetings.
The findings of Independent Audit analysts which allow Directors to form reports on pages 60 to 74. were issued to the Board and the senior a view of the priorities and concerns of managers, and formed the basis of a the Companys stakeholders.
As part of presentation and full discussion at the the induction programme for Directors, Board meeting in January 2010.
The Engagement with arrangements are made for analysts to Board found the outcome of this external meet with newly appointed Directors.
shareholders and evaluation very helpful in focusing on certain major stakeholders areas of the Board and Company business.
The Chairman attended the Companys In particular, Independent Audit were asked interim and preliminary results to look at risk governance, and they had Disclosure Group presentations in May 2009 and November a number of helpful recommendations The Disclosure Group comprises the Chief 2009.
The Chairman also met a number covering matters which could merit further Executive, Finance Director, Company of major institutional shareholders consideration, such as risk management, Secretary, Director of Corporate Affairs, during the year to gain a first-hand structures and responsibilities.
Other Investor Relations Manager and the understanding of key issues.
recommendations addressed Board and Assistant Company Secretary.
It provides a senior Executive succession planning, and framework for the handling and disclosure Susan Rice, the Senior Independent more regular meetings of the non-Executive of inside information and other information Director, is available to shareholders if Directors and Chairman, in the absence of interest to shareholders and the they have concerns that contact through of management.
Following their report, a investment community.
The Disclosure the normal channels has either failed to number of the recommendations are being Group meets regularly and assists and resolve or is deemed inappropriate.
She taken forward by the Board for further informs decisions concerning the attended the interim results presentation review.
The report of Independent Audit was identification, control and release of inside in November 2009. however very reassuring about the high information and investor relations activities.
level of Board effectiveness in general.
Periodically, it reviews SSEs disclosure SSEs website contains up-to-date controls and procedures and ensures that information for shareholders and other Directors also participated in detailed the relevant individuals are aware of their interested parties including share price reviews of individual performance which were carried out in one-to-one meetings with the Chairman.
The process for Governance structure Board of Directors evaluating the Chairman involved a separate meeting of the non-Executive Directors chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
Audit Health, Safety Nomination Remuneration Risk and The Board external review was welcomed Committee and Environment Committee Committee Trading as a constructive exercise, and will be Advisory Committee Committee repeated at regular points in the future.
59 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information information, announcements and news given the high profile of energy and SSE provides advice and guidance to releases, investor and analyst presentations, environment-related issues in the UK suppliers on an individual basis and to and a section containing information on and elsewhere.
The Company engages potential suppliers via the SSE website.
The Companys Annual with stakeholders in seven main ways: There is an emphasis on encouraging Report and other shareholder circulars suppliers and those involved in tender are also published on the SSE website.
k constructive engagement with Ofgem, processes to propose innovative ways which is responsible for promoting of meeting SSEs needs in a way that Communications with shareholders competition, wherever appropriate, minimises environmental impact.
Shareholders have a choice on how to and regulating the monopoly receive their Company communications companies which run the gas In addition to ongoing work to increase the such as the Annual Report.
The Company and electricity networks: sustainability of SSEs supply chain, including recognises the benefit of electronic k ongoing dialogue with Ministers and training, recording risks, contract reviews communications and during the year, officials in government, including the and close liaison with suppliers, in 2009 10 contacted relevant shareholders to devolved administrations in the UK: SSE undertook a number of initiatives to encourage them to register for email k submissions to government and enhance its performance.
As recognition of the Parliamentary consultations and reduced cost and environmental impact inquiries: SSEs Procurement team undertook a of this form of communication, the k meetings with, and briefings of, elected review of almost 70 of the Companys main Company, on behalf of shareholders, members of all parties in legislatures: suppliers to ensure that their approach to makes a donation to the World Wildlife k engagement with local authority corporate responsibility is compatible with Funds International Forest Programme elected members and officials: its own.
The focus was on issues of bribery for every shareholder that elects for email k active participation in relevant trade and corruption, labour conditions and communication or receives Company associations and bodies: and environmental matters and the review documentation via the SSE website.
k discussions and work with nonlooked most closely at suppliers involved in governmental organisations and other the supply of contracted services, including Annual General Meeting relevant organisations such as charities.
catering, cleaning and security: the provision The Companys AGM will be held at of gas and electricity infrastructure the Bournemouth International Centre, The Companys objective is to ensure components: and the supply of clothing, Exeter Road, Bournemouth BH2 5BH on that it is able to perform its core footwear and personal protective equipment.
Details purpose of providing the energy people of the business to be proposed at the need in a reliable and sustainable way.
SSE has for several years subscribed to meeting are contained in the Notice Its principal public policy goal at present the Verify scheme, which is operated by an of Annual General Meeting.
is to ensure that there is in place a independent company, Achilles.
It assesses framework to enable it to invest in secure the environmental, health and safety and The AGM provides an interesting opportunity and lower-carbon supplies of energy in quality commitment of potential suppliers for the Board to communicate with the UK and Ireland.
SSE expects existing and shareholders and provide an update on the potential suppliers and contractors to performance and plans of SSE.
All Directors co-operate fully with the Verify process.
attend the AGM and shareholders are Supply chain invited to ask questions and to meet with the Whilst the Verify scheme is useful, SSE Directors and senior managers both before Other stakeholders include the suppliers would like to see it extended to assessing the meeting and following the conclusion and contractors upon whom SSE depends labour standards and organisations of the formal part of the meeting.
for the long-term success of its business.
approach to eliminating bribery and While the relationships between SSE and corruption.
In 2009 10 SSE began work At the AGM, shareholders are asked its contractors and suppliers are the with Achilles on this with the intention of to vote on each resolution by a show responsibility of the Executive Directors having Verify evolved to cover such issues of hands.
The Chairman announces the and the rest of the management team, in the near future.
proxy votes cast for each resolution at the the Board recognises that SSE should meeting, and the voting results are placed promote responsible practices within its The Achilles carbon reduction programme on the Companys website following the supplier and contractor base.
SSEs aims allows suppliers to measure, manage meeting, in addition to being announced in this area are to: and report their organisational footprint to the London Stock Exchange.
via CEMARS Certified Emissions k integrate human rights, labour, Management and Reduction Scheme.
Communications with other stakeholders environmental and ethical considerations The Board has a programme of events to into its main procurement processes: In 2009 10, SSE achieved its target of meet with a range of external stakeholders k raise awareness of human rights, encouraging 20 of its main suppliers representing the public sector, investment labour, environmental and ethical to sign up to the scheme.
SSE also community, environmental affairs, and concerns amongst buyers, traders successfully completed the process consumer interests.
The purpose of these and suppliers: itself and achieved CEMARS certification.
events is to explain the Companys position k understand where human rights, on a range of business, policy and public labour, environmental and ethical SSEs Head of Procurement is the interest issues and to engage in their views, risks lie in its supply chain: and Chair of the Achilles Carbon Reduction suggestions and any areas of concern.
k identify specific procurement activities Steering Group for 2010, indicating SSEs commitment to improving measurement where the risks and or opportunities and management of carbon throughout More generally, working with public policy merit further investigation and conduct the supply chain.
makers is a vital area for the Company, such investigations as required.
