45 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information SSE is to become the first utility in the UK to build and monitor its own development of zero-carbon homes.
In one of the first ever live demonstrations of what will be needed to achieve highly energy efficient living, Introduction to Connections, including Utility Solutions SSE will test the every-day performance As its name implies SSEs Connections business provides electricity connections of the technology installed in the homes, for homes, offices and businesses.
such as a photovoltaic solar roof and Separately, during 2008 09, SSE combined a renewable district heating system.
the following activities to form SSE Utility Solutions: k out-of-area embedded electricity growth ambitions in this area, although The impact of the economic slowdown on networks previously known as its market share has been increasing and the UKs construction sector means that National Networks : it expects this to continue.
projects to develop new residential CHP k licensed gas transportation schemes are fewer than was the case two SSE Pipelines : Utility Solutions gas pipelines years ago and SSE is now seeking to k water and sewerage services SSE is also a licensed gas transporter.
participate in other markets such as SSE Water : and This business installs, owns and operates health, education and defence.
k low-carbon local energy energy gas mains and services on new housing services or ESCo.
and commercial developments throughout Utility Solutions priorities the UK.
Although at a slower rate than in for 2010 11 and beyond SSE Utility Solutions is, therefore, able previous years, the total number of new SSE Utility Solutions increased its to provide a one-stop solution for multipremises connected to its gas networks market share during 2009 10 by focusing utility infrastructure requirements to has continued to grow, and during 2009 10 on providing good customer service and customers in the property development it connected a further 6,700 premises, because a number of its competitors and house-building sectors.
It can design, taking the total number of connections operated under significant financial construct, own and operate this range of to more than 66,000.
This is despite a constraints as a result of the economic closely-related services.
significant number of building sites being downturn.
During 2010 11 its priority mothballed, and building projects being is to build on this increase and further Electricity connections deferred, which means the number of gas increase its number of electricity During 2009 10, SSE completed 24,300 connections completed in 2010 11 is likely networks, gas connections, water electrical connections, compared with to be lower than in the previous year.
and sewerage inset appointments 36,000 in the previous year.
This was the and energy services agreements.
third successive year in which the number Utility Solutions water of connections completed fell, and the SSE Water SSEW is the first new company weakness of the economy means SSE to offer both water and sewerage services expects a further decline in 2010 11 since privatisation in England and Wales in although the financial impact of any 1989.
An inset appointment is the route by decline should be partly offset by which one company replaces another as the connection work relating to wind farms.
appointed water and or sewerage company for a specified area.
SSE Water was granted Utility Solutions electricity networks its first inset appointment in October 2007, SSE has continued to develop its portfolio had five as at March 2010 and has since of electricity networks outside the Southern been awarded a sixth.
Under these Introduction to Metering Electric and Scottish Hydro Electric Power appointments, SSE will provide water and SSEs Metering business provides Distribution areas.
It now owns and sewerage services to over 5,000 properties.
services to most electricity suppliers with manages 53 energised electricity networks customers in central southern England outside these two areas, with development Utility Solutions energy services and the north of Scotland and has work ongoing at a number of these, and a SSE Energy Services provides lowundertaken a programme of in-sourcing further 25 are under construction, including carbon local energy services, such as the of meter reading operations and meter residential and commercial developments commercial and domestic heating system operator work in other parts of Great across England, Scotland and Wales.
and 4.5MW Combined Heat and Power Britain to establish a national metering In total, SSE has 436MW of networks CHP facility at Woolwich.
It supplies, installs and capacity, including 157MW currently under it secured energy services agreements for maintains domestic meters and carries construction.
Nevertheless, a reduction local energy infrastructure for a further two out metering work in the commercial, in new development activity in the UK heat networks.
It is developing biomass, industrial and generation sectors.
It also economy has been clearly evident and this heat pump and wind energy solutions for offers data collection services to the will have an impact on SSEs shorter-term communities and commercial enterprises.
