75 Introduction to SSE Corporate governance continued Directors report Other statutory information Financial statements Shareholder information Principal activities at 31 March 2010 are set out in the in accordance with the requirements Scottish and Southern Energy plc is Remuneration Report on page 73. of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure the holding company of the Group.
Its and Transparency Rules: subsidiaries are organised into the main Directors insurance and indemnities businesses of: The Directors have the benefit of the Number Entity of shares Percentage indemnity provision contained in the k electricity generation, transmission, Companys Articles of Association.
The Capital Research distribution and supply: Directors of the Company have been and Management k gas storage, distribution and supply: granted a qualifying third party indemnity Company 46,267,405 5.02% k electrical and utility contracting: provision which was in force throughout the Legal & General k home services, supplying a wide range financial year and remains in force.
The Group Plc 36,673,080 3.97% of electrical and gas appliances and Company also purchased and maintained Norges Bank 27,941,614 3.03% complementary products: and throughout the financial year directors At date of disclosure by relevant entity.
and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and for its Directors and Officers.
Since the date of disclosure to the Business review Company, the interests of the The Company is required to set out a fair Results and dividends shareholders listed above may have review of the business of the Group and The Group profit attributable to increased or decreased.
No requirement a description of the principal risks and shareholders for the financial year to notify the Company of any increase uncertainties facing the Group known amounted to 1,235.3m.
The Directors or decrease would have arisen unless as a Business Review.
The Business recommend a final dividend of 49p per the holding moved up or down through Review is required to set out a balanced Ordinary Share which, subject to approval at a whole number percentage level.
and comprehensive analysis of the the AGM, will be payable on 24 September development and performance of the 2010 to shareholders on the Register of Members at close of business on 30 July Creditor payment policy Groups business during the financial year 2010.
With the interim dividend of 21p per It is the Companys policy that payment ended 31 March 2010 and of the position Ordinary Share paid on 26 March 2010, terms are agreed at the outset of a of the Group at the end of that financial this makes a total dividend of 70p per transaction and are adhered to: that bills year.
The information that fulfils these Ordinary Share.
are paid in accordance with the contract: requirements, and is deemed to be the and that there are no alterations to payment Directors Report, is contained within Going concern terms without prior agreement.
The number pages 4 to 76 of this Annual Report.
After making enquiries, the Directors of suppliers days represented by trade have a reasonable expectation that the creditors was 38 days at 31 March 2010.
Directors Company and the Group have adequate The Directors during the year and at the resources to continue in operational Accounting policies, financial date of this report are: existence for the foreseeable future.
The instruments and risk Group expects to issue further debt in the Details of the Groups accounting Executive capital markets during 2010 11 to meet policies, together with details of financial Ian Marchant, Chief Executive its funding requirements.
The Financial instruments and risk, are provided at Gregor Alexander Statements are therefore prepared on notes 1 and 28 to the Accounts.
Colin Hood a going concern basis.
Further details Alistair Phillips-Davies of the Groups liquidity position and going Additional information concern review are provided in note 28.
Where not provided elsewhere in the Non-Executive Directors Report, the following provides Lord Smith of Kelvin, Chairman Share capital the information required to be disclosed Thomas Andersen Details of the Companys authorised and by Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
Nick Baldwin issued share capital at 31 March 2010, Richard Gillingwater which includes options granted under the Each Ordinary Share of the Company Ren Mdori Groups employee share option schemes, carries one vote at general meetings Lady Rice are set out in notes 25 and 27 to the of the Company.
Nick Baldwin, Richard Gillingwater There are no restrictions on the transfer and Alistair Phillips-Davies retire by Annual General Meeting of Ordinary Shares in the capital of the rotation at the AGM and, being eligible, The 21st AGM of the Company will be Company other than certain restrictions and in accordance with the Articles held on 22 July 2010 at 12 noon in the which may from time to time be imposed of Association, will offer themselves Bournemouth International Centre, Exeter by law for example, insider trading law.
The Notice In accordance with the Listing Rules of of Annual General Meeting 2010, which the Financial Services Authority, certain Biographical details of all Directors are contains full explanations of the business employees are required to seek the approval set out on page 49.
Details of the service to be conducted at the AGM, is set out of the Company to deal in its shares.
contract for Alistair Phillips-Davies and in a separate shareholder circular.
the letters of appointment for Nick Baldwin Employees who participate in the Share and Richard Gillingwater are set out in the Substantial shareholdings Incentive Plan whose shares remain in Remuneration Report on pages 71 and 72.
At 18 May 2010, the following interests the schemes trusts give directions to the in the issued Ordinary Share capital trustees to vote on their behalf by way The interests of the Directors in of the Company have been disclosed of a Form of Direction.
the Ordinary Shares of the Company Scottish and Southern Energy 76 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued Other statutory information continued The Company is not aware of any Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect agreements between shareholders that of the annual report and the financial statements may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in The rules governing the appointment accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law of Directors are set out in the Corporate requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company Governance Report on page 57.
The financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law Companys Articles of Association may they are required to prepare the Group financial statements only be amended by a special resolution in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable at a general meeting of shareholders.
law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is party Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial that take effect, alter or terminate upon a statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair change of control of the Company following view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of a takeover.
The Company is not aware of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and any contractual or other agreements which parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: are essential to its business which ought to be disclosed in this Directors Report.
k select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Details of any post balance sheet events k make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: are provided at note 31 to the accounts.
k state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and Auditors k prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Upon the recommendation of the Audit unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Committee and approval of the Board, parent company will continue in business.
resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors, and to authorise the Directors The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting to fix their remuneration, will be proposed records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys at the forthcoming AGM.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to Each of the Directors who held office at ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies the date of approval of this Directors Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps Report confirms that, so far as each as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Director is aware, there is no relevant Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and each Director Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also has taken all the steps that ought to have responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors been taken in his duty as a Director to Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement make himself or herself aware of any that complies with that law and those regulations.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of that information.
of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the By Order of the Board preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Vincent Donnelly Company Secretary We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 18 May 2010 k the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and k the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
For and on behalf of the Board Ian Marchant Gregor Alexander Chief Executive Finance Director 18 May 2010
