Scottish and Southern Energy 46 Annual Report 2010 Business overview continued and Climate Change, and aim to gain an Out-of-area networks in operation understanding of how consumers react to improved information about their energy consumption.
The trials consist of different 2010 53 elements using different methods to provide 2009 47 feedback on energy consumption.
2008 33 SSE was the only energy supplier in the 2007 24 EDRP to hold trials involving engagement with entire communities.
The trials were 2006 19 held in North Leigh in Oxfordshire, Alyth in Perthshire and St Athan in South Wales.
The communities of North Leigh and Alyth achieved their community-wide 10% energy reduction and received an award Metering performance during 2009 10 more effective management of customer of 20,000 each from SSE.
The trial in St In total, SSE owns 3.8 million meters.
data and creates face-to-face contact Athan started later, and is therefore not During 2009 10 it collected: between SSE and its customers.
It thus due to be completed until later this year, helps in the retention of customers.
but good progress is being made.
k 6.8 million electricity readings, up from 6.4 million in the previous Longer term, SSEs Great Britain-wide A variety of measures was available to each year: and metering team will be able to support the community including smart meters, realk 3.9 million gas readings, up from transition to smart meters which will take time display devices which show energy 2.6 million.
place over the next 10 years and will help use in monetary value, energy efficiency SSE deploy other energy-related services advice and insulation offers.
As well as the This increase reflects the fact that SSE and products during that time.
support provided by SSE, the communities has completed the in-sourcing of its arranged various events locally, designed meter reading and electricity meter Smart metering to involve the whole community.
operation services throughout Great Smart metering is an emerging system Britain, a year ahead of schedule.
that enables the quantity and value of The information that has been obtained electricity and gas used by the customer during the trials has been and will be Before the in-sourcing was completed, to be continuously monitored and allows extremely useful and it will be used to help SSE relied on a combination its own information about its use and cost to be shape the future of the energy industry.
employees in central southern England available to the customer and exchanged The primary purpose of the trials was to and the north of Scotland and up to with the supplier, through two-way understand how people use energy and how nine external agencies elsewhere in the electronic communications.
All homes savings can be made when more control country to read electricity and gas meters in Great Britain are expected to have is given to individuals and communities.
and install and repair electricity meters.
Metering priorities in 2010 11 and beyond In line with its general preference for In early 2010, SSE successfully completed For Metering, the key priorities are: services and operations to be carried the first community-wide energy reduction out in-house, SSE decided to in-source trials in the UK, helping two communities k maximising the number of bills issued metering services in a programme which achieve a 10% reduction in their electricity to customers on the basis of an actual started in 2007.
This programme has now consumption.
The trials, part of the as opposed to estimated meter been completed and, as a result, SSEs Energy Demand Research Project EDRP, reading: and metering team now comprises 1,500 involved working with communities to k applying the lessons learned from the directly-employed people working in help them achieve the reduction over EDRP to inform a full roll-out of smart all parts of Great Britain.
In addition to a two-and-a-half-year period.
securing annual cost savings of at least 5m, the in-house metering team delivers The EDRP trials are managed by Ofgem, SSE believes that there must be radical more reliable metering services, allows on behalf of the UK Department of Energy changes in the way that energy is produced and consumed and these energy reduction trials, which have used a number of innovative technologies, will assist Smart metering is an emerging system customers in reducing their energy consumption.
It strongly supports smart that enables the quantity and value meters, and the opportunity they provide to help customers cut their energy of electricity and gas used by the consumption, while reducing the number of service-based tasks which are largely customer to be continuously monitored administrative and reactive in nature, and replacing them with more substantive and allows information about its use energy advice, products and services.
They have the potential to help transform and cost to be available to the customer the relationship between customers and their energy supplier.
and exchanged with the supplier.
