21 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information k legally-binding targets for renewable of SSEs total revenue in 2009 10, of energy and carbon dioxide emissions which 8.2bn was in relation to sales Generation support the value of renewables of electricity and gas to industrial, and will require sustained major commercial and domestic customers.
programmes of investment: and k the growth in capacity for generating Electricity generated and supplied electricity from renewable sources During 2009 10, SSE generated will have an impact on how gas- 47.2TWh of electricity, including and coal-fired capacity operates power stations in which it has a partSSEs target is to reduce on a day-to-day basis.
The value ownership or contractual interest.
by 50% the carbon of established and flexible capacity It also purchased 5.6TWh of electricity dioxide intensity of is likely to be reinforced.
through long-term contracts with other electricity produced at generators.
In the year, it supplied power stations in which The extent of the investment required 32.7TWh of electricity to its domestic it has an ownership in electricity generation, and the high and small business customers and or contractual interest up-front costs associated with the low- 27.0TWh was supplied under contract carbon technologies which the investment to industrial and commercial customers.
over the period from is needed to deliver, will require the public Net balances were traded in the 2006 to 2020. policy framework in the UK to evolve over wholesale electricity market.
the next few years, with interventions to k Gas-fired power page 22 support those low-carbon technologies.
Average electricity usage per GB k Coaland biomass-fired power page 23 SSE is open-minded about the precise household customer of SSE fell from k Hydro power page 26 nature of these interventions, as long 4,748kWh in 2008 09 to 4,540kWh in k Wind power page 27 as existing low-carbon investments are 2009 10 and gas usage fell from 598 k Emerging technologies page 29 safeguarded and the investment climate therms to 558 therms.
It believes that the Consolidated segmental statement progressive decarbonisation of its Ofgem has introduced a requirement Context electricity generation portfolio means it on electricity generators and suppliers Over the next decade, around 20GW is well-placed if the cost associated with to publish a Consolidated Segmental of the UKs capacity for generating carbon dioxide emissions increases.
Statement showing revenue, costs and electricity largely coal, oil and nuclear profits from electricity generation and is scheduled to close because of its age Generation objectives electricity and gas supply activities.
This or its inability to comply with higher In this context, SSEs key objectives statement must be published no later environmental standards.
In July 2009, in Generation, covering operations than six months after the end of the the UK governments Low Carbon and investment, remain relevant and financial year ie by 30 September 2010 Transition Plan included a projection of appropriate.
The operational objectives and will be accompanied by a narrative possible shares of electricity generated are to: on the assumptions used to determine from different sources in 2020, based income and cost.
on energy demand estimated at 370TWh: k comply fully with all safety standards and environmental requirements: This assumption-based approach is k Renewables: 31% up from 6% k ensure power stations are available necessary, because the requirement k Gas: 29% down from 45% to generate electricity as and when to produce such a statement will not k Coal: 22% down from 32% required by customer demand and have any significant impact on SSEs k Nuclear: 8% down from 13% market conditions: and long-standing approach of managing k Other sources such as CHP: 10% k operate power stations efficiently its generation and supply activities as up from 3% to achieve the optimum conversion a single value chain.
The presentation of of primary fuel into electricity.
Generation and Supply in SSEs financial All of this has five major implications statements will not change.
for electricity generation over the next SSEs investment objectives in Generation 10 years: cover both existing and new powerFrom a wider point of view, companies producing plant.
They are to: adopting an integrated approach to k a balance of fuels used within the generation and supply are most likely to UKs generation portfolio will remain k maintain a diverse portfolio of be able to deliver the level of investment critical in providing security of supply, power stations, with the flexibility needed in generation in the UK and through allowing diversity of primary to respond to customer demand Ireland because the risks associated energy sources: and market conditions: with such large-scale and long-term k the need for the UK to maintain a k invest in developments supported investments are mitigated by the income reasonable margin between electricity by EU Member States financial earned from supplying electricity and generation capacity and electricity frameworks such as the UKs gas to customers.
demand will reinforce the value of Renewables Obligation to help ensure existing and available powerlegally-binding targets for renewable producing plant: energy in 2020 can be met: and k the UK will have to provide replacement k develop and pursue a diverse range capacity for conventional and nuclear of options for adding to its portfolio generation plant which is expected of power stations, and thus support to retire: security of supply.
