Scottish and Southern Energy 24 Annual Report 2010 Business overview continued The installation of FGD equipment means into SSEs portfolio of power generating recommendation that there can be no that the power stations are able to use assets went well.
Its availability was 96% role for conventional coal generation higher-sulphur coal mined in the UK.
As following completion of an outage that in the UK beyond the early 2020s.
SSE a result, in April 2009, SSE entered into was extended because of the need to certainly believes that no new coal-fired an agreement with UK Coal under which secure spare parts.
power stations should be built without it will obtain 3.5 million tonnes of deepfull carbon dioxide abatement and that and surface-mined coal from Great Britain, The LCPD also requires reduced no coal-fired power stations without such including Kellingley Colliery in West emissions of nitrogen oxides.
SSE has abatement should be allowed to operate Yorkshire, to provide fuel for Ferrybridge already invested 31m to install SOFA beyond 2030. power station up to 2015.
This should Separated Overfire Air and BOFA be enough to meet around 15% of the Boosted Overfire Air equipment at the In April 2010 it secured consent from stations requirements during that period.
stations to reduce such emissions.
From Wakefield District Council to develop In addition, SSE has advanced a secured 2016 limits on emissions of nitrogen at Ferrybridge the UKs biggest carbon loan to UK Coal, on which interest is oxides from power stations will be dioxide capture trial facility.
The 21m payable, to be repaid by 2014. tightened significantly.
As a result, SSE trial will be carried out in collaboration is undertaking a front-end engineering with Doosan Babcock and Vattenfall and The stations co-fire fuels from renewable design FEED study, which it expects will demonstrate the carbon dioxide sources biomass in order to displace to complete next year, into options for capture element of carbon capture fossil fuels.
During the year, their output installing Selective Catalytic Reduction and storage CCS technology.
In March qualifying for ROCs Renewable Obligation SCR technology at Fiddlers Ferry.
The 2009, it secured 6.3m of funding from Certificates see below was 218GWh, alternative to fitting SCR is to operate the the UK Department of Energy and compared with 267GWh in the previous station within limits required under a Climate Change, the Technology year included within the above total for derogation from the LCPDs requirements.
Strategy Board and Northern Way.
This follows Construction work is expected to start the change on 1 April 2009, since when SSE has applied for consent to install the later this year, with the trial itself electricity output resulting from co-firing SCR technology at Fiddlers Ferry under commencing in 2011 and running receives 0.5 ROCs per MWh, compared Section 36 of the Electricity Act 1989.
Its through to the end of 2012. with 1.0 ROC per MWh previously.
analysis of the issues around installing Electricity suppliers can now meet up SCR will also take into consideration The scale of the project, equivalent to to 12.5% of their Renewables Obligation the progress of the draft EU Industrial 5MW of coal-fired power generating from this technology.
Emissions Directive, which the European capacity producing 100 tonnes of carbon Commission has proposed in order to dioxide per day, bridges the gap between Coal and biomass generation overhaul seven existing pieces of legislation the various laboratory-scale trials that are investment on industrial emissions, including the under way and the larger-scale projects In August 2009, SSE acquired Uskmouth LCPD, into a single directive.
As a result, envisaged by the UK government.
The significance of the project therefore lies Power Company Limited, the owner and it does not expect to take a decision on in its scale and its ability to demonstrate: operator of the 363MW Uskmouth coalinstalling SCR until 2011. the operational characteristics of capture fired power station near Newport, South plant on an actual power station: and Wales for a total cash consideration of Coal and biomass generation the performance of the amine solvent 27m including 10m of cash and decarbonisation on real flue gas.
Uskmouth Coal is a critically important fuel for the comprises three independent power UK, because of its flexibility, its availability Coal and biomass generation recycling generating units, each with 121MW of and because it reduces reliance on The development by Lafarge Plasterboard capacity.
The power station dates from the imported gas.
Existing coal-fired power Ltd of a plasterboard factory at Ferrybridge 1960s and was substantially refurbished stations still have a crucial role to play in has been completed.
The plant is in 2000, including having FGD equipment maintaining secure supplies of electricity, operational and using the gypsum fitted.
It routinely operates on a two-shift but it is clear that that role will have to produced on site as a result of FGD as basis to help meet shorter-term power change if legally-binding carbon dioxide its main raw material in the production requirements.
Following the acquisition, emissions targets are to be met.
around 100 people employed at the station October 2009, the UKs Committee on joined SSE.
The integration of Uskmouth Climate Change re-stated its previous The ash separation plant developed at Fiddlers Ferry by RockTron Widnes Ltd is now operational.
It removes and processes all fresh ash produced by the power station, and much of that currently SSE certainly believes that no new stored in lagoons at the site, turning it into constituent parts which become coal-fired power stations should be built marketable mineral products, with the largest volume being initially used as without full carbon dioxide abatement cement substitutes.
and that no coal-fired power stations SSE now has 49.9% of the equity in RockTron Widnes Ltd, a subsidiary without such abatement should be of RockTron Ltd, enabling it to secure a share of the income from the ash allowed to operate beyond 2030.
