Scottish and Southern Energy 40 Annual Report 2010 Business overview continued k protective coatings and enhanced future of electricity and gas network The need for further significant investment condition assessments that allow the regulation.
It suggests that the RPI-X in Great Britains electricity distribution life of assets to be extended without price control mechanism needs to be networks, to maintain and or replace risking performance degeneration: changed as it will not be able to cope ageing assets or to provide additional and with the pace, uncertainty and scale of capacity was a key feature of the electricity k trench-less cable-laying technology, change needed to deliver sustainable Distribution Price Control for 2010-15 which reduces the public disruption energy supplies for customers.
The and it allows for total investment of 14bn and costs associated with cable-laying.
documents proposals are designed in the networks over the next five years.
to change the focus of regulation from For SSE, this is likely to mean investment In addition, SSE will seek to secure a companies costs to looking more at of around 210m in its distribution significant proportion of the new 500m what companies can deliver in terms of networks in 2010 11.
Low Carbon Network Fund, designed by reliable networks, safety and investment Ofgem to support larger-scale trials of to support low-carbon generation and Distribution Price Control review 2010-15 advanced technology, including smart meet the needs of customers.
In December 2009, SSE decided, on grids.
It will also seek to manage effectively balance, to accept Ofgems final proposals the new arrangement under which 100% of This approach builds on the electricity for the electricity Distribution Price Control support costs are deemed to be expenses Distribution Price Control 2010-15, and for the five years from 1 April 2010 in and 85% of network costs are deemed could amount to a form of contract respect of Scottish Hydro Electric Power to be capital, with associated output between Ofgem and the regulated Distribution and Southern Electric measures in place.
network company, with the emphasis Power Distribution.
on delivery of certain key outputs.
Smart grids Ofgem is consulting on its emerging SSE assessed Ofgems final proposals SSE and Smarter Grid Solutions Ltd thinking before more concrete and against the combined impact of three have commercially deployed smart grid detailed proposals are published in the key criteria: technology on SSEs power distribution summer of 2010. network on Orkney, allowing the k the scope to earn additional revenue connection of 15MW of extra new Electric vehicles through operational efficiency and renewable energy generation, an increase Electric vehicles will be an essential excellence: of one third, with the potential for this to part of the move towards a low-carbon k the treatment of ongoing pension grow further.
The Orkney Smart Grid is transport infrastructure.
The next decade costs: and based on the principle that capacity exists is likely to see a significant uptake of k the allowed return for shareholders in real-time on the power distribution grid such vehicles, which some reports have as measured by the weighted average due to variation in demand for electricity suggested could reach around 1.5 million cost of capital.
and diversity in the output of gridin the UK as early as 2020.
They also have connected generators.
This innovative the potential to influence dramatically the On its own, the headline-allowed weighted smart grid technology permits greater demand profile and quantity of electricity average cost of capital contained within numbers of renewable generators to required by customers, and will impact on the proposals 4.0%, on a post-tax, real be connected to the existing electricity all aspects of SSEs business, including return on capital basis would not be network, in a cheaper and faster way than electricity distribution.
enough to provide an adequate return traditional means, by allowing generators on investment in electricity distribution to access power network capacity not For this reason, SSE is taking part in or transmission.
In addition to the cost normally available under conventional the Technology Strategy Boards Ultra of capital, however, Ofgems proposals network planning requirements.
Low Carbon Vehicle Demonstration contained enhanced incentive mechanisms ULCVD project, which consists of eight in areas such as customer service.
Smart grid technology has the potential to consortia bringing over 300 vehicles to They also reduced further the level of improve significantly the efficiency of the trial.
The two consortia in which SSE risk associated with energy network electricity distribution and transmission is involved are with: businesses by ensuring that the volume networks in the UK and this deployment of electricity distributed will no longer provides a blueprint for how smart grids k BMW UK Ltd, Oxford Brookes affect companies income.
can be used to connect high penetrations of University and the South East England renewable generation in a cost effective way Development Agency: 40 MINI E The overall package should, therefore, and resolve grid congestion as a result.
The vehicles are being trialled by members allow SSE, the most efficient operator in connection of similar levels of renewable of the public, SSE employees and fleet Great Britain, to add to the return it earns generation on Orkney by the conventional users in southern England.
SSE has from its electricity distribution assets by means of network reinforcement would installed 32 Amp domestic charging delivering good operational performance have cost around 30m, compared with facilities at the homes of the drivers, and innovations in network management.
smart-related costs of less than 1m.
In together with the smart metering other words, the total cost of developing to gather usage data.
SSE is also Examples of SSEs activities which should and delivering this innovative solution installing public charging posts support the achievement of a sufficient has been substantially cheaper and much at selected locations: and return include: faster than the alternatives.
k Ford, Strathclyde University and the London Borough of Hillingdon: k dynamic line rating that allows the Energy network regulation 20 prototype electric vehicles are overhead line network to be operated future developments being introduced and SSE will be to its maximum capacity rather than In January 2010, Ofgem published its providing the private and public to constraints based on design Emerging Thinking document on the charging infrastructure.
