Scottish and Southern Energy 28 Annual Report 2010 Business overview continued SSE has an experienced wind energy Greater Gabbard 500MW: 50%: in constructing Walney is expected to development team comprising over 250 partnership with RWE npower renewables total just under 1bn.
DONG Energy people with the specialist skills to make through Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds has provided SSE with financial sure that these factors are rigorously Limited : and Walney 367MW: 25.1%: in guarantees relating to the final applied so that the electricity output partnership with DONG Energy : capital cost of the project and its from the wind farm capacity it develops timely completion.
k Greater Gabbard: Following the initial delay in commencing foundation In December 2009, the UK government Onshore wind investment projects installation, good progress has been announced that 2.0 ROCs will be earned The principal projects within SSEs made and half of the 140 turbine by the output of all offshore wind projects onshore wind farm construction portfolio foundation monopiles and almost accredited between April 2010 and March are Clyde 350MW, in South Lanarkshire, one third of the transition pieces have 2014, an increase from 1.5 ROCs, and this and Griffin 156MW, in Perthshire: now been installed, as has the first of was confirmed by Parliamentary Order two transformer platforms.
Greater in April 2010. k Clyde: Work at the site is continuing, Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited following the resolution of the expects to resolve satisfactorily, Offshore wind future opportunities secondary, and some of the primary, as part of the normal contractual SSE believes that the Greater Gabbard radar-related issues associated process, the claim it has received for and Walney projects give it a strong with the consent granted for the additional costs relating to foundation offshore wind construction portfolio for development.
The wind farm is being monopiles.
Commissioning of the the next few years.
Beyond that, other developed in three sections, with the onshore sub-station is well-advanced options are being developed.
In May 2010, appointments of the remaining lead and installation of the first export SSE and RWE npower renewables secured contractors for each of the three cable, inter-array cables and turbines rights from The Crown Estate to develop sections expected to be finalised this is under way.
Greater Gabbard is a 500MW wind farm close to the existing year.
Clyde is expected to have a load expected to have a load factor of over Greater Gabbard development.
A planning factor of around 35% and produce over 40% and produce around 1,900GWh application is expected to be submitted to 1,000GWh of electricity in a typical year.
of electricity in a typical year, of which the Infrastructure Planning Commission by 2011, with a decision expected in 2012.
The first section of the development SSE will take 50%.
The wind farm is A grid connection for the project was should be completed by the end of 2011 expected to require a total investment secured with National Grid in 2009, to be and the development as a whole in by SSE of around 650m, excluding potentially available from October 2015.
Its total construction cost is connection to the electricity grid.
The development remains on course In addition, SSE is a member of two k Griffin: Pre-construction work is well to be completed in 2012. consortia which have secured development under way at the site, in which SSE k Walney: SSE acquired its 25.1% stake partner status from The Crown Estate now has a 100% stake.
The annual in Walney from DONG Energy, which in Round 3 of its UK offshore wind farm output is expected to be around retains a 74.9% stake, for a total development programme: 400GWh.
Its construction cost is consideration of up to around 39m, expected to be around 200m and of which around 17m is subject to the k Forewind, formed by SSE, RWE it should be completed in 2012. operational performance of the wind npower renewables, Statoil and farm.
As a shareholder in the project, Statkraft, has been awarded SSE has a total of 14 wind farm projects SSE will pay its pro rata share of the development partner status for the currently under construction and expects construction costs just under 250m 9GW offshore wind farm proposed for a total of over 100MW of onshore wind with payments being made when Dogger Bank, 125km from the coast farm capacity currently under construction each phase of the wind farm is of Yorkshire: and to be commissioned during 2010 11. commissioned.
Walney will be k Seagreen, formed by SSE and Fluor constructed in two phases, each Corporation, has been awarded In addition to the timely completion of totalling 183.6MW.
Construction development partner status for the construction work, the commissioning of the first phase is now under way, proposed 3.4GW offshore wind farm of wind farm developments is dependent with the first monopiles installed and proposed for the Firth of Forth, 25km on their ability to connect to the electricity construction of the second phase from the coast of Fife.
This has been identified as one scheduled to start in the spring of of the key barriers to new renewable 2011.
The wind farm is therefore SSEs capacity share of the two proposed energy across the UK and Ireland.
expected to enter commercial wind farm developments totals around operation in two phases: during the 4GW.
Over the next few years, both SSE is pursuing other options for the first half of 2011 and towards the end consortia will be working closely with The development of its onshore wind farm of 2011.
DONG Energy is leading the Crown Estate to undertake site-specific portfolio and will shortly ask the Scottish construction and operation of the wind surveys, secure grid connections and Government for its formal opinion on the farm.
The wind farm is expected to work with stakeholders before bringing scope of the environmental statement that have an average load factor of around forward applications to build the wind would accompany the planning application 43% and produce around 1,300GWh farms.
As a result, construction work for a 67 turbine extension to the Clyde of electricity in a typical year.
SSE would not begin until 2015 at the earliest.
and DONG Energy will market the output of the wind farm in proportion SSE has also been awarded exclusive Offshore wind investment projects to their equity stakes.
Excluding the rights from The Crown Estate to develop SSE has a stake in two major wind farms connection to the Great Britain offshore wind farms at locations in under construction off the coast of the UK: electricity network, the cost of
