Scottish and Southern Energy 30 Annual Report 2010 Business overview continued around 80,000 tonnes of waste annually, SSEs investment will be used to further basis, the new power station would producing enough gas to generate up to develop this facility and this is expected not be commissioned before 2020.
The new project will to expand BiFabs capabilities to a total enable SSE to gain experience in owning annual capacity of up to 130 units.
The Generation priorities for 2010 11 and operating this technology, which it investment follows BiFabs successful and beyond believes could offer opportunities beyond delivery of jackets for the Greater Gabbard SSEs key operational objectives in on-site electricity generation, including offshore wind project.
Generation during 2010 11 are the connection to the gas distribution network same as in any given year: in the future.
Through equity and loans, and including the BiFab investment, SSEV has invested or k comply fully with all safety standards Alternative energy Forth Energy committed to invest a total of 120m in a and environmental requirements: Forth Energy, the joint venture between variety of emerging technologies since it k ensure those power stations are SSE and Forth Ports PLC created in was formed and now holds direct or indirect available to generate electricity as and 2008, has prepared proposals for the stakes in a total of 36 companies.
In total, when required in response to customer development of dedicated biomass power these companies employ over 1,000 people.
demand and market conditions: and stations at four of Forth Ports sites in k operate power stations efficiently to Scotland.
It is undertaking consultations Nuclear power achieve the optimum conversion of on the proposals and intends to seek It is expected that the total capacity of the primary fuel into electricity.
consent during the course of this year UKs nuclear power stations will fall by over to build the plants.
The plants are 7,000MW by 2020, even if advanced gasDuring 2010 11, SSE expects to invest proposed for Dundee, Leith, Rosyth cooled reactor AGR stations are allowed over 1bn in maintaining and upgrading and Grangemouth.
Their total installed by the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate to existing generation assets and in capacity would be around 400MW and operate for five years beyond their existing developing new assets.
Its investment they could also produce heat to be used planned closure dates.
History suggests priorities in 2010 11 are to: at other facilities at the Forth Ports sites that the performance and reliability of and, potentially, other neighbouring sites.
nuclear power stations with extended k complete asset maintenance and lives tends to deteriorate.
refurbishment programmes on time and on budget: Emerging technologies SSE Ventures k meet key milestones in new asset In 2007, SSE set up SSE Ventures SSEV These question marks do not apply to development, including completion of to develop and grow its portfolio of modern nuclear power stations, which another 100MW of onshore wind farm investments in small and medium-sized Malcolm Wicks MP said in his August capacity and first electricity generation businesses offering renewable, sustainable 2009 review of energy security represent a at Greater Gabbard: and and energy efficiency-enhancing products proven, low-carbon generation technology k make progress in developing the and services.
These include Aquamarine which could benefit security of energy diverse range of investment options Power and RockTron Widnes Ltd see supply by increasing the diversity of the it has created for the second half of above and Smarter Grid Solutions Ltd fuel mix and reducing reliance on gas this decade.
He suggested that nuclear power should provide some 35%-40% of the In the five years between 2008 and 2013, In addition to the financial support offered, countrys electricity after 2030.
SSE currently expects that its investment SSEV works in close partnership with across its entire generation portfolio will be investee companies to help their products SSE believes that some participation over 4bn, including investment in existing or services make progress towards full in new nuclear power stations may assets.
This investment programme is commercial viability.
Participation in make sense in view of its commitment designed to abate the environmental emerging technology developments helps to a diverse generation portfolio and impact of existing assets and extend their SSE to anticipate, be at the forefront of, complements its core investment in working lives and to deliver new assets, and adapt to, the changes in energy renewable sources of energy.
principally in renewable energy but also production and consumption that are thermal generation.
All of this will support likely to occur over the next decade.
During 2009, a consortium of GDF Suez SA, security of energy supply.
Iberdrola SA and SSE, in which SSE has a For example, in April 2010, SSE purchased 25% stake, secured an option to purchase This focus on good operational performance a 15% stake in Burntisland Fabrications Ltd from the Nuclear Decommissioning and on effective investment is designed to for a total consideration of 11m.
In addition Authority land for the development of new give SSE a balanced and growing portfolio to the equity stake, SSE has secured an nuclear power generating plant adjacent of efficient electricity generation assets, agreement with BiFab for the supply of at to Sellafield in Cumbria, for a total cash with a diminishing environmental impact, least 50 jacket substructures annually to consideration that could reach 70m.
in which its exposure to fossil fuel price support SSEs offshore wind developments.
The consortium now intends to prepare BiFab is an established fabricator of detailed plans for developing new nuclear SSE will also actively seek to maintain structures and equipment for the oil and power plant at the site with a total capacity optionality and diversity in the future gas industry which has recently extended of up to 3.6GW.
These plans will be development of its generation portfolio so its expertise into the fabrication of jacket prepared in consultation with the safety that it remains on course to reduce by 50% substructures suitable for offshore authorities and local stakeholders and the carbon dioxide intensity of electricity wind developments.
BiFab has already will be submitted for consideration by the produced at power stations in which it attracted government support to develop relevant planning authorities, with the aim has an ownership or contractual interest, a new manufacturing facility for offshore of being able to begin construction of the over the period from 2006 to 2020. wind jacket substructures.
