Scottish and Southern Energy 48 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued The SSE team 01 02 03 04 05 The Board of Directors 06 07 01 Lord Smith of Kelvin 02 Alistair Phillips-Davies 03 Thomas Andersen 04 Ian Marchant 05 Ren Mdori 06 Colin Hood 07 Gregor Alexander 08 Richard Gillingwater CBE 09 Lady Rice CBE 10 Nick Baldwin 08 09 10 49 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Lord Smith of Kelvin Lady Rice CBE Ren Mdori Chairman Senior Independent Director Audit Committee Chairman Robert joined the Board as a nonSusan joined the Board as non-Executive Ren joined the Board as a non-Executive Executive Director in June 2003 and Director in July 2003 and became Senior Director in June 2003.
He is Finance became Chairman in January 2005.
She is Director of Anglo American plc and is a is also: Chairman of the Weir Group plc: Managing Director of the Lloyds Banking non-Executive Director of Anglo Platinum a non-Executive Director of Standard Group Scotland.
Susan is also a nonand DB fide Beers Investments.
He is Bank Group Ltd: Chairman of Glasgow Executive Director of the Court of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a 2014 Ltd, the organising committee for Bank of England and chairs the Board of member of the Nomination Committee.
the Commonwealth Games: Chancellor the Edinburgh International Book Festival, of the University of the West of Scotland: along with several other organisations.
Gregor Alexander and a member of the Council of Economic Susan chairs the Remuneration Finance Director Advisers to the First Minister of Scotland.
Committee and is a member of the Gregor was appointed Finance Director and Robert is Chairman of the Nomination Nomination Committee.
joined the Board in 2002, having previously Committee and a member of the been Group Treasurer and Tax Manager.
Richard Gillingwater CBE He has worked in the energy industry Non-Executive Director since 1990, when he joined Scottish Hydro Ian Marchant Richard joined the Board as a nonElectric.
Gregor is a Director of Scotia Gas Chief Executive Executive Director in May 2007.
He is a member of the Risk and Ian was appointed Chief Executive in 2002, Dean of Cass Business School and is Trading Committee.
having been Finance Director since 1998. non-Executive Chairman of CDC Group He has worked in the energy industry since plc and a Senior Independent Director Thomas Thune Andersen 1992, when he joined Southern Electric.
Richard is a member of Non-Executive Director He is also: a member of the UK Business the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Thomas joined the Board as a nonCouncil for Sustainable Energy: Chairman Committees.
He is a nonof the Scottish Climate Change Business Executive Director of Petrofac Plc and Delivery Group: Chairman of the 2020 Alistair Phillips-Davies of VKR Holding.
He was Chief Executive Delivery Group: a member of Ofgems Energy Supply Director of Maersk Oil, a member of the Group Environmental Advisory Group: a member Alistair was appointed Energy Supply Executive Board AP Moller-Maersk, as of the Energy Research Partnership: a Director and joined the Board in 2002, well as director or chairman of a number non-Executive Director of John Wood plc having previously been Energy Trading of companies within the AP Moller-Maersk and Maggies Cancer Centres: and became Director.
He has worked in the energy Group, until 2009.
He is a member of the Chairman of the Engineering Construction industry since 1997, when he joined Audit, Nomination, and Safety, Health and Forum in 2009.
Ian is a member of the Southern Electric.
Alistair has Board level Environment Advisory Committees.
Nomination Committee, Risk and Trading responsibility for Energy Trading, Electricity Committee and is Lead Director for the and Gas Supply, Energy Efficiency, Environment and Corporate Responsibility.
Customer Service, Sales, Marketing and Energy Services.
He is Chairman of the Colin Hood Energy Retail Association and chairs Chief Operating Officer the Risk and Trading Committee.
Colin was appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2002, having joined the Board Nick Baldwin as Power Systems Director in 2001.
He Non-Executive Director has worked in the energy industry since Nick joined the Board as a non-Executive 1977, when he joined Scottish Hydro Director in 2006.
Previously, he worked in Electric.
He has Board level responsibility the energy industry, culminating in being for Generation, Power Systems, Human Chief Executive of Powergen plc.
Colin is a Director a non-Executive Director of the Nuclear of Scotia Gas Networks and became a Decommissioning Authority, the Forensic non-Executive Director of FirstGroup plc Science Service and Sanctuary Housing in May 2009.
He is SSEs Lead Director Group and is Chair of the Public Weather for Health and Safety matters and is Service Customer Group.
He is also Chairman of the Safety, Health and Chairman of TreeHouse Trust.
Nick is Environment Advisory Committee.
a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
