Scottish and Southern Energy 20 Annual Report 2010 Business overview SSEs diverse electricity generation assets Energy supplied SSE with 5TWh terrawattGeneration are balanced by its electricity and gas hours of electricity during 2009 10 and will supply customer base.
As at 31 March supply 5TWh during 2010 11 arranged and Supply 2010, SSE supplied energy to 9.16 million as part of SSEs acquisition of the Swalec customer accounts in Great Britain and energy supply business in 2000 ends in Introduction March 2011.
In order to provide continuing 190,000 accounts in Northern Ireland SSE owns just over 11,300MW of capacity long-term stability to the energy portfolio, and the Republic of Ireland, making it: for generating electricity, a net increase further contractual arrangements have of 600MW since 1 April 2009.
These include the 15-year k the second largest supplier within majority over 10,850MW of this capacity tolling agreement with Marchwood Power Great Britains competitive electricity is in Great Britain in which total capacity Ltd which commenced in 2009. and gas supply market, which has is around 83,000MW, including the around 51 million domestic and capacity to import from France.
The SSEs Trading and Risk Management business accounts in total: and remainder 450MW is in Northern Ireland team is responsible for its participation in k the fourth largest supplier in the Irish and the Republic of Ireland, where there wholesale markets for electricity and gas, all-island energy market, which has is an all-island Single Electricity Market, as well as markets for coal, oil and carbon around 3.1 million accounts in total.
of around 10,000MW, which is separate dioxide emissions allowances.
Through from the market in Great Britain.
analysis of generation plant availability, SSEs responsibility as supplier to customer demand and its contractual customers is to procure the electricity SSEs total capacity includes its share position SSE can assess, and therefore and gas they need, arrange for it to be of joint ventures and associates and manage, its exposure to market prices.
distributed to them through the relevant comprises around: networks, provide the associated services In summary, SSE assesses Generation such as metering and billing and promote k 4,590MW of gasand oil-fired capacity: and Supply as a single value chain the efficient use of energy.
k 4,370MW of coal-fired capacity with within a  business.
biomass co-firing capability : and This means its power stations and fuel Wholesale gas and wholesale electricity k 2,370MW of renewable hydro, wind supply contracts are used to support are transacted like any other commodity and dedicated biomass capacity.
performance in electricity and, by in a competitive market.
SSE purchases extension, energy supply.
As the UK the gas and some of the electricity it This balance between coaland gas-fired Treasury and Department of Energy needs to supply customers via bilateral generation capacity, and the balance and Climate Change said in March 2010: contracts of varying lengths and through between fossil fuel and renewable sources Vertical integration offers several trading in the wholesale markets.
To of energy, avoids dependency on a single benefits, including lower risk from ensure customers requirements are technology or commodity and gives SSE the wholesale electricity price volatility, hedged, energy is sourced up to two greatest diversity in fuels for generating economies of scale and price smoothing.
years or more in advance of it actually electricity among UK generators.
SSE also buys gas, coal, oil result, SSE has significant optionality in Against this background, SSE seeks and biomass to use in the production of the management of its power stations.
to maintain a well-balanced portfolio of electricity from its power stations, as well It is this diversity and the optionality that assets, contracts and customers, and over as carbon dioxide emissions allowances.
goes with it which enable SSE to manage recent years its growth in power station the risks inevitably associated with capacity has been similar to its growth in SSEs long-term power purchase primary fuel procurement.
This balanced, agreements with Barking Power Ltd in of these risks is also assisted by the integrated business, featuring a diverse which it has a 30.4% stake and Derwent fact that SSE is the largest generator of range of assets, has, therefore, value that Cogeneration Ltd in which it has a 49.5% electricity from renewable sources across goes beyond the sum of its parts not stake are due to expire in September 2010. the UK and Ireland.
least because its exposure to particular The current contract, under which British commodity price outcomes is reduced.
Generation and Supply performance overview SSE seeks to maintain a well-balanced Operating profit in Generation and Supply was 896.0m, compared with 832.0m in portfolio of assets, contracts and the previous year, contributing 55.1% of SSEs total operating profit in 2009 10.
The customers, and over recent years its main differences between 2009 10 and the previous year are set out under Adjusted growth in power station capacity has Profit Before Tax above.
SSE reports the underlying financial performance been similar to its growth in energy of Generation and Supply excluding the impact of IAS 39 remeasurements which customer numbers.
This balanced, are unrealised as it continues to believe that this does not represent underlying integrated business, featuring a diverse business performance.
range of assets, has, therefore, value Total revenue for Generation and Supply was 20.5bn, which accounted for 91% that goes beyond the sum of its parts.
