Scottish and Southern Energy 50 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued The SSE team continued On 31 March 2010, SSE employed there was a 8.7% turnover of employees, will support the ongoing growth and 20,177 people, an increase of 1,382 on compared with 11.5% in the previous year.
Fundamental to the arrangements in SSEs Contracting Companys success is the professionalism Participation division are in line with national and enthusiasm of employees, guided by SSE believes that there is a commonality of construction agreements.
SSEs Teamwork value, which states: interest between employees and customers We support and value our colleagues and shareholders.
To reinforce that it: Rights and enjoy working together in an open SSE has in place a comprehensive range and honest way.
k encourages employees to become and of policies to safeguard the interests remain customers by providing them of employees and potential employees.
with a 10% discount on its prices for Like all responsible organisations it electricity and gas supply, plus has in place an actively-managed equal The Board of Directors discounts on energy efficiency opportunities policy, in keeping with the installations, central heating and spirit as well as the letter of the law in The Board is accountable to SSEs wiring maintenance and telephone the UK and elsewhere, designed to ensure shareholders for the good conduct of and broadband services: and fair and equal treatment of employees the Companys affairs and is collectively and potential employees across the seven k provides opportunities for employees responsible for creating and sustaining protected grounds as defined by the UKs to become and remain shareholders shareholder value through the overall Equality and Human Rights Commission in SSE through a Share Incentive Plan management of the Company, while age, disability, gender, race, religion and a Sharesave Scheme.
Employee ensuring that a sound system of internal and belief, sexual orientation and gender participation in these schemes is now control and risk management is in place.
Adjustments are made 42% and 34% respectively.
How the Board Works is set out on to support and train staff who become pages 56 to 58. disabled during their employment to Within SSE, employee participation enable them to continue and develop is encouraged through adherence in their role.
There were no occasions to the Companys Teamwork value.
The senior during 2009 10 when SSE was found The appraisal process for employees, management team to have failed to comply with equal including the senior management team, opportunities legislation.
specifically evaluates their performance A total of 31 senior executives and in Teamwork, along with performance managers report directly to SSEs four The Equality Act 2010 will harmonise in respect of SSEs other core values: Executive Directors.
The average length of and extend existing discrimination Safety, Service, Efficiency, Sustainability service in SSE of these senior executives law in the UK.
SSE intends to take the and Excellence.
In keeping with these and managers is 18 years and their opportunity of the revised legislation to values, SSE produced and distributed average age is 46 years.
review all of its policies in this area and, to all employees in March 2010 a where necessary or desirable, update comprehensive code of business practice, These senior executives and other them.
It has established an Equality Doing the right thing.
It highlights, managers, plus the Executive Directors, Working Group to help achieve this.
summarises and complements a range are members of SSEs issueand of ethics-related policies which SSE has business-specific Leadership Teams, Responsibilities in place.
The importance of doing the which meet monthly to oversee the Along with the rights summarised above, right thing was again emphasised by operational and financial performance SSE also believes that employees have the UKs Bribery Act 2010. of, and issues facing, the Company.
The responsibilities, summarised in eight issues covered by the Leadership Teams People Principles, adopted in 2008 and In addition to a wide range of internal include: Safety, Health and Environment: built around its core value of Teamwork: communication media and events, People and Resources: Generation and employee participation in SSE is also Fuel: Electricity Networks: Operational k Take all active steps to ensure there encouraged through the Chief Executives Excellence: Policy and Regulation: and is no intimidation or discrimination.
Blog, inter-active online forums, divisionBusiness and Domestic Customers.
k Engage in safe, healthy and and subject-specific employee surveys,  working Director-led regional roadshows and practices.
the Licence to Innovate scheme, which Employee issues k Always know and understand what enables employees to research, review is expected of you in your job.
k Maintain respect and support for The Executive Directors and senior colleagues at all times.
executives and managers are among the Joint Negotiating and k Work continuously to improve team 20,177 people directly employed by SSE Consultative Committee and individual performance.
Most of these people SSE benefits from a well-established k Obtain constructive feedback on your work in the United Kingdom: around 300 Joint Negotiating and Consultative performance from your line manager.
are employed in the Republic of Ireland: Committee which includes lay and fullk Receive appropriate training, and a total of 30 work in mainland Europe time representatives from four recognised development and rewards.
Of all employees, trade unions.
In February 2008, the k Know and embrace the Companys 73% are men and 27% are women: a total unions ballot produced a substantial vote core values.
of 80% of SSEs managers, including in favour of SSEs pay offer for the three Leadership Team members, are men and years to 31 March 2011.
Discussions Through the application of these 20% are women.
The average age of have commenced with the trade unions principles, SSE seeks to maintain a positive SSEs employees is 39 years.
In 2009 10, on the type of collective agreement that
