Scottish and Southern Energy 44 Annual Report 2010 Business overview continued Contracting performance during 2009 10 SSE has long-term street-lighting SSE is to become the first utility in the UK SSE Contracting continued to make solid replacement and maintenance PFI to build and monitor its own development progress during 2009 10, with its order contracts to 10 and the number of of zero-carbon homes.
The 10-home book ending the year at 115m, despite lighting units covered by such contracts development, under construction near the UKs economic difficulties.
Slough, is being built on land previously book was supported by significant new occupied by an SSE office building.
The contract wins with a number of major Again through Tay Valley Lighting, SSE properties have been designed to achieve organisations in recent months, including has been appointed preferred bidder the highest specification for sustainable Southend University Hospital, Murco on the Nottingham City Council streetbuilding, Code Level 6 in the Code for Petroleum, British Telecom, Network lighting PFI project.
The installation of Rail and Glasgow Housing Association.
contract involves the replacement and renewable energy features will be carried maintenance of around 40,000 columns, out by SSE Contracting and SSE Utility A major proportion of SSE Contractings and illuminated signs.
All new homes built in England business is from public sector bodies is actively bidding for a number of other from 2016 onwards must be zero carbon.
and end-user client organisations with PFI projects.
a high degree of repeat business or In one of the first ever live demonstrations long-term contracts.
This has put it in a In November 2009, SSE acquired the of what will be needed to achieve highly relatively good position to withstand the assets of ESB Contracts Ltd ESBC, energy efficient living, SSE will test the initial effects of the economic downturn.
the street-lighting business of ESB, every-day performance of the technology Given the downturn, during the year, it for a total cash consideration of 6.4m, installed in the homes, such as a focused on: making it Irelands leading street-lighting photovoltaic solar roof and a renewable contractor.
ESBC maintained around district heating system.
The development k pre-sales activity, with careful analysis 300,000 street lights in the Republic will feature a renewable energy heat of the markets and areas of work it of Ireland.
Street-lighting will in due hub, housing five different types of microshould prioritise: and course become the subject of competitive generation including air and ground source k post-sales control, with a strong tendering by local authorities.
Under heat pumps, a biomass boiler and solar thermal panels.
The homes will be fitted emphasis on controlling costs while SSEs ownership, the business is known with the latest energy efficient appliances meeting customers requirements.
as Airtricity Utility Solutions and employs and SSE will use smart meters to monitor over 100 people, including people who the energy and water usage of the homes There is clearly a risk that the business previously worked with ESBC.
order book and profitability will be Ireland, SSE now maintains around affected as a result of the cumulative 1.4 million street lights.
The information gleaned will help SSE impact of the continuing economic understand how householders respond uncertainty and the expected constraints Over the last 12 months SSE also acquired and adapt to zero-carbon living.
It will also on public expenditure.
As a result, cost the rights to Mayflower, an intelligent provide SSE and its related companies, control and customer relationships will management system for controlling such as those linked with SSE Ventures, remain particularly high priorities for street-lighting from a central location.
with valuable information to share with SSE Contracting during 2010 11.
The functionality of the system will allow stakeholders such as construction local authorities to switch lights on and partners, technology manufacturers off and to dim them when there is less and industry bodies.
requirement for high lighting levels.
Mayflower already has orders for over Contracting priorities in 2010 11 300,000 units.
and beyond The key priority for SSE Contracting Contracting microgeneration during 2010 11 is to position itself for SSE Contracting is also spearheading the long term by: SSEs response to the introduction on 1 April 2010 of Feed-in Tariffs FiTs to k working safely: Contracting street-lighting encourage householders, communities k delivering a high standard of service SSE Contracting remains the UKs and other groups to generate their own to all customers: leading street-lighting contractor, and electricity from low-carbon technologies k maintaining a strong order book: in 2009 10 retained contracts with 26 such as solar PV.
The capacity of k maximising business opportunities authorities to maintain over 1.1 million installations can be up to 5MW.
FiTs with existing customers: lighting columns.
will be followed by the Renewable Heat k adding to its list of street-lighting Incentive in April 2011. contracts: and In August 2009, SSE was awarded the k building up opportunities in 225m, 25-year South Coast Streetlighting Microgeneration is a very small market microgeneration, including the PFI Private Finance Initiative contract, at the moment, but it is growing fast and zero-carbon homes project.
through its PFI street-lighting entity Tay FiTs will provide additional impetus to Valley Lighting.
Under the contract, SSE this growth.
With its technical, contract This, in turn, should enable SSE Contracting Contracting will replace and maintain management and project management to consolidate its position among the 250,000 street lights, illuminated signs skills, SSE Contracting is ideally-placed to leading GB-wide electrical and mechanical and bollards on behalf of Hampshire provide customers with the services they contractors and prepare for the rapid and West Sussex County Councils and need in all aspects of microgeneration move to lower-carbon technologies that Southampton City Council.
It took the and developing the full array of necessary will take place over the next decade.
number of local authorities with which services is now under way.
