35 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information of the recession and in line with the downturn in sales experienced across Fuel Production the retail sector, and this prompted and Storage a continuing reorganisation of SSEs activities in this area.
Energy supply operations Ireland During 2007, SSE identified Ireland as a market where the skills used in The growing demand Energy supply operations Great Britain could be successfully in the UK for more gas other products deployed, giving it additional room storage facilities to Home services is a frequently used for expansion.
help provide security term, which has different meanings of supply of gas means within different organisations.
For SSE In 2009 10, through Airtricity, it increased such facilities have it means products and services which its customer base in the all-island complement the supply of electricity long-term value, electricity market in Ireland from 50,000 and gas.
SSE offers a range of gas accounts to 190,000 including 10,000 especially if their cycle boiler, central heating and wiring customers in Northern Ireland.
Almost rate is fast enough.
maintenance and installation products all of these accounts are paid by direct and services for household customers debit and almost half of them are online across 43 postcode areas covering accounts.
SSE is now the third largest around two thirds of its energy supply k Gas storage page 36 energy supplier in the Republic of customer base.
k Gas production page 36 Ireland and the fourth largest in the all-island market.
During 2009 10, it increased its maintenance customer numbers by Overview The profile of Airtricity as a supplier of 37%, to 158,000, and performed gas and It is generally recognised that the UK now energy has been significantly enhanced electric installation and re-wiring work has insufficient gas storage.
This underby SSEs acquisition of the assets of ESB in 7,000 properties, an increase of 13%.
capacity reflects the reliance it was able to Contracts, the street-lighting business place in past years on gas production from of ESB see Street-lighting below.
It During 2010 11, SSE will aim to increase the North Sea.
As North Sea gas declines, currently maintains around 300,000 street further the number of customers with UK imports will continue to increase to lights in the Republic of Ireland.
energy-related products by expanding meet demand from domestic customers, its product and service range, improving Energy supply priorities in 2010 11 the increasing number of gas-fired power operational productivity and efficiency During 2010 11, and beyond, SSE will stations and other industrial and and enhancing customer service levels.
Imports could be The expansion of its home services put at risk by periods of unusually low activities in this way, with the supporting k provide consistently competitive prices: temperatures, operational failures in infrastructure, systems and processes k increase the number of customer pipelines delivering gas to the UK, that are being developed, will allow SSE accounts across the Great Britain political disputes in gas-producing to deploy a comprehensive whole house and Irish all-island markets: regions or high demand in other parts approach to home energy services.
k secure further efficiencies in day-toof the world.
day operations, including the ways in The talk telecoms package, under which which customers are retained and SSE owns and operates the UKs largest telephone line rental, calls and broadband gained and the ways in which they onshore gas storage facility near Hornsea services are supplied, now has 252,000 are given the services they need: in East Yorkshire, in which around 325 customers, an increase of 32,000 on the k maintain best-in-sector service, million cubic metres mcm of gas can previous year.
including improvements in billing, call be stored in a total of nine caverns.
handling times and enhancements to Hornsea accounts for around 7% of the The talk package has benefited from online and smart services: total gas storage capacity in the UK and being aligned to, and integrated with, k increase further the number of 15% of deliverability.
With Statoil UK SSEs main energy customer systems customers on better plan and other Ltd, SSE is developing another gas and processes and this has allowed it loyalty programmes: storage facility at nearby Aldbrough, to grow customer numbers organically k deliver energy efficiency where an initial 115mcm of capacity since it was launched in 2003. improvements, principally through the in four caverns is already available for CERT and CESP programmes: and commercial operation.
To form such In response to the evolving k continue to ensure customers caverns, salt deposits around 2km under telecommunications market, SSE energy accounts are well-managed.
ground are leached out by seawater continually reviews the structure of which, in turn, is replaced dewatered its telephony products and tariffs and In summary, SSE aims to build on by gas under pressure.
expects to introduce minimum terms its position as the energy supplier with contracts during 2010 11 to retain and the strong regional brands, best-inOn 31 March 2010, SSE entered into an attract additional customers.
sector service,  agreement with Hess Corporation UK to pricing policy and range of valueacquire its natural gas producing assets Sales of electrical and gas appliances adding offers to secure another year in three regions of the North Sea Everest have continued to struggle in the light of customer growth.
