Scottish and Southern Energy 36 Annual Report 2010 Business overview continued Transmission System at a rate of 40mcm Gas storage capacity million cubic metres per day, equivalent to the average daily consumption of eight million homes, and the ability to have up to 30mcm of gas 2010 400 per day injected.
2009 325 SSE still expects its total investment 2008 325 on the development at Aldbrough to 2007 325 be around 290m.
With its ability to inject and deliver gas rapidly to meet 2006 325 fluctuations in demand and supply, Aldbrough will provide a valuable source of flexibility to the UK gas market as it becomes increasingly dependent on imported gas to meet its energy needs.
Bacton for a total cash consideration withdrawn.
The transaction is subject to operating profit in Gas Storage.
SSE and Statoil UK Ltd have consent to the receipt of all necessary partner to increase the storage capacity at the and regulatory approvals.
Gas storage investment Aldbrough site beyond that currently The growing demand in the UK for more under development.
If developed in full, gas storage facilities to help provide this would approximately double the security of supply of gas means such amount of gas that can be stored, to facilities have a long-term value, especially around 700mcm.
SSE expects to take if their cycle rate the speed at which gas a final decision on whether and how to can be withdrawn from storage and then invest in a second phase of development replaced is fast enough.
SSEs joint venture with Statoil UK Ltd to develop at Aldbrough what will become Gas storage operations the UKs largest onshore gas storage Gas Storage delivered an operating profit facility made further important progress of 41.8m, during 2009 10, compared with during 2009 10, with the first commercial 42.7m in the previous year, due to lower operations getting under way.
Aldbrough differentials between summer and winter now provides a total of 115mcm of gas prices.
capacity in four caverns the first new gas storage capacity to become available At Hornsea, gas can be injected at a rate in the UK for four years.
A further 85mcm Gas production of 2mcm per day and delivered to the of capacity is expected to become In March 2010, SSE entered into an National Transmission System at a rate available in the course of 2010 11. agreement with Hess Limited to acquire of 18mcm per day, which is equivalent its natural gas assets and infrastructure to the requirements of around four When fully commissioned, currently in three regions of the North Sea million homes.
The services offered expected to be in 2012, it will have the Everest Lomond: Easington Catchment: at Hornsea provide customers with a capacity to inject gas and store up to and Bacton.
reliable source of flexibility with which 370mcm in nine under ground caverns to manage their gas supply demand of which SSE will own two thirds.
SSE has agreed to pay a total cash and respond to market opportunities.
Aldbrough will be the largest onshore consideration of US$423m for Hess During 2009 10, including the critical gas storage facility in the UK and have assets, maintaining its commitment period of the UKs unusually cold winter, the capacity to deliver gas to the National to its financial principle of a disciplined Hornsea maintained its excellent record of dependability and was 100% available to customers, except in instances of planned maintenance.
This enabled This timely acquisition of natural storage customers to manage their gas market risks and respond to gas gas assets will enable SSE to enter the trading opportunities.
upstream gas sector in a measured way The new capacity which became available at Aldbrough during 2009 10 115mcm by buying proven and geographically in total see below also performed well during 2009 10, with multiple cycles of diverse production assets.
These assets the capacity and significant delivery on to the National Transmission System during will provide a new source of primary fuel the cold period early in 2010.
Following the start of commercial operations in and a hedge for SSEs gas generation July 2009, 387mcm of gas were injected in to the new capacity and 401mcm were and supply activities.
