37 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information approach to acquisitions.
The transaction Overall, Ofgem seeks to strike the right is subject to the receipt of all necessary Networks balance between attracting investment in partner and regulatory approvals.
electricity and gas networks, encouraging companies to operate them as efficiently The gas resources which SSE is acquiring as possible and ensuring that prices total around 3,965 million therms mth.
ultimately borne by customers are no The headline transaction price for these higher than they need to be.
In electricity, SSE is the only energy resources is $6.6-barrels of oil equivalent.
a new Distribution Price Control started on company in the UK Additional, less certain resources of gas 1 April 2010 and will run until 31 March 2015 to be involved in may also be identified through further and the current Transmission Price Control exploration.
The main production asset electricity distribution, is now expected to run until 31 March 2013. operators are BG Group, BP and Perenco.
2009 10 was the second year of the gas gas distribution and Distribution Price Control for the five electricity transmission.
SSE currently needs on average around years to 31 March 2013.
After electricity and gas, 13.5mth of gas per day to supply its telecoms is SSEs third customers and to fuel its power stations, As at 31 March 2010, SSEs estimate networks business.
and gas from the acquired assets, will of Ofgems valuation of the assets of its provide around 8% of that initially, electricity distribution and transmission declining over the next 10 years.
k Electricity distribution page 38 businesses the Regulated Asset Value, k Electricity transmission page 41 or RAV was 2.97bn, based on Ofgems While the upstream gas assets represent k Gas distribution page 42 methodology, including 405m for the large majority of the transaction, k Telecom networks page 43 transmission.
This gives it around 12% SSE will also acquire a number of other of the total Great Britain electricity assets from Hess, including its 17.7% transmission and distribution RAV.
equity interest in the Central Area Networks overview Transmission System CATS pipeline, SSE owns three electricity network SGN estimates that the RAV of the which delivers over 10% of the UKs total companies: networks it owns was around 3.94bn, gas demand through a 400km pipeline based on Ofgems methodology, as at from the central North Sea to a processing k Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission: 31 March 2010.
This makes it the UKs terminal in Teesside.
The CATS pipeline k Scottish Hydro Electric Power second largest gas distribution company, is operated by BP.
Distribution: and with around one quarter of the total Great k Southern Electric Power Distribution.
SSEs share This timely acquisition will enable SSE of this RAV is 1.97bn which, when added to enter the upstream gas sector in a These networks transmit and distribute to its electricity networks businesses, measured way by buying proven and electricity to 3.5 million businesses, gives it a total RAV of 4.94bn, making geographically diverse production offices and homes via 128,000km of it the second largest distributor of energy assets.
These assets will provide a overhead lines and under ground cables.
new source of primary fuel and a hedge for SSEs gas generation and supply SSE also has an equity interest of 50% in, SSE is the only energy company in the UK activities.
The acquisition will also and provides corporate and management to be involved in electricity distribution, gas give SSE involvement throughout the services to Scotia Gas Networks SGN distribution and electricity transmission.
gas chain production, transmission, which, through Southern Gas Networks It therefore participates in three price storage, distribution and supply.
and Scotland Gas Networks, owns and control reviews in every five years, which operates the medium and low pressure gives it ongoing involvement in, and Fuel Production and Storage networks which deliver gas to 5.7 million extensive experience of, price control priorities in 2010 11 and beyond properties in their areas of the UK.
Together, these SSEs operational and investment priorities lower-risk  in Fuel Production and Storage during All of these companies are the subject natural monopoly businesses provide 2010 11 are to: of economic regulation through a Price a financial backbone and operational Control set by Ofgem which sets for focus for SSE and balance its activities k maintain its excellent record of safety periods of five years the index-linked in the competitive Generation and and reliability at Hornsea: revenue they can earn, through charges Supply markets.
k ensure safe and effective operation levied on network users, to cover their of capacity at Aldbrough: costs and earn a return on their regulated Moreover, in addition to being relatively k maximise the amount of capacity assets.
Ofgem also places incentives on low risk in themselves, the absolute level at Aldbrough that is available for companies to be more efficient and of risk in these businesses has been commercial storage: innovative and to deliver an enhanced progressively reduced through the k make a decision on whether to proceed quality of service.
regulatory process with, for example, with the Aldbrough extension: and companies income no longer being k complete the acquisition of gas If, in any year, regulated energy networks dependent on the volume of energy production assets, in keeping with companies revenue is greater over distributed through their networks.
recovery or lower under recovery than is allowed under the relevant Price Control, In March 2009, the Presidency of the the difference is carried forward and the EU and Members of the European subsequent prices the companies may Parliament agreed on new rules to charge are varied.
increase competition in the EUs energy
