29 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Scottish territorial waters including Orkney island of Sanday.
A further 50MW the wave and tidal energy developments.
two where it is in partnership with other of projects are nearing readiness for The vast majority of construction work is specialist developers with a total capacity submission to the relevant planning not expected to begin until after 2015. of over 2GW, of which its share is 1.7GW.
authorities and 450MW of projects are Their development is subject to sitecurrently in development.
As the leading generator of renewable specific consultations and environmental energy in the UK, SSE is committed impact assessments, statutory consents Wind generation investment to building on its existing renewable and satisfactory completion of the Continental Europe portfolio by developing viable wave and Strategic Environmental Assessment In addition to its wind and hydro tidal sites using industry-leading marine for offshore wind announced by the investments in the UK and Ireland, SSE has technologies.
It will now work closely with Scottish Government in October 2008. options to invest in renewable energy in statutory bodies, local communities and Fluor Limited and SSE have decided Europe, principally Portugal, Scandinavia, The Crown Estate to take forward this against taking the proposed Bell Rock Italy, Germany and the Netherlands significant opportunity.
This is a result where there are particular opportunities of existing and ongoing radar activity in for growth in renewables.
Any investment Alternative energy operations the area for which mitigation has been will involve working with partners and will SSEs plant at Slough has a current examined and no solution found.
largely be on an equity basis, with nongenerating capacity of 80MW and remains recourse or project-specific debt typically the UKs largest dedicated biomass energy SSE believes that harnessing the power expected to account for around 75% of the facility.
During 2009 10, it produced 136GWh of offshore wind will enable the UK to total cost of the investment.
At the same of electricity qualifying for ROCs, compared generate significant amounts of lowtime, SSE continues to believe that the with 148GWh during the previous year.
The carbon energy from a totally renewable scope for the development of its existing output from dedicated regular biomass source and therefore meet the countrys businesses in the UK and Ireland is very plants attracts 1.5 ROCs per MWh.
energy security and climate change substantial, and investments there will objectives.
Its success in the Round 3 and continue to be prioritised.
Alternative energy investment Scottish territorial waters processes adds Experience of managing the plant at to its options for developing its generation Slough has given SSE a platform from portfolio in the longer term.
The strength which to invest in biomass and other of those options in offshore wind is alternative fuels such as those derived reinforced by its: from waste.
In line with its approach of developing a number of options for the k partnerships with other developers, site, SSE has submitted an application in line with its drive to minimise the for consent to develop for a multi-fuel inevitable risks involved in projects combined heat and power CHP facility of this kind and to maximise the at Ferrybridge.
development potential of the sites: and Emerging technologies marine energy k focus on establishing a strong supply SSE has a 47.8% stake in Aquamarine The reliability of fuel sources is a key chain for offshore wind developments Power, which in September 2009 issue in alternative energy.
The proposed through, for example, participation successfully completed the first round multi-fuel CHP facility would use a range in the Carbon Trusts Offshore of its fundraising to raise 10m from of fuel sources, which could include Wind Accelerator, a research and investors in the UK and Ireland.
This biomass, waste-derived fuels and wood development initiative to reduce followed the successful deployment of a products, to generate 108MW of electricity costs, and investment in Burntisland full scale demonstrator of Aquamarines and to provide heat to the Ferrybridge site.
Fabrication Ltd BiFab see Emerging 300kW Oyster wave energy converter at It would be compliant with the Waste Technologies below.
its testing berth at the European Marine Incineration Directive.
The development is Energy Centre EMEC in Orkney.
Testing currently estimated to require investment SSEs priority in offshore wind for the next is expected to take up to two years.
of around 350m and SSE expects to take three years is the successful completion Aquamarine expects to have a fully a decision on whether to proceed with it and commissioning of Greater Gabbard and commissioned, commercially available in the course of the next year.
The opportunities secured through wave farm in place by 2014. the Round 3 and Scottish territorial waters In addition, the acquisition of the threeprocesses are for development in the In March 2010, SSE was awarded unit power station at Uskmouth gives SSE second half of this decade.
exclusive rights to develop 400MW of further options for the development of wave and tidal energy at four sites in new lower-carbon generation assets Wind generation businesses the Pentland Firth and Orkney Waters alongside the existing generation assets.
and communities and a further 400MW with its partners, Energy price certainty and environmental Aquamarine Power and OpenHydro.
Alternative energy biogas targets continue to drive businesses The award was part of the worlds first In May 2010, SSE agreed to invest a demand for wind turbines sited on commercial leasing programme for wave net 11.3m to allow the construction of Scotlands largest biogas plant at the their premises and there is significant and tidal energy generation projects, former landfill site at Barkip in North community interest in the potential for undertaken by The Crown Estate.
The deal made SSE the first wind energy to help meet sustainable energy company in the UK to commit to the energy needs and bring local benefits.
Over the next few years, SSE and its construction and operation of an anaerobic SSEs first consented community wind partners will be working closely with The digestion biogas plant of this type.
The turbine will be erected later this year for Crown Estate and other stakeholders before Barkip site will be capable of processing the Sanday Development Trust on the bringing forward applications to construct
