43 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Investment will continue to be a top priority of a Fareham-based data centre business and, in line with that, SGN expects to invest in June 2009.
Services around 400m in capital expenditure and mains and services replacement Telecoms operations projects during 2010 11.
SSEs combined Telecoms business achieved an operating profit of 16.4m Scotia Gas Networks priorities during 2009 10, compared with 15.5m in in 2010 11 and beyond the previous year.
This reflected principally During 2010 11, SGNs priorities are to: increased sales and ongoing cost controls.
SSE is aiming to consolidate its position k deliver a safe and secure gas supply Telecoms investment among the leading to customers: In 2009 10, SSE undertook capital GB-wide electrical and k deliver to time and budget the 2010 11 expenditure of 25.9m in respect of its mechanical contractors mains replacement and capital works telecoms network, principally focused on programmes: and improving network reliability and reach.
and prepare for the k provide sector-leading customer rapid move to lowerservice and exceed the standards The data centre at Fareham was acquired carbon technologies of response levels set by Ofgem.
It provides capacity for more that will take place than 2,000 racks for the co-location of over the next decade.
IT services within the 80,000 square feet secure site and 15MW of power in a resilient and energy efficient environment, k Street-lighting page 44 which will include one of the UKs largest k Utility solutions page 45 rooftop solar photovoltaic installations.
k Metering page 45 The data centre uses a modular design which allows customers to select the level of service that they require.
Energy-related services overview As well as being involved in Generation Following the acquisition, a trading and Supply, Fuel Production and Storage Telecoms networks division, SSE Data Centres, was created, and Networks, SSE also provides an and in October 2009 it was awarded a new additional range of energy services Introduction to telecoms long-term contract to provide Kingfisher which complement its other businesses: After electricity and gas, Telecoms is SSEs plc with its own dedicated data centre pod Contracting and Connections including third networks business.
Its origins lie in to support IT infrastructure to be migrated utility solutions and Metering.
These are the installation, a decade ago, of fibre optic from a number of existing data centres.
important services, on which customers cable on SSEs electricity network.
The The connection between telecoms depend, so that their increasingly complex business combines SSE Telecoms and networks and data storage is illustrated energy requirements can be met.
Neos Networks and, following several by the fact that SSE secured two orders acquisitions in recent years, including the for bandwidth capacity from Kingfisher ATLAS Connect fibre network from Scottish following this agreement.
In addition, in Contracting, Enterprise in March 2010, it now operates April 2010, a 10-year data storage contract Connections a 11,200km UK-wide telecoms network.
was signed with Thompson Reuters.
and Metering This network provides capacity and Telecoms priorities in 2010 11 bandwidth services for companies, and beyond Operating profit in Contracting, public sector organisations, internet SSEs priorities in Telecoms in 2010 11 Connections and Metering was 80.2m service providers, application service are to: during 2009 10, compared with 74.8m providers and other licence operators in the previous year.
and now comprises: k complete the integration of recently acquired network assets: Introduction to Contracting k retain and gain customers for key k fibre optic cabling which SSE owns SSE Contracting trades principally as services such as capacity and 5,000km : Southern Electric Contracting SEC bandwidth: and k leased lit fibre 2,600km : and and has three main areas of activity: k add to the of number of customers k microwave radio 3,600km.
for its data centre business.
k industrial, commercial and domestic As a result, SSE is the fourth largest mechanical and electrical contracting: The achievement of these priorities should telecoms network company in the UK.
k electrical and instrumentation enable SSE Telecoms to continue to make As a subsidiary of SSE, it is also able to engineering: and progress towards becoming the UKs position itself as one of the UKs most k public and highway lighting.
financially secure telecoms network operators, which gives it an important It is one of the largest mechanical and competitive advantage, especially during electrical contracting businesses in the an economic downturn.
It operates from over 60 regional offices throughout Great Britain and also To complement its core telecoms network trades as Swalec Contracting in Wales business, SSE completed the acquisition and Scottish Hydro Contracting in Scotland.
