40 41 DIRECToRS REpoRT governAnce AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 the directors present their report and financial statements directors And officers insurAnce And indemnities for the year ended 31 march 2010.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2010 and up to the date of this report, the Company maintained liability insurance for its Directors and principAl Activities And Business review officers.
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors The principal activities of SSL International plc and its subsidiaries to the extent permitted by law and its Articles.
Qualifying third-party collectively the Group are the manufacture and distribution of indemnity provisions and qualifying pension scheme indemnity healthcare products sold into consumer markets worldwide.
provisions were in force during the year and remain in force as at the A review of the business, covering a comprehensive analysis date of this report.
of the activities of the business, the principal risks and uncertainties, the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, directors interests in shAres performance and position of the business is included in pages 8 to 33.
Details of the interests of Directors and their connected persons in the All information detailed in those pages is incorporated by reference into ordinary shares of the Company, including any changes since 31 March this report and is deemed to form part of this report.
2010, are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 Information about environmental matters, the Groups to 51. employees and social and community issues can be found on pages 22 to 25. employment policies On 29 April 2010, the Company, following the approval of its The Groups employment policies reflect its commitment to equality shareholders, completed the acquisition of additional shares in and diversity in all aspects of employment.
Profit related bonus  Bv to increase its stake in that company from schemes were in operation during the year for certain employees.
The consideration for the additional Further details of policies and initiatives are given in the Corporate shares was USD 219.5 million 144.0 million.
On 11 May 2010, the Group Responsibility section on pages 22 to 25. exchanged contracts with the owners of Rosetex, a Polish condom brand, for the purchase of the brand and certain related assets for a finAnciAl risk mAnAgement consideration of 3.9 million.
As at the date of this report, there have It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise been no other important events affecting the business of the Group the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the Groups which have occurred since 31 March 2010. profitability and cash flow.
The specific policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are detailed in note 23 to the Group corporAte governAnce Financial Statements on pages 92 to 97.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 37 to 39 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 51 are incorporated by reference reseArch And development into this report and are deemed to form part of this report.
Innovation is a key growth driver.
The Group continues to carry out research and development for new and improved products and to results And dividend create greater manufacturing efficiencies.
The Groups profit before tax was 115.3 million.
An interim dividend of 3.1 pence per ordinary share was paid on 4 March 2010.
The Directors creditor pAyment policy recommend a final dividend of 8.0 pence per ordinary share, which, The Group does not follow any specific external code or standard on subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM payments practice.
Payments to suppliers are made in accordance with on 22 July 2010, will be paid on 2 September 2010 to shareholders on the agreed terms.
The Company itself had no trade creditors at 31 March register on 6 August 2010.
This will make a total dividend of 11.1 pence per 2010 or 31 March 2009. share 2009: 9.0 pence.
Shareholders are able to take the dividend as cash or in shares, through the Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP.
chAritABle And politicAl donAtions Shareholders who wish to elect for the DRIP for the forthcoming final The Group made donations to charitable projects of 0.1 million dividend but have not already done so should contact the Registrar, 2009: 0.2 million.
No political donations were made in this or the Capita Registrars by 8 August 2010. previous year.
BoArd of directors shAre cApitAl And control The Group Board section on page 35 gives the biographical details of As at 31 March 2010, the issued share capital of the Company comprised the current Directors and the Company Secretary.
All of the Directors a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The authorised share capital of the Company is 40 million, comprising Subject to law and the Companys Articles of Association 400 million ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
All of the Companys Articles, the Directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company issued shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
Details of and may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
shares issued during the year, outstanding options and schemes in place The Articles give power to the Board to appoint Directors, but are given in notes 19 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
All require Directors to submit themselves for election at the first AGM information described in these notes is incorporated by reference into following their appointment and to retire by rotation every three years.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every In accordance with the Articles, Richard Adam and Garry Watts will retire holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to by rotation at the AGM.
Following a recommendation by the Nomination vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares Committee and in line with the results of the Board evaluation, the present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, shall have one vote for process for which is described in the Corporate Governance report, every ordinary share held.
the Board recommends to shareholders that these Directors be reappointed at the AGM.
The notice of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting The Board of Directors is responsible for the management rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions of the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the to be put to the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, Company subject to the provision of the relevant statutes and the against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced and Companys Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles contain specific published on the Companys website after the meeting.
provision and restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also the Company, or on the exercise of voting rights attaching to the shares, included in the Articles.
The authority to issue shares and to dis-apply other than in relation to certain restrictions that are imposed from pre-emption rights is renewed by the shareholders each year at the AGM.
time to time by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services key contrActuAl ArrAngements Authority, Directors and certain officers and employees of the Group There are no persons with whom the Group or Company has contractual require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary shares of the or other arrangements, who are deemed to be essential to the business Company.
The Directors were authorised at the 2009 AGM to purchase the Companys own shares, within certain limits.
Although no such disclosure of informAtion to Auditors purchases were made during the financial year, the Directors will seek The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors approval to renew this authority at the 2010 AGM.
report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant As at 17 May 2010, the Company had been notified, or is aware audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and of the following material interests in accordance with the Disclosure each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a and Transparency Rules and the Accounts Regulations: Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor are aware of that number of percentage of information.
ordinary shares issued share shareholder voting rights capital Auditors Blackrock Inc 31,974,268 15.01 KPMG Audit plc has expressed its willingness to remain in office FIL Limited FMR LLC 16,214,525 7.60 as auditor at the 2010 AGM.
After proper consideration, the Audit TIAA-CREF Investment Committee is satisfied that KPMG Audit plc continues to be objective Management Inc 13,804,877 6.48 and independent of the Group.
In accordance with section 489 of the Legal & General Group plc 10,825,902 5.08 Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Scottish Widows Investment Audit plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the Partnership 9,398,092 4.41 forthcoming AGM.
Standard Life Investments Limited 8,669,728 4.07 AnnuAl generAl meeting Agm MFS Investment Management 6,849,726 3.22 The AGM will be held at the CII Insurance Hall, 20 Aldermanbury, London Aegon Asset Management 6,703,817 3.15 EC2v 7Hy beginning at 10.30 a. m. on 22 July 2010.
Articles of AssociAtion The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders In order to reflect changes to company law in the United Kingdom that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting following the implementation of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution rights.
will be put to shareholders at the AGM to adopt new Articles of There are no agreements between the Company and its Association.
The principal changes to the new Articles of Association Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office are summarised in the Notice of the AGM.
or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
By order of the Board There are agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
mAriA Buxton-smith The most significant agreement with a change of control clause is the COMPANy SECRETARy bank facility, whereby negotiations would be entered into with a view to 17 MAy 2010 agreeing ongoing terms for the facility if a change of ownership occurs.
Whilst change of control clauses are included in other agreements, none of these are considered significant to the Group.
