OuR businEss MOdEl e LISING tHe teNtI L IN U tf LI  coMpAny, ,  .
ourBusinessModel Our international brands are also managed centrally, with our Group Marketing function setting their strategy and direction.
Since making the decision to become a focused consumer healthcare company, SSL has evolved its business model to best They then work with local marketeers to ensure that products are appropriately targeted in each marketplace.
We have this reflect the needs of our customers and consumers.
This includes commercial offices in most of our main marketplaces around the year appointed Volker Sydow to the new role of Group Marketing Director.
Scholl footwear is led by our Footwear Development Our regions are: Group who oversee design, development, production and europe distribution of our shoes.
Due to the different requirements of our European and Asian consumers, there is also a footwear Americas team in Asia, who develop and market products most suited to Asiapacific their marketplace.
As with all businesses in the FMCG sector, SSL These regions report to our Commercial Director, Ian Adamson.
International needs to maintain its agility to address trends and In smaller markets, we foster close relationships with circumstances.
Despite our rapid growth in size in recent years, local distributors who represent our products.
this has been a significant focus for the business.
A range of Our production facilities in China, Thailand, the UK and networks and forums exist for regional and Group colleagues India report to our Group Manufacturing and Logistics Director, to share best practice and develop ideas to ensure we are Shaun Davis.
constantly moving forward as a business.
We operate in a Our corporate support functions, such as Group dynamic sector, where innovation focused on consumer Finance, Human Resources, Product Delivery and Group needs drives our growth and success.
Marketing are also managed centrally by their respective Our global local balance and empowerment of Directors.
In the large commercial offices, staff from these staff underpins our recent success and positions us for functions report to their country manager, but are supported continued growth.
This ensures the right level of autonomy with global oversight.
