72218 StCchV9 FRONT:72218 StCchV9 FRONT 29 6 10 07:52 Page 18 4.1 4 Directors biographies Details of corporate governance, including the operation of the Board of Directors, are given in section 6 of this Annual Report.
A brief biography of each director is given below.
4.6 4.7 Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors 4.1 Brian Souter 4.3 Robert Speirs Position: Chief Executive Position: Non-Executive Chairman Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Appointment to the Board: 1995 Age: 56 Age: 73 Committee Membership: None Committee Membership: Nomination Chair External appointments: None External appointments: None Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Brian Souter Previous experience: Member of the Board since 1995 and co-founded Stagecoach, which won Scottish plc of the year 2008.
Previously a Group Finance Brian Souter was named Businessman of the year at the Insider Director of the Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Chairman of the Miller Elite Awards 2004.
Group Limited and Non-Executive Director of Securysis Ltd. Executive responsibilities: Brian Souter is the architect of the Groups strategy and philosophy.
He has extensive knowledge of the 4.4 Ewan Brown CBE ground transportation industry around the world and is responsible Position: Non-Executive Director for managing all of the Groups operations.
Appointment to the Board: 1988 Age: 68 4.2 Martin Grif ths Committee Membership: Pension Oversight Chair and Position: Finance Director Nomination Appointment to the Board: 2000 External appointments: Noble Grossart Holdings Ltd NonAge: 44 Executive Director, Creative Scotland 2009 Limited Chairman, Committee Membership: Pension Oversight and Health, Safety Senior Governor of St Andrews University, Deputy Chair of the and Environmental Edinburgh International Festival.
External appointments: Virgin Rail Group Co-Chairman, Robert Previous experience: Executive Director of Noble Grossart until Walters plc Non-Executive Director, Troy Income & Growth Trust 2003, a former Chairman of TIE and Lloyds TSB Scotland and NonPlc previously Glasgow Income Trust plc Non-Executive Director.
Executive Director of the Wood Group and Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Martin Grif ths is a member and former Chairman of the Group of Scottish Finance 4.5 Iain Duf n OBE Directors and former Director of Trainline Holdings Limited, Road Position: Non-Executive Director King Infrastructure HK Limited and Citybus HK Limited.
He was Appointment to the Board: 2001 Young Scottish Finance Director of the Year in 2004.
Age: 63 Executive responsibilities: Martin Grif ths is responsible for the Committee Membership: Remuneration Chair, Audit and Groups overall financial policy, taxation, treasury, employee bene ts Health, Safety and Environmental and pensions management.
He supports the Chief Executive in all aspects of the management of the operations and new business External appointments: Origo Services Non-Executive Chairman development.
and Scottish Leather Group Non-Executive Director.
Previous experience: Executive positions with a number of organisations including Macfarlane Group plc, Lucas Varity plc, ITT Corporation and Hughes Aircraft.
page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 FRONT:72218 StCchV9 FRONT 29 6 10 07:52 Page 19 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.8 4.9 4.10 4.11 4.6 Ann Gloag OBE 4.9 Garry Watts Position: Non-Executive Director Position: Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Appointment to the Board: 2007 Age: 67 Age: 53 Committee Membership: Health, Safety and Environmental Committee Membership: Audit Chair, Remuneration and Nomination External appointments: Mercy Ships International Board Member External appointments: SSL International plc Chief Executive.
Previous experience: Ann Gloag co-founded Stagecoach and Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Garry Watts served as Executive Director until 2000. is a former Non-Executive Director of Medicines and Healthcare Regulatory Authority and Protherics plc and Executive Director of Celltech plc, Finance Director of Medeva plc and partner with KPMG.
4.7 Sir George Mathewson Position: Non-Executive Director 4.10 Helen Mahy Appointment to the Board: 2006 Position: Non-Executive Director Age: 70 Appointment to the Board: 2010 Committee Membership: Remuneration and Nomination Age: 49 External appointments: Cheviot Asset Management Chairman, Committee Membership: Health, Safety and Environmental Arrow Global Limited Chairman, Council of Economic Advisers to the Scottish Parliament Chairman, member of Banco Santander External appointments: National Grid plc Group Company International Advisory Board, Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh Board Secretary and General Counsel, member of Executive Committee.
Previous experience: Former Non-Executive Director of Aga Previous experience: Former Chairman of the Royal Bank Rangemaster Group plc and Group General Counsel and Company of Scotland Group plc.
Former Chief Executive of the Scottish Secretary of Babcock International Group PLC.
Development Agency now Scottish Enterprise.
Former Director of Scottish Investment Trust plc.
Former member of the Board of 4.11 Phil White CBE Directors of the Institute of International Finance.
Former member Position: Non-Executive Director of the Financial Reporting Council.
Former Chairman of Wood Appointment to the Board: 2010 Mackenzie Limited.
Past President of the International Monetary Conference.
Age: 60 Committee Membership: None 4.8 Dr Janet Morgan CBE External appointments: Lookers plc Non-Executive Chairman, Kier Group plc Non-Executive Chairman, Unite Group plc.
Position: Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Phil White served Appointment to the Board: 2001 as Chief Executive of National Express Group plc from 1997 to 2006.
Age: 64 Committee Membership: Health, Safety and Environmental Chair, Audit and Nomination External appointments: Nuclear Liabilities Fund Chairman, Nuclear Liabilities Financing Assurance Board Chairman, Albion Enterprise VCT plc Non-Executive Director, Scottish Oriental Smaller Companies Investment Trust Non-Executive Director.
Previous experience: Former member of the Central Policy Review Staff of the Cabinet Of ce.
