Directors Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 all of which operate under a well services business.
Our highly established multi-brand strategy.
successful business model is built The first office, as Computer Futures, around the following key factors: opened in London in 1986, whilst The Groups medium to long term international expansion started in strategy is to roll out the SThree 1998 with the launch of an office in model to an increasing number of Brussels.
Each brand shares common geographies and across a range of services such as finance, information specialist staffing disciplines.
At services, human resources and legal.
the same time the Group does not The Group has grown organically neglect the importance of its longer and has a diverse client base of over established franchises: 7,000 clients.
Offices are currently located in Europe, USA, Asia-Pacific Our default assumption is that the The Directors present their Annual and Middle East, with further offices strategy will be based on organic Report on the activities of the Group, planned to be opened in 2011.
From our growth: together with the financial statements well-established position in the ICT and auditors report for the year ended sector, the Group has broadened its A key element of our strategy is 28 November 2010. operations by building fast-growing that we remain highly selective businesses serving the Engineering regarding the quality of the Group business review, & Energy, Banking, Accountancy business we undertake, focusing principal activities and risks & Finance, Pharmaceuticals and on high margin business: facing the business job board sectors.
The Group began The Chairmans Statement, Chief trading on the London Stock Exchange Our customer base is wide and Executive Officers and Chief Financial in November 2005 and in 2007 varied, with a high percentage Officers Reviews and the Group launched a US Level One ADR facility.
of SMEs small and medium Strategic Development Review, taken SThree has a selective approach to enterprises particularly in the UK: together with this Directors Report, clients and focuses on high margin provide information relating to the opportunities, predominantly within Our multi-brand approach allows Groups activities, its business and the small to medium-sized enterprises us to segment the market around strategy and principal risks and SMEs market and, from its inception, specific niches.
This allows us uncertainties faced by the business, the Group has avoided the high to credibly position ourselves as including analysis using financial volume, low margin business model market experts, which in turn and other KPIs where necessary.
in favour of a focus on high quality justifies a premium pricing position: These, together with the Directors business.
Our entrepreneurial culture is Remuneration Report, Corporate The Groups main subsidiary reinforced by our Tracker Share Governance and Corporate Social undertakings are disclosed in the Minority Interest model which is Responsibility Reports, provide an notes to the financial statements.
both a significant retention tool overview of the Group, including During the year the Group initiated as well as a unique proposition to environmental and employee a corporate simplification project attract the brightest and best talent matters and give an indication of and, as a result, ended 2010 with a into the Group.
future developments in the Groups much reduced number of subsidiary business.
This provides a balanced Key Performance Indicators companies.
This project will continue and understandable assessment of KPIs into 2011. the Groups position and prospects, in Both financial and non-financial Key accordance with the Business Review Business model Performance indicators KPIs are requirements of the Companies SThree specialises in placing both used throughout the Group to monitor Act 2006.
SThree is a specialist permanent and contract staff in niche progress, with the principal indicators permanent and contract staffing segments of the staffing market, listed in the table following.
Where business, currently comprised with the ultimate aim of being the these relate to a strategic or Group of four main operating brands, most respected and highly valued level, appropriate analysis is provided Computer Futures, Huxley Associates, international, specialist staffing within the Chief Executive Officers and Progressive and Real Staffing Group, SThree plc 13 Directors Report continued for the year ended 28 November 2010 KPIs financial 2010 2009 Definition and method of calculation Revenue 474.5m 519.4m Total fees earned by the Group, before any cost deductions.
Gross Profit 166.4m 171.2m Revenue less cost of sales.
Also known as Net Fee Income.
Profit Before Tax 21.6m 18.0m Gross profit, less administration expenses and finance income costs before exceptional items.
Total Shareholder Return TSR 16% 105% TSR is defined as share price growth plus dividends attributable to shareholders over a specific period.
This measure is also used for the Groups LTIP, over a three year period.
Adjusted Earnings Per Share EPS 11.9p 9.5p Adjusted EPS is defined as profit before exceptional items for the year attributable to the Groups equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Group Gross margin 35.1% 33.0% Gross profit as a percentage of revenue.
Contract margin 21.6% 22.1% Contract gross profit as a percentage of contract revenue.
Gross Profit per Day Rate 85.70 84.69 Contract gross profit per average number of working days.
Permanent fees 12.3k 11.9k Average fees of permanent placements that started during the period.
Geographical diversification 60% 55% Split of gross profit by location of client.
international mix Sectoral diversification non ICT 38% 28% Split of gross profit by candidate skill set.
Contract Perm mix 51% 49% 58% 42% Proportion of gross profit attributable to contract and permanent placements.
Conversion ratio 12.8% 10.5% The conversion ratio is the operating profit stated as a percentage of gross profit and measures how effective the Group is at controlling the costs and expenses associated with its normal operations and its level of investment for the future.
Cash Conversion 123% 326% Cash conversion is calculated as the cash flows from operating activities for the year after deducting net normal capex stated as a percentage of operating profit before exceptional items and is a measure of the Groups ability to convert profit into cash.
Debtor days DSOs 37 37 Represents the length of time it takes the Company to receive payments from its debtors.
It is calculated by comparing how many days billings it takes to cover the debtor balance.
KPIs non financial Risk Management As detailed within the Corporate Governance Report, the Group has continued to roll out its ERM framework throughout the business and has consequently further developed and enhanced its risk evaluation and ERM reporting mechanism, using an EBITDA measurement scale.
During 2010, key Executive job descriptions were re-drafted to include reference to risk responsibility, with annual bonus also linked to up to 20% of the bonus opportunity and relating directly to progress towards the Companys strategic objectives, in support of managing any related business risk and including meaningful compliance elements for all senior individuals.
Headcount Churn This is the measure of employee retention.
Lower churn and higher headcount retention generally means increased productivity.
It is also an indicator of morale.
Environmental In late 2008, a strategic decision was made to conduct a Company-wide initiative to measure our carbon footprint and reduce energy consumption whilst taking steps to increase recycling by 50%, as detailed within the CSR report.
Interviews Number of interviews conducted by consultants per period.
Credit Risk Assessment During 2010 the Group developed a Credit Policy, which sets out certain minimum requirements in order to do business with a potential customer client.
Strategic Development Strategy During 2010, the Group significantly enhanced its strategic development capabilities, to fully assess emerging market risks, off strategy risks, development pipeline and agreed other new venture minimum KPIs.
Compliance Minimum contractor compliance standards in respect of client contractor terms and rates duration types and ID collection.
Zero tolerance on Code of Conduct breaches or fines.
SThree plc 14 Directors Report continued for the year ended 28 November 2010 Chief Financial Officers reviews.
For Competitive environment The Group Commercial relationships customer financial KPIs, comparison figures are continues to face competitor risk credit risk The Group benefits from shown for both the current and prior in the markets where the provision close commercial relationships with year, whereas, for non-financial KPIs, of permanent and temporary key clients in both the private and, no figures are generally applicable.
The recruitment is most competitive to a much lesser extent, the public actual KPIs used will generally depend and fragmented, being generally sectors, although it is not dependent on the split of business, e. g. whether the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands.
However, it is contract or permanent, as well as There is strong competition for like most companies, the Group is specific sector or geography.
Annual clients and candidates, although we always subject to the risk that some bonuses are linked to a mixture of generally resist pricing and margin customers might be unable to fulfil these KPIs, as well as other measures, pressures across our major specialist obligations, which could impact depending on the specific role of the activities.
The Groups strategy is to results.
continue to grow its international Availability of candidates The businesses more aggressively in other availability of highly skilled quality Principal risks and geographies and sectors, including candidates is essential to operating uncertainties the less-developed markets of Asia in niche high margin areas.
Changes Pacific and Rest of the World, to The principal risks facing the business in the other risk areas can affect focus on more specialist niches, include the following: candidate supply.
which tend to be less competitive, Macro-economic environment whilst also improving the efficiency Contractual risk Clients increasingly cyclicality The performance of and operations of our businesses require more complex levels of the Group has a relationship and throughout the organisation.
compliance in their contractual dependence on the underlying arrangements.
The Group takes growth of the economies of the In Continental Europe and many these responsibilities seriously countries in which it operates in so parts of the world, the markets for and contracts are therefore closely far as it impacts client and candidate the provision of recruitment services controlled via the Groups centralised are somewhat less developed and confidence.
2010 saw an improving Legal and Business Administration the market place is also fragmented.
picture across all markets, although functions and subject to regular audit Where these markets are still in a still not fully recovered by historical by the Internal Audit function in order development phase, pricing pressure standards.
This is mitigated in part by to reduce the risk of non-compliance.
is less of a risk and our strategy is to maintaining: The Group also has clear guidance rapidly grow our businesses in these on the approval of contractual a balance of temporary and territories.
terms and monitors the application permanent recruitment: Competitors in our markets are thereof, especially any exceptions a broad exposure across typically small, boutique, privately to our standard liability position and geographies and sectors: owned businesses.
In all of our insurance protection, which require markets we are continually subject the approval via the Legal Department a flexible cost base that enables to both existing and new competitors and Group Company Secretary.
us to react swiftly to changes in entering into the markets in which The placing of temporary workers market conditions by increasing or we operate, in terms of geographic generally represents greater risk for reducing costs as appropriate: and region and specialist activity.
The the organisation than permanent competitive threat is from both placements.
Wherever possible, a strong balance sheet with small start-up operations and large contracts include clauses which place manageable debt levels.
multi-nationals attempting to enter the responsibility for supervision and the specialist market, as the costs control of each contractor directly A key part of the Groups strategy of entry into specialist recruitment with the client, excluding any is to continue to grow the size of its can be relatively low, although these consequential loss and limiting the international businesses to reduce the costs have risen with increased levels Groups aggregate liability under the Groups reliance on any one specific of compliance required from local contract.
SThree plc 15 Directors Report continued for the year ended 28 November 2010 People The Group is heavily reliant on in upgrading key operational manage its exposure to foreign the ability to recruit, train and develop and financial systems, project exchange risk by the use of financial people to meet its growth strategy.
management teams are appointed, instruments.
However, the impact of At the same time, the Groups including specialist IT, operational foreign exchange will become a more business model demands flexibility and external resource, utilising significant issue as the business mix to expand or consolidate, depending robust management tools which moves further towards international on the economic environment.
In monitor progress across the life of any and the Group will therefore continue response to this, the Group is focused project.
The business also continues to monitor its policies in this area via on engaging with and developing to review and enhance its ability to its Treasury function.
its key managers in each sector cope with a significant data or other geography and is committed to loss via its Business Continuity Plan ensuring it has competitive pay and arrangements.
benefits structures, clearly linked Regulatory environment and legislative to performance, combined with changes The specialist recruitment a succession planning process.
industry is governed by increasing Through training and development, levels of compliance, which vary it seeks to provide individuals with from country to country and market the leadership, sales, key customer to market.
The Group is committed management and general business to meeting all of its regulatory skills that support the Groups responsibilities and continues to expansion needs, whilst providing a strengthen its internal controls rewarding and challenging career.
and processes with respect to legal Regional and Country managers and contractual obligations.
As are also focused on allocating Post balance sheet events employment laws are changed and resources in respect of the best There have been no significant events harmonised in certain geographies, Group opportunities available.
since the balance sheet date.
this creates new risks and Information Technology The Group opportunities.
The contract market is Results and dividends is reliant on delivering its service more heavily regulated and changes Information in respect of the Groups to clients through a number of in legislation such as changes in profits, dividends and other key technology systems.
These are managed service company legislation financial information is contained housed in various locations and the or to contract worker rights may within the Chairmans Statement, the Group has capacity to cope with impact the Group.
The Group Chief Executive Officers and Chief a data or system loss as a result ensures that its policies, processes Financial Officers Reviews.
of a significant event through the and systems reflect best practice, establishment of disaster recovery wherever possible in order to meet the Directors and their interests sites that are physically based in legal requirements of the markets in The current Directors of the separate locations to the ongoing which it operates.
Company, including biographies, are operations.
The Group is also reliant shown within the section Board of Foreign exchange The Group has upon a number of important suppliers Directors and Secretary, as set out significant operations outside the that provide critical information earlier in this Annual Report, with United Kingdom and is therefore technology infrastructure.
It further details of Board Committee exposed to movements in exchange continually monitors the performance membership being set out within rates.
As profits from the Euro-based and robustness of these suppliers to the Corporate Governance Report.
markets increase in proportion to ensure business-critical processes are All Directors served throughout the the Groups total profits, the foreign safeguarded as far as is practicably financial year, except Clay Brendish, exchange risk also increases.
Whilst the Group replaced its who was appointed as Chairman on Board has undertaken a review of financial systems in 2006, these are 1 May 2010, succeeding Sir Anthony its currency hedging strategy to periodically reviewed to ensure they Cleaver who retired as Chairman at ensure that it is appropriate and are fully utilised and remain effective.
the Annual General Meeting on 23 April currently the Group does not actively In order to reduce any risks associated SThree plc 16 Directors Report continued for the year ended 28 November 2010 2010.
Sunil Wickremeratne also retired agreement regarding the Groups Entrepreneurial employees within as a Director on 30 November 2010. invoice discounting facility, dated the Group often create ideas for Although not yet formally required, 8 October 2009. new business opportunities, which in accordance with the UK Corporate the Group may elect to pursue and The Company does not have Governance Code, all Directors will develop.
Historically the Group has agreements with any Director retire at the 2011 AGM and submit engaged with such key employees in or employee that would provide themselves for re-election.
Further setting up new brands for the purpose compensation for loss of office information is contained in the Notice of pursuing these new ideas, which or employment resulting from a of Meeting.
have typically evolved organically takeover, except that provisions of the out of one of the existing SThree Groups share plans and tracker share Other than employment contracts and businesses, for example, JP Gray was Minority Interest arrangements, Minority Interest loans to Gary Elden, established as a result of an idea may cause options, awards or none of the Directors of the Company presented to the Directors by certain minority shareholdings to vest on a had a material interest in any contract senior managers of Computer Futures, takeover.
with the Company or its subsidiary who were then given the opportunity undertakings.
The key terms of the to manage and develop that new Share capital Directors service contracts, the brand.
Typically, those managers of Directors interests in the shares and The authorised and issued share the new SThree brand will be able to options of the Company and Minority capital of the Company, together invest, at the Companys discretion, Interest loans to Gary Elden in respect with details of the movements in the in the new venture and share in its of Minority Interests approved prior Companys issued share capital during success as well as the risk of failure.
to him becoming an SThree plc the year, are shown in the notes to the As in prior years, only the Groups key director are disclosed in the Directors financial statements.
entrepreneurial employees may be Remuneration Report.
invited to invest in the creation of any Supplier payment policy, new tracker share business.
In order essential contractors and to receive equity ownership such change of control employees must invest in any stake at fair value and be actively engaged in It is the Groups policy to comply with that business for a minimum term of terms of payment negotiated with between three and five years.
Where payment terms are the employee wish to dispose of their not negotiated, the Group endeavours stake the Company retains preto adhere to the suppliers standard emption rights.
SThree plc acts as a holding company for the Group and does not The minimum term for each new trade and consequently does not tracker share stake will be set at the have an average creditors payment outset and will normally be five years, period.
Trade creditors of the Group at Tracker Share arrangements but will never be less than three years, 28 November 2010 were equivalent to formerly Minority Interests in order to allow the Group flexibility 24 days purchases 2009: 21 days.
MI model to adapt to the individual needs of its The Group has business relationships Since flotation, the Group has brands and businesses and differing with a number of contractors but is regarded its Tracker Share rates of growth.
not reliant on any single one.
arrangements or Minority Stakes model as a key factor in its success There are no significant agreements and it is planned to create more of to which the Company is party that these this year, on similar terms to take effect, alter or terminate upon those previously created, subject to a change of control of the Company shareholder approval at the AGM in following a takeover offer, with the April 2011. exception of the RBS Invoice Finance SThree plc 17 Directors Report continued for the year ended 28 November 2010 Substantial shareholdings As at the date of this Report, the Group had been notified, in accordance with the Companies Act, of the following significant interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company although note that any interests of Directors which amount to over 3%, are shown in the Directors interests table within the Directors Remuneration Report: Name of holder Number of shares Percentage shareholding AXA 5,153,356 4.23% Simon Peter Arber 3,392,047 2.79% Blackrock 6,212,461 5.10% William Frederick Bottriell 9,327,764 7.66% Fidelity 6,028,475 4.95% HBOS plc 6,983,314 5.21% JP Morgan Asset Management UK Limited 7,021,061 5.07% Legal & General Group plc 4,841,179 3.97% Martin Currie Investment Management Limited 4,314,627 3.12% Standard Life Investments Limited 10,977,355 9.02% Although there are a number of authorised to buy back a proportion The Board also confirms that there different businesses in which of its own ordinary shares.
During are appropriate procedures in place key employees will be invited to the year no purchases were made, to ensure that its powers to authorise invest, each invitation will be on although the Directors will seek to any Directors conflicts of interest generally similar terms to that used renew the authority for up to 10% of operated effectively during the year.
previously and it is normally therefore the Companys issued share capital at appropriate to put only one resolution the Annual General Meeting.
Directors indemnities, Also note that, for all prior insurance and conflicts of shareholder authorities granted, interest the five year period available to the Section 236 of the Companies Act Company to make such offers to 2006 allows companies the power employees is to be renewed from the to extend indemnities to Directors date of each Annual General Meeting, against liability to third parties or any adjournment thereof.
excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and also to pay Directors The proposed resolution, together legal costs in advance, provided that with the standard terms upon which these are reimbursed to the Company the tracker shares are normally should the individual Director be Corporate Governance based, are outlined within the Notice convicted or, in an action brought Please refer to the separate Corporate of Meeting.
by the Company, where judgement Governance Report.
is given against the Director.
The Authority to make purchases Company currently has a Directors Financial instruments of own shares and Officers insurance policy in place Information in respect of financial The Company is, until the date of the which provides this cover.
instruments is set out in the notes to forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the financial statements.
generally and unconditionally SThree plc 18 Directors Report continued for the year ended 28 November 2010 their careers.
It is established Group Corporate and Social Auditors policy to offer employees and job Responsibility As required by Section 418 2 of the applicants the opportunity to benefit The Board recognises its Companies Act 2006, each Director from fair employment, without regard environmental, health and safety in office, at the date of this Report, to their sex, sexual orientation, marital and employment responsibilities hereby confirms that: status, race, religion or belief, age or and devotes appropriate resources disability.
so far as the Director is aware, towards monitoring compliance with there is no relevant audit and improving existing standards.
The Group gives full and fair information of which the The Chief Executive Officer has consideration to the employment of Companys auditors are unaware: responsibility for these areas at disabled persons for suitable jobs.
and Board level, ensuring that the Groups In the event of members of staff policies are upheld and providing becoming disabled every effort is made he she has taken all steps that the necessary resources.
Further to ensure that their employment within he she ought to have taken as information is contained in the the Group continues either in the job or a Director in order to make him Corporate Social Responsibility in a suitable alternative.
It is the Groups herself aware of any relevant audit Report section.
policy to support disabled employees information and to establish that in all aspects of their training, the Companys Auditors are aware Health and safety The Group is development and promotion where it of such information.
committed to providing for the health, benefits the employee and the Group.
safety and welfare of all its employees.
 LLP have Every effort is made to ensure that Information on employee share plans indicated their willingness to continue the requirements of the Health and and share ownership is contained in in office.
Accordingly, a resolution Safety at Work etc Act 1974 and all the Directors Remuneration Report.
will be put to the forthcoming Annual other relevant regulations and codes General Meeting proposing their of practice are complied with.
The Community The Group is re-appointment as auditors for the committed to providing support to ensuing year.
Employees The Group has the community and society through a continued its policy of informing all number of charitable activities.
During employees of matters of concern the period the Group made charitable to them as employees, both in their donations of 64,957 2009: 51,000. immediate work situation and in the The Group made no donations for wider context of the Groups well political purposes either in the UK or being.
It encourages participation overseas during the year.
and involvement in matters which affect their interests as employees.
Annual General Meeting Communication with employees The Annual General Meeting of the is effected through the Groups Company will be held on 21 April 2011, management briefings structure, at the Westbury Hotel, Bond Street, Board Committees, formal and Mayfair, London W1S 2YF.
A separate informal meetings and through the formal Notice of Meeting details all Groups information systems.
Informal business to be transacted.
Statement of Directors communication is facilitated by emails responsibilities to all Group companies.
The Directors are responsible for The Group is also committed to preparing the Annual Report, the achieving equal opportunities and to Directors Remuneration Report complying with anti-discrimination and the financial statements in legislation.
In addition, employees accordance with applicable law and are encouraged to train and develop regulations.
SThree plc 19 Directors Report continued for the year ended 28 November 2010 Company law requires the Directors and, as regards the Consolidated By order of the Board to prepare financial statements for Group financial statements, Article each financial year.
Under that law 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are the Directors have prepared the also responsible for safeguarding Consolidated Group and Company the assets of the Company and financial statements in accordance the Consolidated Group and hence Steve Hornbuckle with International Financial Reporting for taking reasonable steps for the Group Company Secretary Standards IFRSs as adopted by the prevention and detection of fraud and 28 January 2011 European Union.
law the Directors must not approve Registered Office: The Directors are responsible for the the financial statements unless they 5th Floor, maintenance and integrity of the are satisfied that they give a true 215-227, Great Portland Street, Companys website.
Legislation in and fair view of the state of affairs London, W1W 5PN the United Kingdom governing the of the Consolidated Group and the preparation and dissemination of Company and of the profit or loss of financial statements may differ from the Company and Consolidated Group legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are Each of the Directors, whose names required to: and functions are listed above confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the Consolidated Group and Company financial statements, mak e judgements and accounting which have been prepared in estimates that are reasonable and accordance with IFRSs as adopted prudent: by the European Union, give a state whether applicable IFRSs as true and fair view of the assets, adopted by the European Union liabilities, financial position and have been followed, subject to profit of the Consolidated Group any material departures disclosed and Company: and and explained in the financial the Directors report, together statements: with the Chairmans Statement, prepare the financial statements on the Chief Executive Officers and the going concern basis unless it is Chief Financial Officers Reviews, inappropriate to presume that the contained in the Annual Report company will continue in business.
includes a fair review of the development and performance of The Directors are responsible for the business and the position of the keeping adequate accounting records Consolidated Group and Company, that are sufficient to show and explain together with a description of the the Companys transactions and principal risks and uncertainties disclose with reasonable accuracy that it faces.
at any time the financial position of the Company and the Consolidated Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 SThree plc 20
