The Board of Directors, Executives Andrew Tinkler William Stobart Ben Whawell Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer In 1988 Andrew formed WA Tinkler Building Long-time Director of Eddie Stobart Limited, William Qualified Chartered Accountant, Ben, spent nine Contractors, later to become WA Developments, a started his career with the haulage company.
years at Grant Thornton before joining Eddie Stobart very successful business focussed on civil in 2004.
He carried out a broad spectrum of roles, including engineering and railway infrastructure.
It is now HGV Driver, Planner and Manager within Stobart Ben is responsible for Finance, HR, IT and Business part of the Group and is known as Stobart Rail.
His primary focus is on the financial In 2004, Andrew acquired Eddie Stobart Group with experience has given him an in-depth understanding performance of the Groups operations.
Ben colleague William Stobart and was appointed CEO.
of every level of the business.
oversaw the Companys merger with Westbury He was instrumental in developing the strategy and Property Fund, forming Stobart Group and the William left Eddie Stobart in 2001 to join WA vision that is todays successful Stobart Group.
acquisitions of James Irlam, Innovate Chilled, WA Developments as a shareholding Director, and in Developments, London Southend Airport, Carlisle A past winner of the IoD North West Director of 2004, following the acquisition of Eddie Stobart Lake District Airport and more recently Stobart the Year Award, his proven risk management Group, he returned to the Company as COO.
experience has played a valuable role in building a As COO, William continues to be closely involved in solid foundation for implementing the Groups Ben received the North West Financial Director delivering the Groups strategy.
David Irlam Trevor Howarth Executive Director, Business Development Legal Director and Company Secretary David Irlam joined the Stobart Board with the Trevor Howarth joined the Company as Group Legal acquisition in April 2008 of James Irlam Logistics.
Director and has over 20 years legal experience.
David started his career in the family business 30 Within a matter of weeks Trevor became BSB years ago as a Driver.
He held a variety of licensed to instruct Counsel direct on behalf of the management positions within Irlam before becoming Group, resulting in substantial savings on legal fees.
MD and later CEO of James Irlam.
Since joining Stobart Group, Trevor has overseen a He was instrumental in expanding the Irlam business, review of the Companys insurances and has leading contract negotiations and building relationships brought the management of all claims in-house.
More recently, he has been active Trevors legal expertise has provided the Company with in business development strategies and systems.
immediate legal advice on a wide range of legal issues.
As an Executive Director, Davids extensive Trevor is Legal Director and Company Secretary experience at the cutting edge of the logistics of Stobart Group.
industry is a valuable asset to Stobart Group.
Report and Accounts 2010 38 The Board of Directors, Non-Executives Rodney Baker-Bates Nick Watts Daniel Dayan Group Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Rodney has held numerous senior positions within Nick has a long history working at senior level within Daniel was appointed in 2009.
He is Chief Executive the finance sector, including MD of UK Banking at the investment industry.
Currently Stobart Groups Officer of Fiberweb plc and a Trustee of the human the Midland Bank and CE of Prudential FS.
He has Senior Independent Director, he Chairs the Stobart rights charity The Medical Foundation.
Daniel has also been a member of the BBCs management Remuneration Committee.
also been a Novar plc Board Director.
Nick is SID and Chairman of the Corporate A Chartered Mechanical Engineer by profession, He holds a number of Board positions with Bedlam Governance Committee at LGIM H. He also holds earlier in his career he also worked in manufacturing Asset Management PLC, Co-Operative Financial Trustee Directorship of Cable & Wireless Pension management at ICI plc and has been a Services, EG Solutions Ltd and Gs Group Holdings Fund and Chairs its Investment Committee.
He is Management Consultant with Arthur D. Little.
Ltd. Rodney is also a Non-Executive Director of also a Trustee Board Director for a school for children C. Hoare & Co. and is Chairman of Assura Group.
Jesper Kjaedegaard Michael Kayser Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Jesper has more than 30 years experience in Michael is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of transport and logistics.
He has held several senior Management Accountants.
He has extensive positions within A. P. Moller-Maersk Group and was experience in corporate transactions, both in quoted appointed Chief Executive of The Maersk Company and private markets.
Michael has also held a variety of senior finance Leaving in 2008, he co-founded Mercator appointments at Laporte PLC, Doncasters Ltd, International, an independent ports and Amey PLC, Unilever and Guinness Brewing infrastructure consultancy.
Currently, he is also Worldwide.
President of the British Chamber of Shipping and Chairman of Maritime UK.
39 Stobart Group Limited Corporate Governance
