6 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Our long-term strategy Synergy Health is focused on becoming a leading, global health-related service provider with a presence in major markets around the world.
This will be achieved through: Geographic expansion into new international markets Further development of our core services Accessing new health-related markets Selective acquisitions Synergy Health plc 7 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Last year we successfully concentrated on improving operational and financial performance.
We now have a solid platform for growth.
Synergy continues to focus on five key areas that drive our expansion.
8 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 outsourcing ef ciency Continuing to drive down costs Customers use Synergy for three simple reasons: to reduce their We can provide services more ef ciently by bringing to bear the bene t costs, maintain the highest service quality and ensure they adhere of economies of scale, exploiting specialist systems and using expertise to regulatory standards.
In linen services, for example, hospitals use that has been developed over the past 15 years.
We typically serve a us because we reduce their costs signi cantly when compared to number of hospitals and primary care trusts from each of our facilities.
We have invested signi cant capital in building and developing compliant decontamination facilities and internally developed specialist IT and Our decontamination services facilities comply with the European quality systems.
This creates a competitive advantage which is further Union Medical Devices Directive, which is enforced by the Medical enhanced through the experienced management team and specialist and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK.
Each of our personnel who have helped Synergy to achieve and maintain its market facilities is audited annually and must comply with all regulatory leading position.
This creates barriers to entry which make it dif cult requirements, in order for us to continue to provide accredited for competitors to match our high quality and service standards and commercial decontamination services.
The provision of compliant operating ef ciencies.
decontamination services helps our customers to reduce infection rates and improve outcomes for patients.
CASE STUDY There are signi cant opportunities for continued growth within the North Yorkshire and York Primary Care Trust Decontamination Services division.
Many hospitals are not yet achieving Following a competitive tendering process, Synergy was awarded the required standards, and to comply they would need signi cant a three-year contract to support North Yorkshire and York PCT, investment in infrastructure, equipment, decontamination technology, one of the largest PCTs in the UK.
The PCT serves a large IT and quality systems that ensure the necessary standards are met population, in a vast area of mixed rural and urban settings.
Many hospitals are unable to upgrade their sterile To meet the substantial decontamination requirements, we work services departments due to increasingly tight capital budgets or closely with the Trust by supporting: physical constraints preventing the necessary changes to the design of their facilities.
It is signi cantly cheaper and more effective for Complex logistics including 43 delivery locations spreading over hospitals to outsource their decontamination requirements to Synergy.
By outsourcing, hospitals can avoid spending millions of pounds that A mixed range of clinical activities, from community dental and would be needed to bring their own facilities up to a compliant standard.
podiatry packs to larger surgical sets.
Where necessary, Synergy provides the investment to upgrade existing departments and cost effectively achieve compliance by exploiting Flexible and adaptive services tailored to the speci c PCTs needs, partnerships with preferred suppliers, leveraging design knowledge and such as supporting a prison hospital.
experience, and implementing existing IT and quality systems.
We are After being awarded the contract, Synergys expert transition team also able to create further value for hospitals through royalty sharing of helped the PCT to quickly and smoothly mobilise the service using third party services which provides additional return on investment.
its network of facilities in the north of England.
By outsourcing services to us, NHS hospitals are able to comply with decontamination standards which are regulated by the Care Quality Commission CQC.
The CQC regulates health and social care in England and has reported that the standards relating to decontamination are ones where fewest trusts comply.
Synergy Health plc 9 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 10 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 creating talent Investing for the long term Our most important resource is our people.
Their development The Group is in partnership with Warwick Business School and has is vital to Synergys long-term success.
Developing our leaders, put several of its senior managers through the Warwick Executive undertaking a comprehensive talent review and measuring our Development Programme.
peoples engagement and commitment to Synergy are key areas We have also bene ted from the Warwick Executive Development that we will continue to invest in for the future.
Programme through students from other organisations undertaking The technical and highly specialised nature of our operations projects within the Group, which have resulted in increased productivity.
means that it is imperative that our employees are well trained.
CASE STUDIES We have focused on developing talent across the business at all levels.
A systematic approach to assessing organisational capability Zhouliang Shen joined the Synergy Graduate Management Training and developing talent pools and pipelines ensures that the right skills programme in 2008.
Following an induction year spent in a variety and expertise are developed.
Speci c examples within our approach of roles in different areas of the business, Zhouliang joined the UK to talent management include commitment to our graduate training Commercial Team.
He has developed bids for new business and played scheme as part of the management pipeline for future growth and a leading part in helping our decontamination services business win the development of the Leadership Community, which comprises several signi cant tendered opportunities.
This summer, Zhouliang will our most senior managers.
return to China to take up a permanent management position at the Groups new state-of-the-art sterilisation super-centre in Suzhou.
The Leadership Community has virtual web technology based meetings each quarter and an annual two day seminar, to review Yining Zhang is also from China and completed a doctorate strategy and key initiatives across the business.
This community at Nottingham University prior to joining the Synergy Graduate shares knowledge, expertise and information, works on crossManagement Training programme in September 2009.
At the same company projects and is central to the future of the business.
time Tryfon Mantsos joined the programme.
Yining and Tryfon have been working in operations and project management positions at Synergy is also a member of the Chartered Management Institute various decontamination services facilities in the UK.
Later this year which promotes management education and best practice.
Yining and Tryfon will move into new roles to expand their experience.
Synergy Health plc 11 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 The programme has been great for my personal development and I have learnt a lot from my mentors and from the wide variety of placements.
It will help me when I return to China later this year.
Stephen Lei Cao, Member of Synergys graduate training programme.
Its satisfying to see customers respond well to our services, which in turn make a difference to peoples lives.
Glenn Williams, General Manager, Decontamination and an alumni of Synergys graduate training programme.
Working in finance provides a great insight into the huge scale of the business and how important we are to our customers.
Julie Emberson, Payments Assistant, Decontamination Services.
12 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 technical leadership Synergy Health plc 13 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Investing in technology Synergy is an industry leader in decontamination and sterilisation Another reason that we are able to retain customers for the long-term is technology.
Because we have to be as our because of our track record in increasing ef ciency for our customers.
customers and their patients demand the highest standards of For example, in decontamination services we have developed and hygiene and safety.
Research has shown that across the UK, for used our specialist systems and expertise to increase the availability example, customers who use our decontamination services are of reusable surgical instruments.
Consequently hospitals can operate enjoying nearly half the post-operative infection rate in orthopaedic more ef ciently with reduced investment in expensive surgical surgery, compared to the national average.
Our linen management services also facilitate lower stocks of textiles and reduce the need for on-site storage within wards, clinics In 2009 we established a state-of-the-art electron beam facility used and theatres.
These outcomes are particularly important given the for the sterilisation of medical devices in Tullamore in the centre of current and future economic challenges which mean that hospitals Ireland.
Ireland is the European centre for a large number of US are seeking innovative ways of improving ef ciency and reducing cost medical device companies, whose research and development whilst still treating increasing numbers of patients.
Innovations in our departments speci cally require this advanced technology, in commercial sterilisation service have helped reduce the time taken many cases for regulatory reasons.
to both validate and process products which provide signi cant The electron beam plant has been operational from last October.
ef ciencies for our customers.
This sterilisation technology uses an electron beam, where electrons Up until three years ago the typical turnaround time for cleaning and are shot at the medical devices by an electron gun mechanism.
sterilising surgical instruments was 24 hours.
We are proud to say that Synergy now has a full suite of sterilisation technologies in Ireland.
using our TrakStar proprietary software, this time has been reduced The electron beam is additional technology complementing our to as low as five hours.
TrakStar is a complete inventory management gamma radiation facilities and our ethylene oxide gas facilities.
system providing real time tracking and traceability for our clients Associated with this technological expertise is the requirement for surgical instruments.
It also provides invaluable tools and management numerous regulatory approvals.
In sterilisation services, we are required information to enable us to achieve unrivalled processing ef ciencies.
to hold licences in order to handle the radioactive cobalt used in our It records the many processing events at each stage in the instrument gamma sterilisation services.
Additionally, Synergy has the expertise processing cycle, including decontamination, inspection, assembly and associated with building and operating sterilisation plants.
packing and traceability to machine batches to ensure that sterility parameters have been achieved.
The systems complex prioritisation We have a long record in the sterilisation market and most of module manages the work ow from collection to delivery.
This enables our customers have a longstanding association with the Group.
us to process over 65 million instruments per annum for multiple International regulatory bodies such as the US Food and Drug customers in each facility, and ensures that instruments are returned Administration grant the approvals required before a sterilised in priority order to meet customer requirements and matching medical product can be released into the market.
TrakStar has been designed and developed deep understanding of the regulatory requirements and can help by our internal software development team.
It has been continually customers to successfully cross these hurdles providing another enhanced over the past 12 years.
During the year, we have signi cant barrier to entering this industry.
successfully implemented the TrakStar system in Suzhou, supported by our IT teams in the UK and China.
14 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 developing partnerships Synergy Health plc 15 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Working closely with clients Our goal is to help customers achieve world-class standards of service, while keeping their costs down.
We operate in three core areas: decontamination of instruments used in hospitals, sterilisation of medical devices, and infection control.
For some clients, that might mean we provide healthcare solutions to reduce infection rates in hospitals.
In addition, we may also be providing that same hospital with decontamination services for its reusable surgical instruments.
In all cases, we recognise that its our job to improve the quality of the customers performance.
Because of the investments we have made to establish a high quality and a cost-effective service, our contracts with customers are often long term in nature.
In decontamination, contracts with acute hospitals are typically for between 10 years and 40 years.
Sterilisation does not simply mean sterilising medical devices.
Our employees also work closely with customers who manufacture medical devices.
For example, we advise them through a products life cycle: from the concept stage which involves the invention of the product, to the product being approved and introduced to the market and then selling in high volumes.... Synergy worked very well with the respective members of the Trust... Our experience to date is that Synergy are very thorough in ensuring a positive client experience and that queries are addressed in a timely manner... Contract Manager, Barking, Havering and Redbridge University Hospitals NHS Trust.
We advise clients on the appropriate sterilisation technology, whether it is gamma, ethylene oxide, or electron beam.
Then we establish the dosage level the product needs to ensure that it is sterilised to regulatory standards.
We are also successful in helping customers to shorten the lead time between when a product is invented to it being released onto CASE STUDIES the market.
The result is a product that is 100% safe for use in the In 2004 the Barking, Havering and Redbridge medical industry.
In the USA the regulations regarding the safety of University Hospitals NHS Trust created a medical products that are sold in its market are monitored by the modernised agship decontamination services US Food and Drug Administration, and there are similar organisations in facility supported by a multi-million pound other parts of the world, with whom we have long standing relationships.
In 2009 the trust outsourced its decontamination service to Synergy in order to realise ef ciency savings and ensure the delivery of service excellence.
We were also awarded the contract to provide linen management services.
In May 2009 we commenced operation of the unit that supports four acute hospitals in the North London area, as well as other NHS and private sector clients.
With over 70 skilled staff, the unit processes more than five million instruments each year.
Linen management services are provided from the Groups facility in Dunstable.
16 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 international potential Synergy Health plc 17 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Opening doors in China We are starting to make real progress in the worlds fastest growing The plant is also providing sterilisation services using ethylene oxide healthcare decontamination and sterilisation services market, China.
technology for medical device manufacturers.
Currently we are working with a number of customers to validate the sterilisation process required The country has approximately 20,000 hospitals and there are for their products.
We expect this to lead to long-term contracts with expected to be approximately 600 new hospitals being built each these manufacturers in the region.
We are looking to replicate the work we have done in Suzhou in other China is investing heavily in improving health standards.
The countrys regions of China.
In addition to this, we are exploring possibilities in both Ministry of Health published new decontamination regulations that sterilisation and decontamination facilities elsewhere in Asia.
We have came into effect in December 2009.
This sets higher hygiene and operations in Thailand and Malaysia and are looking to expand these decontamination standards, which is a key catalyst for them choosing and also to look at other Asian countries.
to use outsourcing specialists such as Synergy.
Europe is also an area where the Group is realising its growth potential.
Medical device companies are moving their operations to China Following our recent investment in an ethylene oxide sterilisation facility because of the low manufacturing costs and also because demand in Venlo, the Netherlands, we are now able to provide customers with in the region is growing at such a fast rate.
Asias gross domestic this technology, as well as gamma radiation in Europe.
product, excluding Japan, is forecast to grow in the region of 8% this year, much higher than the global average of close to 3%.
Our Suzhou decontamination and sterilisation facility has achieved all the requisite regulatory approvals.
It is the first decontamination facility in China to be certi ed to international quality standards.
We are processing surgical instruments for four hospitals and are marketing to several other hospitals in the region.
Additionally, we have a number of smaller contracts with instrument manufacturers.
