38 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Board of Directors Stephen G Wilson Gavin Hill Sir Duncan K Nichol Non-executive Chairman Group Finance Director Non-executive director Steve joined the Group as Chairman in Gavin joined the Group as Finance Director Duncan became a non-executive director in October 2002.
He is Chairman of the in April 2010.
He was previously Director, Corporate November 2002.
He was previously Chief Companys Nominations Committee.
Steve is Finance for Serco Group plc following a number Executive of the National Health Service the Finance Director of Headlam Group plc.
of divisional Finance Director and commercial Management Executive between 1989 and He quali ed as a chartered accountant with roles.
Prior to Serco, Gavin worked for Syngenta 1994, and a non-executive director of BUPA Thomson McLintock.
AG and AstraZeneca plc in both Finance between 1994 and 2002.
Duncan is currently and Corporate Treasury.
Gavin is a quali ed a non-executive director of Lorica Group, Dr Richard M Steeves chartered accountant and associate member Deltex Medical Group plc, the Christie NHS Group Chief Executive of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He is also Richard founded the business in 1991 and Chairman of HM Courts Service Board for was appointed Chief Executive in 1992.
Robert E Lerwill England and Wales and Chairman of Skills for Previously he was corporate development Non-executive director Justice.
He is Chairman of the Companys manager for Braithwaite plc, a plant hire Robert was appointed as a non-executive Remuneration Committee.
company, and associate consultant with director in January 2005.
He is currently a strategic consultants, LEK Consulting.
non-executive director and Chairman of the Marcello L M Smit Richard has a PhD in biochemistry from audit committee of BAT plc and non executive CEO Europe and Middle East St Johns College, Cambridge and a BSc director and Chairman of the audit committee of Marcello joined LIPS Textielservice Holdings 1st Class Hons in human physiology from Transcom Worldwide SA.
Until November 2008 B. V. LTS following completion of his postthe University of British Columbia in Robert was Chief Executive of Aegis Group plc.
graduate studies in economics at the Vancouver, Canada.
Richard is a Companion Between 1997 and 2003 Robert was an University of Amsterdam.
He has held various of the Chartered Management Institute.
executive director of Cable & Wireless plc, and management positions in the organisation and prior to that was Group Finance Director of WPP was also a director of a joint venture healthcare Group plc.
Robert quali ed as a chartered foundation.
Marcello was appointed Chief accountant with Arthur Andersen.
He is Executive of LTS in 1997 and became a Chairman of the Companys Audit Committee.
member of the plc Board in November 2005.
Marcello was appointed CEO Europe and Middle East in June 2010.
Synergy Health plc 39 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Senior Executive Board and Advisors 1 23 3 456 1 2 Senior Executive Board Richard Steeves 1 Paul Santing 4 Paul Wynne Group Chief Executive Group Commercial Director CEO Asia and Africa Gavin Hill 2 Adrian Coward 5 Alison Speak Group Finance Director CEO UK and Ireland Group HR Director Marcello Smit 3 Richard Tippins 6 Tim Mason CEO Europe and Middle East Managing Director Healthcare Solutions Group Company Secretary Company registration number: Advisors Joint brokers: Auditors: Solicitors: 3355631 Bankers: Investec Bank KPMG Audit Plc Taylor Wessing LLP Lloyds Banking Group UK Ltd St Nicholas House 5 New Street Square Registered of ce: 25 Gresham Street 2 Gresham Street Park Row Blackfriars Ground Floor Stella London EC2V 7HN London EC2V 7QP Nottingham NG1 6FQ London EC4A 3TW Windmill Hill Business Park Whitehill Way The Royal Bank of Morgan Stanley & Co Registrars: DLA Piper UK LLP Swindon Wiltshire SN5 6NX Scotland plc International plc Computershare Victoria Square House Third Floor 20 Bank Street Investor Services plc Victoria Square Secretary: 3 Temple Back East Canary Wharf The Pavilions Birmingham B2 4DL T C Mason Bristol BS1 6DZ London E14 4AD Bridgwater Road MA, FCIS, MCIPD Bristol BS99 6ZZ
