22 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Marketplace analysis The international demand for healthcare services continues to Decontamination and hospital sterilisation services grow.
Governments in many countries are increasing their health Throughout the world hospital decontamination and sterilisation spend and in the US alone, government expenditure is expected is traditionally provided by in-house departments operated by the to increase by 6% annually until 2018, reaching $4.3 trillion, hospitals.
However, in recent years the trend is towards outsourcing accounting for 20.3% of GDP.
due to the increasing dif culty some hospitals face in complying with complex regulatory requirements and the need for cost ef ciency in One of the key areas contributing to the increase in the healthcare light of the tightening of healthcare hospital budgets.
sector is the rising number of patients being treated in hospitals.
This is primarily driven by the ageing populations in the developed Compliance with the regulatory standards is being enhanced.
In the world and the rapid urbanisation of developing countries.
The number UK for example, the new Care Quality Commission has taken over from of in-patient surgeries world-wide has been increasing steadily over the Healthcare Commission and has stepped up auditing to ensure that a number of years and is forecast to continue to do so.
For example, healthcare providers comply with the Hygiene Code following a review in England there has been an increase in surgery numbers of 29% in November 2008.
In line with its increasing regulatory requirements, between 1998 and 2008.
Spain has recorded 27% growth in this over the past nine years the UKs Department of Health has been area since 1999 and in Germany it has risen by 13% since 2005. facilitating the creation of a dynamic outsourcing market to enable healthcare providers to outsource their services as a method of improving Alongside the growth in demand is the increase in pressure standards.
The UK market is estimated to be worth 360 million and exerted by patients for higher standards of hospital care and the is growing around 2% a year.
The other major markets for outsourced need to tackle hospital acquired infections.
This pressure is being decontamination services include a number of European countries felt by governments around the world and they are responding by notably Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy and France and increasing regulatory requirements.
At the same time, following the Japan, together with newly developed markets in the Middle East, global financial crisis, public and private sector budgets are under Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore.
severe pressure, causing healthcare providers to seek ef ciencies.
The trend towards outsourcing services is also being felt across the This has produced a complex regulatory environment for key world, but nowhere more so than in the worlds two largest markets, healthcare providers such as hospitals and medical device China and North America.
These organisations are required to meet these hurdles and still deliver increased ef ciencies due to pressure Chinas Ministry of Health has adopted three key new regulatory on funding exacerbated by the increase in demand for surgical standards which became enforceable from December 2009. procedures.
The standards relate to guidelines on when, how and where surgical instruments can be handled.
They are based on the European Outsourcing providers such as Synergy are playing a critical role Medical Devices Directive, which is a model standard throughout in increasing the ef ciency needed in essential healthcare services the Middle East and Asia.
In our case, the portfolio of services and products we provide include: decontamination and sterilisation For China, these increased regulatory requirements are part of the of reusable surgical instruments: the sterilisation of single use countrys long-term investment in healthcare reform.
Chinas Ministry medical devices: healthcare products that reduce hospital of Healths objective for 2020 is to Establish and improve the basic acquired infection rates: and linen management services.
healthcare system covering urban and rural residents, and provide people with secure, ef cient, convenient and affordable healthcare services.
This includes the introduction of basic medical insurance for most of the population.
China also plans to build 600 hospitals each year, adding to its current 20,000.
In order to ensure that its targets are met, the Ministry speci cally includes outsourcing as an acceptable route to achieving the new standards.
In North America, there are three factors that have led to increased regulation, which have subsequently led to outsourcing opportunities in hospitals for Synergy: first, because of cost-pressures, hospitals have been reusing single use medical devices: second, an increased incidence of CreutzfeldtJakob disease or CJD: and third, a rise in post-operative infections, or healthcare associated acquired infections.
As a result, we are receiving enquiries about our decontamination services after new regulatory guidelines were published in 2008.
Similarly, in Australia there has been interest in our services after authorities there have raised the regulatory requirements for healthrelated provision.
Medical device sterilisation The medical device sterilisation service is an established global market for medical device manufacturers.
Single-use medical devices ranging from high value orthopaedic implants and drug eluting stents through to lower value disposable products are sterilised prior to their use, using three main technologies: gamma radiation: electron beam: and ethylene oxide.
It has been estimated that a majority of the medical devices are sterilised by ethylene oxide 55%, followed by gamma radiation 25%, electron beam 10% and others 10%.
Synergy Health plc 23 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 The estimated $2.3 billion medical device market is growing at 6% a The response to this by authorities in the US has been to ensure that year and the US is the largest market for medical device sterilisation the liability or cost of HCAI treatment lies with hospitals and not with the worth approximately $1 billion, followed by Europe and Japan.
insurance companies acting on behalf of patients as was previously the Together, the US and Europe account for about 73% of the global case.
It has been estimated that it costs the US health system between share.
Based on our estimations, outsourced sterilisation currently $3.2 billion and $4.2 billion per year alone in treating Staphylococcus constitutes 57% of the market share at $1.3 billion, with an estimated related HCAI.
This increased cost is causing hospitals to look towards annual growth rate of 3%.
outsourcers such as Synergy to provide cost-effective infection control solutions to manage this risk.
Most multinational medical device manufacturers have a combination of in-house and outsourced service provision.
However, as the Synergy is servicing the growing market for product based technologies regulatory environment becomes more challenging and as companies that target an aspect of environmental control such as hard surface look to improve their ef ciency and hence pro tability, outsourcing cleaners, hand hygiene systems and patient hygiene systems.
Synergy offers hospitals a complete service in which we reduce infection rates using our proprietary technologies.
Outsourcing Currently, the majority of medical device manufacturers are located providers like Synergy ensure that hospitals can concentrate on the in the US with an estimated market size of $39 billion.
The US is core provision of healthcare, while also minimising the cost burden followed by Japan $15 billion and China $13 billion.
China is clearly to society of maintaining a high quality of hygiene.
the fastest growing market, with sales of medical devices growing 24% in 2009.
Many multinationals, which form the core of our client base Within Europe the principal drivers in helping to reduce the risk of HCAI in this area, are moving their operations to lower cost regions such as have been improved levels of awareness and education as well as wide Asia, Mexico and South America.
Increasingly the medical devices will ranging government initiatives aimed at increasing hygiene throughout also be sterilised in these countries as quali ed outsourced service each countrys health system.
providers such as Synergy become established in these markets.
Monitoring, surveillance and mandatory reporting have been stepped For the sterilisation of medical products, regulatory standards are set up in many of our major markets and the results have been used to by regulators in the consuming markets and in these areas government bring about changes in practice.
Healthcare solution providers have authorities are raising the standards due to pressure from consumers also responded with innovative technologies and design, but early of healthcare services.
For example, the US Food and Drug adoption of these has sometimes been thwarted, delayed by lengthy Administration has increased the number of surveillance auditors in procurement processes and in some cases government guidance China as part of a strategy to ensure that medical device manufacturers which has not kept up with technological advances, and Synergy fully comply with applicable standards.
has not been immune to these effects.
In 2009 there was a decline in demand for medical devices in the US In the UK, recent decreases in the rates of MRSA and Clostridium due to a combination of economic uncertainty and legal issues relating dif cile show that the picture is improving.
Overall, there has been a to sales practices in the industry.
This resulted in lower sales for the 59% reduction in the number of MRSA episodes and 57% reduction Groups sterilisation processing in Asia which services this market.
in Clostridium dif cile reported during the surveillance period in the UK.
However the threat posed by these infections is changing, with Demand for our services is improving however and this is reinforced some strains of MRSA becoming more easily transmissible, a rise in by positive results from companies in the medical devices sector with community-acquired MRSA worldwide and the transfer of infection four of the top 10 medical devices manufacturers recently reporting from the community into hospitals.
In the UK, between 1999 and an average revenue growth of 7.5%.
2006, the incidence of community acquired MRSA infections increased from 11 to 175 a year, representing more than 22% of Infection control all MRSA.
One of the biggest challenges remains the cleanliness of Infection control remains a serious issue for healthcare providers clinical environments.
A report in November 2008 revealed that in around the world and its market continues to grow as hospitals look spot checks, 90% of acute Trusts failed to comply fully with the for ways to reduce infection rates, while simultaneously increasing former Healthcare Commissions Hygiene Code.
their ef ciency in their core services.
The Department of Healths 2007 Comprehensive Spending Review In Europe, four million healthcare acquired infections HCAIs set a new target to maintain the current improvements in infection occur every year causing around 37,000 deaths as well as an rates of MRSA and a new national target to reduce the number of extra 16 million hospital days, creating incentives at every level C. Dif cile infections by 30% in 2010 11 over the 2007 08 baseline.
of the health system to come up with advances in technologies The spending review also included an additional 270 million per to reduce these numbers.
These challenges are re ected in increased regulatory requirements.
Improvements to environmental cleaning and compliance with For example, in the UK new regulations under the Health and Social infection control practices are at the centre of the ght against HCAIs.
Care Act 2008 came into force from April 2009.
All NHS trusts are now Therefore changes to the way services are delivered, with an emphasis required to ensure that they protect patients, workers and others from on benchmarking and standardisation of approach will create yet the known risks of acquiring HCAI, heightening the demand for more opportunities for outsourcing and Synergy is well placed to take infection control solutions.
The HCAI problem is not isolated to the UK and Europe.
In the US HCAIs are estimated to be one of the top 10 causes of death, claiming 90,000 lives every year, according to the Health and Human Services departments 2009 quality report to Congress.
