Synergy Health plc 40 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Report of the directors The directors present their report together with financial statements for The interests of the directors in the shares of the Company as at the year ended 28 March 2010.
29 March 2009, 28 March 2010 and 31 May 2010 were as follows: 31 May 2010 28 March 2010 29 March 2009 Principal activity ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares The principal activities of the Group are the provision of outsourced of 0.625p each of 0.625p each of 0.625p each healthcare support services and contract sterilisation services.
S G Wilson 60,000 60,000 60,000 R M Steeves 2,508,744 2,455,934 2,411,860 Business review I M Jacques 35,221 20,000 30,000 The Chairmans statement on page 3, the Corporate and Social Responsibility report on page 35, the Marketplace analysis on page 22, G Hill the Chief Executives report on page 18, the Operations Review on page 24 M L M Smit 23,000 23,000 18,000 and the Finance Directors report on page 28 which report on the activities D K Nichol during the year, post balance sheet events and likely future developments.
R E Lerwill 3,000 3,000 3,000 A separate report on page 33 sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The increase in the shareholding of R M Steeves and I M Jacques arose as the result of the exercise of options vesting under the Long Term Incentive The Chief Executives report sets out the main trends and factors likely Plan which is explained in the Remuneration report.
Details of options held to affect the future development, performance and position of the by directors are contained within the Remuneration report.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report Results and dividends and the financial statements There was a pro t for the year after taxation amounting to 22,159,000 The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 2009: 12,663,000.
An interim dividend of 2,676,000 was paid on Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with 14 January 2010 and a second interim dividend, in lieu of a final dividend, applicable law and regulations.
Accordingly, no final dividend is proposed.
A review of the Groups performance for the year ended Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Parent Company 28 March 2010 is contained in the Chairmans statement, the Chief financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors Executives report and the Finance Directors report.
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected Share capital to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with As at 28 March 2010 the Companys authorised share capital consisted UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted of one class of 106,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.625p each of which Accounting Practice.
there were 54,704,213 shares in issue.
No shares were held in Treasury.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements At that date the authority granted to the Company for the purchase unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of of up to 5,392,224 ordinary shares remained in force and unused.
affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their pro t or loss for The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, that period.
and restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, from Companies House in the UK or the Company Secretary.
Shareholders the directors are required to: are entitled to receive dividends, when declared: to receive the Companys Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: reports and accounts: to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies: and to exercise voting rights.
No person Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: between the holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly speci ed to For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable the contrary in the Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Companys shareholders.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it The Company issued 787,104 ordinary shares of 0.625p each during the is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company year for an aggregate consideration of 1,469,000 in respect of options will continue in business.
exercised under the Companys share option schemes.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the transactions of the Group and Directors Parent Company and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The present directors of the Company are shown on pages 38 and 39. financial position of the Group and Parent Company and enable them to G Hill was appointed to the Board on 26 April 2010 and will stand for ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. election at the Annual General Meeting.
I M Jacques resigned on the same They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably day.
No other director served during the year.
S G Wilson and R E Lerwill open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and Parent Company retire by rotation but will be proposed for re-election at the Annual General to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Details of the directors service contracts are given in the Remuneration report on page 46.
Synergy Health plc 41 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for Substantial shareholders preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate At the date of this report the Company had been noti ed of the following Governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
holdings of voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares of 0.625p each in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Name Shareholding % Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of AXA S. A.
8,785,333 16.04 financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
INVESCO Asset Management Ltd 3,154,839 5.76 Prudential plc group of companies 2,707,550 4.94 Employee engagement Black Rock Advisors 2,705,645 4.94 The Group recognises the impact that positive employee engagement has on developing a culture of excellence, maintaining organisational Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Limited 2,599,250 4.74 stability and fostering an environment in which employees feel valued Newton Investment Management 2,561,177 4.68 and included.
AEGON Asset Management UK plc 2,167,319 3.96 The Group continues to employ multiple channels of communication Legal & General Group plc 2,084,368 3.80 and is committed to improving these channels so that all employees have access to information, as well as having a voice within the Company.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors Channels include: It is the Groups policy to con rm the terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of the transaction to ensure that suppliers are Employee forums and where appropriate, works councils: aware of these terms and to abide by them.
Trade creditors at the year The Touch Point Portal on the Group intranet site: and end amount to 57 days 2009: 61 days of average supplies for the period.
Regular leadership brie ngs followed by communication cascades Political and charitable donations team brie ngs.
During the year the Company supported a number of local charities, The Group is committed to diversity in the workplace and developing an with contributions in the year totalling 5,000 2009: 8,000.
Its recruitment, assessment and selection policies ensure donations were made during the year 2009: nil.
that all applicants are considered equally.
Our concern to foster diversity extends to ensuring that workplace adjustments are made as required, Treasury and risk management for any employee, to enable all employees to have equal opportunities.
The Groups treasury and financial risk management objectives, and This is especially important for employees with any form of disability.
details in respect of the Groups exposure to these risks, are detailed in note 19 to the financial statements.
Employment policies are updated in a timely way to re ect legislative changes and training to communicate or embed change is developed Going concern and rolled out as appropriate.
The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to Training is provided as required to ensure that we have a skilled workforce affect its future development, performance and position are set out above, this requires a balance of training for the work our employees do now in the Business Review section.
The financial position of the Company, its and developing and preparing them for the future.
cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Directors report on pages 28 to 32.
In addition, notes 18 to 19 Directors indemnity to the financial statements include the Companys objectives, policies In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management have been granted an indemnity issued by the Company to the extent objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their of ce.
and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that the The Company has considerable financial resources, together with director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and market places.
As a consequence, the Directors and of cers liability insurance directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business During the year the Company maintained insurance cover for directors risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
and of cers liability as permitted under Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Corporate and Social Responsibility Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in The statement on Corporate and Social Responsibility on page 35 contains preparing the annual financial statements.
disclosures concerning environmental matters, employee involvement This statement in respect of the business as a going concern has been and social and community issues.
prepared in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
