Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Yule Catto & Co plc Annual report and accounts 2010 23 Report of the directors for the year ended 31 December 2010 The directors submit their annual report including a Share capital and control management report and the audited financial statements Details of the Companys share capital are contained in note 25 for the year ended 31 December 2010. to the financial statements.
On 31 December 2010 194,217,582 shares were provisionally allotted nil paid in connection with the Results and dividends rights issue announced on 13 December 2010.
On 17 January Profit attributable to shareholders for the year was 49,738,000.
2011 such 194,217,582 shares were allotted fully paid.
No shares were re-purchased in 2010.
A total of 8,361 shares The interim dividend of 2 pence per share was paid on were purchased on the open market on behalf of the 11 November 2010.
The directors recommend a final dividend of shareholders who elected to participate in the dividend 1.3 pence per share payable on 8 July 2011 to those shareholders re-investment plan.
registered at the close of business on 10 June 2011.
A dividend re-investment plan is available to shareholders and this alternative The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary will continue to be offered until further notice.
shares, being the only class of issued share capital, as well as the powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the Principal activities and business review Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be The principal activities of the Company and a business review obtained from Companies House or can be downloaded from are set out on pages 4 to 21 and form part of the report of the Companys website.
There are no restrictions on the voting the directors.
rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company.
No person holds Acquisitions and disposals securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard On 2 June 2010 the Groups joint venture subsidiary, to the control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of Revertex Finewaters Sdn Bhd was sold to H B Fuller any agreements between holders of securities that may result Company.
On 13 December 2010 the Group exchanged in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
contracts with PolymerLatex Holdings BV for the acquisition Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of of PolymerLatex Deutschland  mbH Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of PolymerLatex.
Further details of these transactions are Association may be amended by special resolution of the contained in notes 28 and 29 and in relation to the latter in the Companys shareholders.
Other than in relation to its borrowings which, unless certain Financial instruments conditions are satisfied, become repayable on a takeover, the Details of the Groups use of financial instruments and its Company is not party to any significant agreements that would financial risk management objectives and policies, and of its take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk in relation a takeover bid.
to such instruments, is contained in note 21 to the financial statements.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office Directors or employment resulting from a takeover.
The present membership of the Board is shown on page 22 all of whom served throughout the year.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would The Hon.
A G Catto, Dato Lee Hau Hian, Dr A A Dobbie, normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, Mr J K Maiden and Mr D C Blackwood retire and will be subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at seeking re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
None of the directors seeking re-election has a service contract Contractual arrangements other than Mr Blackwood who has a service contract which The Group has contractual and other arrangements with contains a twelve month notice period.
Details of directors numerous third parties in support of its business operations.
emoluments and the interests of each director in the share The disclosure in this report of information about any such third capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration report parties is not considered to be necessary for an understanding on pages 30 to 33. of the development, performance or position of the Groups business.
Director indemnity provisions Under the Companys Articles of Association, the directors of the Company have the benefit of a qualifying third-party indemnity provision which provides that they shall be indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities as permitted by Sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and against costs incurred by them in relation to any liability for which they are indemnified.
The Company has purchased and maintains insurance against directors and officers liabilities in relation to the Company.
Yule Catto & Co plc 24 Annual report and accounts 2010 Report of the directors continued Major shareholdings Creditor payment policy Other than the shareholdings disclosed as directors interests in The Groups policy is to make payments to creditors and other the Remuneration report as at 18 February 2011, the Company suppliers in accordance with terms of payment agreed at the had been notified under Section 5 of the Disclosure and time the contract of supply is made, subject to all the terms and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the following conditions of the order being satisfied by the supplier.
Trade significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary shares: creditor days of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2010 were 31 days 2009 25 days based on the ratio of trade creditors at the year end to the amounts invoiced during the Percentage Ordinary of ordinary year by trade creditors.
shares shares in number issue Nature of holding Charitable donations Kuala Lumpur 64,111,401 18.86 Direct interest Charitable donations in the year amounted to 73,507 Kepong Berhad Group 2009 56,208 There were no political donations during the year.
Old Mutual Asset Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors Managers UK Ltd 22,005,930 6.47 Indirect Each director of the Company confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Employment policies Companys auditors are unaware and that he has taken all The Group gives every consideration to applications for the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order employment from disabled persons.
Employees who become to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and disabled are given every opportunity to continue employment to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that under normal terms and conditions with appropriate training, information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information career development and promotion wherever possible.
The means information needed by the Companys auditors in Group seeks to achieve equal opportunities in employment connection with preparing their reports on pages 35 and 73. through recruitment and training policies.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Authority to purchase own shares accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has a general authority, which expires at the conclusion of the 2011 Annual General Meeting, to make market Corporate governance purchases of not more than 14,566,318 of the Companys The corporate governance report is set out on pages 26 to 29 ordinary shares in accordance with the terms of the special and forms part of the report of the directors.
resolution passed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
A resolution will be tabled at the 2011 Annual General Meeting Going concern to renew this authority.
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going concern and in reaching their conclusions have taken into Employee involvement account factors including: The Group is organised on a decentralised basis so as to promote greater employee involvement and better the expiry of the 30 million multicurrency revolving credit communications with employees.
Each Group company is facility on 24 December 2011 and its cancellation after the encouraged to make its employees aware of the financial and year end: and economic factors affecting the performance of the Company.
the obligations associated with the pending acquisition Performance related bonus schemes are in operation in a of PolymerLatex and the associated rights issue and debt number of Group companies.
funding arrangements as detailed in the prospectus dated 13 December 2010.
A long-term share incentive plan for directors and senior executives was introduced in 2002 with the approval of After making enquiries and taking account of reasonably shareholders.
possible changes in trading performance, the directors have concluded that the Company and the Group have adequate UK pension funds resources to continue in operational existence for the The trustees have reviewed the independent investment foreseeable future.
management of the assets of the Company pension schemes in the UK and assured themselves of the security and controls Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in place.
In particular, it is the trustees policy not to invest in in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Yule Catto shares nor lend money to the Company.
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Yule Catto & Co plc Annual report and accounts 2010 25 Principal risks and uncertainties Key Performance Indicators The directors have appropriately considered the Groups Management monitors a number of financial and non-financial principal risks and uncertainties including the following: key performance indicators, which are disclosed within the Chief Executives Report, the Financial Review and Corporate Conditions in the global economy, economic fluctuations in Social Responsibility report.
These key performance indicators customer industries and volatility and cyclicality of the global include divisional sales and underlying operating profit, net debt, chemicals and polymers markets may adversely affect the reportable safety incidents, energy usage and water results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of consumption.
the Group: Volatility in raw material prices and energy prices may Cautionary statement adversely affect the profitability of the Group and its working The purpose of this report is to provide information to the capital position: members of the Company.
It contains certain forward-looking The failure of the Group to procure key raw materials may statements with respect to the operations, performance lead to production interruptions that may adversely affect and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these the profitability of the Group and its working capital position: statements involve uncertainty since future events and The markets in which the Group operates are highly circumstances can cause results and developments to competitive and the Group may lose market share to other differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking producers or sellers of water based polymers or to other statements reflect knowledge and information available at the products that can be substituted for the products of the date of preparation of this report and the Company undertakes Group: no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
The Group operates in a number of different geographies Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
which may present different legal and regulatory risks.
In addition, the Group operates in a number of different tax Auditors regimes, which may increase the volatility of the effective A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys tax rate and cash tax rate of the Group: auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The ability of the Group to compete is highly dependent on its ability to develop technological innovations, to introduce new Annual General Meeting products and to protect its intellectual property, trade secrets The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on and know-how.
Failure to do so could have an adverse affect Thursday 12 May 2011 at Manor of Groves Hotel, High Wych, on the Group: Sawbridgeworth, Hertfordshire CM21 0JU.
The Group may be liable for damages based on product liability claims brought against its customers in end-use By order of the Board markets.
In addition, compliance with extensive R Atkinson environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could Secretary require material expenditure, changes in the operations of 9 March 2011 the Group or site remediation: The manufacture, storage and transportation of chemicals is inherently dangerous and any incidents relating to the hazards which the Group faces may adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and reputation: Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly impact the results of the operations of the Group and may significantly affect the comparability of financial results between financial periods: Credit market conditions and credit ratings may restrict the ability of the Group to obtain credit facilities or to refinance its existing debt facilities in the longer term.
In addition, interest rate fluctuations and increases in bank lending margins may increase the Groups costs of borrowing in the longer term: and The Group has funding risks relating to defined benefit pension schemes and any deterioration in the value of assets in which the pension scheme has invested as against the financial obligations to make payments to members of the schemes could have an adverse affect on the Group.
A description of how the Company manages these risks is contained in the Chief Executives Report and the Financial Review.
