Governance Directors remuneration report Shares awarded under the PSP in 2009 vest in accordance all-employee scheme, and the value of individual grants is with the following schedule: capped.
Options granted to participants are normally set at a discount of 10% to the market value of the shares at CAGR of adjusted the time of the grant.
diluted EPS during the Relative TSR ranking Percentage of performance period percentile award vesting 50% of award 50% of award Dilution To satisfy options granted under the 1992 Executive Share 0% Below 5% Below median Option Scheme closed in July 2000 and the Sharesave 25% 5% At median Scheme, the Company issues new shares.
To satisfy outstanding awards under the PSP and DBSP matching On a straight-line Between 5% Between median shares, the Company uses either treasury shares or shares basis between and 15% and upper quartile that have been purchased by the Trustees of the Tate&Lyle 25% and 100% Employee Benefit Trust.
The Company will use shares that have been purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust to 100% 15% or more At upper quartile satisfy awards made to Javed Ahmed.
or above In the ten-year period to 31 March 2010, awards made under There is no retesting of the performance conditions.
the executive schemes represented 1.6% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital 2009 1.8%, leaving available Before any shares become eligible for release, the Committee dilution headroom of 3.4% 2009 3.2%.
Awards made must also be satisfied that this is justified by the underlying under all share schemes represented 3.0% of the Companys financial performance of the Group over the measurement issued ordinary share capital 2009 3.1% leaving available period.
Subject to the Committees approval, the conditional dilution headroom of 7.0% 2009 6.9%.
award is then converted into an option to acquire the appropriate number of shares.
Executive shareholding policy The shareholding requirement for Javed Ahmed is four Suspended schemes times base salary.
Under the policy applying during the year Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP ended 31 March 2010 the shareholding requirement for other Awards were made under the DBSP from 2005 to 2008, executive directors was one times base salary.
Executive and it was suspended in 2009.
Under the DBSP, executives directors who have not met their target shareholding are had the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their annual cash expected to retain a significant proportion of shares acquired bonus after deduction of tax, national insurance or other through LTIPs towards meeting their target.
social security payments and invest the amount deferred in the Companys shares.
Subject to the satisfaction of Pensions employment conditions for awards made prior to 2008 The Groups largest pension scheme is the UK-based and a performance condition over the performance period, Tate&Lyle Group Pension Scheme Group Scheme, a participants received awards of matching shares based on defined benefit arrangement.
The Company closed the Group the number of shares which could have been acquired from Scheme to new entrants from 1 April 2002, and, since then, the gross bonus amount deferred by the participant lodged new employees have been offered defined-contribution type shares.
The performance condition attached to past awards pension provision through a Stakeholder Plan, which is an is the same as that attached to PSP awards made in the insurance-based contract.
The Group Scheme will close to same year.
future final salary pension accrual on 5 April 2011 and be replaced by a defined contribution pension plan.
Awards made in 2007 under the PSP and DBSP The awards made under the PSP and DBSP in 2007 were Current executive directors subject to a performance condition based on the Companys Javed Ahmed is not a member of the Group Scheme for TSR over the three-year performance period from 1April2007 pension purposes and accordingly has accrued no pension to 31 March 2010, relative to a comparator group of benefits under it.
He has been provided with life assurance companies being those occupying positions 50 to 130 cover and has also participated in the Group Income in the FTSE rankings at the start of the measurement period.
Protection Scheme, which applies to all UK employees who The Companys TSR ranked Tate & Lyle 49th in the comparator are not otherwise covered for ill-health benefits under the group of companies.
This was below the minimum requirement Group Scheme.
He is paid a cash allowance calculated of median performance, and accordingly, awards made as 35% of base salary, from which he can make his own under the PSP did not vest and lapsed.
DBSP participants retirement savings arrangements.
will receive one matching share for every three lodged shares Tim Lodge is a member of the Group Scheme and currently subject to the service requirements in the plan rules.
accrues pension at a rate of approximately 1 38th of pensionable earnings basic salary only for each year of Change of control and voting service, subject to an employee contribution of 3% of Some of the Companys employee share plans include pensionable salary.
The benefit also includes a widows restrictions on transferring shares while the shares are pension payable on his death and a lump sum on death in subject to the plan.
All of the Companys share plans contain service.
Once in payment, his pension and any subsequent provisions relating to a change of control as explained in widows pension is subject to increases in line with the more detail above.
Outstanding awards and options would UK Retail Price Index RPI up to a maximum of 5%, with a normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, minimum of 3%.
subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Where participants are the beneficial owners of the Former executive directors shares under an employee share plan, but not the registered Iain Ferguson, the former Chief Executive, left the Company owner, the voting rights are normally exercised by the on 31 December 2009.
He was not a member of the Group registered owner at the direction of the participants.
Scheme for pension purposes and accordingly accrued no pension benefits under it.
He was paid a cash allowance Sharesave Scheme calculated as a percentage of base salary.
He was provided The Scheme is open to all employees in the UK, including with life assurance cover and also participated in the Group executive directors.
No performance conditions are Income Protection Scheme.
attached to options granted under the Scheme since it is an 50 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010
