US corn acreage is Primary expected to increase in 2010, and corn prices US domestic demand for nutritive sweeteners are expected to remain at levels experienced in in the 2010 financial year continued its gradual recent months.
long-term downward trend although, during the The market for corn gluten feed continued to second half of the 2010 financial year, exports of be challenging, due both to pressure on US corn sweeteners to Mexico increased, offsetting livestock numbers which affected demand, and this impact.
Higher Mexican demand was driven the competitive impact of higher dry mill ethanol by high sugar prices in the Mexican market, and production, which drove the continuing increase a relative strengthening of the Mexican peso, in supply of distillers dry grains, a substitute which increased the competitiveness of US ingredient in animal feed applications.
EU markets for corn co-products manufactured US ethanol production increased to around from EU-approved GM varieties has reopened, 10.8billion gallons in the 2009 calendar year although export activity remained limited due to from 9.3 billion gallons in the prior year.
The a lack of US competitiveness.
industry continued to commission capacity in order to meet the increased demand for cornValue added based ethanol mandated under the Renewable Overall, the market for value added food Fuel Standard.
Oil prices rose steadily ingredients remained steady throughout the 2010 throughout the 2010 financial year, to close at financial year, although consumer focus on the around US$80 per barrel at 31 March 2010, trends of health and wellness and convenience and US gasoline prices remained at a premium has continued to drive growth in these areas.
to ethanol selling prices from the middle of the Demand patterns for value added industrial 2009 calendar year.
However, with ample supply starches remained at levels below those of corn-based ethanol in US markets, there was, experienced before the economic downturn, at most, a modest cash margin in spot ethanol consistent with the trend experienced in the markets during the 2010 financial year.
Lower primary industrial starch markets.
levels of profitability in ethanol have also placed pressure on pricing and unit margins of native starch products, since the industry has some Financial performance ability to swing capacity between product lines in Sales of 1,855 million were 3% above the response to changes in relative returns.
prior year 2% lower in constant currency.
The decrease in constant currency was driven Demand for industrial starches, primarily used principally by the impact of lower co-product in paper and packaging production, recovered values.
Adjusted operating profit of 178 million modestly from the levels experienced during was 2% below the prior year 10% in constant the second half of the 2009 financial year, and currency.
The effect of exchange translation was showed sequential quarterly growth in the final to increase operating profit by 17 million.
quarter of the 2010 financial year, although still significantly below the levels experienced Primary before the economic downturn.
The markets for Sales increased by 3% to 1,309 million industrial starches remain challenging due both decreased by 2% in constant currency.
to lower levels of demand and margin pressure Operating profits decreased by 21 million to from US wet mill ethanol capacity.
77 million, a reduction of 21% 29% in constant Record corn yields and a large corn crop in the currency.
Co-product income was significantly 2009 calendar year produced a more stable below the comparative period, which benefited corn price environment in the 2010 financial from strong prices during the commodity price year compared with the prior year.
Lower corn peak of summer 2008.
Corn prices in the quality, from the late 2009 harvest following wet USA saw an unprecedented spike in the 2008 conditions during autumn 2009 in much of the calendar year, reaching almost US$8 per bushel Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 21 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review Performance in July 2008.
Corn co-product prices also peaked Following a detailed analysis of end markets, in during the third quarter of the 2008 calendar year.
light of costs of around 70 million to complete However, the subsequent fall in corn and soy and commission our plant in Fort Dodge, and prices resulted in corresponding price declines factoring in the risks associated with future for corn gluten feed, corn gluten meal, and corn returns from completing and operating the oil.
Crude oil prices peaked at almost US$150per plant, we have concluded that the plant is highly barrel in July 2008, but fell rapidly to below unlikely to be completed or commissioned in the US$40per barrel during the second half of the foreseeable future.
As a result, the facility has 2008 calendar year.
Corn gluten feed selling prices been mothballed and written down to 17million, were weak during the 2010 financial year due both leading to an impairment of 217 million which has to lower demand, following reductions in US beef been recognised as an exceptional charge in the and dairy herds, and an increased supply of the 2010 financial year.
A further exceptional charge co-product from dry mill ethanol production.
of approximately 25million will be recognised during the 2011 financial year in respect of longPrimary food sales of 982 million were 12% term contracts relating to the facility.
higher than the prior year 7% in constant currency.
Operating profits of 85 million were Value added 11% below the prior year 18% in constant Value added ingredients sales increased by 4% currency.
The reduction in operating profit was to 546 million decreased by 3% in constant due to lower co-product income from the sale of currency.
Operating profits increased by 22% corn oil.
Excluding the impact of co-products, 12% in constant currency to 101 million.
operating profits in primary food were marginally above the prior year.
Total sales volumes within Operating profits from value added food increased primary food were marginally above the prior by 18% 9% in constant currency to 98 million year, as increased sweetener demand from reflecting firmer pricing and steady demand Mexico in the second half of the 2010 financial patterns.
We have continued to experience year contrasted with a modest destocking effect good growth in sales volumes of our wellness experienced across all major product lines in the ingredients.
PROMITOR Soluble Corn Fiber second half of the prior year.
performed strongly, with several major customers launching new products containing this ingredient Operating profits from primary sweeteners in the during the year in order to meet increased second half of the 2010 financial year were below consumer demand.
the comparative period, reflecting margins in the final quarter somewhat below the prior year.
Operating profits from value added industrial ingredients were 3 million, compared with break Profits at Almex, our Mexican cereal sweeteners even in the prior year.
Operating profits from and starches joint venture, were marginally below value added industrial starches were broadly in the prior year due to a modest reduction in unit line with the prior year: while demand patterns margins.
Our citric acid business performed well, have stabilised at levels somewhat below those with solid improvement in operating profit over the experienced immediately following the economic prior year reflecting strong global demand.
downturn, unit margins continue to be under pressure.
The Bio-PDO joint venture broke even Primary industrial sales comprising ethanol, native in the 2010 financial year, having made a small industrial starches and animal feed co-products loss in the prior year.
of 327 million were 17% below the prior year 21% in constant currency.
Operating losses of 8 million in the 2010 financial year compared with Looking forward operating profits of 3 million in the prior year.
The Demand for value added food ingredients has reduction in operating profits was due principally proved steady, and we expect this trend to to lower industrial starch profits and lower animal continue.
Within our primary food markets, we feed co-product income.
expect domestic demand for corn sweeteners to continue its long-term trend of gradual decline, Industrial starch profits in the 2010 financial year although Mexico currently represents an attractive were lower than the prior year due to lower levels market for US sweeteners.
of underlying demand which reduced markedly from the third quarter of the 2009 financial year Whilst we have seen a degree of improvement and to additional demand in the comparative in demand for industrial starches from the levels period following the floods in Iowa during 2008 experienced during the second half of the 2009 which affected production at competitor plants.
financial year, with lower capacity utilisation Demand remains relatively weak in the US levels in key US end markets and reduced export domestic paper and packaging markets, and the markets, we remain cautious about the timing and relative strength of the US dollar has adversely extent of further improvement in demand.
impacted the overseas competitiveness of our Visibility over the timing of any improvement in major customers.
Industrial starch prices and ethanol markets remains limited.
margins have also come under pressure from lower ethanol returns, as the industry has Corn costs have weakened since the start of some ability to swing capacity between these the calendar year with the expectation of a large product lines.
US corn crop in calendar year 2010.
The level of net corn costs will, as usual, be a key factor Ethanol losses were broadly in line with the in determining performance in the coming comparative period.
Although US ethanol markets financial year.
improved slightly in the second half of the 2010 financial year, with a modest cash margin returning to spot markets, ethanol activities in the second half of the 2010 financial year still generated an operating loss.
