Governance Executive management Solutions platform.
Subsequently joined Rob Luijten Executive Swift and Co, where he was President Group Human Resources Director of its Australian Meat Holdings division management Joined Tate & Lyle in February 2010. until 2007.
Holds a Masters degree in Human The Group Executive Committee Resource Studies from Tilburg University oversees the development and and began his career with Inamed execution of the Groups strategy, and Corporation before spending ten years Executive has overall responsibility for achieving with GE Plastics where he held a number management business results.
of senior human resources roles in both Europe and Asia, including five years The biographies for Javed Ahmed, The members of the Group based in Shanghai as Human Resources Tim Lodge and Robert Gibber are on Executive Committee as at Director, Asia Pacific.
26May2010 are as follows: joined BG Group PLC where he was Ian Bacon Human Resources Director, Africa, Javed Ahmed Chief Executive, Sugars Middle East and Asia until 2009.
Chief Executive Joined Tate & Lyle in November Chairman of the Committee Olivier Rigaud 2005 and became Chief Executive, President, Food & Industrial Tim Lodge Sugars in January 2006.
A graduate of Group Finance Director Ingredients, Europe Birmingham University, Ian began his Joined Tate & Lyle Amylum business Robert Gibber 26-year career with Unilever in 1979, Company Secretary and holding a number of senior positions in 1988 as a sales manager in France.
General Counsel A chemistry graduate, he has held including Vice President, Global Customer Development: Vice President, various management positions within Ian Bacon Tate & Lyle, including in industrial Operations North Africa, Middle East Chief Executive, Sugars and Turkey: and General Manager, products, liquid sweeteners and alcohol Karl Kramer sales.
In 2000, Olivier became Vice Birds Eye Walls.
President, Sucralose President Food Ingredients, Europe Karl Kramer and was appointed President, Food & Rob Luijten President, Sucralose Group Human Industrial Ingredients, Europe in 2008.
Resources Director Joined Tate & Lyle in April 2008 and Matt Wineinger became President, Sucralose in Olivier Rigaud President, Food & Industrial June 2008.
A graduate of Chemical President, Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas Engineering from the New Jersey Ingredients, Europe Institute of Technology, Karl also holds Joined Tate & Lyle in March 2008 Matt Wineinger an MBA from the New York University and became President, Food & President, Food & Industrial Stern School of Business.
Began his Industrial Ingredients, Americas in Ingredients, Americas career in R&D at General Foods and July 2008.
A graduate of Kansas State then worked in brand management University, Matt started his career in for Nestl, and in international sales the Food Products Division at Procter for the NutraSweet Kelco Division of & Gamble and then worked in a Monsanto.
Before joining Tate & Lyle, variety of roles for Monsanto and later Karl held various international general Cargill, where he became President management roles in the flavour of Sales, Marketing and Research division of Givaudan.
& Development in 2002 for its Meat Executive management structure from 1 June 2010 As explained in the Chief Executives review on page 6, from 1 June 2010 we will reorganise and operate through three global business units: Speciality Food Ingredients, Bulk Ingredients and Sugars.
A new unit, the Innovation and Commercial Javed Ahmed Chief Executive Development group, will be established.
The composition of the Group Executive Committee is shown in the diagram below.
Matt Wineinger Olivier Rigaud Ian Bacon Karl Kramer Tim Lodge Rob Luijten Robert Gibber President, President, President, Sugars President, Chief Financial Executive Vice Executive Vice Bulk Ingredients Speciality Food Innovation and Officer President, President, Ingredients Commercial Human Resources Company Development Secretary and General Counsel 40 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010
