Excluding restructuring aid in Market conditions both years, operating profit increased by 24% Primary in constant currency.
The effect of exchange Volumes of isoglucose produced within the EU translation was to increase profit by 1 million.
are regulated via quota as part of the EU Sugar The Single Ingredients business achieved a result Regime.
The selling price of isoglucose is linked marginally below the prior year.
Lower levels to the price of sugar but, unlike sugar, the raw of capacity utilisation impacted unit margins, material input price is not regulated.
During particularly in the second half of the year.
the four-year process of reform, isoglucose The Food Systems business reported a result producers paid a restructuring levy, but also had slightly ahead of the prior year, reflecting robust their quotas increased by 60%.
The payment demand patterns and continuing benefit from the of these levies ceased on 30September 2009. integration of this business.
Through our Eaststarch joint-venture, and its 50% share in the Hungrana joint-venture facility, the Primary Group has an economic interest in approximately Sales of primary products decreased by 20% 55% of the EUs isoglucose quotas.
to 266 million 25% in constant currency.
Operating profit reduced from 27million to European demand for corn-based sweeteners 21million, a decrease of 22% 22% in for use in fermentation which is not subject constant currency.
to quota control continued to be adversely impacted by competition from out-of-quota Within primary food ingredients, liquid sweetener sugar stocks, which act as a substitute for this volumes were broadly in line with the prior year.
Market demand for other primary Sweetener volumes reduced following closure of food ingredients in the 2010 financial year was the Greek plant, but the business continued to relatively steady at levels marginally below those benefit from its increased EU isoglucose quota experienced before the economic downturn.
and, during the year, completed the expansion of isoglucose capacity at our joint-venture plant Industrial starch markets in Europe have in Slovakia.
However, against the backdrop of remained challenging.
With demand still lower levels of demand we have seen following materially below the levels experienced before the economic downturn, unit margins in nonthe economic downturn and greater competition quota primary food were below the level of from other carbohydrate sources, notably wheat the prior year, reflecting a more competitive and potato starches, pricing in this market has marketplace, particularly during the second half been under considerable pressure.
The good European corn crop of 2008 was During the first half of the 2010 financial year, followed by another in 2009, and net corn costs the division recognised a charge of 4 million have remained at similar, lower levels throughout representing the final levies payable into the the 2010 financial year.
During the second half of the 2010 financial year, restructuring aid Value added of 3 million was recognised following our Demand for value added food ingredients has decision to surrender our Romanian isoglucose remained steady.
Consumer focus on health quota.
During the second half of the prior year, and wellness continues to drive market growth restructuring aid of 11 million was recognised in this area.
following the surrender of the small isoglucose quotas in the Netherlands and Greece.
Financial performance Sales decreased by 9% to 491 million 15% Primary industrial ingredients generated an in constant currency.
Adjusted operating profit operating loss of 3 million in the year, compared increased by 6% to 54 million 4% in constant to a result of breakeven in the prior year.
EU restructuring aid totalling 3 million volumes were below the prior year, and unit 2009 11 million was recognised during margins came under pressure in an increasingly the year, following the surrender of isoglucose competitive marketplace.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 23 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
