Governance Directors remuneration report Summary of executive remuneration review Long-term incentive The Committee undertook a comprehensive review of 1.
Award size and shareholding requirement executive remuneration during the year ended 31 March2010, The PSP rules currently permit a maximum individual award of and is planning to implement a number of changes to 1.75 times base salary.
Following the executive remuneration remuneration policy for the year ending 31 March 2011, review, the Committee concluded it should seek shareholder intended to provide more emphasis on driving Company approval for an increase in the award limit, which is detailed performance and delivering value for shareholders.
The proposed larger award size will The remuneration arrangements for Javed Ahmed details also be subject to a new approach to performance conditions see below.
It is also accompanied by a significant increase of which were disclosed in the Annual Report 2009 and in this report were excluded from this review having been in the executive shareholding requirement, also detailed in the Notice.
The percentage of the total award that vests at agreed on his appointment in 2009.
His arrangements will remain unchanged.
threshold performance will also reduce, as a further incentive to drive higher levels of performance.
Following consultation with major shareholders and The USA is the largest operating base and source of sales shareholder bodies, a number of changes to the existing arrangements for Tim Lodge and other members of the and profits for the company.
A higher LTI award limit will enable the Committee to make awards that take better Group Executive Committee are proposed.
account of market practice amongst companies operating These changes are designed to support the Companys in the NorthAmerican market.
strategy, with a greater emphasis on performance-related pay, alignment to shareholder value growth, sustained Accordingly, shareholder approval of this amendment to the rules of the PSP is being sought at the forthcoming AGM.
performance and management of risk.
The changes also reflect Tate & Lyles increasingly international business profile 2.
Performance conditions and management team, with more than three-quarters of The Committees view is that performance conditions for the revenues generated outside the UK.
PSP should give management a clear line of sight between their performance and reward, as this will maximize the Annual bonus for the year ending 31 March 2011 motivational impact of the Plan.
Performance metrics if any, directly comparable peers, relative TSR does not There will be a new approach to performance metrics for provide this line of sight.
The broad peer group that has annual bonus, designed to reflect the key value drivers been used for previous PSP awards includes companies for the business.
There will be three performance metrics: across many different sectors, and therefore does not give sales growth, profitability and cash conversion cycle, to a like-for-like comparison.
reflect managements ability to grow the business, generate It is therefore proposed to apply financial performance underlying profit and convert profit into cash.
Sales growth conditions to the award.
These will be metrics that are will be measured by a contribution metric net sales less raw important drivers of shareholder value.
The Committee is material cost, profit will be based on the current PBTEA aware that financial performance conditions are sometimes metric, and cash conversion cycle will be based on net criticised for being susceptible to manipulation.
The greatest emphasis will be on profit: Committee will therefore make any necessary adjustments before any bonus becomes payable under any of the criteria, to the performance outcomes to ensure that the results are a a minimum level of profit will need to be achieved.
To achieve true reflection of the actual performance achieved.
the maximum bonus payout, performance against all three metrics will need to be outstanding.
Consistent with prior For the awards in 2010 the proposed metrics are: years, all numbers will be restated on the basis of exchange rates used for the Groups annual operating plan.
a Adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS metric: 50% of total award.
As the financial targets are commercially sensitive they will not be disclosed in advance.
However, following Performance is measured by comparing the compound shareholder consultation, the Committee has determined annual growth rate CAGR of the Companys adjusted that the directors remuneration report for the year ending diluted EPS from continuing operations over the three-year 31March2011 will include the financial targets for each performance period against the predetermined targets.
metric, the extent to which they were achieved and the impact b Adjusted return on capital employed ROCE : of this on the bonus paid.
Target and maximum bonus payable Tate & Lyle has extensive capital investment in its plant and The target level of annual bonus will remain unchanged equipment, and from previous acquisitions.
Ensuring this at 50% of base salary.
However, the maximum bonus will generates a healthy level of return is an important objective be set at 175% of base salary, for achieving outstanding and accordingly the ROCE metric has been introduced.
performance across all three metrics.
Performance is measured by the adjusted ROCE percentage 3.
Delivery in shares over the three-year performance period against the The portion of any annual bonus above 100% of base predetermined targets.
salary will be delivered in Tate & Lyle PLC shares, which will be deferred for a further two years.
These shares will not Details of the performance targets and vesting scale for the benefit from any matching.
This will contribute to executives 2010 awards to be made under the PSP are provided in increased shareholding requirements see below and provide the Notice of AGM, accompanying the resolution seeking a focus on sustained shareholder value growth and risk shareholder approval for a change to the award limit.
The balance of the annual bonus will be delivered in non-deferred cash.
Claw-back The Committee will have the authority to claw back up to 100% of annual bonus, in certain situations such as employee misconduct or mis-statement of financial results.
