Group financial results Summary of Group performance Basis of preparation Sales of 3,506 million from continuing operations were 1% lower than the prior year.
Adjusted performance After excluding the effects of exchange, sales Adjusted profit is reported as it provides both were 6% lower.
management and investors with valuable additional information on the performance of the Primary sales decreased by 4% 8% in constant business.
The following items are excluded from currency from 2,584 million to 2,476 million.
adjusted profit: This reduction was principally due to lower coproduct income, lower industrial sales volumes n results of discontinued operations, including in both the Americas and Europe and reduced gains and losses on disposal Note 12 : selling prices of sugar and isoglucose in Europe, n exceptional items from continuing reflecting the institutional price cuts implemented operations Note 7 : and under EU Sugar Regime reform.
Value added n amortisation of acquir ed intangibles.
sales increased by 6% flat in constant currency This adjusted information is used internally for to 1,030 million, representing around 30% of analysing the performance of the business.
A reconciliation of reported and adjusted Overall adjusted operating profit was in line with information is included in Note 42. the prior year decreased by 7% in constant currency at 298 million.
Adjusted operating Impact of changes in exchange rates profits in Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas Our reported financial performance has been of 178 million were 2% below the prior year positively impacted this year by exchange rate 10% in constant currency as lower co-product translation, in particular due to the strengthening income and reduced industrial starch profits of the average US dollar and euro exchange were partly offset by increased profits from rates against sterling.
The average and closing value added food ingredients.
Food & Industrial exchange rates used to translate reported Ingredients, Europe achieved an increase in results were as follows: operating profits of 6% 4% in constant currency to 54 million, reflecting growth in value added Average rates Closing rates food ingredients and Food Systems, partly offset 2010 2009 2010 2009 by weaker primary food and industrial starch margins.
Sugars delivered an increase of 150% US dollar:sterling 1.61 1.80 1.52 1.43 100% in constant currency to 30 million, Euro:sterling 1.13 1.19 1.12 1.08 reflecting the expected increase in unit margins within EU sugar during the second half of the In addition to the impact on profits, the year.
Adjusted operating profits in Sucralose strengthening of the sterling closing exchange reduced by 7% 9% in constant currency to rate has had the effect of reducing our net debt, 67 million, with lower unit operating margins thereby benefiting reported net debt.
Further reflecting costs associated with the transition details are set out in the net debt section below.
Central costs increased by 13 million to 31 million, due principally to one-off costs of 5 million Divisional financial performance during the year associated with the review In the discussion of divisional financial and reorganisation of the Groups activities, performance, we discuss performance as and certain one-off credits totalling 6 million reported, with sales and profits earned in foreign recognised in the prior year.
currencies translated at the relevant average exchange rates.
In the commentary, we also In addition to the effects of exchange rate discuss performance in constant currency.
changes, operating profit has been affected Constant currency comparisons have been by a small number of one-off items during the calculated by translating sales and profits in 2010 financial year: we recognised income of underlying currencies for the prior year at the 3million following surrender of isoglucose average rates for the current year.
Constant quota in Romania: and incurred costs of 5 currency comparisons provide an insight into the million relating to the review and reorganisation movements in sales and cost levels driven by of the business performed during the year.
the real local changes, measuring progress in the underlying profitability of the business.
Amortisation of acquired intangibles totalling 14million 2009 15 million was marginally below the prior year.
Primary and value added products Value added products are defined as those Exceptional items totalling a charge of that utilise technology or intellectual property, 276million 2009 119 million have been enabling our customers to produce distinctive addressed in the Chief Executives review products and us to obtain a price premium and and are detailed in Note 7. or sustainable higher margins.
Co-products from our commodity corn milling and sugars The net finance expense from continuing businesses are classified as primary.
There have operations increased from 51 million to been no material changes in classification of 69million.
The exchange impact within products between value added and primary from interest accounted for an increase of 4million the comparative period.
compared to the prior year.
We recognised a charge within interest expense in the current Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 19 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
