Business review What we do The business divisions will be supported by a Overview new Innovation and Commercial Development group with responsibility for bringing innovation Tate & Lyle is a global provider of ingredients to market: global business support functions: and and solutions to the food, beverage and other a corporate head office.
Through our large-scale, efficient manufacturing plants, we turn raw materials into distinctive, high quality ingredients for our Our operations customers.
Our ingredients and solutions add taste, texture, nutrition and increased functionality Sourcing raw materials to products that millions of people around the Ensuring we have a long-term, reliable supply of world use or consume every day.
corn and cane sugar for our plants is essential.
Tate & Lyle was founded in the UK in 1921 but This involves developing long-term, mutually its roots can be traced back to a number of beneficial relationships with growers, farmers companies established in the middle of the 19th and other commercial partners to secure supply: century focused on sugars in Europe, and corn understanding commodity markets: and hedging milling in the USA and Europe.
Tate & Lyle is our costs where necessary and feasible.
headquartered in the UK and operates more than 45 production facilities around the world.
Corn Tate & Lyle operates a network of corn wet mills in both North America and Europe, processing Purpose and strategy two types of corn: dent and waxy.
Dent corn is the most common crop and is used to make high Tate & Lyles purpose is to become the leading global provider of speciality food ingredients fructose corn syrup, basic food and industrial starches, alcohol ethanol and animal feed.
corn is contracted direct from the farmer and Our strategy is to deliver sustainable long-term has special functionality that makes it ideal for growth and returns for our shareholders through: creating stabilisers, thickeners and emulsifiers for the food industry.
It is also used in adhesives and n disciplined focus on gr owing our speciality gums for the paper industry.
food ingredients business deeper customer understanding, continuous Running our large corn wet milling plants in the innovation and agility USA efficiently 24 hours a day relies on good str onger positions in high-growth markets management of the corn supply chain.
We own n driving our bulk ingr edients and sugars a network of elevators silos to purchase corn businesses for sustained cash generation to directly from farmer producers.
co-operatives and family-owned grain companies supply millions of bushels of corn each year for More details of how we will deliver on this our plants.
Corn purchase contracts may be strategy are given in the Chief Executives review negotiated with corn suppliers for delivery the on pages 3 to 7. same day, or in some cases price and terms may be for delivery up to 18 months ahead.
Organisational structure In Europe, we have one wholly-owned corn wet milling plant, with another four as part of our joint During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group venture, Eaststarch.
We also have one whollyoperated through four business divisions: owned corn wet milling plant in Morocco.
Due to the sweetener quota system in Europe and n Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas: other factors such as transport infrastructure, n Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe: our plants primarily serve local markets and are n Sugars: and therefore significantly smaller than our US plants, n Sucralose.
processing in total just over two million tonnes of corn per year.
We purchase dent corn locally These divisions were supported by the corporate where possible, and commission waxy corn direct head office in London and by a number of global from European farmers for producing speciality business groups with expertise in areas such food starches at our plant in the Netherlands.
as procurement, information technology and research and development.
A description of the Cane sugar performance of the Group and each of its four Our Sugars business processes and refines divisions for the year ended 31 March 2010 can cane sugar, a tropical crop grown in areas of high be found on pages 18 to 31. sunshine and rainfall.
Cane sugar accounts for As explained in the Chief Executives review on around 80% of world sugar production.
pages 3 to 7, with effect from 1 June 2010, the In Europe, we have the capacity to refine about Group will be reorganised into three new global 1.4 million tonnes of sugar each year from our business divisions: two refineries, and we process up to one million n Speciality Food Ingredients: tonnes of sugar cane at our factory in Vietnam.
While our Vietnamese operation sources from n Bulk Ingredients: and local growers, our European business secures n Sugars.
supply from African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and least-developed countries under the EU Sugar Regime.
These suppliers have preferential access to the European sugar market under various agreements with the EU.
8 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 Reform of the EU Sugar Regime over the last We operate more than 45 production facilities four years and resulting price cuts have affected mainly in the Americas, Europe and South East the whole of the supply chain, including raw Asia.
Tate & Lyle is the largest cane sugar sugar suppliers.
This means that maintaining refiner in Europe, and in the USA, our corn strong working relationships with our suppliers is wet milling plants process some 2% of the increasingly important to improve the profitability annual corn crop.
of the industry for all stakeholders and to ensure Operating our plants safely and efficiently we can continue to source the cane sugar we at high volumes requires reliable and upneed for our refineries.
We have teams of highly qualified engineers across the business who make sure our plants function Our highly qualified engineers effectively, efficiently and safely.
Our engineers across the business make use a number of computer-based process tools to track and model data to help identify sure our plants function effectively, opportunities for efficiency improvements such as increasing yields, minimising waste and efficiently and safely.
In our production processes, nothing is wasted.
In order to help our supplier partners to grow In sugar processing, molasses a by-product of their domestic sugar industries in a sustainable the refining process is sold as animal feed or way, during the year we formed a technical used as a raw material for fermentation-based support group of Tate & Lyle employees who ingredients such as citric acid and alcohol.
reside in supplier countries and work alongside Likewise, in corn processing, every part of the our suppliers to improve efficiency and increase kernel is valuable, and selling on those parts cane sugar output.
we do not use ourselves helps manage the In 2008, we announced our decision to convert net cost of corn.
all UK retail cane sugar to Fairtrade.
At that time this was the largest ever switch to the ethical Hull and labelling scheme by any major UK food or drink bre brand.
We have substantially completed the switch to Fairtrade for all UK retail sugars Starch during the year.
Tate & Lyles first accredited Fairtrade growerpartner is Belize, from whom we have purchased Starch sugar for over 35 years.
Since Tate&Lyle moved and gluten to Fairtrade, sugar cane farmers in Belize have received Fairtrade premiums from Tate & Lyle which has been used to improve their livelihoods and develop more sustainable communities.
Germ Supply chain ethics We have a consistent, Group-wide approach to supplier relationships, based on our Business We use every part of the corn kernel.
Corn is Code of Conduct, which covers purchasing broken down into 57% corn starch used to strategies at global, regional and local levels.
make food and industrial ingredients : 22% We also survey many of our suppliers on their corn gluten feed made from the hull and fibre ethical commitment.
Our auditing programme and used in cattle feed : 4% corn gluten meal is designed to evaluate the social, ethical and extracted from the endosperm and used in environmental performance of our suppliers aquaculture feed and pet food : 3% corn oil to identify any shortcomings and provide made from the germ and used by the food them with the support they need to make industry : and the remaining 14% is water.
Because our ingredients enter the food chain in We apply rigorous standards to our raw material consumer products, stringent quality standards suppliers, both practical and ethical, and share are enforced at every site.
Quality assurance best practice and work with them to help them also reduces waste and costs, and fosters meet our compliance needs.
This is essential if good customer relations.
Every Tate & Lyle we are to deliver on our customers requirements manufacturing facility has to comply with Group for traceability and quality throughout the minimum standards which include third-party supply chain.
validation of food safety and quality systems.
Manufacturing ingredients Our logistics teams are responsible for We process large volumes of corn and sugar warehousing, freight costs and customer in our network of manufacturing facilities to service.
Our largest logistics hub is based in create hundreds of quality ingredients for Lafayette, Indiana, which is most central to our customers.
Creating this volume and all our US plants.
operating large-scale, efficient plants gives us a competitive cost position to compete in the markets we serve.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 9 Endosperm Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
