Business review What we do The business divisions will be supported by a Overview new Innovation and Commercial Development group with responsibility for bringing innovation Tate & Lyle is a global provider of ingredients to market: global business support functions: and and solutions to the food, beverage and other a corporate head office.
Through our large-scale, efficient manufacturing plants, we turn raw materials into distinctive, high quality ingredients for our Our operations customers.
Our ingredients and solutions add taste, texture, nutrition and increased functionality Sourcing raw materials to products that millions of people around the Ensuring we have a long-term, reliable supply of world use or consume every day.
corn and cane sugar for our plants is essential.
Tate & Lyle was founded in the UK in 1921 but This involves developing long-term, mutually its roots can be traced back to a number of beneficial relationships with growers, farmers companies established in the middle of the 19th and other commercial partners to secure supply: century focused on sugars in Europe, and corn understanding commodity markets: and hedging milling in the USA and Europe.
Tate & Lyle is our costs where necessary and feasible.
headquartered in the UK and operates more than 45 production facilities around the world.
Corn Tate & Lyle operates a network of corn wet mills in both North America and Europe, processing Purpose and strategy two types of corn: dent and waxy.
Dent corn is the most common crop and is used to make high Tate & Lyles purpose is to become the leading global provider of speciality food ingredients fructose corn syrup, basic food and industrial starches, alcohol ethanol and animal feed.
corn is contracted direct from the farmer and Our strategy is to deliver sustainable long-term has special functionality that makes it ideal for growth and returns for our shareholders through: creating stabilisers, thickeners and emulsifiers for the food industry.
It is also used in adhesives and n disciplined focus on gr owing our speciality gums for the paper industry.
food ingredients business deeper customer understanding, continuous Running our large corn wet milling plants in the innovation and agility USA efficiently 24 hours a day relies on good str onger positions in high-growth markets management of the corn supply chain.
We own n driving our bulk ingr edients and sugars a network of elevators silos to purchase corn businesses for sustained cash generation to directly from farmer producers.
co-operatives and family-owned grain companies supply millions of bushels of corn each year for More details of how we will deliver on this our plants.
Corn purchase contracts may be strategy are given in the Chief Executives review negotiated with corn suppliers for delivery the on pages 3 to 7. same day, or in some cases price and terms may be for delivery up to 18 months ahead.
Organisational structure In Europe, we have one wholly-owned corn wet milling plant, with another four as part of our joint During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group venture, Eaststarch.
We also have one whollyoperated through four business divisions: owned corn wet milling plant in Morocco.
Due to the sweetener quota system in Europe and n Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas: other factors such as transport infrastructure, n Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe: our plants primarily serve local markets and are n Sugars: and therefore significantly smaller than our US plants, n Sucralose.
processing in total just over two million tonnes of corn per year.
We purchase dent corn locally These divisions were supported by the corporate where possible, and commission waxy corn direct head office in London and by a number of global from European farmers for producing speciality business groups with expertise in areas such food starches at our plant in the Netherlands.
as procurement, information technology and research and development.
A description of the Cane sugar performance of the Group and each of its four Our Sugars business processes and refines divisions for the year ended 31 March 2010 can cane sugar, a tropical crop grown in areas of high be found on pages 18 to 31. sunshine and rainfall.
Cane sugar accounts for As explained in the Chief Executives review on around 80% of world sugar production.
pages 3 to 7, with effect from 1 June 2010, the In Europe, we have the capacity to refine about Group will be reorganised into three new global 1.4 million tonnes of sugar each year from our business divisions: two refineries, and we process up to one million n Speciality Food Ingredients: tonnes of sugar cane at our factory in Vietnam.
While our Vietnamese operation sources from n Bulk Ingredients: and local growers, our European business secures n Sugars.
supply from African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and least-developed countries under the EU Sugar Regime.
These suppliers have preferential access to the European sugar market under various agreements with the EU.
