Committee, deemed that the conditions had been met and Base salary, benefits and other allowances accordingly a payment of 506,250 75% of base salary Since the Chief Executive joined the Group on was awarded to him.
In accordance with the terms of his 1October2009, the Committee agreed that an increase at appointment, Javed Ahmeds entitlement to a bonus under the normal review date of 1 April would not be appropriate in the Tate & Lyle annual bonus scheme for the year ended 2010.
The Group Finance Directors base salary was increased 31March 2010 was reduced by the amount of this by 2%, effective 1 April 2010 2009 0%.
This was in line compensatory cash payment and was such that he did with levels of base salary increase for other employees.
not receive any bonus payment.
Executive directors base salaries are shown in the table below.
Long-term incentive arrangements As at 1 April 2009 or Performance-based long-term incentive plans LTIPs closely date of appointment align executive directors and senior executives interests As at 1 April 2010 if later with those of shareholders, and are therefore an important component of the overall package.
Javed Ahmed 675000 675000 During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Company operated Tim Lodge 382500 375000 one LTIP, the Tate & Lyle 2003 Performance Share Plan PSP.
In addition, there are some outstanding awards that were Executive directors also receive other benefits comprising made under earlier plans that are no longer in operation or principally a company car or a cash allowance in lieu: health have been suspended.
insurance: and premiums paid on life assurance policies.
Performance Share Plan PSP Annual bonus scheme Maximum award level Bonus for the year ended 31 March 2010 Under the PSP, executive directors and other senior Two performance criteria were applied to the bonus for the executives are awarded, at the discretion of the Committee, year ended 31 March 2010 as follows: a conditional right to receive a number of Tate & Lyle ordinary shares in value up to a maximum of 175% of Performance criteria Proportion of annual incentive base salary per annum.
Group profit before tax, exceptional Javed Ahmed received special long-term incentive awards items and amortisation PBTEA 75% to facilitate his recruitment, detailed in the Annual Report Operating cash flow metric cash flow 25% 2009, and also on page 54.
Although these were not granted under the PSP, they have similar terms to PSP awards.
The performance target criteria consisted of threshold and Javed Ahmed did not receive a grant in 2009 under the target awards payable on the achievement of predetermined PSP itself.
performance levels, and a maximum award payable for the achievement of a performance level in excess of target Performance conditions 2009 awards performance.
There was a minimum requirement that before The number of shares a participant ultimately receives any bonus could be payable under the cash flow metric, depends on the Groups performance during the three-year threshold PBTEA had to be achieved.
For bonus purposes, performance period beginning on 1 April in the year of the PBTEA and cash flow were based on the performance of the award.
For the 2009 awards, the performance conditions Groups continuing businesses.
comprised two elements: The executive directors award potential, as a percentage a Total shareholder return TSR 50% of total award of base salary, for the achievement of different levels of Performance is measured by comparing the TSR share performance was as follows: price growth plus reinvested dividends of Tate & Lyle % of base salary relative to a comparator group comprising the companies occupying positions 50 to 130 of the FTSE rankings at Threshold Target Maximum the beginning of the relevant performance period of three Javed Ahmed 10% 75% 150% years.
The Committee considered the comparator group to be appropriate given the Companys position in the FTSE Tim Lodge 10% 50% 100% Index.
The Committee chose the relative TSR metric as an objective measure of the value created for shareholders.
The The financial results for the year ended 31 March 2010 are Committee reviews the performance measurement metrics explained in detail in the business review.
The Group delivered and the continued validity of the comparator group annually.
an outstanding performance in operating cash flow, with All share prices for the purpose of the TSR calculation are a 417million 34% reduction in net debt, and a net debt based on a three-month average.
to EBITDA ratio of 1.8 times 2009 2.4 times.
Free cash flow of 540million 2009 154million was generated.
b Adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS metric Performance substantially exceeded the stretch level 50% of total award under this component of bonus.
Group PBTEA, measured Performance is measured by comparing the compound on a constant exchange rate basis, was 97% of the annual growth rate CAGR of the Companys adjusted diluted stretch performance level after adjustments.
The EPS from total operations over the three-year performance Remuneration Committee awarded Tim Lodge a total period against predetermined targets.
The Committee bonus of 352,621 94% of base salary taking account considered that the use of adjusted diluted EPS alongside of performance on the two metrics, and his outstanding relative TSR created a balance between two commonly used personal contribution to the results for the year ending internal and external metrics, both being relevant measures 31 March 2010 and to the development of the new Group aligned to shareholder value.
strategy for the forthcoming year.
As reported in the Annual Report 2009, under the terms of his recruitment package, Javed Ahmed was, subject to certain conditions, entitled to a compensatory cash payment of 75% of base salary, to recognise the potential annual bonus payment foregone from his former employer.
The Remuneration Committee, with input from the Nominations Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 49 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
