for reviewing and monitoring the processes and measures Share capital used to manage social, environmental and ethical risks and At 31 March 2010, the Company had nominal issued ordinary will assist the Board to enhance its strategy and policies in and preference share capital of 117 million comprising this area.
The Committee will report to the Board and will be 115million in ordinary shares, including 0.1 million in chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
Other actions arising treasury shares, and 2 million in preference shares.
from the performance evaluation are being or will be taken to To satisfy obligations under employee share plans, the address the matters raised, with progress monitored by the Company issued 48,287 ordinary shares during the year and Company Secretary.
reissued 816,012 ordinary shares from treasury.
The Company With regard to the performance of individual directors, the did not issue any ordinary shares or reissue any ordinary Chairman concluded that all directors continue to make an shares from treasury during the period from 1 April 2010 to effective contribution to the Boards work, are well prepared 26 May 2010. and informed about issues they need to consider, and that Further information about share capital is on page 91. their commitment remains strong.
Information about options granted under the Companys During the year, the non-executive directors met together employee share schemes is on pages 93 and 94. without the Chairman, under the chairmanship of the Senior The Company was given authority at the 2009 AGM to make Independent Director, to appraise the Chairmans performance market purchases of up to 45,868,000 of its own ordinary the Senior Independent Director having first sought the views shares.
The Company made no such purchases during the of the executive directors.
In addition, the Chairman held a year ended 31 March 2010.
This authority will expire at the private meeting with the non-executive directors to appraise 2010 AGM and approval will be sought from shareholders for the Chief Executives performance and to address any other a similar authority to be given for a further year.
matters the non-executive directors wished to raise.
The Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees also Substantial shareholdings undertook an evaluation of their work and effectiveness during At 26 May 2010, the Company had been notified under Rule5 the year, the results of which were reported to the Board by of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial the respective Committee Chairmen.
The reviews concluded Services Authority of the following holdings of voting rights that each Committee operated effectively throughout the year.
of shares % held Shareholder communications The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director INVESCO plc 73,462,349 15.97 of Investor Relations maintain a regular programme of Harbinger Capital Partners LLC 42,313,670 9.21 visits and presentations to major institutional shareholders AXA S. A.
The Chairman and Senior Lehman Brothers International Independent Director participate in this programme as Europe 18,122,510 3.95 appropriate and the Chairman provides feedback to the Board Legal & General Group plc 18,062,288 3.93 on any matters raised with him by major shareholders.
Both Barclays Global Investors 17,568,133 3.59 SirPeterGershon and Javed Ahmed undertook separate visits to major institutional shareholders following their respective appointments during the year.
Articles of Association The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation The Investor Relations department provides the Board with of the Company and cover such matters as the rights of a detailed report on any meetings with major institutional shareholders, the appointment or removal of directors and shareholders at each scheduled Board meeting.
All directors the conduct of the Board and general meetings.
Copies are receive copies of analysts reports on the Company and available on request and are displayed on the Companys the Board is briefed periodically by the Companys financial website at www.
advisers on investors perceptions of Tate & Lyle and its investor relations activities.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, directors can be appointed or removed by the Board or by shareholders in The non-executive directors are encouraged to attend general meeting.
Amendments to the Articles of Association presentations to analysts and shareholders, and the have to be approved by at least 75% of those voting in full-year and half-year results presentations.
person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company.
The Company aims to present a balanced and clear Subject to UK company law and the Articles of Association, assessment in all its reports to the public and to regulators.
the directors may exercise all the powers of the Company, Key announcements, financial reports and other information and may delegate authorities to committees, and day-to-day about the Group can be found on the Companys website at management and decision making to individual executive www.
Details of the main Board Committees can be found on pages 44 to 45.
Annual General Meeting AGM A special resolution will be put to the 2010 AGM to adopt The 2010 AGM will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II new Articles of Association reflecting changes arising from Conference Centre in London, on Thursday 22 July 2010 at the implementation of the final sections of the Companies Act 11.00 am.
Full details are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
2006 and the Shareholders Rights Directive.
Shareholders who attend the AGM have the opportunity to put questions to the Board on matters relating to the Board Committees Groups operations and performance.
Approximately There are three main Board Committees: Remuneration, 200shareholders attended the 2009 AGM.
The level of Nominations and Audit.
The terms of reference of each proxy votes received in respect of each resolution, together Committee, which are reviewed annually by the Board, are with the level of abstentions, are announced to shareholders available on the Companys website, www.
com, at the AGM, notified to the market and published on the or from the Company Secretariat at the registered office.
T Tate & L ate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 yle Annual Report 2010 43 43 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
