Business review What we do Negotiating prices and volumes Research partnerships Selling corn-based commodity products in To give us fresh ideas and insights into the both the Americas and Europe is usually done market, we develop partnerships with the through annual pricing rounds.
These involve external research community.
In October 2008, a series of face-to-face meetings with with the support of a 4.5 million contribution customers, held over a number of months, over five years from Tate&Lyle, a new clinical where prices for products like high fructose research facility was opened by Kings College corn syrup, or charges for toll production, are London at St Thomas Hospital to undertake negotiated for the next 12months or in some research into areas such as gastrointestinal cases on a multi-year basis.
health, carbohydrate metabolism, and medical conditions such as obesity, diabetes and The majority of our commodity ingredients, cardiovascular disorders.
Our partnership with both food and industrial, are sold through this Kings College London will allow us to share mechanism, with only a small amount sold on a knowledge and ultimately bring new products spot or ad hoc basis.
The pricing rounds are highly commercial and Our R&D laboratory in Lille, France, is an active our sales teams are responsible for ensuring member of the Nutrition, Health and Longevity that we get the best price for our products, while cluster in Lille that fosters collaboration between remaining competitive against other ingredient private and public research organisations and suppliers who may sell the same ingredient or companies.
Through our participation, we have substitute products.
been able to obtain funding for a research project to develop new prebiotics and have also made In the Americas, as soon as a customer order is close ties with a research platform on extraction agreed, we manage the risk of fluctuating corn and purification methods.
prices by hedging this position on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
In Europe, a smaller Our Research Advisory Group comprises a market for us than the Americas, there is no panel of six international industry and academic liquid corn futures market, which means we experts, chaired by one of our non-executive cannot hedge the full corn price risk as we can directors, Dr Barry Zoumas.
It reviews our in the Americas.
It is not possible to use hedging R&D portfolio and provides insight into how procedures to lock in the majority of by-product leading-edge technologies could apply to revenues in either Europe or the Americas.
At our European sugars business, the cost of Our venture capital fund, Tate&Lyle Ventures, purchasing cane sugar and the final selling price of the finished product are determined within the which was launched in 2006, invests in earlystage, high-growth companies that specialise framework of the EU Sugar Regime.
in renewable ingredients, food technologies, renewable resources and industrial Research and development processing technologies.
We have over 250 people in our R&D team worldwide working to develop innovative To support our businesses and protect our ingredients from renewable resources.
We have competitive advantage, we maintain a significant R&D laboratories in Decatur, Illinois and Lille, number of patents.
Much of the product France, but we also have application laboratories innovation and development work we do results in countries such as France, China, Germany, in patentable or proprietary new technology.
We Italy and Australia which are combined with monitor market developments closely to identify our sales offices.
any potential violations of our patents and intellectual property and take appropriate legal Our in-house R&D capability is organised into action where we consider it necessary.
three primary groups: product development, technology, and customer solutions.
The product development group focuses on developing The markets we serve new products and improving existing products.
The technology group covers process We provide customers in four markets food engineering, analytical and carbohydrate and beverage, industrial, animal feed and chemistry, and biochemicals.
The team focuses pharmaceutical and personal care with quality on how to create, analyse and manufacture services and ingredients.
The customer solutions group includes many of the worlds major food, includes applications and technical service beverage and industrial companies.
The applications teams develop prototypes and provide sensory analysis for customers using our ingredients, while the Food and beverage technical services teams work directly with Food and beverage is our most significant our customers to incorporate our ingredients market, comprising over 75% of the Groups into their products.
In this sector, we also sell endproducts directly through retail distribution With effect from 1 June 2010, our product channels to retail customers in certain markets.
development group will be combined with Our ingredients can be found in the products our global marketing and global platform of nearly all the worlds top 100 food and management functions to form the new beverage companies.
Innovation and Commercial Development group, dedicated to promoting innovation We sell two distinct sets of ingredients and and developing new products and markets services to food and beverage customers for Tate & Lyle.
value added ingredients and primary ingredients.
10 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 Value added ingredients are those ingredients Their specialist knowledge supplements that utilise technology or intellectual property our existing in-house R&D capability.
These enabling our customers to produce distinctive businesses also often act as an R&D team for products and Tate&Lyle to obtain a price smallto medium-sized customers and, by premium and or sustainable higher margins.
building close working relationships, become In these markets, our customers value trusted development partners.
technical and innovation capability, insight and flexibility.
Primary ingredients are relatively Industrial undifferentiated ingredients, sold in markets The global market for industrial ingredients where customers principally value supplier came under severe pressure as a result of the reliability, quality and value.
economic downturn towards the end of the 2008 calendar year, and demand has remained In the value added food ingredients market, at lower levels since then.
Over the longer term, we currently operate within three categories: however, we believe the trend towards greener sweeteners, such as SPLENDA Sucralose and living and the replacement of petrochemicals crystalline fructose: texturants, such as starch will continue to stimulate demand for industrial and gums: and wellness ingredients, such as ingredients made from renewable sources.
Traditional industrial markets for Tate&Lyle With effect from 1June2010, our Speciality have included paper and board starches, fuels Food Ingredients business will be managed ethanol and household goods acidulants.
separately as a single global business unit to Newer markets for us include textiles and ensure an absolute focus on the end markets we plastics Bio-PDO.
We expect this business unit to be a key driver of longer-term growth.
Animal feed We serve this market with molasses produced and traded worldwide and corn gluten meal We count many of the and corn gluten feed produced in both Europe worlds major food, beverage and the Americas.
The latter are by-products of our key production processes and are sold as and industrial companies as our nourishing feed ingredients for livestock, fish and for use in pet foods.
Selling on these products customers.
is important because it helps us reduce the net cost of our raw materials.
Customer understanding drives all that we do.
Pharmaceutical and personal care At the heart of our customer approach is the use A relatively small market for Tate&Lyle, of market research to understand the consumer pharmaceutical and personal care is one we our customers customer, the markets we expect will grow in the future although remaining operate in and our customers needs.
At the moment, we sell we were one of the first food ingredients two value added ingredients into this market: companies to go direct to the consumer to Zemea cosmetics and creams, through our understand for ourselves what drives purchasing joint venture DuPont Tate&Lyle BioProducts: habits, and what consumers might look for in and SPLENDA Sucralose used in oral care future products.
We use this insight to drive products and to sweeten medicines without our own product development, to differentiate adding calories.
ourselves from our competitors and, importantly, to give our customers an advantage by working with Tate&Lyle.
Each year we run a programme of studies to canvass the views of consumers in Europe, the Americas and Asia.
We typically use basic attitudinal research such as focus groups as a starting point, then complete the programme with detailed quantitative studies.
Our R&D, marketing and regulatory teams work together to provide customers with insights from consumer research, support on labelling requirements, and assistance on meeting product claims.
Over the last three years, we have also taken the opportunity to invest in food systems, or blending and speciality ingredients businesses.
These businesses open up new avenues for selling ingredients through their relationships with smallto medium-sized customers and their expertise in specific areas such as the dairy industry, gums and custom formulations.
Primarily based in North America, Germany, Italy and South Africa, these businesses source ingredients and use them to develop solutions for customers.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 11 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
