In addition to market remuneration data provided by Directors remuneration report Hewitt and by Towers Watson, the Committee receives total shareholder return performance data and ranking information This report has been prepared in accordance with the for the Performance Share Plan and Deferred Bonus Share requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and Plan and general market data from Kepler Associates.
Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies Linklaters provides general legal advice on remuneration and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the matters.
Towers Watson assists with pension accounting Regulations, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority for the Company and acts as actuaries to the UK-based and the Combined Code.
 LLP Tate&Lyle Group Pension Scheme.
Hewitt, Towers Watson have audited such content as required by the Act the tabular and Kepler Associates provided no other services to the information on pages 53 to 56.
A resolution to approve this Group.
Linklaters gave legal advice to the Group on a report will be proposed at the AGM on 22July2010.
Remuneration Committee Review of executive remuneration The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent In light of the Companys evolving strategic objectives, non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Board.
The explained in the Chief Executives review, the Committee members of the Committee during the year and up to the date undertook a comprehensive review of executive remuneration of this report were: arrangements, with input from its external advisers.
The Evert Henkes, Chairman results of this review, and proposed changes to remuneration Liz Airey for the forthcoming year are explained in the summary of William Camp from 1 May 2010 executive remuneration review on page52.
Richard Delbridge Sir Peter Gershon Remuneration strategy and policy Douglas Hurt from 10 March 2010 Strategy Sir David Lees until 23 July 2009 Robert Walker The Companys remuneration strategy is to provide remuneration packages that attract, retain and motivate Dr Barry Zoumas high-calibre individuals such that they will deliver superior The Chief Executive, Group Human Resources Director, Group operational performance and outstanding financial results, Compensation Manager and Company Secretary, who acts in a manner that aligns with the Groups core values and as Secretary to the Committee, are normally invited to attend Business Code of Conduct to foster sustainable, profitable meetings, although none are present or involved when his or growth.
To do so, packages must: her own remuneration is discussed.
n be aligned to shareholders interests: The Committee met eight times during the year.
Individual n be competitive: members attendance records at meetings during the year are n encourage a focus on long-term, sustained performance: given in the table on page 42. n be fair and transparent: and n be consistent across the Group.
Responsibilities The Committees terms of reference, which can be found on Policy the Companys website at www.
com, are reviewed To achieve the strategy, the policy for the remuneration of annually to ensure they reflect best practice.
The Committees executive directors and senior executives includes: responsibilities include: n setting the remuneration of the executive directors, the n setting base salary around the market median: Company Chairman and other senior management in n rewarding stretching, superior performance with upper accordance with a policy determined by the Committee quartile levels of reward: and agreed with the Board: n providing an appropriate balance between reward in the n reviewing the competitiveness of executive remuneration short and the long term, and between reward that is fixed using data from independent consultants: and variable: and n reviewing the operation of the long-term incentive plans n providing a competitive, balanced package of benefits.
and annual bonus plan, and determining the participants The Committee also takes into account the general pay and and overall grant levels: and employment conditions of other employees of the Company n agreeing performance targets for the annual bonus plan when determining executive directors remuneration for the and long-term incentive plan and reviewing performance relevant financial year.
This includes taking account of the against these targets.
levels of base salary increase for employees below executive The Committee reviews its work and effectiveness each year level when reviewing executive base salaries, and ensuring that the same principles apply in setting performance and reports any recommendations to the Board.
The 2010 review concluded that the Committee had fulfilled its role targets for executives incentives as for other employees of the Group.
Consultants The Committee receives advice from independent remuneration consultants.
During the year, Hewitt New Bridge Street Hewitt part of Hewitt Associates Ltd acted as principal adviser to the Committee.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 47 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
