Governance Directors remuneration report Remuneration arrangements during the year ended 31 March 2010 for executive directors Balance between fixed and variable components The relative proportions of the Chief Executives and the Group Finance Directors remuneration, when valued at both target and stretch performance levels, including base salary, annual bonus and the award value of the long-term incentives, are shown in the charts below.
Stretch performanc Stretch performanc e e Target performanc Target performanc e e Chief Executive Chief Executive Group Finance Dir Group Finance Dir ecto ecto r r Chief Executive Chief Executive Group Finance Dir Group Finance Dir ecto ecto r r  Non-performance - - related pay 18% related pay 18% related pay 31% related pay 31% related pay 40% related pay 40% related pay 57% related pay 57% Performance-r Performance-r elated pay 60% elated pay 60%  pay 43% related pay 43%  pay 82% related pay 82%  pay 69% related pay 69% Remuneration components The current remuneration package for executive directors consists of base salary, annual bonus, other benefits, long-term incentives, and retirement benefits as follows: Component Objective Principles Base salary Reflects market value of the individual, n Reviewed annually with changes usually taking effect on 1 April.
his or her skills and experience n Benchmarked against relevant comparators, primarily the 50th and performance.
to 130th ranked companies of the FTSE.
n Base salary reviews take into account pay increase levels for employees below the executive level.
n Positioned around the median of the relevant market, taking account of personal performance.
Annual bonus Incentivises year-on-year delivery n Targets set at the start of each financial year by reference to of short-term performance objectives.
the annual operating plan, performance in previous years, market expectations and the prevailing economic climate.
n Level of payout is determined by reference to the performance of the Group, primarily against financial objectives.
Other benefits Provide a competitive, cost-effective n Designed to reflect local market practice.
Long-term Incentivise long-term value creation.
n Discretionary annual award of shares, subject to performance incentives Assists retention of key individuals.
conditions and remaining in service.
Aligns executives and shareholders interests.
Pension Provides competitive post-retirement n Delivered through a company pension plan and or cash benefits.
allowances, reflecting local market practice.
n For executive directors, only base salary is pensionable.
