Business review Performance Sucralose Year to 31 March 2010 Year to 31 March 2009 Value Value Primary added Total Primary added Total m m m m m m Sales 187 187 169 169 Adjusted operating profit 67 67 72 72 Margin 35.8% 35.8% 42.6% 42.6% in McIntosh, Alabama was completed ahead of Market conditions expectations, accelerating the benefit of lowerWe estimate that the value of the global market cost production.
for high-intensity sweeteners HIS remained flat at around US$1.2 billion in the 2009 calendar Adjusted operating profit reduced by 7% 9% in year.
SPLENDA Sucralose again increased its constant currency to 67 million.
This decrease share of the HIS market, increasing from 25% to was driven by one off credits of around 4million 26% during the year, gaining share within every in the prior year and lower unit margins, reflecting major geographic region.
the non-exceptional costs arising from the reorganisation of the sucralose manufacturing During the year, SPLENDA Sucralose also footprint, together with the relatively high costs in continued to capture an increasing share of opening inventory which impacted cost of sales new product launches containing HIS.
Total in the 2010 financial year.
These impacts were product launches containing HIS increased partly mitigated by reduced operating costs from by 11% year on year, while those containing running a single plant during the latter part of SPLENDA Sucralose increased by 15%.
Geographically, the majority of new products launched with SPLENDA Sucralose were in Operating margins of 35.8% were below the Japan, Latin America and Europe.
underlying margins in the high 30% range achieved in the 2009 financial year, but ahead Customer product launches of managements expectations due to a During the year, there were a number of degree of customer re-stocking boosting sales notable customer product launches, product volumes during the early part of the year and line extensions and reformulations using the accelerated capture of cost benefits from SPLENDA Sucralose.
New product launches running a single plant during the latter part of included Pepsi Max in China: Fanta flavoured the year.
Reported operating margin in the 2009 beverages in Belgium: Orange Crush in financial year was 42.6%.
After adjusting for Mexico: Cadbury Beldent Chewing Gum in one-off credits, including those arising from Argentina: and Colgate Wisp in the USA.
After the final settlement of deferred consideration experiencing success in the market, products payable to McNeil, underlying operating margins such as Gatorade G2 and Pillsbury Reduced for the 2009 year were in the high 30% range.
Sugar Bakery Mixes and Frostings extended Following the decision to mothball McIntosh, their product lines.
Hansens Monster Energy expanded into the European market, and is we recognised an exceptional charge in the first half of the 2010 financial year of 55million now available in Australia, the Netherlands, UK, France, Belgium, Spain and South Africa.
representing the anticipated cash costs SPLENDA Sucralose has continued to lead the associated with this decision.
Cash costs energy drink market as the preferred sweetener.
of 19million were paid during the 2010 Private label manufacturers continue to financial year.
reformulate using SPLENDA Sucralose, offering products for key retailers such as Kroger, Target, Looking forward Schwans, Aldi, Sainsburys and Wal-Mart.
We expect our strategy of putting in place longterm customer contracts with volume incentive Financial performance arrangements to continue to drive sales volume growth at lower average selling prices.
We have Total sales volumes increased by 14%, with growth principally in Europe, Latin America and contracted the vast majority of sales for calendar year 2010, and a majority of sales Asia Pacific.
Sales revenue increased by 11% to 187 million 4% in constant currency with for calendar year 2011, much of it through multi-year agreements.
volume growth partly offset by lower average selling prices.
Average selling prices reduced Having now consumed substantially all of due to volume-incentive arrangements in longthe higher-priced inventory produced within term customer contracts and a more competitive the two plant manufacturing footprint, in the HIS market.
The effect of exchange translation 2011 financial year we will achieve a full years was to increase operating profit by 2 million.
benefit from concentrating all production at Following the significant yield improvements the Singapore plant.
As previously stated, we achieved during the 2009 financial year, and the therefore expect operating margins in the consequent decision to produce all sucralose 2011 financial year to move back to the high at our fourth-generation facility in Singapore, 30% range.
the process of mothballing our sucralose plant 26 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010
