Governance Corporate governance The Committees are supported by the services of the When recruiting non-executive directors the Committee Company Secretariat and, if necessary, can obtain considers the particular skills, knowledge and experience independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
that would most benefit the Board and engages external The Company Secretary, Robert Gibber, is Secretary to each recruitment consultants.
During the year, external recruitment Board Committee.
consultants were engaged to assist in the search for two additional non-executive directors.
Following a detailed selection process the Committee recommended that Douglas Remuneration Committee Hurt and William Camp join the Board.
The recommendations The Committee comprises the independent non-executive were approved by the Board and they joined the Board on directors and the Chairman of the Board.
The members of 10March and 1 May 2010 respectively.
the Committee at the date of this report are shown on page 39.
Audit Committee The Committee meets as required, usually before each Board The Committee comprises solely independent non-executive meeting, and has a formal calendar of items for consideration.
The Committee determines the remuneration packages of The members of the Committee at the date of this report each executive director and the other members of the Group are shown on page 39.
Sir Peter Gershon ceased to be a Executive Committee.
These include base salary, bonus, member of the Committee on 23 July 2009.
Douglas Hurt long-term incentives, benefits and terms of employment, joined the Committee on 10 March 2010. including those upon which their service may be terminated.
The Committee also determines the base salary, long-term All the Committee members have extensive management incentives and benefits of certain other senior executives.
experience in large international organisations.
The Chairman, In consultation with the Chief Executive, the Committee Liz Airey, is an investment banker and former finance director determines the remuneration of the Chairman.
The of Monument Oil and Gas plc, and Douglas Hurt is Finance remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the Director at IMI plc.
executive directors and the Chairman.
More information on The Committee meets at least five times each year.
The policy, practice and the workings of the Committee can be Chairman of the Company, Chief Executive, Group Finance found in the directors remuneration report.
Director, Head of Global Risk and Assurance who leads the internal audit function and other members of the senior Nominations Committee management team as invited by the Committee, together The Committee comprises the non-executive directors and with the external auditors, usually attend meetings.
The the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the Chairman minutes of each meeting are circulated to the Board.
Both the of the Board except when the Committee is dealing with the Head of Global Risk and Assurance and the external auditors appointment of a successor to the Chairman, when the Senior have direct access to, and meet regularly with, the Chairman Independent Director chairs the Committee.
of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
The members of the Committee at the date of this report The Committee maintains a formal calendar of items for are shown on page 39.
Sir Peter Gershon succeeded consideration at each meeting and within the annual audit SirDavidLees as Chairman of the Committee on cycle to ensure that its work is in line with the requirements 23July2009.
Iain Ferguson ceased to be a member of the of the Code.
Committee on 1 October 2009 and Javed Ahmed joined the Committee on the same day.
Douglas Hurt and The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: WilliamCamp joined the Committee on 10 March and n oversee the Groups financial reporting process and 1 May 2010 respectively.
monitor the integrity of the full-year and half-year financial The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, paying particular n r eview the size and composition of the Board, attention to significant reporting judgements contained including succession planning, and the leadership therein, including critical accounting policies and practices: needs of the Group generally: n r eview the Groups internal financial controls and its n r ecommend candidates for appointment as executive internal control and risk management systems: and non-executive directors and as Company Secretary, n r eview and monitor the external auditors independence taking into account the balance of the Board and the and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, required blend of skills and experience: taking into consideration relevant UK professional and n m ake recommendations on the processes for the regulatory requirements: appointment of the Chairman of the Board: n m ake recommendations for submission to shareholders n r eview annually the performance of each member of for their approval in general meeting as to the the Group Executive Committee and to report on appointment, reappointment and removal of the external that review to the Remuneration Committee: and auditors and to approve their remuneration and terms n m ake recommendations on the nomination of the of engagement: Senior Independent Director, the reappointment of n m onitor and review the effectiveness of the internal non-executive directors upon the expiry of their term audit function: of office, and the proposed re-election of directors n d evelop and implement a policy on the engagement retiring by rotation at the AGM.
of the external auditors to supply non-audit-related services: and In May 2009, and as disclosed in the Annual Report 2009, after a competitive selection process which was undertaken n r eview arrangements by which employees may, in with the assistance of external recruitment consultants, the confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties Committee recommended that Javed Ahmed be appointed in matters of financial reporting, financial control or Chief Executive.
The recommendation was approved by the other matters.
Board and Javed Ahmed joined the Board on 1 October 2009.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for succession planning for non-executive directors to ensure that directors are recruited to fill actual or forthcoming vacancies.
