Governance Board of directors Sir Peter Gershon Javed Ahmed Tim Lodge Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Became Chairman on 23 July 2009 Joined the Group as Chief Executive Joined the Group in 1988 and after joining the Board in February on 1 October 2009 from Reckitt joined the Board in December 2008 2009.
Formerly Chief Executive of Benckiser plc.
Started his career as Group Finance Director.
Has held the Office of Government Commerce, with Procter & Gamble and then spent a number of senior operational and Managing Director of Marconi five years with Bain & Co.
Joined financial roles, both in the UK and Electronic Systems and a member Benckiser later Reckitt Benckiser plc in internationally, including Managing of the GEC plc board.
Subsequently held a number Director of Zambia Sugar: Group Chairman of Premier Farnell plc, GHG of senior positions, both in the UK Financial Controller: Finance Director Limited General Healthcare Group and internationally, including Senior of the Food & Industrial Ingredients, and Vertex Data Science Limited: and Vice President, Northern Europe: Europe division: and Director a member of the Advisory Board of the President, North America: Executive of Investor Relations.
He is an UK Defence Academy and the Court Vice President, North America, Associate of the Chartered Institute and Council of Imperial College.
Australia and New Zealand: and of Management Accountants.
Liz Airey William Camp Richard Delbridge Non-executive director Non-executive director Senior Independent Director Joined the Board in January 2007.
Joined the Board in September 2000.
Formerly Finance Director of Monument Worked for 22 years for Archer A Chartered Accountant, he has held Oil and Gas plc 1990-1999.
Currently Daniels Midland Company, before a number of senior operational and Chairman of the JP Morgan European retiring in 2007, and held a variety financial positions including partner Fledgeling Investment Trust PLC of management positions including of Arthur Andersen & Co: Managing and the Unilever UK Pension Fund, Executive Vice President, Asia Strategy: Director of JP Morgans London offices: Senior Independent Director of Executive Vice President, Processing: Director, Group Finance, Midland Jupiter Fund Management plc, and and Senior Vice President, Global Bank plc: Group Finance Director, a non-executive director of Dunedin Oil Seeds, Cocoa and Wheat Milling.
HSBC Holdings plc: and Director and Enterprise Investment Trust PLC.
Based in the USA and currently serves Group Chief Financial Officer, National Aged 51. on the boards of Chiquita Brands Westminster Bank Plc.
Currently a International Inc, Grain Storage Inc non-executive director of Standard and Oasis Foods Company.
38 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 Evert Henkes Douglas Hurt Robert Walker Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Joined the Board in December 2003.
Joined the Board on 10 March 2010.
Worked for Shell for 30 years before A Chartered Accountant, he is He spent over 30 years with Procter retiring in 2003 and held a number of currently Finance Director of IMI plc.
&Gamble, McKinsey and finally, senior management positions in Europe Before joining IMI plc in 2006, he PepsiCo, where he was responsible and Asia Pacific culminating in Chief held a number of financial and for the companys beverage operations Executive of Shell Chemicals in 1998. operational roles, including US in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Currently a non-executive director and European senior management He is currently Chairman of Travis of Outokumpu OYJ, Air Products positions at GlaxoSmithKline.
Perkins PLC, WH Smith PLC and and Chemicals Inc, and SembCorp Aged 53.
Americana International Holdings Industries Ltd. Limited: he has also served on a Aged 66. number of FTSE 100 250 boards, including Wolseley, Severn Trent, BAA, Signet, and Thomson Travel.
Committee membership as at 26 May 2010 Audit Committee Liz Airey, Chairman Richard Delbridge Evert Henkes Douglas Hurt Robert Walker Dr Barry Zoumas Robert Gibber Dr Barry Zoumas Non-executive director Company Secretary and General Counsel Joined the Board in May 2005.
Remuneration Committee Worked for Hershey Foods Corporation A solicitor, Robert joined Tate & Lyle Evert Henkes, Chairman for 27 years before retiring in 1997 and in 1990 as a commercial lawyer.
Liz Airey held a number of positions, culminating Previously worked for City law firms William Camp as Corporate Vice President of Science Wilde Sapte and Herbert Oppenheimer.
Based in the USA Richard Delbridge Graduated from Wadham College, and currently the Alan R. Warehime Oxford in Oriental Studies Chinese in Sir Peter Gershon Professor of Agribusiness and Professor 1984.
Appointed General Counsel in Douglas Hurt of Food Science and Nutrition at Penn 1997 and Company Secretary in 2001.
Robert Walker State University, USA and also Global Aged 47.
Dr Barry Zoumas Chairman of the International Life Sciences Institute.
Sir Peter Gershon, Chairman Javed Ahmed Liz Airey William Camp Richard Delbridge Evert Henkes Douglas Hurt Robert Walker Dr Barry Zoumas Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 39 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
