Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance Statutory, regulatory and other formal information Introduction David Williams, Independent Non Qualifying third party indemnity This section contains the remaining Executive Director, resigned as a Director The Company has granted an indemnity matters on which the Directors are required on 31 March 2010: in favour of its Directors and officers and to report each year, which do not appear those of its Group companies against the Norman Askew resigned as a Director and elsewhere in this Directors Report.
Certain financial exposure that they may incur in Chairman of the Board on 30 June 2010: other matters required to be reported on in the course of their professional duties as this report appear elsewhere in the Report Chris Rickard resigned as a Director Directors and officers of the Company and Accounts as detailed below: and Group Finance Director on and or its subsidiaries.
The indemnity 16 November 2010. has been put in place in accordance with a list of the subsidiary and associated section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. undertakings, including branches As announced on 3 February 2011, Kate outside the UK, principally affecting the Barker CBE will be appointed by the Audit and auditors profits or net assets of the Group in the Board as an Independent Non Executive Each Director has, as at the date of year appears on page 102: Director with effect from 21 April 2011.
Kate approval of this Report, confirmed that: Barker will seek election to the Board by changes in asset values are set out in to the best of their knowledge there shareholders at this years Annual General the consolidated balance sheet on page is no relevant audit information of Meeting on 21 April 2011 the AGM.
58 and in the Notes to the accounts on which the Companys auditors are As also announced on 3 February 2011, pages 61 to 101: unaware:and Andrew Dougal and Katherine Innes Ker will the Groups profit before taxation and the stand down from the Board immediately they have taken all the steps that they profit after taxation and minority interests prior to the AGM and, accordingly, will not ought to have taken as a Director in appear in the consolidated income be seeking re-election.
order to make themselves aware of statement on page 56 and in the Notes any relevant audit information and to Directors together with their biographical to the accounts on pages 61 to 101: establish that the Companys auditors information are shown on pages 32 are aware of that information.
a detailed statement of the Groups and33.
treasury management and funding is set This confirmation is given and should Retirement, election and re-election out in Note 20 on page 78. be interpreted in accordance with The Company has determined that in the provisions of section 418 of the Directors accordance with the UK Corporate Companies Act 2006.
The following Directors held office Governance Code, all Directors should throughout the year: seek election or re-election at this years Deloitte LLP have confirmed their AGM as explained in the Notes to the willingness to continue in office as Pete Redfern, Group Chief Executive: Notice of Meeting and on pages 36 and auditors of the Company and a resolution 37 of the Corporate Governance Report.
to re-appoint them will be proposed at Brenda Dean, Independent Non theAGM.
Executive Director: Each of the Directors proposed for Andrew Dougal, Independent election or re-election at the AGM is It is the Companys general policy that Non Executive Director: being unanimously recommended by its auditors will not carry out non-audit all of the other members of the Board.
services except where it is appropriate Katherine Innes Ker, Independent This recommendation follows the to do so and in accordance with the Non Executive Director: completion of the annual performance Companys policy for such work.
Deloitte evaluation process, which included LLP provided non-audit services to the Sheryl Palmer, President and CEO a detailed appraisal of the Board, its Group during the year within the policy of Taylor Morrison: Committees and in respect of each framework as described in the Corporate Tony Reading MBE, Independent Director with the exception of Kate Governance Report.
Barker and Ryan Mangold due to the Annual General Meeting date of their respective appointments to The following changes took place during The AGM will be held at 11:00 am on the Board.
Further information relating the year: 21 April 2011 at The British Medical to the evaluation is set out below and in Association, BMA House, Tavistock Rob Rowley was appointed as an the Corporate Governance Report on Square, London, WC1H 9JP.
Independent Non Executive Director pages36 and 37. on 1 January 2010 and the Senior Formal notice of the AGM including details The Articles of Association of the Independent Director with effect from of special business is set out in the Notice Company further regulates the 1 April 2010 : of Meeting on page 104 and on the appointment and removal of Directors, as Companys Web site Kevin Beeston was appointed as a does the Companies Act 2006 and related www.
Voting on all Director and Chairman of the Board legislation.
The Companys Articles of resolutions at this years AGM will again be on 1 July 2010: Association may be amended by special conducted by way of a poll as the Board resolution of the shareholders.
The powers Ryan Mangold was appointed as a believes this gives as many shareholders of the Directors are described in the Director and Group Finance Director as possible the opportunity to have their Corporate Governance Report.
on 16 November 2010: votes counted, whether their votes are tendered by proxy in advance of, or in person at the AGM.
51 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance Statutory, regulatory and other formal information continued Web communication Substantial interests in the Companys shares as at 2 March 2011 With shareholders consent, the Company Number of shares Percentage of issued Name held millions voting share capital has adopted web communication.
The Schroders plc 448.38 14.02 benefits of web communication are that it: BlackRock Inc 313.62 9.81 enables the Company to significantly JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 159.64 4.99 reduce its printing and postage costs: Legal & General Group Plc 127.16 3.97 enables shareholders to access Ignis Asset Management Limited 97.50 3.05 information faster, on the day Standard Life Investments Limited 96.39 3.01 documents are published on the Companys Web site: and are transferable and carry entitlement to Directors interests, including interests in reduces the amount of resources subscription for three months after the the Companys shares, are shown in the consumed, such as paper, and lessens passing of a resolution for the windingRemuneration Report.
the impact of printing and mailing up of the Company.
To date, aggregate Dividend activities on the environment.
exercises of Warrants have resulted in the The Board did not feel it appropriate to issue of 1,257,115 new Ordinary Shares Shareholder communications including propose an interim dividend for 2010. of 1p each.
the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Although the uncertainty in the wider are available electronically through the The authority given by shareholders at the economy has eased somewhat during Companys Web site.
Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2010 the second half of 2010, the Board is not for the Company to purchase a maximum proposing a final dividend for 2010.
The The Company provides hard copy of 319.7 million of its own shares remained Board will continue to review its dividend documentation to those shareholders who valid at 31 December 2010.
The authority policy in the light of the Companys have requested this and is, of course, was not exercised during 2010 or prior to financial position and prevailing economic happy to meet any such requests.
the date of this Report and the Company and market conditions in the future.
Registrar has no intention of exercising the authority Research and development The Companys registrar is Capita in the present economic conditions but The Company remains committed to Registrars.
Their details, together will nevertheless be seeking the usual investing in research and development with information on facilities available authority at the AGM.
The Company projects where there are clearly defined to shareholders, are set out in the currently holds no shares in treasury.
Shareholder Information section on There are no specific restrictions on the page111.
In the UK our efforts were focused on size of a holding, the exercise of voting five main areas together with a variety of Capital structure rights, nor on the transfer of shares, which contributions to industry-wide initiatives.
Details of the Companys issued share are governed by the Articles of Association capital, together with details of the and prevailing legislation.
The Directors We constructed prototype new houses to movements in the Companys issued are not aware of any agreements between test new approaches to meeting current share capital during the year are shown in holders of the Companys shares that regulations and the efficiency of our build Note 23 on page 87. may result in restrictions on the transfer of processes, reviewing the outcome with securities or on voting rights.
customers and the supply processes with The Company has two classes of shares: our suppliers, to ensure we met customer, Ordinary Shares of 1p, each of which Details of employee share schemes are regulatory and efficiency parameters.
Work carries the right to one vote at general set out in the Remuneration Report on was commenced on developing detailed meetings of the Company and such pages 41 to 50.
The Employee Share guidance to meet the criteria of Building other rights and obligations as set out in Ownership Trusts generally abstain from For Life in improving urban design quality, the Companys Articles of Association: voting in respect of shares held by them.
and Deferred Shares which carry no No person has any special rights of control votingrights.
The development of our building fabric to over the Companys share capital and all improve energy efficiency has progressed, As part of the debt restructuring issued shares are fully paid.
evaluating new products and our supply announced on 7 April 2009 the Company Substantial interests chain towards the delivery of low-end issued Warrants to certain of its lenders The persons set out in the table above zero-carbon solutions.
Roof systems giving the holders the right, up to 29 April have notified the Company pursuant have been improved to deliver occupancy 2014, to subscribe for up to an aggregate to Rule 5.1 of the Disclosure and space together with improved site safety of approximately 58 million Ordinary Transparency Rules of their interests in the and reduced wastage through programme Shares representing approximately 5% ordinary share capital of the Company.
of the Companys issued share capital at the time the Warrants were issued.
At 2 March 2011, no change in these A landfill site is being used for trials of Warrants remain over approximately holdings had been notified nor, according innovative and sustainable reclamation 1.77% of the current issued share capital to the register of members, did any other solutions which will maximise the re-use at the subscription price per share of shareholder at that date have a disclosable of existing materials, reduce waste and 17.4473 pence 25 pence prior to the holding of the Companys issued minimise the impact of materials transport Placing and Open Offer.
52 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance We continue to lead and support a wide A recent initiative has been the setting up aims are to monitor and review charitable variety of industry initiatives in the area of of a forum on the intranet called Open donations made by regional businesses as zero carbon emissions, lifetime homes Door which allows direct communication against the guidelines and to assess and and membership of the CBIs climate with the Group Chief Executive on administer larger donations centrally.
The change board and working groups.
strategic areas of focus and other matters members of the Committee are the Group Work on improving the efficient use of in order to enable all employees to HR Director Chairman, Group Company brownfield land includes working with contribute and comment.
All employees Secretary and General Counsel, Group the Construction Industry Research will be encouraged to participate and use Finance Director, UK Land and Planning body CIRIA in developing guidance the forum.
Director, Vice President Human Resources on the management of risk in building Taylor Morrison, Group Investor Relations The Company promotes all-employee on contaminated land: chairing the Manager and Assistant Company Secretary.
share plans, including the Save As You Brownfield Working Group researching Earn share option scheme and the Share During the year, Group companies the management of environmental Incentive Plan, as widely as possible donated 199,000 2009: 236,000 to liability, and advising on EU research into across the Group.
various charities, 95,000 2009: 55,000 sustainable solutions for the long-term in the UK and Europe and 104,000 use of brownfield sites.
We also assisted Equal opportunities 2009: 181,000 in North America.
Government research into improving The Company remains committed resource efficiency in our business and to equality of opportunity in all of its Further information on the Groups are integrating the results into improved employment practices, policies and donations, activities and initiatives processes and procedures.
To this end, can be found in the 2010 Corporate within the framework of applicable law, Responsibility Report which is available In 2010, Taylor Morrison completed a we are committed, wherever practicable, on the Companys Web site: large scale survey of recent homebuyers to achieving and maintaining a workforce www.
and qualified shoppers in all of its North which broadly reflects that of the local American markets to redefine its consumer Political donations catchment area within which we operate.
Over 1,100 surveys The Company does not make donations No employee or potential employee will were completed with a healthy sample in to political parties and neither does it receive less favourable treatment due to each of the Companys business localities intend to.
The Company does support their race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic including Canada.
The research resulted certain industry-wide organisations which origin, religion, political or other opinion, in a clearer understanding of todays directly assist the housebuilding industry affiliation, gender, sexual orientation, consumer opinions about housing needs such as the Home Builders Federation marital status, family connections, age, and desires.
This knowledge will assist in the UK.
Whilst we do not regard this membership or non-membership of a the Company with decisions such as as political in nature, legislation relating trade union, or disability, unless justifiable where to build, what to build and how to to political organisations is very wide in exceptional circumstances, for example reach certain consumer groups, deemed and in certain circumstances a donation due to health and safety considerations.
Seven home buying consumer or a subscription to a charity or other Instruction on equal opportunities is part groups were isolated with demographics organisation could retrospectively be of the induction programme.
ranging from young singles to active categorised as a political donation.
Full implementation of the research Employment of disabled persons Accordingly, the Company will be seeking is expected in early 2011.
It is our policy that people with disabilities the usual annual dispensation at the should have fair consideration for all Annual GeneralMeeting.
Employee involvement and vacancies within the Group.
communication Policy on payment of suppliers The Company is committed to ensuring The Company is therefore committed, The nature of the Groups operations open and regular communication where possible, to ensuring that people means that there is no single Group throughout the Group on both businesswith disabilities are supported and standard in respect of payment terms to related issues and issues of general encouraged to apply for employment suppliers.
Generally, business units are interest.
There is a formal Employee and to achieve progress once employed.
responsible for establishing payment terms Consultative Committee structure in place They will be treated so as to ensure with suppliers when entering into each in all operations and elected representatives that they have an equal opportunity to transaction or series of linked transactions.
meet with management to consult on be selected, trained and promoted.
In In the absence of dispute, valid payment appropriate issues.
Intranet systems addition, every reasonable effort is made requests are met as expeditiously as are continually updated which provide for disabled persons to be retained in the possible within such terms.
In the UK, a valuable communication tool across employment of the Group by investigating commencing on 1 January 2010, our new the Group and an important facility for the possibility of making reasonable suite of standard framework agreements providing employees with access to a wide adjustments to the job, workplace or with suppliers established the due date range of information.
for payment as 30 days from the later of cascaded throughout the Group via e-mail the date of issue of the invoice or request Charitable donations including regular communications from for payment, or the relevant month end The Company has a Charity Committee, the Group Chief Executive, verbal briefings notified by the employer.
which operates within written terms and by management presentations.
of reference and charitable guidelines Trade creditor days for the Group for the approved by the Board.
The Committees year ended 31 December 2010 were 30 53 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance Statutory, regulatory and other formal information continued days 2009: 20 days.
This is based on state whether applicable UK Accounting and the undertakings included in the the ratio of year end Group trade creditors Standards have been followed, consolidation taken as a whole: and excluding sub-contract retentions subject to any material departures the management report, which is and unagreed claims of 34.4 million disclosed and explained in the financial incorporated into the Directors Report, 2009: 35.3 million and land creditors, statements:and includes a fair review of the development see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial prepare the financial statements on and performance of the business Statements to amounts invoiced during the going concern basis unless it is and the position of the Company the year by trade creditors.
The Company inappropriate to presume that the and the undertakings included in the had no significant trade creditors at 31 Company will continue in business.
consolidation taken as a whole, together December 2010. with a description of the principal risks In preparing the Group financial Agreements and uncertainties that they face.
statements, International Accounting Apart from a small number of borrowing Standard 1 requires that Directors: This Report of the Directors was approved agreements, pursuant to which the by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2011.
Company borrows or is able to borrow properly select and apply accounting money, and land related agreements in policies: North America, which could potentially present information, including be terminated by the other party upon a accounting policies, in a manner that change of control of the Company, there provides relevant, reliable, comparable are no significant contracts or agreements and understandable information: which take effect, alter or terminate upon James Jordan a change of control of the Company.
provide additional disclosures Group Company Secretary when compliance with the specific and General Counsel Important events since the year end requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to There have been no important events Taylor Wimpey plc enable users to understand the impact affecting the Company or any of its of particular transactions, other events subsidiary undertakings since 31 and conditions on the entitys financial December 2010. position and financial performance: and Directors responsibilities statement make an assessment of the Companys The Directors are responsible for preparing ability to continue as a going concern.
the Annual Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable The Directors are responsible for keeping law and regulations.
adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company law requires the Directors Companys transactions and disclose to prepare financial statements for with reasonable accuracy at any time the each financial year.
Under that law the financial position of the Company and Directors are required to prepare the enable them to ensure that the financial Group financial statements in accordance statements comply with the Companies with International Financial Reporting Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Standards IFRSs as adopted by the safeguarding the assets of the Company European Union and Article 4 of the IAS and hence for taking reasonable steps for Regulation and have elected to prepare the prevention and detection of fraud and the parent company financial statements other irregularities.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice The Directors are responsible for the United Kingdom Accounting Standards maintenance and integrity of the corporate and applicable law.
Under company and financial information included on law the Directors must not approve the the Companys Web site.
Legislation accounts unless they are satisfied that in the United Kingdom governing the they give a true and fair view of the state preparation and dissemination of financial of affairs of the Company and of the profit statements may differ from legislation in or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the parent company financial Responsibility statement statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial make judgements and accounting reporting framework, give a true and fair estimates that are reasonable and view of the assets, liabilities, financial prudent: position and profit or loss of the Company 54 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
