Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review Strategy Vision and goal Taylor Wimpey is a focused community developer.
We aim to be the developer of choice for customers, employees, shareholders and communities.
Our Group strategy We create value through active management of our land portfolio and deliver this value through building high quality communities that meet the needs of local residents and our customers.
Long term objectives Short term priorities Provide growth in earnings per share, in light of Enhance the Groups profitability in both of our main market conditions.
markets through: Deliver a return on capital employed above the level Focusing on sales price increases rather than of our cost of funding.
Return the Group to an investment-grade credit rating.
Continued focus on operating efficiency.
Attract and retain the highest calibre of employees and strive Maintaining a tight control on overhead costs.
to be a company that people want to work for.
Active management of our land portfolio.
Evaluate proposals for our North American business.
Maximise the potential of our employees through training and development programmes.
The next stage is to build on this platform required scale of our building operations costs.
This is an ongoing process and we and on the experience that we have with reasonable certainty.
By contrast, in have initiated a programme of continuous gained as a management team from the US, it is usually the case that the land improvement in this area with each of our the difficult trading conditions of the last vendor is responsible for achieving the sites being reviewed on a quarterly basis fewyears.
to ensure that the anticipated value is delivered or exceeded.
As set out in the description of our value However, the lengthy planning process cycle on page 4 our primary channel provides us with opportunities as well as We continue to monitor our overhead for the creation of value is the active challenges.
We can use that time to refine costs carefully and, following a management of our land portfolio.
Rather our designs for the community, engaging consultation process, we will be than seeing homebuilding as the driver with the planning authority and local consolidating our Corporate office and of value, we see it as the way to deliver residents to ensure that what we deliver UK Head Office into a single team based the value that we have created through will meet their needs.
This is a process in our existing High Wycombe office.
This selecting land and optimising its value.
that we have spent more time on since the will enable us to work more efficiently downturn, with encouraging results, and to support the operational business We manage over 170,000 plots of land one which we will continue to focus on, and enhance communication across in our portfolio across the UK, the US, going forward.
In addition, Canada and Spain.
This requires a we will commence the roll-out of a new significant amount of capital to fund and it Once an optimised planning consent is IT system in our UK business which is is essential that we allocate our capital to achieved, we begin work on site to deliver expected to increase efficiency and reduce the most attractive opportunities in order the design that we have created.
to generate the best returns.
getting the basics right, we deliver high quality homes for our customers that are In order to deliver value for shareholders, The majority of this portfolio is land in built safely, efficiently, cost effectively and it is essential that the homes and the UK.
This reflects the nature of the with minimal impact on the environment.
communities that we build are attractive UK land-buying market, with developers places to live for our customers.
This is a typically taking responsibility for delivering We have made good progress in key stage of optimising value as we design an implementable planning consent.
Given enhancing our operational efficiency over each development and it is supported by the unpredictable nature of the current the last few years through a combination the work of our sales and marketing and planning system, it is essential to ensure of merger synergies, reduced labour and customer care teams.
that we have sufficient land at different materials costs and value engineering stages of planning to be able to plan the sites to reduce the level of infrastructure 9 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
