Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives review continued Group key performance indicators Our Group KPIs provide a measure of our performance against our strategy Adjusted earnings loss per share Return on average capital employed Objective Objective 0.6p 8.2% We seek to provide growth in earnings We aim to deliver a return on capital per share in light of market conditions.
employed above the level of our cost for 2010 for 2010 of funding.
Definition Definition The basic earnings per share from continuing operations based upon the Profit on ordinary activities before finance profit attributable to ordinary shareholders costs, exceptional items and amortisation before exceptional items divided by the of brands but including share of results of average number of shares in issue during joint ventures, divided by the average of the year.
opening and closing tangible net worth.
Why is it key to our strategy?
The generation of earnings is essential to Developing communities is a capitaldeliver share price growth and dividends intensive business due to the need to fund to shareholders and to fund future growth our landbank, so it is essential to ensure in the business.
This measure is also that this capital is used as effectively commonly used by stock market analysts in as possible.
assessing the value of companies.
2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 We recognise that buying a house is Refinancing Risk a significant financial and emotional A key achievement during 2010 was investment.
Surveys often highlight moving the completion of our refinancing in The following key risks have the home as one of the most stressful events December.
We now have a simplified debt greatest potential impact on the Groups in a persons life and we aim to make structure and extended maturity profile, strategy: the process of buying, moving into and as well as greater operational flexibility to Economic and market environment.
living in a Taylor Wimpey home as easy pursue the strategy outlined above.
Ryan Government regulations and planning as possible for our customers.
We will Mangold provides more detail on the new policy.
continue to work with mortgage lenders facilities in his Group Financial Review on to identify ways in which we can help our page 30.
customers to purchase their home in an Compliance with financial and operational North American operations environment where mortgage lending covenants.
As we have previously outlined, our remains constrained, particularly for first intention is to refocus the business of the time buyers.
For more information Group on the UK market in the medium see pages 12-13 Our homes are designed for the way term.
This is a decision that the Board that our customers live.
For example, we has considered for some time, particularly have undertaken considerable customer given the potential for recovery in the Corporate responsibility research to ensure that our new house US housing market.
However, there are Our corporate responsibility approach type range in the UK meets the needs of a number of factors that mean that the underpins the way we do business.
Group is better positioned to deliver value We have a duty to take social, environmental, to shareholders if it is focused on its We participate in industry customer ethical and economic factors into account when UKoperations.
care surveys across our business and conducting our business and tackling global imperatives such as sustainable development and benchmark our scores both internally and The decision reflects the relative climate change.
attractiveness of the UK housing market, which is driven by structural undersupply Combining these initiatives with the strong of new housing, the constrained supply For more information team of people that we have across our see pages 26-27 of land within the UK and the low stock business gives us the ability to continue levels within the UK housebuilding to grow our margins, subject to stable industry.
The Board believes that, market conditions.
historically, the combined UK business 10 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7.2 4.3 0.6 2.6 1.5 8.2 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review Tangible net assets per share Employee turnover Objective Objective To deliver growth in tangible net assets 56.9p We endeavour to attract and retain the 9% per share as market conditions allow.
highest calibre of employees and strive to for 2010 for 2010 be a company that people want to work for.
Definition Definition The net asset value of the Group, as The number of employees leaving the reported on the consolidated Balance Group excluding redundancies expressed Sheet, less goodwill and other intangible as a percentage of the average number assets, divided by the number of shares in of employees across the Group during issue at the period end.
The Group must meet its financial Having high quality teams in place is covenants in order to retain access to its essential to developing communities and debt funding.
delivering high quality homes that our customers want to live in, on time and to budget.
Please note this key performance indicator has been amended following the Groups refinancing in December 2010, which removed the requirement to meet the 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 cash flow covenant test as set out in the previous financing arrangement.
and North American business have Corporate responsibility likelihood of reduced supply during the not had a material overlap nor shared We remain committed to being a transition stage.
We will also continue to significant synergies.
The Board also responsible company and to playing our work with the mortgage industry to identify believes that, historically, the UK equity part in building increasingly sustainable ways of increasing mortgage supply, such markets have not fully reflected the homes and communities.
as our recently launched Take5 product value and contribution of the North that uses an insurance-backed guarantee As Group Chief Executive, I take Americanbusiness.
to provide an affordable 95% mortgage.
ownership of the corporate responsibility As previously announced, we received agenda at the Board level and oversee the In North America, markets appear to have interest in our North American operations work of our Sustainability Steering Group.
stabilised and there are signs of increasing towards the end of 2010 and have made I also sit on the Confederation of British consumer confidence.
Affordability levels progress in evaluating these approaches.
Industrys Climate Change Board, enabling remain at record highs and this, combined However, there is no guarantee that any us to benefit from best practice across a with gradually reducing foreclosure levels, transaction will take place and we will wide range of industries.
provides the potential for a strong recovery not recommend a sale of the business as confidence returns.
Outlook to shareholders unless we consider that In the UK, we have seen a positive start to We are evaluating proposals for our North it represents a satisfactory value for our 2011 with some price increases achieved.
American business and will update the high quality operations.
We will update We expect the underlying market to market as appropriate in due course.
the stock market as appropriate in remain relatively flat over the course of duecourse.
With a simplified debt structure in place, 2011, although we are likely to continue we now have significantly greater People to see volatility in the national house price operational flexibility and an enhanced Our value cycle requires significant indices from month to month as economic ability to deliver our strategic priorities, input from skilled people to deliver uncertainty continues and mortgage including further marginimprovement.
quality homes and communities for our lending remains restricted.
I continue to believe that the The significant long term undersupply of quality of our teams is a key differentiator new housing in the UK persists and we for our business and is reflected in the are committed to working with the UK strength of the performance that we have government to deliver a planning system delivered together in 2010.
I would like Pete Redfern that is capable of supporting an increased to record my thanks for their ongoing Group Chief Executive level of supply, whilst recognising the commitment and hard work, once again.
