Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review North America Housing Our combination of successful land investment, efficient build processes, tightly controlled overhead costs and strong customer focus positions us well for recovery in the US.
Sheryl Palmer President and CEO, North America Housing North America housing market which is traditionally the least affordable of Key market drivers As I highlighted in the market risk factors our markets.
Affordability levels are above Cessation of Homebuyer Tax Credit of my report last year, the US Federal 70% in both Texas and Colorado, and programme distorted sales patterns Governments Homebuyer Tax Credit was above 80% in both Florida and Arizona.
during 2010. withdrawn at the end of April 2010.
As Delinquency levels, which reflect the expected this led to volatility in the US Record levels of affordability in number of mortgages in arrears by housing market, with homebuyers who some markets.
more than 60 days are also showing an might otherwise have purchased later in Widespread geographical variation encouraging trend in many of our markets.
the year accelerating their decisions in in house price trends.
The data shows sharp falls in Texas, order to qualify.
California and Colorado, with the level Market risk factors As a result, after an encouraging first remaining broadly flat in Arizona and rising quarter, the US housing market softened in Florida.
However, legal challenges in a Continuing restrictions on credit in the second quarter and into the third number of States relating to foreclosure availability.
We saw stability at lower levels as procedures employed by banks led to Changing economic environment the autumn progressed and this stability a number of moratoria on foreclosures leading to increasing interest rates or continued through the fourth quarter and potential distortions in the trend.
to the more conservative approach to Increased levels of foreclosures.
mortgage lending in Canada, the market Looking beyond the distorting impact of Increasing levels of inventory in some there does not suffer from the risk of rising the Homebuyer Tax Credit, the underlying markets.
California, Impact of government actions on Texas and Florida remain three of the Construction starts have stabilised at mortgage interest deduction, mortgage top four States by population in the US low levels, with the number of new single regulation and government sponsored and Texas, Colorado and Arizona remain family homes started in 2010 estimated enterprises such as Freddie Mac.
amongst the fastest growing States at 470,900, slightly up on the 2009 level Interest rate rises in Canada impacting bypopulation.
of 445,100, but significantly below the on affordability.
Despite the low Affordability levels remain exceptionally level of starts, inventory levels have risen in good, and have increased in many of our Taylor Morrison all of our markets.
The affordability ratio which operational highlights represents the percentage of households 44% of our land portfolio is finished lots, that can afford to buy the median price which do not need further development.
home is now above 60% in California, Sites acquired in 2008-2010 performing strongly.
Increased asset turn to 1.5 times 2009: 1.3 times.
20 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review Our North America Housing strategy Our North America strategy is focused on maximising value from each home sold through pricing, build cost reduction and selective land purchasing.
Long term objectives Short term priorities Grow volumes through taking advantage of targeted land Drive sensible sales rates for each site.
Retain build cost and overhead savings.
Maintain reduced level of investment in land and work in progress spend where appropriate.
Grow market share in our key markets.
Our North America Housing Key Performance Indicators Why is it key to Objective Definition our strategy?
Contribution per We strive to maximise the level of Revenue, net of incentives, less build In an environment where 31.8k 2010 31.8 legal completion contribution per home sold.
costs, land costs and direct selling volumes are likely to remain costs divided by the number of homes constrained in the short term, 2009 22.0 completed.
growing the contribution per legal completion offers a route to 2008 23.9 profit growth.
Forward In a flat or falling pricing The number of homes in our year end A strong order book provides 66.6% 66.6 2010 order book as environment we look to maximise order book, expressed as a percentage greater stability in business the level of our order book.
of the number of homes completed planning and enhances our ability a percentage 2009 67.6 during the year excluding joint to increase the contribution per of completions venture completions.
2008 51.4 Owned and We aim to maintain sufficient The total number of plots that we Having a portfolio of land in place 30,262 2010 30,262 controlled plots land in our portfolio to enable either own or control, with some form is key to planning the required us to remain selective in future of planning consent.
scale of our building operations with planning 2009 29,062 purchases.
2008 29,178 Customer We strive to maintain and Total homebuyer satisfaction Delivering high levels of customer 88.0 2010 88.0 satisfaction improve our customer score out of a possible 100 points satisfaction enhances our satisfaction scores.
as measured by customer surveys reputation, reduces selling costs 2009 86.6 by increasing customer referrals undertaken by AVID Advisors, a customer loyalty management firm and reduces the costs associated 2008 85.4 with rectifying poor quality work.
that works with homebuilders across the United States and Canada.
Health and safety We want our employees and Reportable injury frequency rate per As well as having a moral duty 0.057 2010 0.057 to maintain safety on site, sub-contractors to go home safe 100,000 hours worked, excluding and uninjured day after day.
lapses can have a detrimental 2009 0.210 impact on the business through additional costs, delays and or 2008 0.041 reputational damage.
Environmental Environmental legislation varies across the different regions in which we operate in North America.
performance Environmental management is tackled at a Divisional level and there is no consistent metric which reflects our approach across the business.
Risk The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 12 and 13 of this report.
The risks that have seen the greatest change in the North America business during 2010 are: Economic and market environment, with volatility resulting from the cessation of the Homebuyer Tax Credit programme.
Land purchasing, as the demand for developed lots has continued to increase as homebuilders look to replenish their inventory.
Ability to attract and retain high calibre employees, as the competition for talented employees will intensify as the market recovers and given widespread speculation about the potential sale of the business.
21 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review North America Housing continued Selecting land The Case-Shiller Home Price Indices Our North America order book was 2,756 show price falls for the year across many homes at the year end 2009: 3,216. metropolitan areas, although there continues Strategy to be widespread geographical variation.
Our operational strategy in North America Markets in California show price increases remains unchanged.
We remain focused over the year, but declines are recorded for on cost reductions and cash management, Colorado, Florida, Texas andArizona.
whilst enhancing the inherent value in Market conditions in Canada remain existing land positions and continuing our strong, assisted by the more robust targeted programme of land acquisitions.
House prices in Selecting land both Toronto and Ottawa show continued Locating and vetting suitable land growth over the course of 2010 and positions is the most critical challenge for housing starts have also increased.
We utilise the skills and local market knowledge of our our business.
We have adopted a portfolio Divisional teams in selecting the most appropriate land Financial review management approach to our land investments for our portfolio.
Our North American Housing operations investment decisions, allocating capital to We are selective, rather than being volume driven, in generated revenue of 835.6 million each division on the basis of anticipated our approach and focus on high quality sites in our core 2009: 824.3 million, with the reduction market and economic dynamics in each locations.
We have a track record of investing in larger in home completions being offset by Divisional area and taking into account development communities.
increased average selling prices driven by supply and demand in the targeted We benefit from a strong reputation as a good partner mix changes in the US and price growth customer segments.
and relationship based land buyer.
We utilise the skills and local market Operating profit was 93.8 million 2009: knowledge of our Divisional teams in 48.1 million, with strong growth being selecting the most appropriate land delivered in both the US and Canada.
Where The operating margin also rose sharply to opportunities are identified, we undertake 11.2% from 5.8% in 2009. a rigorous appraisal process, prioritising an appropriate margin to reflect the relative Exceptional items were 7.5 million 2009: risk and timing of return of theproject.
We conducted regular reviews of the carrying value of our land All land investment decisions are taken by portfolio during 2010 and have recorded Taylor Morrisons Investment Committee, further write-downs of 7.5 million at the with large-scale deals referred to the year end, primarily relating to a specific Groups Board for approval.
We approved long term site in California.
new land purchase commitments for 4,706 plots during 2010 2009: Net operating assets in North America 4,217 plots focusing on longer term were 612.7 million 2009: 558.1 million.
Sales, completions and pricing We now own or control a total of 30,262 We had an average of 149 active outlets plots in North America 2009: 29,062 during 2010 2009: 172, with outlet with an average cost per plot, excluding numbers broadly stable since the start of development costs, of US$15.3k the year after the reduction in 2009.
Net reservation rates for North America Optimising development value as a whole were 0.47 per outlet per Our expertise in planning and developing week 2009: 0.60.
Sales rates in Canada large-scale communities in both the remain very strong, while in the US we US and Canada, distinguishes us from saw improvements in the latter part of the our peer group.
Our land development year as the impact of the cessation of the operations enable us to identify the plots Homebuyer Tax Credit diminished.
The in a community that best suit our homes cancellation rate for North America as a and then sell the other plots as finished whole was 15%, in line with the long term lots to other homebuilders.
development also enables us to contain We completed a total of 4,140 homes costs and deliver lots at the right time for the in North America 2009: 4,755.
Of this needs of our homebuilding operations and total, 2,570 completions were in the US gives us greater control of our land pipeline.
2009: 3,347 and 1,570 completions The recent market downturn has resulted were delivered in Canada 2009: 1,408. in a significant improvement in the We achieved an average selling price of entitlement, planning and development Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs, US$274k 2009: US$255k in the US and exceptional items, brand amortisation and tax, after process as a result of the lower volume C$374k in Canada 2009: C$347k.
share of results of joint ventures.
22 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review Optimising development value of applications.
For entitlements, most Build costs and efficiency regulatory and municipal agencies We are continually looking for ways to have shown a marked decrease in their reduce build costs and increase efficiency.
In addition, During 2010 we began providing our agencies in the US have shown both construction superintendents the flexibility and creativity in reviewing equivalent of a UK site manager with entitlement applications.
handheld mobile devices for scheduling, which has improved efficiency.
We Equally, the lower level of activity in the have extended the roll-out of our lean land development industry has created manufacturing approach to our Denver similar benefits.
The timelines associated Division in 2010 and will complete the with the main land development roll-out in 2011 when it is introduced in processes have reduced as a result of our West Florida Division.
This approach greater availability of sub-contractors and Our land development operations enable us to identify focuses on identifying and eliminating the costs have reduced significantly.
the plots in a community that best suit our homes.
construction waste in conjunction with our Managing the development also enables us to contain Of the 25,790 owned plots in our land trade and supplier partners.
costs and deliver lots at the right time for the needs portfolio, approximately 41% are now raw of our homebuilding operations and gives us greater Quality lots that we will develop prior to building control of our land portfolio.
Importantly these initiatives are not at homes 2009: 32%.
A further 44% of our the expense of quality and we continue owned plots are now at the finished lot to strengthen the reputation of our stage, with no further development work business in North America, receiving required 2009: 46%.
For Product range example, Taylor Morrison was named We continue to offer a wide range of Volume Builder of the Year in the Greater homes to our customers in North America, Houston Builders Associations Houston ranging from entry level to luxury homes.
Best Awards Show and our Evergreen Our product range includes high-rise Community in Toronto won awards for condominiums, single family homes, building innovation and excellence at the Getting the homebuilding basics right townhomes and full service country club EnerQuality Awards for Excellence.
At present our only active Environment and upcoming high-rise projects are in the Many of our communities are designed Canadian market.
to co-exist with the natural habitat.
This is particularly the case in areas such We strive to maintain a wide range of as Florida, where there are threatened products and price levels within our species or fragile ecosystems that homebuilding activities, in order to needprotection.
expand our reach across a wide range of potentialcustomers.
Caring about our customers Our US homebuilding operations trade Sales and marketing under the Taylor Morrison brand and our Our approach to sales and marketing Canadian business trades under the longutilises a balanced approach of standing Monarch brand.
central support and local expertise to attract potential homebuyers to our Getting the homebuilding basics right communities.
The central team provides We continue to focus on operational efficiencies Health and safety including maintaining tight control on build costs and a consistent marketing framework as Health and safety continues to be a work in progress.
well as comprehensive sales training to non-negotiable top priority.
In 2010 Importantly our efficiency initiatives are not at the local teams.
Our local teams utilise local Taylor Morrison was named runner up expense of quality.
We continue to strengthen the media and marketing streams to deliver in the prestigious National Association reputation of our business in North America, receiving the unique message most relevant to the further recognition during 2010. of Homebuilders 2009 Safety Award for targeted customer group.
During 2010, we reduced the total number of accidents by 37%, achieving an incident rate reduction from 0.210 to 0.057 per 100,000 hours worked.
In addition, trade partner accidents reduced from 21 to 15 in 2010.
23 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review North America Housing continued We strive to maintain a Our Web sites, www.
net are key wide range of products elements of our sales and marketing and price levels within our activities.
The ultimate purpose of these Web sites is to direct those potential homebuilding activities, in customers with a high probability of purchasing a home to the sales team at order to expand our reach one of our communities.
Customers are across a wide range of also able to make inquiries and receive a prompt response from one of our Internet potential customers.
Customer satisfaction During 2010 we developed Homeward Bound, a comprehensive guide to purchasing one of our homes, which is personalised for each customer.
Our customer surveys in 2010 were undertaken by AVID Advisors, a customer loyalty firm that works with homebuilders across the US and Canada.
We are delighted to have improved our performance in 2010, both against our 2009 score and against the wider industry benchmark.
We achieved a score of 88 with respect to total homebuyer satisfaction 2009: 86.6 against an industry average of 85 2009: 83.8.
Caring about our customers Monarch was ranked best housebuilder for customer satisfaction in Ottawa for the second year running by market research specialists JD Power.
Current trading In the US, markets appear to have stabilised and there are signs of increasing consumer confidence.
Affordability remains at excellent levels in the US and, combined with gradually reducing foreclosure levels, provides the potential for a strong recovery as confidence grows.
Our combination of successful land investment, efficient build processes, tightly controlled overhead costs and We are delighted to have improved our customer survey performance scores in 2010, both against our strong customer focus positions us well 2009 score and against the wider industry benchmark.
Monarch was ranked best housebuilder for customer We expect market conditions in Canada to satisfaction in Ottawa for the second year running by remain robust for the foreseeable future.
market research specialists JD Power.
24 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
