Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance Board of Directors & Group Company Secretary The strength and depth of our Board and senior management adds value to the effective control and leadership of the Company.
Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde Chairman Group Finance Director Independent Non Executive Director Appointed to the post of Chairman on Ryan was appointed as a Director and to Appointed as a Non Executive Director in July 1 July 2010, Kevin chairs the Nomination the post of Group Finance Director on 16 2007, Brenda is a member of the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the November 2010 having previously held the and Nomination Committees.
She is a member Remuneration Committee.
He is currently post of Group Financial Controller since April of the House of Lords and is active in a a Non Executive Director of IMI plc and 2009.
Before joining Taylor Wimpey, Ryan number of public areas, including the House of chairs two private businesses which are was Group Financial Controller of Mondi Lords Appointments Commission.
Brenda is Partnerships in Care Group Limited and Group for five years, prior to which he held a Chairman of the New Covent Garden Market Domestic & General Limited.
He was formerly number of senior finance roles with the Anglo Authority, a Partnership Director of National Air Chairman of Serco Group plc.
American plc group of companies.
Traffic Services and a Non Executive Director of Dawson Holdings PLC.
Brenda was a Non Executive Director of George Wimpey Plc prior 2.
Sheryl Palmer to its merger with Taylor Woodrow in July 2007.
Group Chief Executive President and CEO of Taylor Morrison Appointed as a Director and to the post of Appointed as a Director on 5 August 2009, 6.
Andrew Dougal Group Chief Executive in July 2007 following Sheryl has over 20 years experience of the Independent Non Executive Director the merger with George Wimpey Plc, Pete US housing industry which includes senior is a member of the Nomination Committee.
regional positions with Morrison Homes, Appointed as a Non Executive Director In addition he has full day to day operational Pulte and Blackhawk Corporation.
In 2007, in November 2002, Andrew, a Chartered responsibility for the UK Housing division.
she was appointed as President and Chief Accountant, is a member of the Audit and Prior to the merger he was Group Chief Executive Officer of Taylor Morrison with Nomination Committees.
He is a Non Executive Executive of George Wimpey Plc and before executive responsibility for the US and Director of Premier Farnell plc and Creston that successively held the posts of Finance Canadian businesses.
Andrew was formerly Group Finance Director and Chief Executive of George Director of Hanson, the Anglo-American Wimpeys UK Housing business.
diversified industrial group, until it demerged.
He was subsequently Group Chief Executive of Hanson plc, the international building materials company, and he was also a Non Executive Director of BPB plc.
Andrew will stand down from the Board prior to the Annual General Meeting on 21 April 2011.
32 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance Audit Committee 7.
Robert Rowley Current members: Rob Rowley Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director and Committee Chairman, Andrew Dougal Senior Independent Director Appointed as a Non Executive Director in and Tony Reading.
July 2001, Katherine is a member of the Appointed as a Non Executive Director on For more information Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
1 January 2010, Rob is Chairman of the see page 37 Katherine has considerable experience as Audit Committee and a member of the a financial analyst in the media sector.
She Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Nomination Committee is a Non Executive Director of Tribal Group He was appointed Senior Independent Current members: Kevin Beeston plc, St. Modwen Properties PLC and The Director on 1 April 2010.
He was previously a Committee Chairman, Brenda Dean, Go-Ahead Group plc.
She was formerly Director of Reuters Plc, Deputy Chairman of Andrew Dougal, Katherine Innes Ker, Tony Chairman of Shed Media Limited, Deputy Cable and Wireless plc and a Non Executive Reading, Pete Redfern and Rob Rowley.
Chairman of Marine Farms ASA Norway and Director of Prudential plc and Taylor Nelson For more information a Non Executive Director of the Ordnance Sofres plc.
He is a Non Executive Director see page 38 Survey.
Katherine will stand down from the and Chairman of the Audit Committee Board prior to the Annual General Meeting on of both Capital Shopping Centres Group Remuneration Committee 21 April 2011. plc formerly Liberty International plc and Current members: Tony Reading moneysupermarket.
Anthony Reading MBE Brenda Dean, Katherine Innes Ker and 10.
Independent Non Executive Director Group Company Secretary For more information Appointed as a Non Executive Director in July and General Counsel see pages 38 and 41 2007, Tony is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Appointed in July 2007, James, a solicitor, Nomination Committees.
He was previously is the Taylor Wimpey plc Group Company a Director of Tomkins Plc and Chairman and Secretary and General Counsel.
Previously Chief Executive of Tomkins Corp. USA, a Non he held the same position with George Executive Director of Spectris Plc and was a Wimpey Plc following his appointment in Non Executive Director of George Wimpey February2002.
Plc prior to its merger with Taylor Woodrow.
He is a Non Executive Director of Laird Plc and e2v Technologies plc.
33 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
