Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review Our value cycle How we create and deliver value Taylor Wimpey manages a portfolio of over 170,000 land plots across the UK, US, Canada and Spain.
We create value Key principles Selecting land through active management of this Land is the critical raw material for our business and the ability portfolio and deliver this value through to purchase the right sites building high quality communities that in the right locations at the meet the needs of local residents and our right price is a key driver of shareholder value.
Building sustainable communities Key principles Optimising development Designing a sustainable value community that meets the Selecting needs of local residents, land is attractive to potential customers and provides attractive returns for shareholders requires a Caring Optimising consultative and iterative about our development process of community customers value engagement.
Key principles Getting the Getting the homebuilding We work with selected subhomebuilding basics right basics right contractors and build using carefully sourced materials to ensure that the homes that we sell are of a high quality and are built safely, efficiently, cost effectively and with minimal We generate value for our shareholders through managing impact on the environment.
our investment portfolio of land to deliver optimal returns.
These returns are created through identifying the best opportunities, adding value through the planning process and designing places to live that meet the local demand.
Key principles Caring We deliver this value through safe, efficient and considerate about our development of these communities and helping our We recognise that buying a customers customers to buy and move into their new homes.
house is a significant financial and emotional investment.
We aim to make buying, moving into and living in a Taylor Wimpey home as easy as possible for our customers.
4 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review How we create and deliver value Our strategic approach We employ land teams in each of our regional businesses in the UK and North America, who use their experience, local knowledge and industry contacts to identify potential acquisitions.
In addition, we have a team of strategic land experts in the UK who are tasked with identifying areas where population growth, or other local demand, could create opportunities to promote land with no current planning consent through the planning system.
Our strategic approach We have a strong track record of consultation with local residents prior to developing large scale communities, such as Great Western Park, Didcot.
We are benefiting from this knowledge and experience across our UK business in preparation for the implementation of the Localism Bill during 2011.
See page 17 for further details.
As part of this iterative process, we are able to identify the best use of land to meet the needs of local residents, ensure that we have a mix of homes that meet market demand and that the site is optimised for safe, efficient and considerate development.
Our strategic approach We are committed to providing a safe place in which our employees and sub-contractors can work.
We are also committed to high standards of environmental management.
The building process is carefully managed by our site-based and regional production teams to ensure quality and to minimise disruption to residents in the surrounding areas.
Our strategic approach We focus on continually improving our standards of customer care and our customer experience through: regular market research to identify customer requirements: tailoring our range of incentives to help customers make their purchase: helping customers navigate the process of selling their existing home and moving into their new home: and benchmarking our performance in industry customer care surveys to identify opportunities for further improvements.
5 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
