04 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Our Business Our business What do we do?
Why are we relevant to our customers?
TelecityGroup operates highly connected data Customers are charged primarily for access to the Our customers take advantage of the highly centres in key European cities.
These data centres power and highly connected environment within our connected data centre environments to run, are the places where the separate networks that premium, resilient and secure data centres, each store, share, distribute and access digital make up the internet meet.
Ourdata centres ofwhich has a total available customer power rating.
media, IT applications and information provide resilient power feeds, cooling and security Customers decide how much power they need to effectively and efficiently.
so that our customers IT and telecoms equipment run their equipment and then sign a contract with can run without interruption.
usfor the right to use that power.
These charges are supplemented by additional fees for engineering support, connectivity and other IT services.
What is driving demand The TelecityGroup hub: the data centres that power the digital economy The growth of the digital economy is creating These end-user demands are being met by significant demand for the services provided awide range of our customers who operate byour customers.
Examples of demand services from within our data centres: driversinclude: Web hosting D Di iggi itta al m l m eedia dia E Enterpris nterprisee I ITT s seer rvic vice ess Application providers F Financia inancial s l s eer rvvice icess Financial services On-demand IT On-deman C Clou loud d computing computing Cooling Connectivity & network providers M Mobi obile le c co omputing mputing E E- -C Commer ommercce e Content providers Social networking Social networking In In tte errne net a t a cccess cess M Musi usic & v c & v id ide eo c o c oon nte te nnt t Connectivity Expertise Gaming Gaming TelecityGroup data centre infrastructure A TelecityGroup data centre is a thriving, Track record E-Government services E-Government services connected, digital ecosystem providing direct City centre locations access to a wide choice of telecoms and content Customer ecosystem distribution networks, key internet exchange High levels of connectivity Knowledge management Knowledge management points and cloud hubs.
Untitled-3 4 25 02 2011 10:13:25 05 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements See how we enable our customers http: www.
htm The TelecityGroup hub: the data centres that power the digital economy Where we are going A transparent roadmap for growth: City centre locations Unique set of assets, combined to create value: Wide range of connectivity choices Market reputation and expertise Established ecosystem and communities of interest Cloud service providers High quality data centres, in key central locations across Europe Disciplined financial management: Cost effective financing secured Efficient capital structure Controlled, responsible approach to risk Systems integrators BPO Security Leveraging our existing infrastructure to secure future growth: Ongoing enhancement of leadership position in key European internet hubs Delivering targeted expansion programme in key markets Fire suppression Development of customer ecosystems to establish long-term customer relationships Power Technologies and applications evolve but TelecityGroups Expertise core business remains the same.
The data centre environments which TelecityGroup builds and operates are difficult to replicate: scalability, cost-management, reliability and flexibility all improve when ITinfrastructure is hosted inaTelecityGroup network-independent data centre.
