36 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Directors Report Directors Report soheld as at 31December 2010.
The EBT Introduction Share capital has an independent trustee which has full The Companys share capital at the year end discretion in relation tothevoting of such comprised entirely ordinary shares of 0.002 Shares.
Any dividends on Shares held in the The Directors present their Annual each Shares which rank equally in all respects.
Save as described Certain key matters relating to the Companys Report and Financial Statements of above, Shares acquired through the Companys share capital are set out below.
Further details the Company and the Group for the employee share plans rank paripassu with of the Companys share capital are set out in year ended 31 December 2010.
Shares in issue and have no special rights.
ThisDirectors Report contains Further details of the Groups share schemes The rights attached to the Shares, in addition certain statutory, regulatory and are set out in note 29 and in the Directors to those conferred on their holders by law, other information and incorporates, Remuneration Report.
are set out in the Companys Articles of by reference, the Chairmans Association.
TheCompanys Articles of At the year end, the Company had authority Statement and Operational, Financial Association may only be amended by a exercisable by the Directors to issue up and Risk Reviews included earlier Special Resolution of the shareholders.
to66,030,500 Shares subject to certain inthis document.
The Company will seek to renew There are no restrictions on the transfer this authority at the 2011 Annual General ofShares or on the exercise of voting rights Meeting AGM.
attached to them, except: i where the Company has exercised itsright to suspend At the year end, the Company had authority their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer exercisable by the Directors for the purposes following the omission of their holder or any ofSection 701 of the Act to make one or more person interested in them to provide the Business review market purchases within the meaning of Company with information requested by A review of the development of the Groups Section 693 of the Act of up to 19,809,237 itinaccordance with Part 22 of the Act: or business during the year and its future prospects Shares.
The Company will seek torenew this ii where their holder is precluded from is included in the Chairmans Statement, the authority at the 2011 AGM.
exercising voting rights by theFSAs Operational Review, the Financial Review, and the ListingRules or the City Code on Takeovers Risk Review on pages 8 to 23, which should be Directors andMergers.
read in conjunction with this report, of which they The business of the Company is managed by form part.
The information in these sections, itsDirectors who may exercise all powers of the The Company operates employee share along with this Directors Report, comprises the Company subject to the Articles of Association plans.
In relation to the Telecity Group plc Business Review as required by Section 417 of and UK legislation.
Directors of the Company IPO Share Option Plan described in the theCompanies Act 2006 the Act.
are appointed either by the Board or by Directors Remuneration Report, and share shareholders under the Companys Articles option grants made before the IPO of the Principal activity ofAssociation and may resign or be removed Company, an Employee Benefit Trust EBT The Group is the leading pan-European provider inasimilar manner.
holds Shares pending employees becoming of network-independent data centres providing entitled to them.
1,840,371 Shares were colocation and related data centre services.
The principal activity of the Company is that of aninvestment company.
The principal activities Directors and their interests in shares of the Companys subsidiaries are contained in note 17.
31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Registered number Number Number The number under which the Company is of shares of shares registered at Companies House is 5603875.
John Hughes 62,000 62,000 Michael Tobin 588,530 709,553 Results and dividends Brian McArthur-Muscroft 153,639 503,634 The results for the year ended 31 December 2010 Simon Batey 22,727 22,727 are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement Robert Morse on page 54.
The Directors do not propose a John OReilly 9,091 9,091 dividend inrespect of the year 2009: nil.
Untitled-1 1 25 02 2011 10:24:16 37 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements Our Corporate Governance Report starts on page 39 Names and biographical details of the current At the forthcoming AGM, as recommended by Such circumstances depend on the achievement Directors are set out on pages 34 and 35.
The the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors of performance conditions or the discretion of Directors interests in the ordinary share capital retire and are being proposed for re-appointment.
The Company ofthe Company and any interests known to the TheChairman confirms that all his fellow Directors does not have any agreements with any Director Company of their connected persons are set have the skills, knowledge and experience that or officer that would provide compensation for outon page 36. enable them to properly discharge their duties loss of office or employment resulting from a and contribute to the effective operation of the takeover.
The Group has facility agreements with There have been no changes in the interests of Board.
The Board, on the advice of the Nominations its bank lenders which contain provisions giving theDirectors in the share capital of the Company Committee, and having taken account of the those lenders certain rights on a change of or any derivatives or any other financial instruments results oftheevaluation of the effectiveness of control of the Company.
relating to those shares nor, so far asthe Company the Directors, recommends the re-appointment is aware, in the relevant interests of any of their of each of the Directors.
Financial instruments connected persons between 31 December 2010 Information on the financial risk exposure, and the date of this report.
The Directors interests 2011 AGM management objectives and policies of the in share awards over the Shares in the Company The Companys AGM will be held at the offices Group are set out in the Risk Review on pages are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration ofHogan Lovells International LLP, Atlantic House, 22to 23.
Holborn Viaduct, London EC1A 2FG at 2.00pm The Company has made qualifying third party on12 April 2011.
Payment of suppliers indemnity provisions for the benefit of its The Companys policy, which is also applied An explanation of the resolutions to be proposed Directors in relation to certain losses and bythe Group, is to set terms of payment with at the meeting, and recommendation of Directors liabilities that they may incur in the course suppliers when agreeing the terms of each in relation to these, is included in the circular ofacting as Directors of the Company or transaction, ensure thatsuppliers are made accompanying this Annual Report and Financial itssubsidiaries, which remain in force at the aware of the terms of payment, and abide by Statements to shareholders.
The year end Group trade creditors balance represented 80days No member of the Board had a material interest Corporate governance ofpurchases 2009: 108.
The creditor days in any contract of significance with the Company, The Companys Corporate Governance Report figure is not representative of the Groups or any of its subsidiaries, at any time during the iscontained on pages 39 to 45. underlying payment terms with suppliers due year, except for their interests in Shares disclosed tothe inclusion of 13.4m 2009: 20.3m above, and their interests under their terms of Change of control ofcapital creditors in the year end balance.
employment or appointment and in share awards In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement Adjusting for these capital creditors reduces disclosed inthe Directors Remuneration Report.
other than a scheme of arrangement for the thecreditor days for the current year to 27 purposes of creating a new holding company 2009:27.
The Company did not have any orcertain other events, unvested options may tradecreditors at 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
Substantial shareholdings Number Total voting At 8 February 2011, the Company had been of shares rights % notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority, Legal & General Investment Management Limited UK 20,993,367 10.60 orwas aware, that the following held, or were Norges Bank 15,132,578 7.64 1 beneficially interested in, 3%or more of the Butterfield Trust 14,436,598 7.29 Companys Shares at thatdate: Pioneer Investment Management Limited 14,219,515 7.18 2 Oak Hill 10,719,997 5.41 Standard Life Investments Limited 9,977,877 5.04 Old Mutual Asset Managers 6,963,115 3.52 1 These Shares are held by Butterfield Trust as trustee for trusts for the benefit of Oliver R. Grace, Jr. and members of his family.
2 These Shares are held by the following Oak Hill companies: Oak Hill Capital Partners II Cayman, L. P. OHSOF Offshore I L. P. OHSOF Offshore II L. P. Oak Hill Capital Partners II Cayman II, L. P. OHSOF Offshore III L. P. and Oak Hill Capital Management Partners II Cayman, L. P. Untitled-1 2 25 02 2011 10:24:16 38 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Directors Report continued forecasts and the assessment of the Groups The Directors are responsible for the maintenance Charitable and political donations banking facilities, the Directors have a reasonable and integrity of the corporate and financial During the year the Group made charitable donations expectation that the Group and the Company information included on the Companys website.
in cash amounting to 116,751 2009:81,000. have adequate resources to continue in operational Legislation inthe UK governing the preparation Individual donations of 2,000orabove comprised existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, and dissemination of Financial Statements may the following with related purposes: they continue to adopt the going concern basis differ from legislation in otherjurisdictions.
The Loomba Foundation inpreparing the Financial Statements.
Each of the Directors in office at the date contributions to fundraising ofapproval of this report confirms that to for widows and children globally 94,551 Directors responsibility statement thebest of their knowledge: The Directors have prepared the Annual Report Disasters Emergency Committee and the Financial Statements in accordance the Group Financial Statements, which have HaitiAppeal 10,000 withtheir responsibilities under applicable law been prepared in accordance with IFRS as Action for Children donation towards and regulations.
adopted by the European Union, give a true Byte Night raising awareness about and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Company law requires the Directors to prepare vulnerable and neglected children position and profit of the Group: and financial statements for each financial year.
and young people in the UK 5,500 Asrequired by International Accounting Standards the Chairmans Statement, the Operational Worshipful Company of Information Regulations, the Directors have prepared the Group Review, the Financial Review, and the Risk Technologists donation and Financial Statements under International Financial Review, along with this Directors Report of  event 3,550 Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the which they form part, together include a fair European Union and have also elected to prepare review of the development and performance Princes Trust contribution to the Parent Company Financial Statements in of the business and the position of the Group, fundraising 3,150 accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European together with adescription of the principal The Group made no political donations during Union.
The Financial Statements have been risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prepared, as required by law, to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Disclosure of information to auditors Employment Company and of theprofit of the Group for the year.
Each Director in office at the date of this report The Group is committed to employment policies has confirmed that: In preparing these Financial Statements, the which follow best practice, and are based on equal Directors confirm that to the best of their so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit opportunities for all employees, irrespective of sex, knowledge they have: information of which the Groups auditors are race, colour, sexual orientation, disability or marital unaware: and status.
The Group gives full and fair consideration properly selected and applied accounting to applications for employment from disabled policies and applied them consistently: he has taken all the reasonable steps that he persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes ought to have taken as a Director in order to made judgements and assumptions that are and abilities.
Appropriate arrangements are made make himself aware of any relevant audit reasonable and prudent: for the continued employment and training, career information andtoestablish that the Groups development and promotion of disabled persons presented information, including accounting auditors are aware of and had access to that employed by the Group.
If members ofstaff become policies, in a manner that provides relevant, information and relevant employees.
disabled the Group continues employment, either in reliable, comparable and understandable This confirmation is given in accordance with the same or an alternative position, with appropriate information: and Section 418 2 of the Act.
provided additional disclosures when compliance The Group systematically provides employees with the specific requirements in IFRS are Auditors with information on matters of concern to them, insufficient to enable users to understand the  LLP, the Groups auditors, consulting them or their representatives regularly.
impact ofparticular transactions, other events have indicated their willingness to continue in office This enables their views to be taken into account and conditions on the entitys financial position and, in accordance with Section 489 of the Act, when making decisions that are likely to affect and financial performance.
aresolution to re-appoint them will be put to the their interests.
Employee involvement in the 2011 AGM.
In accordance with the responsibilities of the Group is encouraged, as isachieving a common Directors, the Group maintains adequate accounting By order of the Board awareness on the part of all employees of the records to record all transactions so that they financial and economic factors affecting the disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Group.
The Group encourages the involvement thefinancial position of the Company and to ofemployees by means of briefing meetings ensure that the Financial Statements comply aswell as more informal communications.
They are responsible for safeguarding Tony Hunter the assets of the Company and have taken Going concern Company Secretary reasonable steps for the prevention and Comprehensive financial forecasts have been 8 February 2011 detection of fraud and other irregularities.
prepared and submitted to the Board for review.
Based on the information contained in these Untitled-1 3 25 02 2011 10:24:16
