25 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements Workplace page 30 Wellbeing and development of employees 2010 targets Activities 2010 result Roll out of new Group induction programme Implemented enhanced induction programme for new employees across every country Business management systems review Undertaken a thorough review of the systems supporting Group business and made a significant investment in enhancing them toimprove employee productivity and the customer experience Roll out new management training programme Rolled out enhanced training programme to further develop Ongoing programme leadership and management skills ofemployee participation across the Group through 2011 Achieved OHSAS 18001 certification for all sites OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety certification Implemented a quality management system to deliver across all datacentres  of OHSAS and ISO standards Group-wide appraisals completed on time Embed new online appraisal system The Group continued to run employee sharesave schemes Continue to operate employee withtwo schemes currently running and intends to run similar sharesaveschemes initiatives in the future Marketplace page 32 Engage with respect and fairness with customers, suppliers and the wider industry 2010 targets Activities 2010 result Achieve ISO 9001:2008 standard Achieved ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 27001:2005 certification for businessquality management forallexisting datacentres and ISO27001:2005 standard for securitymanagement acrossbusiness Systematically monitor relationships with Maintained engagement with customers through ongoing customers, through satisfaction surveys and surveysand client reviews feedback procedures, at sites across Europe Ongoing engagement with internet communities Continued membership of the Internet Watch Foundation IWF through membership of industry groups Affiliated as a patron of Euro-IX Chief Operating Officer appointed to the Board of the Intellect Data Centre Council Engage with suppliers and encourage them to Engaged suppliers on corporate responsibility issues through Continue to embed adopt the Supplier Code of Conduct theTelecityGroup Supplier Code of Conduct Code of Conduct in2011 Community page 33 Focus investment on children, education and opportunity 2010 targets Activities 2010 result Further promote employee community E mployees participated in various fundraising events such involvement activities asAction for Childrens Byte Night Continued financial and in kind support to Supported charity and community groups including The Loomba charitable and community organisations Trust, The Princes Trust and Action for Children Untitled-3 25 25 02 2011 10:14:20 26 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Responsibility continued Continuing progress.
TelecityGroup recognises that being a major international business presents opportunities for us to have a positive impact on widersociety.
The Board recognises that maintaining Management and governance of CSR Key achievements aleadership position in the European As part of the Boards own comprehensive network-independent data centre industry review of Group CSR matters towards theend involves doing business with integrity and During 2010 the Group continued of2010, the Board undertook a review ofthe transparency: managing the Groups social tomake solid progress on its CSR oversight structure governing CSR across the andenvironmental impacts: and maintaining priorities and achieved the vast Group.
While the existing approach has served the excellent relations with all stakeholders.
Group well in recent years, it was decided there majority of objectives set in 2009. isvalue in creating a new Corporate Social TelecityGroups corporate social responsibility Keyachievements include: Responsibility Committee CSRC to provide CSR priorities have been identified as: formal Board oversight of relevant issues Maintained listing in the FTSE4Good Index andactivities.
The environment driving energy efficiency Achieved the Carbon Trust Standard and championing innovation to manage and The CSRC will comprise members of the Board The EU Code of Conduct adopted by all reduce the environmental impact of the and senior management.
Meeting as a standing 23existingsites across Europe digitaleconomy: committee of the Board, its purpose will be to Significant investment in energy efficiency consider the risks and opportunities presented Workplace wellbeing and development projects across all sites to the business in implementing the Groups ofemployees: CSRobjectives.
The Boards intention is that Established the Business Assurance Forum theCSRC will be chaired by the Chief Executive to drive best practice across the Group Marketplace engage with respect and Officer CEO who will take formal responsibility fairness with customers, suppliers and the Implemented a Group-wide quality for CSR strategy across the Group.
Should best wider industry: and management system which delivered practice evolve differently from this, the Board certification of ISO 9001 :2008 Quality, will adjust matters accordingly.
Community focus on children, education ISO27001 :2005 Information Security, and opportunity.
ISO14001 Environment and OHSAS18001 During 2011, the CSRC will initiate an internal Healthand Safety standards in 2010 review of existing benchmarks associated with core areas of the Groups CSR strategy in order External recognition with a number of to further enhance CSR management and reporting environmental and industry awards.
It will establish a series of key performance indicators KPIs onwhich it intends to report in the 2011 Annual Report.
The Committee will assess and monitor these KPIs to ensure their measurability, comparability and effectiveness.
Business-critical social and environment risks are currently included within the corporate risk We are pleased to confirm Telecity Group plc remains part of register.
Looking ahead, the CSRC will continue the FTSE4Good Index Series for the second consecutive year.
to review the Groups risk identification processes FTSE Group confirms that Telecity Group plc has been to ensure these remain appropriate.
independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become aconstituent of theFTSE4Good Index Series.
The CSRC intends to report annually on the TelecityGroups membership in the FTSE4Good acknowledges Groups continued environmental, social the companys commitment to responsible business practice.
The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria cover a number of corporate andgovernance responsibilities.
responsibility themes including environmental management, climate change, human and labour rights, countering bribery and supply chain labour standards.
As a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index, TelecityGroup is demonstrating that it has the policies and management systems in place to help address relevant corporate responsibility risks.
Untitled-3 26 25 02 2011 10:14:22 responsibility We lead our industry in implementing environmental policies.
For example, to take advantage of waste heat, one side of our Condorcet, Paris facility supports an Arboretum, where scientific research is carried out on the effects of climate change.
Arboretum in Condorcet, Paris Untitled-3 27 25 02 2011 10:14:26 28 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Responsibility continued International standards External accreditation The Groups systematic approach to environmental Environment management has allowed theGroup to achieve Achievements in 2010 accreditation to anumber of significant standards.
Achieved Carbon Trust Standard through During 2010 the Group achieved the Carbon Trust certified improvements in carbon efficiency Standard.
This is the worlds first carbon award All data centres achieved certification to that requires organisations to measure, manage ISO14001 and reduce carbon emissions across their operations.
The Group achieved the Carbon The recently updated 2010 revision EU Code Trust Standard by providing evidence that UK of Conduct implemented across all sites operations delivered an 11.5% improvement in Delivered improved Group-wide power usage carbon efficiency between January 2007 and effectiveness PUE values December 2009.
Invested significantly in energy The Standard constitutes 50% of the Early Action efficiencyprojects Metric for judging performance in the CRC Energy Received external recognition through a Efficiency Scheme formerly known as the Carbon number of prestigious awards including: Reduction Commitment the Scheme which Green Business Awards, BCE Environmental came into effect in April 2010.
Following the UK Leadership Award, National eWell-Being Governments revisions to the Scheme in the Award, Data Centre Europe Award and Data latter part of 2010 as part of the Government Centre Leaders Awards for Improved Data Spending Review, the Early Action Metric now Centre Energy Efficiency contributes solely to a participants CRC League Table position, the initial publication of which is Information and communications technology expected in the second half of 2011.
ICT has a vital role to play in creating a more environmentally efficient economy.
As reported last year, the Group was the first network-independent data centre to sign up The IT system hardware that supports the tothe EU Code of Conduct for Data Centres growing digital economy typically resides in theEU Code.
This relatively new initiative highly connected data centres such as those provides benchmarks for data centre efficiency operated by TelecityGroup where power and best practice.
All data centres have been availability iscritical to successful service audited tothe requirements of the recently provision.
The Group recognises that to drive updated 2010 EU Code and operate to the along-term sustainable business it needs to Codes best practices for maximising energy continue to address the challenge of energy efficiency.
Currently, more than one third of management and efficiency in a meaningful way.
thedata centre capacity accredited under the TelecityGroup has always been closely involved EU Code is operated by TelecityGroup, which with organisations and initiatives which affect both isby far the largest single contributor to the the data centre industry and the Groups customers, efforts of this voluntary initiative.
and the Group seeks to lead the sector in implementing effective environmental strategies.
The Arboretum in Condorcet, Paris data centre Checking air-handling units Untitled-3 28 25 02 2011 10:14:32 29 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements Access our interactive CSR report http: annualreport.
com 2010 csr The Group remains an active member of the As a result of these activities, auditing the Groups Awards Green Grid, a global consortium which helps approach to compliance with all ISO standards influence both developers and end users of data isnow integrated across the business through centre technology to provide industry-wide aGroup-wide quality management system recommendations on best practice, metrics and which delivered certification of ISO 9001 :2008 technologies that improve business computing Quality, ISO 27001 :2005 Information Security, energy efficiency.
ISO 14001 Environment and OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety standards in 2010.
TelecityGroup is also proud to be included in the FTSE4Good Index.
This external rating provides TelecityGroup has now been certified for ISO 14001 a tool for responsible investors to identify and across all of its existing data centres in Europe invest in companies that meet globally recognised itis the Groups intention that the newly acquired responsibility standards, including environmental IFL site in the UK will be certified in 2011.
standard provides an internationally recognised accreditation that demonstrates superior Among the many environmental awards won environmental management practice within during the year, three stand out.
theNational eWell-Being Awards 2010 in which TelecityGroup won the Energy Efficiency category.
Environmental performance is measured and The second was winning the Best European monitored across all sites.
PUE data is collected Colocation Facility category of the Data Centre monthly and reported to the Board through a Europe Awards 2010.
TelecityGroup was awarded quarterly management review of all operational this for its Condorcet centre in Paris which is one information.
Targets for PUE are set by the Board of the most technically advanced and energy and are adopted by each of the country managers.
efficient data centres in Europe.
Finally, the Group won Improved Data Centre Energy Efficiency Investment and innovation atthe annual Data Centre Leaders Awards.
In taking action to improve environmental performance, the business aims to optimise Internal management systems existing facilities and build the most energy During 2010 the Group built on the processes efficient new data centres possible.
established through the Energy Management Programme to share innovations in energy During 2010 significant investments were made efficiency and drive best practice across the Group.
in energy efficiency projects throughout the In addition, the Group established the Business Groups existing data centres across Europe.
Assurance Forum, a new management body with senior representatives from each of the seven In terms of new build, the Group aims to ensure countries of operation tasked with driving standards that the design and build of each new data centre on all aspects of operational performance.
builds on the best practices, technology, innovation and experience to deliver a more efficient facility than its predecessor in the market.
TelecityGroups focus on operational excellence is a key factor in customers choosing TelecityGroup Untitled-3 29 25 02 2011 10:14:39 30 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Responsibility continued Testing customer cross-connects in London Workplace Achievements in 2010 Implemented new Group-wide inductionprogramme Achieved OHSAS 18001 certification across all existing data centres Implemented quality management system todeliver Group-wide certification of OHSAS and ISO standards Introduced long-service awards for employees Undertook a thorough review of the systems supporting Group business and made a significant investment in enhancing them toimprove employee productivity and customer experience Continued to run high-participation employee sharesave schemes Developed online appraisal system acrosstheGroup Rolled out new management training programme to further develop leadership andmanagement skills across Group TelecityGroup is committed to recruiting, developing and retaining the highest calibre individuals, so that it can continue to successfully serve its customers and grow thebusiness.
By2010, almost 470 people were employed across the Group.
TelecityGroups workplace priorities continue to be: Health, safety and wellbeing providing a healthy and safe environment across all sites Training and development developing highly skilled employees in all areas of the business Performance management recruiting, rewarding and developing the very best talent, and providing career development opportunities and regular performance monitoring Equal opportunities and diversity fostering aculture where employees are able to reach their full potential Communicating with employees providing guiding principles on business conduct andethics, and promoting clear and direct communications with colleagues Untitled-3 30 25 02 2011 10:14:43 31 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements TelecityGroup received external validation ofitsapproach by attaining OHSAS 18001, recognising goodpractice in occupational healthand safetymanagement systems.
The award-winning Health, safety and wellbeing Industry accreditations share ownership scheme continued to be popular The Group Health and Safety Manager provides in 2010 and the Groupintends torun a similar oversight on this issue while Operations Managers initiative in2011.
control health and safety at site level.
Regular audits are conducted to check compliance with A systematic approach to performance regulation, identify areas for improvement and management, with annual appraisals for all staff, share best practice.
Ultimate responsibility allows the business to recognise and reward forhealth and safety lies with the Board which strong performance and identify development reviews performance on a regular basis.
During the year the TelecityGroup received external validation of Group introduced a long-service award scheme itsapproach by attaining OHSAS 18001, the to recognise employees who have been with the internationally recognised accreditation for Group for over ten years.
goodpractice in occupational health and safetymanagement systems.
Equal opportunities and diversity TelecityGroup employs people on the basis Systems oftheir skills and potential, fostering a work During the year, TelecityGroup undertook a environment where employees are able to thorough review of the IT systems supporting maximise their talents irrespective of race, Group business and made a significant investment gender, age, sexual orientation, disability or in enhancing them to improve employee religious and political beliefs.
This is formalised productivity and customer experience.
through the Group Equal Opportunities Policy Thiswork will continue through 2011. which sets out how the Group intends to prevent all forms of prejudice and unfair behaviour in the Training and development workplace.
The policy is supported by a series of TelecityGroup employees have access to training guidelines to help employees and managers and development opportunities throughout their understand their responsibilities.
Employees are careers, including internal and external courses, able to report confidentially any breaches or on-the-job development and coaching.
The concerns theymay have through the Groups Group offers a Corporate Sponsorship Scheme whistleblowing procedures.
which gives financial assistance and time off work to study for a professional qualification in Communicating with employees line with business needs.
The Group recognises the importance ofpromoting a positive and open working This year saw the successful implementation environment and seeks to communicate ofan enhanced induction programme for new withemployees in a variety of ways including employees across all countries of operation.
meetings, conferences, online newsletters Inaddition, the Group introduced a new training andposter campaigns.
In 2011, the Group programme to develop management skills and intends to develop an employee survey to seek leadership capability.
more formal feedback from staff.
The Employee Handbook is available to all and provides a Performance management comprehensive resource on the values, codes Attracting, retaining and motivating talented ofconduct and policies that operate within people are all vital to achieving the Groups TelecityGroup.
The Group regularly reviews employee remuneration and rewardpackages to Over 80% of the Groups employees  Untitled-3 31 25 02 2011 10:14:47 32 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Responsibility continued Access our CSR report online http: annualreport.
com 2010 All existing data centres have been awarded theISO27001:2005 standard which ensures TelecityGroup adheres to best practice for security controls to protect its customers information assets.
Supplier relations Charitable work TelecityGroup operates well-defined and Marketplace transparent procurement procedures enshrined Achievements in 2010 ina supplier code which was introduced last year.
As part of the strategy for improving Established the Business Assurance Forum environmental performance, an increasingly todrive best practice important aspect of procurement is that Maintained engagement with customers decisions need to include considerations through ongoing surveys ofenergy efficiency.
Implemented a Group-wide quality The Group is investing in improved cooling management system equipment in selected sites.
This is part of The Groups Chief Operating Officer awider programme of investment in energy wasappointed to the Board of the efficiency over the next two to three years IntellectData CentreCouncil whichaims to create more strategic, long-term relations with key vendors.
TelecityGroup is an active participant in the data centre marketplace and aims to build strong During the year the anti-bribery policy was andmutually beneficial relationships with reviewed and is being rolled out across the customers, suppliers and the wider industry.
It will require country managers toprovide evidence of implementing the Customer relations anti-bribery and ethical policies through The Group maintains a comprehensive, ongoing employee training, monitoring compliance and process of engagement with customers through reporting any instances of non-compliance.
anumber of mechanisms including surveys and client reviews.
In the UK, for example, this includes Industry engagement amonthly monitoring of customer enquiries.
TelecityGroup continues to take a leadership Where particular issues arise the Group responds role in the industry, not least through its work with a survey to ensure it is meeting customers tosupport the EU Code of Conduct.
In addition, needs and responding appropriately.
theGroup remains affiliated as a patron of theEuropean Internet Exchange Association All existing data centres have been awarded Euro-IX whose role is to exchange ideas and theISO27001:2005 standard which ensures discuss the latest technical, commercial and TelecityGroup adheres to best practice for regulatory issues affecting internet traffic.
security controls to protect its customers information assets.
In addition, all existing This year, the Groups Chief Operating Officer datacentres have achieved the ISO 9001:2008 was appointed to the Board of the Intellect standard for business quality management.
Intellect is the leading association for the technology sector This year the Group was shortlisted for the which provides a collective voice for its members Excellence in Infrastructure category in the in building relations with Government to discuss Continuity Insurance and Risk, Business all aspects of the commercial environment Continuity Awards 2010, for demonstrating its which affect the industry and customers.
expertise in business continuity planning and building resilient and efficient IT infrastructures.
Untitled-3 32 25 02 2011 10:14:48 33 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements 2011 objectives Community We have identified a number of priorities for the coming year, Achievements in 2010 whichcontinue tobuild upon our current CSR strategy: Maintained programme of corporate donations and charitable gifts Governance Offered work experience to disadvantaged Establish a Board-level committee to drive CSR strategy, and young people to improve employability skills enhance CSR management and reporting, including relevant Ongoing Board level engagement with performance indicators relevant bodies such as Think London Employee involvement with charitable events Environment Investing in local communities is an important Drive further energy efficiencies across the Group through part of TelecityGroups CSR programme.
It helps theEnergy Management Programme build corporate reputation, provides support to people and communities in need, and actively Achieve ISO 14001 certification for the newly acquired IFL engages employees.
datacentre intheUK and maintain certification across the wholeestate TelecityGroup believes it can have most impact by focusing on initiatives that promote education and Ensure procurement decisions include considerations opportunities for disadvantaged children and young ofenergyefficiency people.
Throughout the past year, theGroup continued to provide financial andin kind support Workplace toa number of charities thatwork in this area.
Develop employee feedback survey The Group seeks to promote opportunities Achieve OHSAS 18001 certification for the newly acquired IFL foryoung people through the work placement programme.
Last year, work experience was data centre inthe UK and maintain certification across all sites offered to a number of young people from Launch of a new 2011 employee sharesave scheme disadvantaged backgrounds to improve their employability skills.
In addition, TelecityGroup Marketplace works with Think London, an organisation which helps with the economic regeneration of London.
Achieve ISO 27001:2005 and ISO 9001:2008 certification for thenewlyacquired IFL data centre and continue integration In 2010, the Group made cash and in kind donations ofGroup-wide ISO compliance andaudit systems to retain to a number of charities and community groups.
ISO27001:2005 and ISO 9001:2008 certification This support was complemented by the activities of employees who participated in a range of charitable Ensure effective implementation of environmental, quality, events including Byte Night, the annual sleep out datasecurity andhealth and safety systems through event to raise money for Action for Children.
systematictraining and dissemination of knowledge The main organisations the Group supported Continued engagement with relevant trade associations include the Loomba Foundation, Action for andindustry bodies Children, the Disasters Emergency Committees Helping Haiti appeal and the Princes Trust.
Community Explore opportunities to further community investment activities In 2011, TelecityGroup plans to have greater engagement with the communities close to its through strategic partnerships major operating sites in the UK.
The Group intends Become Corporate Patron of Princes Trust Technology to join the East London Business Alliance ELBA, Leadership Groupand increase Group and employee a membership organisation which works with involvement with the Trust companies to direct community investment where it is needed most in the local area.
Continue to encourage and engage employees in charitable causes andactivities
