34 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors John Hughes CBE Michael Tobin Brian McArthur-Muscroft 2 3 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director As Chairman, John Hughes leads the Board As Chief Executive Officer, Michael Tobin leads As Group Finance Director,  ofDirectors and works with management on the management of the Group and the formulation is responsible for the planning and implementation strategic and other matters.
Heis also Chairman and implementation of its strategy.
Mr Tobin has of financial strategy in the Group, and for its of the Nominations Committee and a member over twenty five years experience insenior roles financial policies, reporting, and controls.
across the telecommunications and technology MrMcArthur-Muscroft has over twenty five sector.
Hejoined Redbus Interhouse PLC in 2002 years experience dealing with financial strategy, Mr Hughes has more than thirty years experience as Sales and Marketing Director and became Chief with the last fifteen of these specialising inthe leading complex, high technology businesses Executive Officer in2003, subsequently leading telecommunications andtechnology sector.
operating at a global level from which to draw the merger with TeleCity, the acquisition of inhis role for the Company.
This has included Prior to joining the Group, he was Group Finance Globix UK and the successful IPO inOctober 2007. senior executive positions at Thales Group Director of Viatel, apan-European communications where he was latterly Executive Vice President Prior to joining TelecityGroup, Mr Tobin headed-up business: Eckoh Technologies plc, a UK-listed and Chief Operating Officer, responsible for Fujitsus e-Commerce operations in Germany.
telecommunications and technology group: and anorganisation with over 25,000 people, Before that, he ran ICLs Danish outsourcing Cable and Wireless HKT Multimedia.
He was also Lucent Technologies where hisresponsibilities subsidiary out of Copenhagen.
He also held Director of Risk Management for Cable and included being President of its worldwide GSM senior positions based in Paris for over eleven Wireless Asia.
years, including with International Computer Mr McArthur-Muscroft qualified as a Chartered MrHughes has significant experience of managing Group and Tricord Systems Europe, and was Accountant FCA with  growth companies, especially those supplying formerly Managing Director of Goupil UK.
in London, specialising in business restructuring complex solutions andservices to business MrTobin is Chairman of the Friends of and turnaround assignments, and holds a law customers: of mergers and acquisitions: of TheLoomba Trust, a charity whichprovides degree.
Mr McArthur-Muscroft is a member international channel expansion: and of education and aid for widows and their children ofthe Corporate Development Board for the development of leadership teams.
Mr Tobin is also a Boardmember of National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty livedand worked in the USA and mainland Europe ByteNight which raises money for the charity toChildren.
He is also non-executive Action for Children.
He is anon-executive Chairman ofSpectris plc and Sepura plc.
Director of Think London, the London Inaddition, MrHughes is an Ambassador Development Agency funded organisation fortheAlzheimers society.
forinward investment into the capital.
Mr Hughes was, until 2010, the non-executive Mr Tobins business and thought leadership have Chairman of Intec Telecom Systems plc, a been widely recognised.
In 2010 he was named non-executive Director of Chloride Group plc, UK IT Services Entrepreneur of the Year by and non-executive Deputy Chairman of Parity Ernst and Young: London Chamber of Commerce Group plc.
He holds a BScin Electrical and Business Person of the Year for the second year Electronic Engineering.
Mr Hughes was awarded running: shortlisted for Business Charity Champion theCBE for services tointernational at the Business Charity Awards: and in 2009 was telecommunications in the Queens 2011 named techMARK Personality ofthe Year, Data NewYear Honours List.
Centre Business Person on the Year at the Data Centre Leaders Awards andawarded Outstanding Contribution to the Industry at the Data Centre Europe Awards.
Untitled-3 34 25 02 2011 10:14:52 35 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements 1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nominations Committee Simon Batey Robert Morse John OReilly 1 2 3 1 1 2 3 Independent non-executive Director Non-i ndependent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director As well as being senior independent non-executive Robert Morse has served with the Group as a As well as a non-executive Director, John OReilly Director, Simon Batey chairsthe Audit Committee non-executive Director since its formation in isChairman of the Remuneration Committee and is a member of both the Remuneration 2005, and is a member of its Audit Committee.
anda member of both the Audit and andNominations Committees.
Inthese roles, In his role with the Group, Mr Morse draws both Nominations Committees.
His areas of MrBatey draws on over twenty years experience on his experience of the Groups industry in particular experience relevant to the Group in a number ofsenior finance roles in industry.
Europe, and on his knowledge of this inthe include marketing, public relations, public United States, where he resides.
affairs, property and business development.
Between 2000 and 2006, Mr Batey was Group Finance Director of United Utilities plc and, from Mr Morse is a Partner of Oak Hill Capital Mr OReilly was until 2010 the Managing Director 2006 until 2007, he was Chief Financial Officer Management andhas been with the firm since of Remote Betting and Gaming at Ladbrokes.
of Thames Water Utilities Limited.
Mr Morse focuses on investments in the MrOReilly joined the Board of Ladbrokes following 2000, he worked for AMEC plc, initially as Deputy technology industry.
He serves on the Board the completion of the sale of the Hilton International Group Finance Director and then, from 1992, ofDirectors of Monsoon Commerce Solutions, hotels division in February 2006.
He led the asGroup Finance Director.
Mr Batey has been Oversee.
net, SVTC Technologies and ViaWest.
Ladbrokes eGaming Division since its establishment anon-executive Director of Blackrock New in 2002 until 2010.
Mr OReilly had responsibility Prior to joining Oak Hill, Mr Morse worked at GCC Energy Investment Trust plc since 2010 and is forinternational development, including Ladbrokes Investments, a growth private equity firm and at amember of the Postal Services Commission, growing retail joint venture in Spain, and oversaw Morgan Stanley.
Mr Morse earned a BSE degree, responsible for the regulation of the UK postal Ladbrokes core bookmaking function.
summa cum laude, from Princeton University services sector.
Hewas a non-executive Director and an MBA from the Stanford Graduate School Mr OReillys experience within the highly regulated of Arriva plc from 2003 to 2010 and has also of Business, where he wasan Arjay Miller Scholar.
betting and gaming sector includes being a served as a non-executive Director of THUS founder Director and formerly Vice Chairman Group plc.
Mr OReilly Mr Batey has an MA in Geography from holds a First Class honours degree in Business.
OxfordUniversity and is a qualified Chartered Accountant, having spent the first twelve yearsofhis career at Armitage and Norton nowpart of KPMG, latterly as a Partner of thefirm.
