Core UK at a glance Our market-leading UK business has continued to grow well by helping customers to spend less during the downturn.
Sales 42.3bn 15m Sales up active Clubcard holders 4.2% Trading profit Clubcard 15 years of loyalty 2.4bn Clubcard is our unique way of saying thank you Trading to our customers for shopping with us.
Launched profit up in 1995, Clubcard now has 15 million active 6.7% members in the UK.
Clubcard not only rewards our customers for their loyalty, but it also provides us with valuable insight into changing shopping 1 UK results patterns.
By monitoring this data and spotting m % growth trends early were able to respond quickly and ensure that were always providing customers Sales including VAT 42,254 4.2% with what they want, when and where they want it.
UK trading profit 2,413 6.7% Trading margin 6.2% 0.1% This year Clubcard became even more rewarding.
By increasing our investment with Double Points, 1 Tesco.
com, Tesco Telecoms and dunnhumby are included in the UK customers earned 550m in total in vouchers.
segment and Tesco Bank is excluded from the UK segment under IFRS 8.
Double Points has encouraged more customers to sign up, a Clubcard is now used with a higher proportion of transactions than before and 18% Space by format more UK households are redeeming vouchers than a year ago.
The knowledge and expertise of operating Clubcard combined with insight and analysis Homeplus from dunnhumby is now being adopted across 2% our international businesses.
We now have Clubcard in seven of our international markets Metro in fact we now have more Clubcard holders overseas than in the UK.
6% Express 8% Extra 42% Superstore 42% 16 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business Core UK 2,600 new or improved own-label food lines launched Sustainable this year profitable growth Our UK business delivered a solid have continued to invest in availability, given us the benefit of 60,000 performance in competitive service, range and quality with customer comments to help us market conditions.
We are pleasing results: improve our offer and service.
growing faster than the industry Availability as a whole and we have achieved Range this by remaining focused as Availability has improved again this Tescos diverse and adaptable range always on customers.
year as a result of a number of allows us to offer a wide choice for initiatives to improve stock every customer whatever their Our strategy of earning their loyalty management including more budget.
Through the recession we by helping them to spend less with efficient ordering systems, a greater have helped customers with lowerlow prices and affordable new products focus on clearing promotional and priced ranges such as Discount such as the Discount Brands deflated discontinued lines, better in-store Brands and Market Value and we sales growth initially but it was the monitoring processes and storing have also offered them affordable right thing to do for customers.
By stock on the top of shelves on the treats such as the Finest Restaurant encouraging and rewarding loyalty shop floor rather than in the Collection ready meals, which have through an increased investment warehouse.
The results have not been very popular.
We continue to in Clubcard we have maintained only increased availability based on innovate our range with over 2,600 steadier sales growth during the year our dotcom picking measure and new or improved own-label food lines than the industry as a whole, which reduced evening gaps in fresh food launched this year.
As the economy has seen a significant slowdown with by 18%, but the resulting reduction starts to emerge from recession we the steep decline in inflation.
in stock across our store network has are seeing customers buy more from made a significant contribution to our our Finest range, which returned to Excluding petrol and adjusting for improved working capital position.
positive like-for-like sales growth in VAT, like-for-like sales were 3.7% in the year.
the first half and 2.7% in the second Service half, driven by a strong volume Service remains a key differentiator.
Achieving our target of Our one-in-front initiative where if 200,000 staff opening 2m sq ft of new space during there is more than one customer trained in Every the year ensured that sales from new queuing at a single checkout we open space made a good contribution to another and increased investment little helps skills total sales growth, which was 6.5% in self-service checkouts, which now for the first half and 5.7% for the account for a quarter of all transactions, second half excluding petrol and continue to keep us ahead of the adjusted for VAT.
industry on customer measures of checkout service.
We trained more Delivering for customers through than 200,000 staff to help them recession is not just about lowering respond better to customer needs and prices and offering great promotions: our Every Comment Helps initiative, its about delivering all elements of which encourages customers to give the shopping trip.
Consequently, we instant feedback via text or email, has Availability % 97.5 2009 96.5 95.5 2005 94.5 Mar May July Sept Nov Jan B Ba as se ed o d on n o ou ur d r do ot tc co om m p piic ck kiin ng a g av va aiilla ab biilliit ty y m me ea as su ur re e.. Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 17 Core UK Customers earned 550m in Clubcard continued vouchers Delivering an Every little helps shopping trip Quality Quality particularly in fresh food iPhone apps making life easier remains important to customers even in tough times and as we emerge for customers from recession this will become even At Tesco were constantly striving to the wine, providing full product more important.
Thats why we have make things better, simpler and cheaper.
information and allowing customers been investing in our fresh food offer Thats why weve launched three to order from their phone.
with a wide-ranging change innovative and popular iPhone apps.
Coming soon is another tesco.
Improved technical Customers no longer have to worry app which will enable customers to do standards, additional specialist staff about forgetting their Clubcard as their tesco.
com grocery ordering from training, closer relationships with our our latest app enables them to scan their phone.
suppliers and significant changes to their Clubcard on their iPhone.
the way we merchandise some key This app is proving extremely popular products are helping us deliver a with customers with over 200,000 stronger range and better shopping downloads in the first three weeks and there will soon be versions for experience for customers.
These and other smartphones too.
other initiatives helped Tesco win the Fresh Produce Retailer of the Year Store Finder app enables customers to Award in 2009. find their nearest stores and then locate products complete with prices within the store to the exact aisle.
Step Change Our UK Step Change programme Our wine app allows customers to take is in its thirteenth year and continues a photo of a wine they like and uses to go from strength to strength.
image recognition software to identify This year we met our 550m savings target.
Step Change is not just about generating savings each project must be better for customers, simpler for This year we aim to complete a Sustainable strategy staff and cheaper for Tesco.
Our stock global programme that will deliver Our customer strategy is sustainable reduction programme is an excellent savings of 800m and well invest for the long term because we can example of this: most of these savings back into our differentiate Tesco in a unique way offer for customers.
with Clubcard and because our low its better for customers because prices and improvements to the it has driven a large improvement New space customer shopping trip are based on in availability for both food and Through the experience and permanent productivity gains.
non-food: expertise of our property teams we its simpler for staff because it is have developed over a number of Our growth strategy for the UK is also now easier to locate stock to fill years a good pipeline of new space sustainable as it is based on taking a the shelves and stock errors can opportunities.
As a result we have balanced approach to the key building be identified more easily: and the opportunity to unwind some of blocks of top-line growth: solid likethe work-in-progress we have built for-like performance and a consistent its cheaper for Tesco because up and will be stepping up the rate contribution from new stores.
stores now hold less stock and of expansion in 2010 11.
We will fewer hours are needed to replenish be investing 1.6bn of capital in the shelves.
For example, a typical the UK economy this year and 550m in Step Tesco Extra now holds 8% less will create thousands of jobs for stock and we are now looking at Change savings people, including the long-term releasing backroom space which unemployed through our can be redeployed for Retailing Regeneration Partnerships.
com tescoworksforme 18 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business... Tesco Express its the easiest thing at lunchtime Tesco works for us... Kevin and Allan Tesco customers East Ham and Islington Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 19
