International at a glance Our international business has delivered a strong performance despite many of our markets feeling the impact of the global recession.
Sales Trading profit 19.4bn 749m Sales up Trading profit up 8.8% 5.6% New space New stores 5.1m sq ft 324 Countries Regional results China Czech Republic Hungary India Japan Malaysia Poland Republic of Ireland Slovakia South Korea Thailand Turkey United States Asia Actual rates Constant rates m % growth % growth Sales including VAT 9,072 19.7% 15.3% Trading profit 440 23.9% 18.9% Trading margin 5.2% 0.2% 0.2% Europe Actual rates Constant rates m % growth % growth Sales including VAT 9,997 0.7 % 0.9 % Trading profit 474 4.0 % 5.7 % Trading margin 5.4% 0.2 % 0.3 % US Actual rates Constant rates m % growth % growth Sales including VAT 354 72.7% 58.0% Trading profit 165 17.9 % 7.9 % 10 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business International Delivering great value for customers In International we have delivered a resilient performance in the Lifespace our unique face of challenging economic headwinds.
Our businesses have approach in China made good progress delivering The size and scale of China provides destination providing shopping for customers today and at the unique challenges for a retailer but also including a 100,000 sq ft Tesco same time investing in the drivers offers a huge opportunity for a business hypermarket, entertainment, dining of future growth.
Our strategy is prepared to show flexibility and vision.
working and we ended this year Our strategy is to expand into less We are partnering with investors to stronger than we started it.
developed second and third tier cities share the capital commitment on some by opening hypermarkets in leading of these projects, enabling us to roll out Each of our businesses has adapted shopping malls.
Weve found it hard to more sites faster.
itself to the demands of its local market find locations with the right facilities in with strong local management some cities giving us an opportunity teams finding ways to lower costs to develop our own malls, to ensure they are the right size, location and design and deliver great value for customers.
to meet the needs of the new Increasingly our international Chinese consumer.
businesses are also utilising the scale and skill of the Tesco Group with During the year we opened our first more international sourcing, Discount three Tesco Lifespace shopping malls in Fushun pictured, Qingdao and Brands now in seven markets, F&F Qinhuangdao and we will open nine clothing now in ten countries, Clubcard more this year.
Each mall comprises introduced in seven countries with approximately 500,000 sq ft of retail more Clubcard holders internationally space over five floors and is a one-stop than in the UK and the Tesco Operating Model sharing our global best practice to the benefit of all our businesses.
on the quality and resilience of our Our Asian markets offer a significant assets and local management teams long-term opportunity.
We have After a very tough first half of the year and strengthens our confidence in our continued to invest through the we are now seeing encouraging sales international strategy and long-term downturn to ensure that we will be trends across almost all our markets: growth prospects.
in an even stronger position as the we saw strong improvements in likeeconomies recover.
This year we for-like sales in the fourth quarter Asia opened 3.0m sq ft of new space compared to the third.
We have delivered a strong across the region an increase of performance in Asia despite more than 10% and we plan to With clear signs that our international challenging economic conditions in open 4.9m sq ft next year excluding markets are starting to recover we are the region.
We have grown sales and shopping malls.
We have also planning to resume a faster pace of profits well driven by new space continued to make good progress new space opening in the coming and the excellent performance of the towards developing a strong brand in year.
In 2009 10 we opened 5.1m sq ft stores acquired in South Korea in our most developed Asian markets of new space and in 2010 11 we will 2008, which are now profitable.
As with further expansion of Clubcard open 8.5m sq ft in addition to nine economies generally in Asia start to and our Retailing Services businesses.
The recover we are seeing improving sales performance of our International trends in all our businesses except businesses through this severe Japan, where economic conditions recession has provided reassurance remain subdued, with overall like-forlike sales for Asia turning positive in the fourth quarter.
Profits in Asia grew by 24% with margins strengthening significantly in the second half 6.1% compared to 4.3% in the first half.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 11 International There are more Clubcard holders continued internationally than in the UK Investing in the drivers of future growth South Korea China Japan Homeplus in South Korea delivered In China, we are laying the In our 2008 9 Annual Report, we another very good performance this foundations for long-term growth, stated that with the challenging year with total sales growth of 33% with further investments in new market conditions in Japan, we including 3% on a like-for-like basis stores, supply chain infrastructure had only limited headroom on the and profits up more than 50%.
We have focused carrying value of our Japan assets.
integration of the former Homever on three regions each with its own Given the further deterioration in the stores has been completed successfully, management team and with a focus retail market, it became appropriate ahead of plan, with the stores now on expansion into second and third to make impairments against the trading profitably with double-digit tier cities.
We opened 17 hypermarkets goodwill arising on the acquisition like-for-like sales growth in the fourth in the year, including in our first we made to enter the market in 2003, quarter.
South Korea also opened 63 three Lifespace shopping centre resulting in a 131m charge to the new stores in the year.
The acquisition developments in Fushun, Qingdao income statement 82m in the first in 2008 has helped Homeplus grow and Qinhuangdao, with average tenant half and 49m in the second half.
its market share and close the gap occupancy over 80% at opening.
We opened We plan to open 23 hypermarkets in Our team in Japan continues to our first franchise store in February 2010 11 of which nine will be in new make good progress in developing 2010 with more scheduled to open Lifespace malls.
The mall development the business.
Our new convenience in this financial year.
South Korea is programme will be funded in part format is receiving good feedback our largest international business through joint ventures with third-party from customers who like the focus on with sales of 4.5bn and profits of investors.
The first such joint venture fresh food and new features helping almost 300m.
incorporating three malls was us to differentiate our offer, such as established in November 2009 with a the in-store bakery, an extensive wine Thailand syndicate of leading Asian investors.
range and our first 400 own-label Tesco Lotus in Thailand has delivered products which after only a few a good performance despite a Malaysia months already account for 10% background of continued political Our business in Malaysia made good of sales.
uncertainty with double-digit progress with sales growing 9% this profit growth on a constant exchange year increasing our market share.
A strong store opening We continue to invest in Clubcard with Our early plans in India are progressing programme has helped drive our sales more than one million customers well.
Our local management team is growth this year in a market in which signed up and with a dunnhumby helping our franchise partner, Trent, we remain the clear market leader.
team working with us locally to to develop its Star Bazaar hypermarket Strong productivity gains have enabled provide insight on pricing, range and operation which is currently achieving us to make significant investments in promotions.
We grew our space by like-for-like sales of c. 40% and buys lowering prices for customers whilst 11% this year but with the economy more than 70% of its products from still delivering good margins and starting to show signs of recovery Tescos wholesale business.
Plans for positive cash flow.
The launch of we plan to step this up to 27% growth our cash and carry business are also Clubcard in August 2009 marked a in 2010 11. on track with our first store expected new stage in the development of our to open towards the end of this year.
business and take-up from customers has been excellent, with four million customers signed up so far.
Throughout the year we opened 63 new stores in South Korea, bringing our total number of stores to 305 Watch the video: www.
com tescoworksforme 12 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business...
I get special offers with my Member card Ji Tesco customer Shanghai, China Tesco works for me... Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 13 International continued Europe Republic of Ireland The first Tesco Europe overall delivered a robust In Ireland we have made substantial performance against strong economic changes to our business, which was outside the UK headwinds in the form of a sharp facing the dual challenge of a severe opened just 15 years downturn in economic activity recession and cross-border trading.
By causing a slow-down in customer integrating more of our international ago in Hungary expenditure.
Sales growth varied brand buying with our UK business we across the region with a good have been able to reduce the prices contribution from new space helping of 12,500 products by an average Poland sales grow in Poland and Turkey and of around 20%.
In Poland, we have had another good stay stable in the Czech Republic and year with strong growth in sales and Hungary.
Significant price deflation Customers are responding profits on a constant exchange rate and cross-border shopping driven by enthusiastically to our improved basis.
A good performance from the rapid movements in exchange rates pricing and range: significant uplifts converted Leader Price stores, the resulted in sales declining in Slovakia in volumes have now offset the impact popularity of our Discount Brands and Ireland.
Overall, however, the of lower prices, resulting in positive now in one in three baskets and sales trends are now improving: each like-for-like sales growth in the last our clothing range, which achieved of our European businesses showed few weeks of the year and a growing like-for-like sales growth of more than an improvement in like-for-like sales market share.
These changes, 20%, have helped our business growth in the fourth quarter.
combined with a substantial cost maintain positive ex-petrol like-forreduction programme, have enabled like sales growth overall.
The launch We have made market share gains Tesco Ireland to deliver a steady of Clubcard in August 2009 has been across our Central European markets financial performance despite the very well received, with 1.8 million by reducing costs and lowering prices economic headwinds and significant customers signing up so far.
for customers and by continuing to self-imposed price deflation.
Profitability in the cost of the exceptional restructuring Czech Republic region as a whole declined slightly activities was 33m in total for In the Czech Republic our strong compared with last year but was the year.
new store opening programme has resilient given the severity of recession.
helped us maintain sales at levels Hungary similar to last year and improve our We are continuing to invest in the Our business in Hungary continues share of a market affected by high region, opening 1.8m sq ft of new to perform well with sales levels unemployment and price deflation.
space during the year less than being maintained despite a very weak Our Express and 10,000 sq ft format originally expected, primarily as a economy in which unemployment stores continue to do well with result of the economic environment.
levels increased by more than 25% positive like-for-like sales growth, With the outlook improving we will and consumers were hit with a 5% but as in most markets, growth in be stepping up the rate of opening increase in sales tax.
We are continuing the larger stores remains subdued as with a plan to add 3.1m sq ft of new to execute our strategy of investing customers curtail their spending on space across the region in 2010 11. in the shopping trip for customers, non-food in the current environment.
helping our overall market share to The outstanding category in nongrow again in the last year, further food has been clothing with doubleconsolidating our market leadership.
Our flagship My Narodni department store in Prague was reopened after a major refit project and we are pleased with the results to date.
Our flagship My Narodni department store in Prague reopened in September 2009 after a major refit 14 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business Slovakia United States 145 Fresh & Easy In Slovakia, the overall retail market In the United States, Fresh & Easy has has been very challenging with rising been making good progress, despite stores by end of unemployment and sharp falls in prolonged weakness in the California, 2009 10 industrial output.
Cross-border Nevada and Arizona economies.
shopping remained significant for Customers are enthusiastic about much of the first half but abated in our range, particularly the fresh food With growing sales and improvements the second half after we reduced prepared in the Fresh & Easy kitchen, in productivity, waste and distribution our prices within Slovakia to bring the store environment and the costs, store economics are improving them more closely into line with friendly service.
As with any of our steadily.
Overall trading losses were in neighbouring countries.
Like-for-like new businesses, we are adapting and line with guidance provided last year sales growth is recovering strongly: improving our offer in response to and reflect the fact that Fresh & Easy from negative double digit for the customer feedback.
During the year has been built with the infrastructure first half to positive growth in the final weve broadened the range in some to support hundreds of stores.
key categories like cereals and pet food and added larger pack sizes We expect to open new stores at a A good store opening programme for families.
We have also introduced rate of around one per week this year combined with investments in the a range of lower-priced house brands with a focus on areas where the local shopping trip and customer loyalty to help families on a budget.
economy has been less severely hit with Clubcard launching in Slovakia and where we are seeing substantially in September 2009 have helped us With the improvements to our range stronger sales performance.
One of extend our market-leading position implemented and with the number the benefits of the downturn is a further during the year.
We have of stores growing 145 stores by end slightly softer property market: we recently refitted and rebranded one of of 2009 10, we launched media are now able to buy more freehold our large hypermarkets in Bratislava campaigns in September 2009 and properties and the overall cost of as an Extra adding new departments January 2010 focusing on how building a store has fallen by such as pharmacy, photo processing, Fresh & Easy can offer both high approximately 20%.
A combination opticians and phone shop.
This is the quality and low prices.
A combination of new space and organic sales first of its type in Central Europe.
of increased customer awareness and growth means that sales growth this the improvements we have made inyear will be more than 50%.
Turkey store helped to drive stronger positive In Turkey, whilst we slowed our rate like-for-like sales growth in the second Although we do not expect losses to of new store growth, it remained half of the year.
be much lower in 2010 11 we believe strong enough to offset the like-forthey have now peaked.
like sales decline, helping us to grow overall sales during the year.
With the economy showing early signs of recovery we are planning to resume a faster rate of expansion this year.
Turkey remains an important strategic long-term opportunity for International stores us as a large, growing and relatively US underdeveloped retail market.
145 Asia 1,230 Europe 954 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15
