Our business C o m m u n i t y d o o f - n o N I n t e r n Our well-established and consistent strategy for growth has given the business momentum to grow through the downturn.
Our strategy Business Review and telecoms and new markets and developed over the last 13 years This Business Review analyses the abroad, initially in Central Europe as part of this strategy are now performance of the Tesco Group and Asia and more recently in the of significant scale and highly in the financial year ended United States.
profitable in fact we are now 27 February 2010.
It also explains market leader in many of our The strategy has five elements, other aspects of the Groups markets outside the UK.
In 1997 our reflecting our four established areas markets, results and operations, International business generated of focus plus Tescos commitments including strategy and risk 1.8% of the Groups profits and we on community and the environment: management.
had only just entered the Retailing to be a successful international Services markets: today these parts The Directors present their Annual retailer: of our business represent 22% and Report to shareholders on the affairs 16% of profits respectively.
to grow the core UK business: of the Group and Company, together with the audited financial statements to be as strong in non-food as Importantly, the strategy has of the Company for the 52 weeks in food: given the business momentum to ended 27 February 2010. grow well through the economic to develop retailing services: and downturn.
By continuing to invest Long-term strategy to put community at the heart of through the recession in the Tesco has a well-established and what we do.
customer offer, in infrastructure and consistent strategy for growth.
in our people we are now well The rationale for the strategy is The strategy to diversify the placed to grow faster and improve to broaden the scope of the business business has been the foundation shareholder returns as the global to enable it to deliver strong, of Tescos growth in recent years.
sustainable long-term growth by It was laid down in 1997, with the following customers into large fifth element Community being expanding markets at home such added in 2007.
Many of the new as financial services, non-food businesses that have been created Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 9 a t i o n a l K U e r o C R e t a i l i n g S e r v i c e s
