Non-food at a glance Our general merchandise offer is growing in sophistication with improved ranges and prices, more global sourcing and a stronger online presence.
Sales 13.1bn Sales up 6.2% Sales in toys up in the UK 25% Tesco Tech Support advisors in 10 UK stores 1,000 F&F sold in 10 countries F&F items sold in 68m Central Europe 15,500 Like-for-like clothing products available online through Tesco Direct sales in Central Europe 14% up 14% Sales bn We sell 1 in every 4 small-screen TVs sold 1 in 4 in the UK 13.1 12.5 11.8 10.4 2006 7 2007 8 2008 9 2009 10 20 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business Non-food We sell 1 in 6 microwaves sold in the UK Significant market share gains in key categories Our non-food performance has been very resilient through the Teesport helping us get better, downturn.
In some key categories we have made significant market simpler and cheaper share gains as more customers As our UK non-food business continues distribution network, which in turn have been encouraged to try our to grow weve worked hard to create helps us keep prices low for customers.
non-food range in the search for innovative solutions to increase storage great value and as some competitors and distribution capacity and efficiency Teesport has also delivered major whilst reducing our impact on the environmental benefits by removing have felt the strain.
over 12,000 lorry journeys per year from the UKs roads.
This has made a Group non-food sales rose 6.2% to Our first ever purpose-built import significant step towards our target to 13.1bn, with 9.0bn in the UK and storage facility, which opened in halve distribution emissions of each 4.1bn in International.
Middlesbrough in August, fulfils both case delivered by 2012, against a these objectives whilst also creating baseline of 2006.
We delivered a very strong non-food 800 jobs in the local community.
performance in the UK with steadily The 910,000 sq ft Teesport distribution improving like-for-like sales during centre offers a traditional low bay the year.
A number of categories had assembly operation and high density particularly strong growth: storage within a fully automated high bay warehouse providing a capability of holding 160,000 pallets and assembling Electricals up to 4.5 million cases per week.
The With competitive prices, a great range scale of Teesport, along with its port in-store and online and over 1,000 location and on-site rail infrastructure, Tesco Tech Support advisors in our UK has helped reduce costs in our stores to help customers make their choice, we are rapidly growing our presence in the electricals market.
We now sell one in every six microwaves As part of our drive to lower prices Toys in the UK and one in four small-screen for customers, we make every effort Our sales in toys have grown 25% TVs.
Our sales in electricals have to cut out the middlemen and source this year with online sales up more doubled in the last four years and products from manufacturers or than 60%.
For example, we teamed up with DreamWorks studio for Clothing Entertainment the exclusive rights to sell the short Sales grew by 7.3%, including positive Our market share in games has animated Christmas film Merry like-for-like growth, to reach 1bn doubled in the last year as a result Madagascar.
This groundbreaking in sales for the first time, helped by a of allocating it more space in-store, relationship was the first of its kind 15% increase in childrens wear and revamping the range and layout in the industry and enabled Tesco the launch of our online clothing range.
and being more competitive on to sell over one million Merry new releases.
Sales International 4.1bn UK 9.0bn Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 21 Sasha with Schmoo Tesco customer Friern Barnet Tesco works for me...... everything is in one location I just bought a washing line 22 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business Non-food 1,000 Tesco Tech Support advisors continued in UK stores Resilient through the downturn International clothing Clothing is becoming a global F&F a global brand strength and a good example of how we are bringing global scale and skill to our international businesses.
Our ambition is to make F&F a leading four countries in the region: Poland: global fashion brand, offering unbeatable Hungary: Czech Republic: and Slovakia.
In our four Central European markets, value for money, not compromised by clothing like-for-like sales grew 14% quality, design or provenance.
Were now building on the success in the UK and Central Europe to launch F&F this year following strong growth F&F launched in the UK in 2001 and has across our Asian markets.
This year we the previous year in a market which expanded rapidly since then with sales launched in China, Malaysia, South Korea has been declining overall in the last year of 540m in the UK supported and Thailand.
Weve also introduced F&F by the launch of our online clothing site ranges to four Asian markets this year in October.
As with any brand, F&F cant afford to another step in developing F&F into stand still, which is why were broadening a global brand.
F&F launched in Central Europe in 2008 the brands appeal with new ranges and were already making excellent F&F Couture and F&F Jewellery.
F&F is rapidly becoming Joint buying whereby 95% of the established in the region with customer supplier base in Central Europe is awareness of the brand growing from the same as Ireland and the UK 34% to 61% in the last year.
has brought the benefits of Group Across our markets in Central Europe, expertise and scale, helping to Tesco is already one of the largest improve quality and costs.
In fact during the year we sold more F&F items 68 million Online than the combined populations of our Shopping habits are changing customers want to buy online as well as from stores and catalogues and many will use a combination of these www.
com entertainment to research before buying.
With an Our new clothing site combines The launch of Tesco Entertainment integrated multichannel approach familiar Tesco labels such as brought together, for the first time, were making it easy for customers, Cherokee and F&F with some new our entire physical and digital whichever way they want to shop.
Tesco lines exclusively offered online, entertainment offer, in a new In addition to the 15,500 products plus a number of other brands.
available online through Tesco Direct, The site became one of the top Customers are now able to buy we now have two new specialist ten most visited clothing websites a CD, DVD or game and a film websites launched in October: within weeks of its launch.
So far or album download, all in one the customer feedback has been transaction.
From the outset the very strong, particularly on value new website has proved popular for money and ease of shop.
com tescoworksforme Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 23
