Retailing Services at a glance Weve made good progress this year in our Retailing Services businesses: Tesco Bank: tesco.
com a leading online retailer 3.6bn Including both our grocery and non-food offer, Trading tesco.
com is one of the largest online retailers profit up in the UK, with sales of more than 2bn.
Just as in our stores, our success comes from listening 17.6% to customers and a constant drive to ensure that we provide an online Every little helps shopping experience.
Tesco Bank With more than a million active customers, our online grocery business is the market leader and the most profitable business of its kind in the 13.1% Trading profit up world.
It continues to grow strongly last year we delivered over one billion items.
We have put ease of use at the heart of our online shopping trip for new customer example, our favourites feature, which makes accounts over shopping online easier by using Clubcard to 400,000 the past year remember a customers favourite in-store and online purchases.
We also continue to innovate with our price match on any substituted products tesco.
com and our shorter than wed like code life guarantee.
Tesco Direct extends the reach of our non-food grocery items offer with over 15,500 products available to 1bn delivered last year customers via the internet and catalogues.
Customers can choose to have goods delivered to their home or they can pick them up at one of our 261 in-store Direct desks.
This year we relaunched our online entertainment site, enabling customers 26% profits up to buy downloads alongside the physical product, and we launched our online clothing website with a range of 2,500 fashionable items, of which Telecoms 1,000 were exclusively online.
Tesco Mobile 2m customers Phone 100 Shops dunnhumby dunnhumby serves other retailers and manufacturers 26 in 26 international markets 24 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business Retailing 6.2 million Tesco Bank customers Services Laying the foundations for further growth Following the announcement in Commercial performance excess of customer lending.
This is July 2008 of our intention to take We grew the number of customer further supported by a high-quality full ownership of Tesco Bank, accounts by more than 400,000 in liquid asset portfolio, net short-term we set a target to grow the the last year to a total of more than wholesale cash and investment profitability of our Retailing 6.2 million across all products.
Services businesses from a little have achieved double-digit customer under 400m in 2007 8 to 1bn.
growth in our banking products, Management team This year we made good progress including 27% growth in personal During the year good progress in attracting new customers and loans.
In insurance we held our has been made in completing growing sales and profits while number of policies broadly flat in a the recruitment of an experienced at the same time laying the very competitive market: the number management team in all areas foundations for further growth.
of motor insurance policies declined of the Bank: finance: risk: legal: partly as a result of a planned commercial: treasury: and IT.
All Total Retailing Services sales were reduction in our exposure to high-risk senior roles have now been filled.
3.6bn, up 4.2% on last year and drivers but the number of policies profits were 540m, up 17.6%.
in home, pet and life insurance Infrastructure increased.
Our 130 in-store travel In September 2009 we entered into Tesco Bank bureaux saw an increase in an agreement with Fortis UK Ltd to Overall, Tesco Bank has delivered a transactions of more than 80% help us build the operational platform good performance in a challenging and the number of ATMs in our and technical expertise required retail banking market growing profits network grew to over 2,800. to further develop our insurance by 13% to 250m.
We have also selected the rose during the year but have now Profit core technology platforms for the stabilised and throughout have Gross profit grew 19% to 749m with banking products.
The migration remained below industry averages.
a good performance in banking being programmes for both sides of the We have absorbed additional costs as partly offset by lower profitability business are progressing well and we we begin the process of moving the in insurance, primarily as a result of expect to be writing business on the business onto its own infrastructure lower investment income linked to the new systems by the end of 2010 11. and build the team as we prepare the current low interest rate environment.
We have secured new premises for business for faster growth.
Trading profit was up 13.1% to 250m banking and insurance operations in compared to 221m in 2008 9 on a Glasgow and Newcastle, which will pro forma basis.
Profit before tax was open in mid 2010, creating 1,800 jobs.
114m with the primary deduction Double-digit from operating profit being the New product development customer growth previously announced 127m nonSubject to regulatory approval we in our banking cash amortisation of intangibles anticipate launching new savings arising on acquisition.
This profit products and mortgages by the end products performance was achieved after an of financial year 2010 11, with current increase in operating costs as a accounts to follow in the second half result of the change of ownership as of 2011. the business prepares for expansion and against the background of a 32% increase in bad debts to 177m which was in part offset by a credit relating to the unwind of the fair value adjustment created on acquisition.
Capital and liquidity The Tier 1 capital ratio at the end of 2009 10 was 13.0%.
The funding and liquidity position of the business remained robust throughout the period with customer deposits in Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 25 Retailing Tesco Mobile No.
1 for customer Services satisfaction continued Source: Customer Service Index Growing sales and profits tesco.
com Tesco Telecoms dunnhumby Our online businesses including Profit from our telecoms business This year marks dunnhumbys 20th dotcom grocery and Direct delivered grew, driven primarily by Tesco anniversary.
In addition to supporting another strong performance, achieving Mobile, which achieved a 14% Tescos Clubcard in seven countries a 14% increase in sales with profits increase in customer numbers to around the world, dunnhumby serves rising 26% to 136m.
more than two million in a declining other retailers and manufacturers in pre-pay phone market.
Tesco Mobile 26 international markets: in fact Tesco In a little over a decade we have built also successfully entered the pay now represents only around 15% of a substantial profitable business that monthly market this year with its sales.
has sales of 2.1bn and employs innovative tariffs and generous credit 20,000 people.
Our website is the rewards, picking up the best tariff dunnhumby is growing fast with third most visited retail website in the accolade at the 2009 Mobile Choice profits up 28% in the year helped UK and last year our online grocery Awards.
Tesco Mobile remained the by new engagements in the United business delivered over a billion items.
number one pay-as-you-go operator States Macys, Canada Metro and for customer satisfaction throughout Colombia Exito.
dunnhumby now The number of active customers 2009.
In December 2009, Tesco touches the lives of over 350 million in our online grocery business has Mobile broadend its appeal further by consumers through its client grown to over one million and basket becoming only the third UK operator relationships.
Record levels of to offer the iPhone, for which sales availability and innovations such as have been encouraging.
price matching on substitutions are improving the customer experience We have made good progress in and helping to reduce the number rolling out our in-store Phone Shops of lapsed customers and calls to the with 105 open at year end and a service centre.
We are reducing costs further 100 planned by the end of and carbon emissions by improving this year.
The Phone Shops are fuel consumption per order by 10% transforming our ability to sell for the second year running through products that require an assisted sale implementing new technology to particularly contract mobile phones.
improve driving and routing efficiency.
Also in 2009 we signed a wholesale Tesco Direct extends the reach of our broadband agreement with Cable non-food offer to customers via the & Wireless, which will enable us internet, by phone and catalogues.
to relaunch our broadband offer Customers can choose to have goods to customers in 2010 with higher delivered to their home or they can bandwidth speeds and lower prices.
pick them up at one of our 261 instore Direct desks.
Tesco Direct had another good year making good progress on its customer service offer, growing sales by 28% and continuing on its path towards profitability.
Telecoms Watch the video: www.
com tescoworksforme 26 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business...
I have my cat insured with Tesco they were very reasonable Tesco works for me... Sue with Lexi Tesco customer Muswell Hill Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 27 Community at a glance Were continuing to lead the way in caring for the environment, supporting local communities and encouraging healthy lifestyles.
100% Zero of store waste in the UK diverted from We are committed to become going directly to landfill a zero-carbon business by 2050 Community We helped 6.2million Ramsey promises people get active worldwide the worlds first zeroCaring for the 6.2m environment carbon store Actively supporting Community local communities Champions Tesco has been continuously developing stores Buying and with lower carbon footprints since 2005 and 270 selling products our new store at Ramsey in Cambridgeshire is responsibly the latest step on this journey.
The store emits Giving customers zero net CO in its operations.
2 100% of eligible ownhealthy choices brand products now have The building is designed to use as little energy nutritional labelling Creating good jobs 100% as possible.
The frame is made from sustainably and careers sourced wood, which requires much less energy to produce than steel.
We use roof windows and Jobs created in sun pipes to bring natural daylight flooding into UK Regeneration the customer and staff areas.
Partnerships 380 Any energy that the store does need is generated by a combined heat and power plant on site, which is powered from renewable sources.
We Suppliers responding to sell any excess electricity to the National Grid.
our survey saying we treat them with respect 91% Carbon-footprinted products in the UK and South Korea 500 Carbon emissions reduction from our baseline 2007 portfolio of stores and 7.8% distribution centres 28 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business Community We succeeded in getting 6.2 million people active across Increasingly the world important for our growth We are committed to being we committed ourselves to a new set As part of the Tesco for Schools and a responsible neighbour within of challenging long-term targets: to Clubs scheme in the UK, this year our local communities and become a zero-carbon business by we gave away 13.7m of equipment taking a leadership role on the 2050: to reduce the carbon impact of to 35,000 schools and clubs, a rise products in our supply chain by 30% environment.
This is something of about 50% in both the value of our customers expect and we by 2020: and to help our customers the equipment and the numbers believe is increasingly important halve their own footprints by 2020. participating.
Actively supporting local In the US, we ran our Shop for Caring for the environment communities Schools project for a second year.
Over the past few years we have Our Values at Tesco mean that we In this scheme, we give participating played a leadership role amongst listen to our customers and respond schools US$1 for every US$20 spent large businesses in tackling climate to what we hear.
Customers tell us at Fresh & Easy stores.
The first year change, through our own actions and that being part of a local community of the project helped raise over in collaboration with our customers, is important to them and they look US$130,000 for schools in California, suppliers, NGOs and governments to us to play an active role.
Being at Arizona and Nevada, with the school around the world.
We have made the heart of successful, thriving that raised the most money in each great progress this year in reducing neighbourhoods is not just in the state receiving a US$5,000 bonus.
CO emissions across our business interest of our customers.
Emissions from our baseline interest too.
We aim to use our size In Turkey, our Computers for Schools 2007 store and distribution centre as a force for good in society.
programme distributed 264 products portfolio have fallen by 7.8% over including computers, printers and the past year and new stores and Throughout the year, we gave projectors to 60 schools.
In Poland, distribution centres built since 2006 7 over 60m in donations to charities more than 600 schools took part in are on average emitting 28.8% less and contributions to community our Tesco for Schools programme, CO than their equivalents in 2006 7. projects including cause-related an environmental contest for schools 2 marketing, gifts-in-kind, staff time where children create a piece of art We have delivered on our promise and management costs.
Once again with an environmental theme.
to divert 100% of store waste in the we have donated the equivalent of UK from going directly to landfill.
more than 1% of our profits to good causes.
Additionally, including our In 2007 Tesco invested 25m to Charity of the Year partnerships, create a new Sustainable Consumption which go from strength to strength, Institute SCI at the University of this year our staff raised over 7m Manchester.
The SCI aims to answer for charity across the Group.
some of the fundamental questions about how to make a consumer We have continued to roll out society sustainable.
Community Champions right across the Group.
Community Champions In October, the SCI held a conference are staff members who dedicate paid to launch its first major report hours to coordinate store activities in Consumers: The Key to a Lowtheir local communities.
At that conference, support local charities, organisations, schools and causes that local people really care about.
We now have Champions in seven countries.
Throughout the year we gave over 60m in donations to charities Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 29... Tesco is environmentally friendly Tesco works for me... Julia with Krystian Tesco customer Krakow, Poland 30 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business Community In Poland we sell more than 6,000 continued regional products We aim to act responsibly in everything we do Buying and selling products At Tesco product safety is of Creating good jobs and careers responsibly paramount importance.
We have a We are dedicated to creating good We are committed to buying and team of over 900 technical specialists jobs wherever we are.
selling our products responsibly and working to raise standards in our treating our suppliers fairly.
This is not supplier base around the world.
During the year we opened a further just the right thing to do, it is also in They help ensure that all our products three Regeneration Partnership stores our business interest.
We know that from tagliatelle to TVs are safe, in the UK, in Oldham, Birmingham if you treat people decently they legal, ethical and of the highest and Litherland, near Liverpool, perform better.
This approach also quality for our customers.
creating 380 jobs for the long-term helps to improve the sustainability unemployed.
Since 2009, we have of our supply chain.
By investing for We know that many of our customers opened 26 Regeneration Partnership the long term in businesses that want to buy products that support stores and created more than 3,200 understand our needs, our customers their local businesses and economy, jobs for people who have previously benefit through better products and particularly in the current economic been long-term unemployed.
Half the our suppliers employees benefit climate.
They are also concerned jobs for each partnership are reserved through more stable and secure jobs.
about the environmental impact for local people who have been of the products they buy.
In the UK, unemployed for at least six months, In 2009, over 3,300 suppliers covering we have dedicated local buying, including those with low levels of all our markets responded to our marketing and technical teams in numeracy and literacy skills and Group-wide anonymous supplier each of our regional buying offices.
At least We stock more than 4,000 local 90% agreed that we pay on time, we lines and work with over 400 local We were also one of the first are professional, we treat them with and national suppliers.
Were also companies to work with the UK respect and we are committed to doing more local buying in our Government in Local Employment meeting customer requirements.
For example, Partnerships, designed to provide in Poland, we sell more than 6,000 jobs for the long-term unemployed.
We have launched our Trading Fairly regional products.
programme and recruited our first We will create 16,000 new jobs this ethical action managers in South Giving customers healthy choices year, including 9,000 in the UK.
Africa and Bangladesh, who work We are committed to helping our with our local suppliers to improve customers and staff adopt healthy conditions across the supply chain.
We aim to provide better We have also introduced Trading information on the nutritional value Fairly Awards for our produce and of products so customers can make clothing suppliers, which reward informed choices to improve their suppliers making particularly strong health.
Across the Group we have efforts to improve conditions exceeded our target of nutritional for their employees.
labelling on own-brand products we now label 100% of eligible products giving customers the tools they need to make healthy choices.
We now have ethical action managers in As part of our strategy to encourage South Africa and customers to lead more active lives, we run a range of programmes Bangladesh around the world from aerobic competitions in Thailand to charity Runs for life in Slovakia and the Czech Republic.
This year we succeeded in getting 6.2 million people active across the world.
com tescoworksforme Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 31
