Directors Report Strategic review DELIVERING AGAINST OUR STRATEGY Our strategy has continued to serve us well and offers plenty of opportunity for growth.
OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY hotel partners and in our fastest-growing Overall, our West & East Europe segment Inspired by the vision We go further to destinations of Turkey and Egypt.
With increased sales of differentiated and make dreams come true, our strategy has direct control of more than 1bn of exclusive product from 41% to 45%, the UK remained clear and constant, focused around accommodation spend, the new function segment from 32% to 35% and Central Europe strengthening our existing businesses and has been instrumental in reducing Group from 24% to 28%.
accommodation costs as a percentage of Distribution gains sales by 120 basis points to 32.5%.
The new During the year, the Group increased inDuring the year, we began work on a number function will also support more exclusive house distribution of mainstream product to of strategic initiatives that have the potential access to hotel properties and consolidate 52% 2009: 51% and online distribution to to deliver revenue growth and lift the Group inbound agency relationships and in- 23% 2009: 22% operating pro t margin by 100 to 150 basis destination support staff across theGroup.
points over the medium term.
2 TRAVEL-RELATED FINANCIAL SERVICES Airline synergies Our key objective in financial services is to Our strategic initiatives focus on delivering On aviation, we began implementation of drive sales through cross selling of foreign against our growth drivers: maximising value an ambitious synergy plan to unlock savings exchange and travel insurance products.
In in mainstream travel and financial services of 35m per annum.
By working more the period, financial services contributed and investing in areas of future growth, closely together, our airlines had delivered around 14% of Group adjusted underlying primarily independent travel and emerging 19m of incremental savings during the year operating pro t. In the UK, we increased our markets.
In parallel, we continue to look for through a combination of fuel ef ciency share of the retail foreign exchange market opportunities that can accelerate our journey measures and improved purchasing of fuel, from 13% to 15% and established ourselves by capturing growth and value through crew accommodation, ground handling and as the number one global provider of cash mergers and acquisitions.
Plans are in place to passports supplied by Travelex, with a 150% purchase catering and rotables support more 1 MAINSTREAM TRAVEL increase in sales.
effectively which will deliver the balance of The strategy for our mainstream business savings in this, and the following, financial is to improve product mix, whilst reducing 3 INDEPENDENT TRAVEL years.
costs, thus driving an improvement in Our objective with independent travel is to margin.
During the year, we made good grow both the top and bottom line, largely Product mix and trading margin gains progress in managing our accommodation through the development of our European Product mix is a key factor in driving and aviation costs.
We also continued Online Travel Agent OTA.
During the year, margins and we have already made good to introduce new differentiated product independent travel continued to grow progress by recalibrating our programmes concepts and drive distribution gains.
strongly, increasing to 27% of Group revenue towards medium haul destinations, all from 25% last year, with passengers up by 5%.
inclusive resorts and more 4 and 5 star Cost ef ciencies holidays.
As part of this, we also work to Online Travel Agent OTA Accommodation and non-fuel aviation increase the proportion of differentiated, Unlike the US, the European OTA market costs are 2.9bn and 2.5bn respectively, unique-concept holidays and exclusive remains relatively fragmented and Thomas so a relatively modest saving can have a big hotels we offer.
Cook has the opportunity to achieve a top impact on our performance.
Our approach three market position.
Accordingly, we is to leverage our Group buying scale in both This year, the French market had particular are targeting gross bookings with a value these areas, co-ordinating action across all success with a new concept, Club Jumbo.
of around 3.5bn over the medium term segments to deliver bene t. Club Jumbo turns the perceived pricing although sales will be accounted for on a net model for package holidays on its head, Group destination management commission basis.
offering low prices to early bookers and At the outset of this year, we targeted a increasing prices close to departure.
With We already have many of the capabilities signi cant reduction in accommodation costs its lively entertainment programme, to succeed as an OTA: a strong travel brand, to support demand in the dif cult economic this new concept attracted a total of a large customer base, an existing online climate and mitigate currency-related 30,000 customers, 5% of the total French platform, in-house expertise and marketin ation resulting from Sterlingweakness.
customer base, taking more than 60% of leading sun inventory.
A new Group Destination Management bookingsonline.
function was set up to co-ordinate strategy and hotelier negotiations with our top 75 12 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p06 15. indd TH017 p06 15. indd 12 12 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:16 22:16 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Vision Strategic objectives Strengthening our business and investing for growth Growth drivers Strengthen our existing businesses Invest in future growth 1 Maximise value of 2 Become the leading 3 Become a leading 4 Capture growth and mainstream travel travel-related financial independent travel value through mergers services provider provider & acquisitions and partnerships Group revenue Group revenue Group revenue Contributor to all other growth drivers 71% 1.7% 27% 2009: 74% 2009: 1.6% 2009: 25% Key objectives Key objectives Key objectives Key objectives Drive average selling price Grow foreign exchange Establish thomascook.
com Capitalise on consolidation and trading margin growth sales and market share as a leading online opportunities in current travel brand markets Deliver accommodation, Launch new products aviation and operating Build growth of wholesale Leverage expertise to capture Improve cross-sell rates cost savings independent travel products growth in emerging markets Improve share of in-house Grow scheduled holidays distribution and increase online distribution Enablers Product Technology Customer insight Brands Financial rigour People and the PROUD Values PR O U D Pioneering Results Obsessed with United as Driving robust our future orientated customer service one team decisions During the year, we brought those capabilities enable us to increase the inventory and Consolidation opportunities in together in a central OTA organisation, improve the presentation we offer to our currentmarkets headquartered in London, and gave that customers.
In parallel with the technology During the year and following the year organisation responsibility for driving forward upgrade, we are also focused on building up end, we have announced three transactions our main OTA and branded tour operator sites our city hotel inventory to complement our in our existing markets.
in the UK, Germany, France, the Netherlands current strength in sun and beach hotels.
In the UK, we announced the merger and Belgium.
The new structure combines Taken together, the sites within the scope of of our high street retail travel and foreign regional directors with responsibility for the OTA delivered gross bookings with a value exchange network with that of The delivering the online plan for each of the five of 1bn in the financial year just ended, an Co-operative Group and Midlands markets with a strong central organisation, increase of 22% on the previousyear.
On completion, the merger spanning key commercial, infrastructure and will create the UKs largest high street business support functions.
Comprising some In its initial stages, the results of the OTA will travel network with over 1,300 stores.
180 employees in total, the new organisation continue to be reported within our existing By bringing together two complementary brings together specialists from within segments but we will give more visibility to brands and geographic networks, the Thomas Cook with new talent from across its performance over time.
merged entity will reach more customers the online industry.
4 MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS M&A than either company could achieve Signi cant progress was made in enhancing Through M&A and partnerships, our objective independently.
It is planned to unlock the presentation and streamlining the is to capitalise on consolidation opportunities synergies of at least 35m in the merged booking path on our main websites and, in in our current markets and leverage our entity and a further 10m upstream the current year, we will upgrade the invisible expertise to capture growth opportunities synergies within Thomas Cook from but crucial technology platform.
This will in emerging markets.
additional sales of our mainstream and Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13 TH017 p06 15. indd TH017 p06 15. indd 13 13 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:16 22:16 Directors Report Strategic review continued independent travel products.
Thomas Cook will hold 66.5% of the merged entity, Key performance indicators The Co-operative Group will hold 30% and In order to measure progress against our strategy, the Board and senior Midlands Co-operative will hold 3.5%.
Whilst management team monitor a range of key performance indicators.
the merger is still subject to competition clearance, we are working with the relevant Growth driver 1 Mainstream travel authorities to achieve an expedited clearance.
Group Destination Management In Germany, we acquired ger Tours, a tour Aim To leverage Group buying power, reducing Group revenue % operator specialising in package holidays to accommodation costs as well as protecting and 2010 32.5 Turkey.
This acquisition, which completed enhancing the product portfolio 2009 in October 2010, strengthens our position as 33.7 Progress Accommodation costs reduced from 33.7% to 32.5% of Group revenue 0 the second largest travel group in Germany and further increases our presence in Turkey, a strategically important destination for the Airline synergies entire Group.
Today, ger Tours carries some Aim Deliver 35m annualised savings in Group Annualised savings m 400,000 passengers.
By bringing ger into aviation costs non-fuel and ongoing ef ciency 2010 21 the Thomas Cook family, we estimate we Progress 19m incremental annualised savings 2009 can generate synergies in excess of 8m per achieved in year ended 30 September 2010 2 annum through operational savings, more 0 in-house ying with Condor and combined accommodation purchasing.
Controlled distribution Finally, in financial services, we boosted our Aim Increase in-house distribution of mainstream Share of in-house distribution % travel products 2010 capability by acquiring Essential Travel, a 52 Progress In-house sales of mainstream travel leading provider of online travel insurance 2009 products increased to 52% 51 and ancillary products in the UK.
0 Growth in emerging markets Alongside these transactions in our established markets, in November 2010 we Growth driver 2 - Travel-related financial services reached agreement to enter the fast-growing Financial services Russian travel market in a joint venture with VAO Intourist, one of Russias oldest and Aim Protect and grow financial services Group profit % contribution to Group pro t most renowned travel companies.
The joint 2010 14 Progress Travel-related financial services venture will include Intourists outbound, 2009 increased to around 14% of Group adjusted 13 domestic and inbound tour operating underlying pro t from operations 0 operations as well as its retail travel network.
It will focus on expansion in Russia and the other CIS countries.
Growth driver 3 - Independent travel The Russian market has strong demand for Independent travel beach and family holidays, particularly to Turkey and Egypt.
Over six million Russians Group revenue % Aim Increase independent travel sales as a proportion of Group revenue 2010 went on overseas, packaged holidays last year 27 Progress Independent travel sales increased and the market is expected to grow strongly 2009 to 27% of Group revenue 25 in the coming years given increasing wealth 0 xx amongst Russias population of 142 million and strong economic growth driven by the natural resources sector.
Online Travel Agent OTA Aim Develop a top three position in the European Gross bookings value m Thomas Cook will initially acquire a 50.1% OTA market, targeting gross bookings with a value 2010 stake in the new joint venture company, 1,046 of around 3.5bn 2009 for a maximum consideration of US$45m.
Progress Central OTA established, delivering gross 857 The joint venture is conditional upon bookings with a value of 1bn 0 anti-trust clearance in Russia and certain other conditions and is expected to complete in or before February2011.
Group financial results Group operating pro t margin underlying Aim Increase Group operating pro t margin by Group operating profit margin % 100 to 150 basis points over the medium term 2010 4.1 Progress Margin fell to 4.1% principally as a result 2009 of dif cult trading in the UK segment 4.5 0 14 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p06 15. indd TH017 p06 15. indd 14 14 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:16 22:16
