Although the dynamic nature of independent Directors Report travel makes the online environment ideal Market review for travel research and purchases, package customers too are increasingly alive to the convenience of online.
Consumer preferences Our research demonstrates that consumers continue to prioritise a main holiday abroad POSITIONED and that they are looking for both quality and value.
These preferences have fuelled demand for medium haul holidays to destinations WELL FOR outside of the Eurozone, especially to Turkey and Egypt.
All inclusive holidays, which give customers greater budget certainty, have also continued their rise.
GROWTH EMERGING MARKET GROWTH While our top ten source markets comprise approximately 33% of the world leisure travel As the economic climate improves, forecasters market today, the BRIC economies currently account for only 9% Figure 2.
Travel growth expect the international tourism market rates in these emerging economies, however, to return to growth.
The rate of recovery is far outstrip growth in our established source markets, supported by higher than average expected to vary across markets, with some GDP growth rates and an increasingly af uent population.
For example, between economies emerging more con dently from 2008 and 2012, outbound travel in Russia is expected to grow 15 to 20% on average each recession than others.
year with an equivalent growth rate of 10 to 15% in China.
which is made up of travel agents and tour MACRO ENVIRONMENT AND New markets and particularly the emerging operators, totalled some 96bn in 2009 and is INTERNATIONAL TOURISM economies offer a huge potential growth expected to grow by an average of 2.8% each International tourism is closely correlated opportunity for Thomas Cook.
We have year in real terms to reach 110bn by 2014 to economic growth and has enjoyed strong already established positions in India, Figures 3 and 4. and sustained growth for most of the last Egypt and Eastern Europe and continue to three decades.
Indeed, the overwhelming look for entry opportunities where we can Within the travel intermediary market, trend has been for international leisure leverage our expertise and capture value for expectations are that the package holiday travel to outpace the general economy.
In November will remain a mainstay of the market.
2010, we announced our plans to enter Growth will be higher in independent travel The global financial crisis in 2008 and the Russian market in a joint venture with and online bookings will grow faster than the subsequent contraction in GDP and VAOIntourist.
of ine for both mainstream and independent employment across many economies, products.
Our strategy is designed to capture combined with fuel and currency volatility, value from each of these key trends.
has restrained growth in recent years Figure1.
Mainstream vs Independent Over the last 12 months, we have started to In 2009, mainstream package holidays see the economic indicators stabilise and comprised 29bn or 30% of the total begin to show signs of recovery in many of intermediary market Figure 4.
Customers Q&A our major source markets in Continental continue to nd the value, convenience and Northern Europe.
This gives us some and protection offered via the package con dence that volumes in these markets holiday attractive, with modest but further will return to growth in the current financial real growth of around 2.1% per annum year.
The UK economy remains fragile and, forecast to 2014. in this source market, we have taken cost Independent travel, where customers cutting and consolidation measures to put together their own ight, transfer and prepare ourselves for another potentially accommodation arrangements is large dif cultyear.
Comprising 63bn of the AN INTERVIEW WITH intermediary market in 2009, independent CORE MARKET TRENDS MANNY FONTENLA-NOVOA, travel is forecast to grow by 3.2% per Thomas Cooks top ten current source annum to 2014. markets comprise the UK, Germany, France, GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE the Netherlands, Belgium, the four Nordic OFFICER, DISCUSSING SOME Online growth countries and Canada.
Together these markets In terms of distribution, the shift towards OF THE CHALLENGES AND account for 33%, or 274bn Figure 2, of the online continues, with internet estimated to TRENDS AFFECTING THE total global leisure travel market.
Our market increase its share of total market sales from segment, the travel intermediary segment, TRAVEL MARKET: 25% to 31% Figure 5.
10 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p06 15. indd TH017 p06 15. indd 10 10 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:15 22:15 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements The global travel market The following graphs illustrate the global leisure travel market.
They highlight historic growth in leisure travel relative to GDP growth and the current size of the world leisure travel market.
Figure 1: Figure 2: World GDP growth and international tourist arrivals 1980-2009 World leisure travel market 2009 22.1% 1 UK, Belgium, 4 Other Europe 350 820bn 8 France, Germany, 5 BRICS the Netherlands 6 US 300 2 Nordics 7 Japan 3 Canada 25.8% 8 Rest of World 250 3.0% 7 1 200 6 1 Thomas Cook core markets 2 4.8% 8.4% Other markets 150 3 2.8% Intl.
Source: UNWTO, Euromonitor, Thomas Cook management Source: UNWTO World Tourism Barometer, IMF World Economic Outlook.
1 Travel intermediary market: core market trends Thomas Cook operates in the travel intermediary segment of the leisure travel market.
The following graphs illustrate the size 1 of the intermediary market in our core markets and the relative growth of independent travel and online bookings.
Figure 3: Figure 4: Figure 5: Overall travel market 2009 Mainstream v Independent Online growth 2 There are two distinct 2 110bn 2.8% 110bn 2.8% Financial 2 2 5bn 1.1% segments in the 5bn 1.1% Services 4bn leisure travel market: 96bn 96bn Travel 4bn intermediaries 4bn direct suppliers and 96bn travel intermediaries.
Online Direct suppliers are 2 Online 34bn 7.3% 24bn the airlines, hotels Independent and cruise companies travel 63bn that sell directly to Direct Total the customer.
Thomas Independent suppliers Independent travel 274bn 178bn Cook operates in the travel 2 73bn 3.2% 63bn travel intermediary segment, made up of travel agents and tour Mainstream Mainstream Mainstream travel operators.
The mainstream travel market will Online growth is predicted to 1 Top ten source markets today comprising UK, Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, continue to grow in real terms: be faster than of ine growth in the four Nordic countries and Canada.
however, independent travel will mainstream and independent.
2 Real Compound Annual Growth Rate 2009 2014. drive the majority of growth.
Q What would happen if the Q If online distribution is growing to maintain a strong but or incentivise more ef cient Icelandic volcano erupted so fast, why increase your highly ef cient high street ying.
We continue to target again?
exposure to the high street in network.
The deal with The high aircraft utilisation, fuel the UK through the merger with Co-operatives enables us to and operating ef ciency, all A We can be reasonably The Co-operative Group and do that by improving the of which help keep the cost con dent that there wouldnt Midlands Co-operative?
reach of our network while of ying as low as possible be the same level of disruption.
At the onset of the volcanic ash A Were participating in the incident, the aviation authorities online growth trend through Q What impact do you think the had very limited experience of the development of our new air passenger duties in how to maintain safe ying in Online Travel Agent OTA.
Germany and the UK will have such an environment.
Working However, of ine distribution on demand?
closely together, the industry remains an important channel A Taxes increase the cost of now has a much greater for both traditional, package ying and this can obviously understanding of the challenge holiday sales and more exible, reduce demand.
We are and the aviation authorities independent travel products.
particularly disappointed as the have agreed zoning procedures Industry data shows that of ine tax increases purport to support that enable safe ying to distribution could continue to the green agenda when in fact continue in unaffected areas.
account for up to 70% of total they will do nothing to increase sales in 2014.
