Directors Report Group Executive Board MANNY FONTENLA-NOVOA 56 DR THOMAS DRING 41 DEREK WOODWARD 52 Title: Group Chief Executive Of cer Title: Chief Executive Of cer, e-Commerce Title: Group Company Secretary and West & East Europe Skills & experience: Please see Directors Skills & experience: Derek joined the Company biographies on pages 46 and 47.
Skills & experience: Thomas joined the as Group Company Secretary in April 2008, Company in 2001 and has been responsible before which he spent six years as Head of PAUL HOLLINGWORTH 50 for the Western and Eastern European Secretariat at Centrica plc.
From 1998, he Title: Group Chief Financial Of cer markets since 2006.
In addition, Thomas was was Company Secretary of Allied Zurich plc, Skills & experience: Please see Directors appointed CEO, e-Commerce in May 2010 to the UK listed holding company of the Zurich biographies on pages 46 and 47. lead the development of the Online Travel Financial Services Group, and between 1990 Agent OTA.
He has held senior positions and 1998 he was Assistant Secretary of B.
A. T SAM WEIHAGEN 60 leading the International Markets Division, Industriesplc.
Title: Chief Executive Of cer Northern Europe Corporate Development and Mergers & & Deputy to the Group Chief Executive Of cer Acquisitions.
Before joining the Company Skills & experience: Please see Directors he spent seven years with Roland Berger biographies on pages 46 and 47.
Strategy Consultants, latterly as a Partner.
DR JRGEN BSER 44 DR PETER FANKHAUSER 50 Title: Group Strategy Director Title: Chief Executive Of cer, Central Europe Skills & experience: Prior to being appointed Skills & experience: Peter joined the to his current role in November 2009, Company in 2001 and has held a number Jrgen was Group Chief Financial Of cer of senior roles within the Group.
Prior to from July 2008, prior to which he was joining the Company he was Executive Board Chief Financial Of cer for the UK & Ireland member of Kuoni Reisen Holding AG in segment.
He spent three years prior to Zrich, where he managed the companys this as Head of Controlling & M&A for European division, and Chief Executive Thomas Cook AG in Germany.
Before joining Of cer of LTU Group in Dsseldorf.
Thomas Cook, he held senior positions within Siemens Financial Services, the international MICHAEL FRIISDAHL 48 consulting rm Booz Allen & Hamilton and Title: Chief Executive Of cer, North America Westdeutsche Landesbank.
Skills & experience: Michael joined MyTravel North America as President in 2000 and was PETE CONSTANTI 44 appointed Chief Executive Of cer, North Title: Chief Executive Of cer, Group America in 2005.
He has 27 years experience Destination Management in the travel industry.
Prior to joining the Skills & experience: Pete joined the Group, he was a partner and CEO of The Company in 1996.
Until November 2009 Holiday Network, which was acquired by he was Chief Executive Of cer, Mainstream Airtours International MyTravel Group plc Travel, UK & Ireland.
Pete comes from a in 2000. strong tour operating background and has 27 years of travel industry experience, RALF TECKENTRUP 53 previously working for ILG and Sunworld Title: Chief Executive Of cer, Airlines Germany where he was HR Director.
Skills & experience: Ralf joined the Company in 2004 and has held a variety of senior IAN DERBYSHIRE 42 roles within the Group.
Previously he held a Title: Chief Executive Of cer, UK number of senior positions with Lufthansa AG.
Skills & experience: Ian joined the Thomas Cook Group in 2000 as Director of Sales and PAUL WOOD 40 has since held a variety of roles including Title: Group Director, Human Resources Executive Director, UK Holidays.
In September Skills & experience: Paul joined MyTravel 2008 he became Chief Executive Of cer, Group plc in 2006 as Group Head of Reward, Independent Travel, UK & Ireland.
In a role he retained after the merger in 2007.
November 2009, he was appointed to his He was appointed Group Director, Human current role.
He has held senior positions Resources in April 2009.
Prior to 2006 he held within the leisure and travel sector with senior reward and human resources roles companies including Holiday Autos, The at Clifford Chance, Atos Origin, Geest plc, Rank Group and Co-operative Travel.
Ian has Vodafone plc and fide La Rue plc.
Paul has 26 years of experience in the travel industry.
over 20 years experience in human resources and employee reward.
48 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p48.
