Directors Report Other disclosures Operating Right or the imposition of materially inhibiting conditions SHARE CAPITAL or limitations on any Operating Right in either case, by any state or The Company has the following two classes of shares in issue: regulatory authority has taken place or is contemplated, threatened Number of Class of share shares in issue or intended, or the aggregate number of Relevant Shares is such that an Intervening Act may occur or the ownership or control of Ordinary shares of 0.10 each 858,292,947 the Company is such that an Intervening Act may occur, the Directors Deferred shares of 1 each 50,000 may, among other things: The ordinary shares carry the right to the pro ts of the Company identify those shares which give rise to the need to take action and available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding treat such shares as affected shares Affected Shares see below : or up of the Company.
The ordinary shares carry the right to attend set a Permitted Maximum on the number of Relevant Shares which and speak at general meetings of the Company: each share holds the may subsist at any time which may not, save in the circumstances right to one vote.
The ordinary shares are admitted to trading on the referred to below, be lower than 40% of the total number of issued Of cial List of the London Stock Exchange.
The deferred shares carry shares and treat any Relevant Shares in excess of this Permitted no right to the pro ts of the Company.
On a winding up, the holders Maximum as Affected Shares see below.
The Directors may serve of the deferred shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal a notice an Affected Share Notice in respect of any Affected to the capital paid up on each deferred share.
An Affected Share Notice can, if it so speci es, have the effect deferred shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, speak or of depriving the registered holder of the right to attend, vote and vote whether on a show of hands or on a poll at general meetings speak at general meetings which he would otherwise have had of the Company.
as a consequence of holding such shares.
Such an Affected Share AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE SHARES Notice can, if it so speci es, also require the recipient to dispose The Company currently does not have authority to purchase its own shares.
of the Affected Shares so that the Relevant Shares will then cease to be Affected Shares within 21 days or such longer period as the SHARE TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS Directors may determine.
The Directors are also given the power to The Articles of Association the Articles are designed to ensure that sell such Affected Shares themselves where there is non-compliance the number of the Companys shares held by non-EEA nationals does with an Affected Share Notice at the best price reasonably not reach a level which could jeopardise the Companys entitlement obtainable at the relevant time on behalf of the shareholder.
to continue to hold or enjoy the bene t of any authority, permission, licence or privilege which it, or any of its subsidiaries, holds or enjoys In deciding which shares are to be dealt with as Affected Shares and which enables an air service to be operated each an Operating the Directors, in their sole opinion, will determine which Relevant Right.
In particular, EC Council Regulation 1008 2008 on licensing of Shares may give rise to the fact of risk of an Intervening Act occurring air carriers requires that an air carrier must be majority-owned and and, subject to any such determination, will have regard to the effectively controlled by EEA nationals.
chronological order in which particulars of Relevant Shares have been, or are to be, entered in the Separate Register unless to do so would in The Articles allow the Directors, from time to time, to set a Permitted the sole opinion of the Directors be inequitable.
If there is a change Maximum on the number of the Companys shares which may be owned in any applicable law or the Company or any subsidiary receives by non-EEA nationals at such level as they believe is in compliance with any direction, notice or requirement from any state or regulatory the Operating Rights, provided that the Permitted Maximum shall not be authority, which, in either case, necessitates such action to overcome, less than 40% of the total number of issued shares.
prevent or avoid an Intervening Act, then the Directors may either: The Company maintains a separate register the Separate Register lower the Permitted Maximum to the minimum extent that they of shares in which non-EEA nationals, whether individuals, bodies consider necessary to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act: or corporate or other entities have an interest such shares are referred resolve that any Relevant Shares shall be treated as Affected Shares to as Relevant Shares in the Articles.
An interest in this context and the Conversion Permitted Maximum.
The rights of the Directors is widely fide ned see below.
The Directors may require relevant referred to above apply until such time as the Directors resolve members or other persons to provide them with information to that grounds for the making of a determination have ceased to enable them to determine whether shares are, or are to be treated exist, whereupon the Directors must withdraw such determination.
If such information is not provided then the The Permitted Maximum is set at 40%.
This Permitted Maximum Directors will be able, at their discretion, to determine that shares to may be varied by the Directors.
If the Directors resolve to vary which their enquiries relate be treated as Relevant Shares.
Registered the Permitted Maximum to deal with shares as Affected Shares shareholders will also be obliged to notify the Company if they are or relax the ownership limitations, they shall publish in at least aware either a that any share they hold ought to be treated as a one national newspaper in the United Kingdom and in any other Relevant Share for this purpose: or b that any share they hold which country in which the shares are listed notice of the determination is treated as a Relevant Share should no longer be so treated.
In this and of any Permitted Maximum.
case, the Directors shall request such information and evidence as they require to satisfy themselves that the share should not be treated The Directors shall publish, from time to time: as a Relevant Share and, on receipt of such evidence, shall remove information as to the number of shares particulars of which have particulars of the share from the Separate Register.
If the Directors been entered on the Separate Register: and determine that such action is necessary to protect any Operating any Permitted Maximum which has been speci ed.
Right due to the fact that an Intervening Act an Intervening Act being the refusal, withholding, suspension or revocation of any As at 30 September 2010, 146,755 ordinary shares 0.017% were held on the Separate Register.
70 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p70 71. indd TH017 p70 71. indd 70 70 23 12 2010 23 12 2010 19:41 19:41 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements The Directors may not register any person as a holder of shares unless MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS such person has furnished to the Directors a declaration, together with As at 26 November 2010, the Company had been noti ed, in such evidence as the Directors may require, stating a the name and accordance with rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules nationality of any person who has an interest in any such share and, if of the UK Listing Authority, of the following major shareholdings in the Directors require, the nature and extent of such interest: or b such the ordinary share capital of the Company: other information as the Directors may from time to time determine.
Number of Percentage of Name shares held issued capital % The Directors may decline to register any person as a shareholder AXA S. A.
85,369,991 9.95 if satisfactory evidence of information is not forthcoming.
Existing Lloyds Banking Group plc 77,191,766 8.99 holders of Shares will be recorded on the Special Register unless and BlackRock, Inc. 42,919,060 5.00 until they have certi ed, to the satisfaction of the Company, that they Standard Life Investments Ltd 42,857,459 4.99 are EEA nationals.
Legal & General Group plc 26,098,414 3.04 A person shall be deemed to have an interest in relation to Thomas Cook Group plc shares if: AUDITORS  LLP have expressed their willingness to be such person has an interest which would subject as provided re-appointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation below be taken into account, or which he would be taken of the Audit Committee, resolutions to re-appoint them as the as having, in determining for the purposes of Part 22 of the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their Companies Act 2006 whether a person has a noti able interest: or remuneration will be proposed to the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
he has any such interest as is referred to in Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 but shall not be deemed to have an interest REGISTERED OFFICE in any shares in which his spouse or any infant, child or stepchild Following approval by the Board, the Companys registered of ce or, in Scotland, pupil or minor of his is interested by virtue of that was changed from The Thomas Cook Business Park, Coningsby Road, relationship or which he holds as a bare or custodian trustee under Peterborough PE3 8SD to 6th Floor South, Brettenham House, the laws of England, or as a simple trustee under the laws Lancaster Place, London WC2E 7EN on 29 October 2009. of Scotland, and interest shall be construed accordingly.
The Directors Report comprising pages 3 to 71 has been approved by PROVISIONS ON CHANGE OF CONTROL the Board and signed on its behalf by: The Company has a 1.05bn Group Banking Facility Agreement the Agreement in place, which provides that, on any change of control of the Company, the Lenders under the Agreement are entitled to negotiate for a period not exceeding 30 days terms for Derek Woodward continuing the facilities but, where agreement on new terms cannot Group Company Secretary be reached, any such Lender is entitled to: i receive a repayment 30 November 2010 of amounts owing to such Lender: and ii cancel all commitments under the Agreement.
REGISTERED OFFICE The Company has issued a 400m five-year Euro bond and a 300m 6th Floor South seven-year Sterling bond.
Under the terms of the bonds, if a Put Event Brettenham House occurs, each Noteholder has the option to require the Company to Lancaster Place redeem the Notes.
London WC2E 7EN CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS REGISTERED NUMBER The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties 6091951 in support of its business activities.
The disclosure in this report of information about any of those third parties is not considered necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups businesses.
POLITICAL DONATIONS The Company did not make any political donations during the financial year 2009: nil.
CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Company did not give money for charitable purposes within the United Kingdom during the financial year 2009: nil.
However, the Companys charitable activities are described on pages 38 to 41.
SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY It is the Companys policy to comply with the terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
Where payment terms are not negotiated, the Company endeavours to adhere to suppliers standard terms.
As at 30 September 2010, the Company had no trade creditors 2009: nil.
