Business Overview This section explains how Autonomy operates, including our vision, the nature of our IDOL technology, a description of our customer base, through to our markets and business model.
purchase order to replenish the warehouse.
It had automated a business An Introduction to Autonomy process, and replaced a human being who would have had to do the job Founded in 1996 with a unique combination of technologies borne out of manually.
research at Cambridge University, Autonomy has experienced a meteoric rise.
The company currently has a market capitalization in the range of This was the birth of the modern IT industry.
Today, behind every piece of $6 billion, is one of the three largest software companies in Europe and has enterprise software there is a database.
It might be software to administer offices worldwide.
Autonomy is a global leader in infrastructure software for a hospital or a customer-handling system all have a database at their the enterprise that helps organisations to derive meaning and value from core, and then usually a tailored interface to make different operations their business information whether unstructured, semi-structured or possible depending on the use case.
structured, as well as mitigate the risks associated with those same assets.
But what if computers could actually understand information in its rich, Autonomy's position as the market leader is widely recognized by leading unstructured form, and automatically do useful things with it?
industry analysts including Gartner, Forrester Research, IDC and Ovum.
Autonomys vision is to enable computers to be able to process human Autonomys Vision friendly, unstructured information such as emails, voice messages and Think back to the late 1960s when computers first started to be used for videos, based on its meaning.
So the computer can watch emails being business.
At that time computers were far too basic to understand the rich sent within a bank and identify those that mean there is a compliance forms of information that human beings exchange every day.
Or listen to calls in a contact centre and identify a number of calls solution was to take all about the same product issue, perhaps an exploding battery, and alert a human friendly supervisor.
Autonomy does for unstructured information what the database information and distil it is capable of doing for structured information.
into a much simpler form the rows and columns The fundamental idea is simple: computers should map to our human of a database.
So if a world and solve our problems, rather than the other way around.
This is person lives at 3 Acacia the biggest change in the IT industry to date, because it is the first real Avenue that information change to the I the information, unlike the many recent changes to the is entered into the T the technology, such as the shift to the client server model, or cloud particular row and column computing.
As a result, Autonomys technology is applicable to every area of the database that is for of IT, and is consistently rated the leader across analyst reports in many the first line of the areas of software from enterprise search to eDiscovery, and through our address.
The information is structured so that its position tells the OEMs even in areas where Autonomy does not itself compete, such as computer what it means.
So the computer could then identify, for example, content leak prevention.
that column three, row four was the amount of inventory in the warehouse, and when that number went close to zero it could automatically issue a 8 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Overview What this demonstrates is the power of Meaning Based Computing MBC Power - Power is traditionally our core business and is the critical to disrupt and transform every existing area of software as unstructured infrastructure that enables any type of organisation to manage and process information comes to the fore.
No other technology has this breadth of all of its data, independently of where it is stored or created structured, applicability and this first rate recognition by analysts.
This shift is on a 15 year cycle, and we expect the other two pillars of growth eventually to be subsumed into this category, as CIOs realise that there is a fundamental challenge behind all Meaning Based Computing MBC their information infrastructure: the need to process information When computers understand information, they can start to process it automatically.
automatically and begin to bring information to the user rather than the other way round.
For example, by forming an understanding, computers Protect - Following the 2006 amendments to can automatically create organise, alert users to new and relevant the U. S. Federal Rules of Civil Procedure information in real-time or automatically profile an individuals interests FRCP organisations are required to make all based on what they read and write, offering them information without the relevant Electronically Stored Information need to search, or introductions to experts and similar people.
Autonomys ESI accessible to the courts as part of legal technology is able to cluster information, identifying themes or conceptually proceedings within a period of 99 days.
In addition, using this approach it is possible to detect sanctions for failure to comply include irregularities in everyday scenes for security purposes, identify well-known crippling fines and incarceration for executives.
This has incredibly far speakers in broadcast media and analyze conversations to detect positive reaching consequences for organisations that formerly relied on manual or negative sentiment.
The possibilities are virtually limitless.
discovery processes, which took years to complete.
Following the FRCP, around fifty new regulations have been proposed in an attempt to tighten up MBC addresses the full range of information challenges and consequently credit markets and promote sound corporate governance.
Recent and forms the central requirement of major enterprise deployments all over the upcoming changes in the regulatory environment affect all industry sectors, world.
Industry Analysts estimate that only around 20% of enterprise not just financial services, with the attendant need for the legal system to information is of the structured type that is held in a database.
The adapt to the modern age at the very beginning of its cycle, not the end remaining 80% is in human friendly forms such as email, telephone conversations and video, which cannot easily be put into a database.
If you Promote - Promote is focused around our Meaning Based Marketing reflect on your working day, and consider the number of times you interact MBM solutions suite.
Much of the retail value chain that has disappeared with structured data, such as a list of customers, or sales data, and the from the high street is likely to come back online, as organisations look to number of times you send an email or pick up the phone, you will find this extend their cost savings and switch to more efficient business models to be right intuitively.
Consequently, this area will benefit from the increase in spend as organisations leverage their on-line business Use Cases The Power of the Three Ps model.
How do customers use Autonomys technology?
We go to market with our technology loosely organised for marketing purposes into three different The following graphic illustrates some of the market drivers behind each of use cases: the need to Power, Protect and Promote the enterprise.
Over these use cases, some of the sample applications of the technology and time we would expect these to collapse into a single driver, but at present sample customers: they should be thought of as separate.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 Business Overview Spanish MOD, British MOD and the National Nuclear Security Customers Administration.
An extensive range of blue chip customers and public sector agencies from around the world use Autonomys horizontal technology, relying on multiple Legal organisations, including 75 of the top 100 global law firms, over elements of our core IDOL technology for use across their global platforms.
1,400 law firms and over half of the Fortune 25 have standardized on Autonomy for all of their information discovery, high precision retrieval, and Media organisations such as ITN, MTV, Bloomberg, CNN, Reuters, HBO, litigation support.
Autonomy enables customers such as White & Case, Forbes, the Press Association and France 2 use Autonomys awardFreshfields, Pillsbury, Burges Salmon, LexisNexis, Linklaters and the UK winning technology to reduce production costs, keep journalists abreast of Law Society to speed up research, facilitate collaboration and information new developments, publish and deliver large amounts of rich media sharing, avoid duplication of effort, improve internal communications and content, archive disparate sources of content for reuse or sale, drive traffic streamline operations.
acquisition, provide browsers with a first-class user experience, and increase advertising revenue.
IT companies such as IBM, Intel, Oracle, Sybase, BMC Software, HewlettPackard, Sun Microsystems, Lucent Technologies and HP EDS have eCommerce providers such as Play.
com, Callaway Golf, FedEx, Forbes, selected Autonomy to support development and accelerate routes to GCI Commerce, JobTarget, Louis Vuitton, Safeway, Schneider Electric, market.
The McGraw-Hill Companies and T-Mobile employ Autonomys revolutionary technology to boost conversion rates, promote cross and upConsulting and professional services customers such as IBM Global selling, simplify the management of special offers, increase average order Services, KPMG, , Forrester Research and size, obtain a snapshot of patterns in buyers behaviour in real-time, McCann Erickson use Autonomy to fully harness their personnel's expertise provide customers with a tailor-made online experience, build customer by fostering collaborative networks and profiling interactions between loyalty and monitor customer satisfaction.
Since implementing Autonomy, sales have Energy and utilities customers face myriad challenges such as climate gone up in some of our divisions by as much change, depleting resources and soaring numbers of expatriate workers with teams scattered throughout the world.
BP, Halliburton, Entergy, Shell, as five to tenfold.
- Tesco Weatherford and Norsk Hydro use Autonomy to connect employees around the globe and help them maintain their competitive edge in an increasingly Telecommunications providers such as AT&T, Ericsson, Cable and difficult environment.
Wireless, BT, Telecom Italia, 3, Verizon, Vodafone, MCI and Sonera have deployed Autonomy to help decrease operating costs and simultaneously Manufacturers such as Ford, General Motors, BMW, Toyota, Canon, improve the quality and scope of services available to customers.
Schneider Electric, Lafarge, Lexmark and Fiat use Autonomy's technology in order to cut costs, streamline operations and capitalize on their assets in Food and Beverage customers including Kraft, Nestl, Coca-Cola and terms of both information and expertise.
Britvic use Autonomy to stay up-to-date with the latest product developments and opportunities in the market to bring exciting products to Aerospace organisations such as NASA, BAE Systems, the US Air Force consumers.
and Boeing have selected Autonomy to maximize expertise by promoting collaboration and knowledge sharing between engineers in different parts Finance and Banking professionals make numerous critical business of the world.
decisions in the course of a normal day.
Ten of the top ten global banks rely on Autonomy with customers that include Citi, Barclays, Bank of Healthcare organisations including the UK National Health Service, the America, RBS, Lloyds TSB, Deutsche Bank, Merrill Lynch, Grupo UK National Patient Safety Agency and Blue Cross Blue Shield use Santander, Credit Lyonnais, Credit Suisse and Danske Bank to stay Autonomy to promote best practices and help protect patient safety.
abreast of changing customer expectations and increasingly complex Autonomy provides medical professionals with the information they need to regulatory policies.
make crucial decisions on the spot.
Pharmaceutical customers such as AstraZeneca, Bristol Myers Squibb, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis and Pfizer use Autonomy to increase OEMs collaboration and decrease product development cycles as well as keep As part of our comprehensive OEM Program, numerous world-leading pace with changing regulations, demographic information and general software companies embed Autonomys award-winning technology into research and development.
By leveraging Autonomy's technology, OEM licensees are able to address the problem of unstructured information, Government and public sector agencies throughout the world such as provide unique next-generation functionality and deliver unparalleled the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission, U. S. State Department, performance.
U. S. Department of Justice, U. S. Department of Commerce, U. S. Department of Labor, U. S. Department of Education, UK Houses of Autonomy is relied on by OEMs from virtually every major software sector.
Parliament, the British Tourist Authority and the UK Department of Trade Autonomy's technology is currently embedded in over 400 applications and Industry use Autonomy to connect people and resources.
addressing many markets, and Autonomy's OEM Program continues to grow at a steady rate, including new and extended agreements with Adobe, Intelligence and Defence organisations across the world use Autonomy McAfee, Siemens, Nuance, HP, GE, Iron Mountain, Symantec, Dassault to protect against security threats.
Worldwide customers include the U. S. Systmes, IBM, OpenText and Oracle.
Department of Homeland Security, U. S. Department of Defence, French MOD, Italian Ministry of Interior, Swedish Defence, Romanian Security, 10 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Overview walk which appears several times in a news article about a man walking Research & Development his dog conveys far less meaning than the word murder, which appears As a groundbreaking company founded out of pioneering research at just once in the same article.
It is this theory that enables Autonomy's Cambridge University, Autonomy is proud to maintain its reputation as one software to determine the most important or informative concepts within a of the most innovative companies in the world.
focus on research and development to deliver increasingly innovative products to customers and consolidate its position as a market leader.
Compelling Return on Investment ROI Autonomy's commitment to R&D is evident in the company's continued By automating processes that relied previously on costly and tedious investment in this area, with R&D investment increasing every year.
manual labour, Autonomy's technology generates substantial top line growth and bottom line savings.
Rather than simply surfacing information Autonomy owns all of the key technology we offer, and hence eliminates for a user to process manually, Autonomy actually performs operations in the uncertainty of sourcing and integrating solutions from multiple vendors real-time.
As a result, many tasks that were prohibitively expensive in a consolidating market space.
No matter what changes take place in the become economically viable.
broader market, Autonomy customers will never be left with unsupported technology or software licenses that become non-renewable.
Unlike other software companies that use development resources to do bespoke Autonomy's core value proposition is amplified in an customization of their products, Autonomy sells a broadly applicable, economic downturn.
Ovum, 2009 horizontal product, and consequently R&D costs do not need to grow as a percentage of revenues.
For example, for a team of people to identify questionable comments in a 20 minute phone conversation that took place about six months ago we As the largest department in the group, the R&D team continues to might have to sift through a thousand hours of audio.
IDOL can do this in represent the lifeblood of the company.
moments, but more importantly, can be applied proactively to notify the team at the time of the infraction.
The value is in reducing the volume of Autonomy's Technology manual labour, protecting the enterprise from unforeseen risk and A Different Approach generating growth by unearthing revenue opportunities.
BAE Systems Autonomy is unlike most systems, which traditionally tried to match key realized cost savings of an estimated 7 million in the first year of words and tags, then searching for matches for a human being to do the deployment when IDOL spotted two teams working on the same problem at work.
Autonomy is a fundamental piece of technology that allows different facilities.
They were able to repurpose an entire team as a result.
computers to understand the meaning of unstructured information and process it automatically, enabling computers to do the work instead of Legally Complete Results humans.
IDOL is the equivalent of the database for unstructured Due to the increasing regulatory burden on the information.
It sits behind every enterprise application and allows human enterprise, and specifically in order to comply with friendly information to be processed.
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, it is essential that the company can find and understand every Fundamental Technology: 170 Patents document, including any metadata, without altering IDOL is built upon the seminal mathematical works of Thomas Bayes and it in any way.
In order to scale without impeding Claude Shannon.
But how does it work in simple terms?
performance, if at the beginning of the process a particular result appears to be irrelevant, third party legacy products will stop indexing without taking into consideration the rest of the document.
Consequently, a relevant snippet of information on the last page of a hundred-page report could be overlooked and the legal consequences could be catastrophic.
IDOL is the only technology able to index every document in its entirety, and still provide millisecond response times.
Imagine we took todays edition of the Wall Street Journal and cut out each Autonomy's Products of the words, which we pile up in a heap on the desk.
We then ask In Autonomys fifteen year history our fundamental aim has not changed: somebody wearing a blindfold to pick up the words and stick them onto a computers should map to our human world and solve our problems, rather sheet of paper.
The result would be a meaningless jumble of words.
It is a than the other way around.
That technology is the Intelligent Data truly random process.
This tells us that the arrangement of words in the Operating Layer IDOL.
newspaper is not random, it is biased.
The idea in the mind of the author is what biases the words and their pattern.
The word dog is more likely to IDOL Server be followed by the word walk than by the word fly, for example, because At the heart of Autonomys infrastructure software lies the Intelligent Data dogs walk they do not fly.
So by studying the preponderance of one pattern Operating Layer IDOL Server.
IDOL Server collects indexed data from over another, Autonomy's technology understands that there is X% connectors and stores it in its proprietary structure, optimized for fast probability that the content in question deals with a specific concept.
processing and retrieval of data.
As the information processing layer, IDOL forms a conceptual and contextual understanding of all content in an enterprise, automatically analyzing any piece of information from over 1,000 different content formats and even peoples interests.
Over 500 operations can be performed on digital content by IDOL, including hyperlinking, agents, summarization, taxonomy generation, clustering, It also turns out that ideas that are less expected within the context of a eduction, profiling, alerting and retrieval.
IDOL enables organisations to communication tend to be more indicative of its meaning.
So the word benefit from automation without losing manual control.
This Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Business Overview complementary approach allows automatic processing to be combined with expertise and a global presence which allows Autonomy to run an a variety of human controllable overrides, offering the best of both worlds incredibly efficient sales operation.
and never requiring an either or choice.
IDOL integrates with all known legacy systems, eliminating the need for organisations to cobble together OEMs multiple systems to support their disparate components.
Autonomy has over 400 Original Equipment Manufacturer OEM relationships with other major software vendors that build our technology Brands into their products.
These OEMs span every software sector from CRM to The proliferation of unstructured information is occurring in every industry Product Lifecycle Management software.
Contracts and situations vary, but from manufacturing to financial services.
The IDOL platform is a horizontal by way of example an OEM could pay an upfront non-refundable fee and technology that is used across every industry vertical sector.
We use then take two years to launch its product.
Once that product is launched different virtual brands to accelerate the adoption of IDOL in these they may make license payments of around three percent of product sales different vertical markets, including the following primary brands: to Autonomy.
This we would expect to expand over time as OEM customers embed more IDOL functionality in subsequent product releases.
IDOL branded to automate the retrieval, Repeat processing, and management of global enterprise More than 50 per cent of Autonomys revenues come from existing information customers returning to purchase additional IDOL functionality or expand the use case of IDOL within new areas of the business.
We also have industry IDOL branded for Business Process leading renewal rates for support and maintenance at over 95 per cent.
Management solutions, embedding selfunderstanding into documents to increase process efficiency and ensure compliance Product Customers who purchase a licence for Autonomys software initially pay an IDOL branded for Meaning Based Marketing Average Selling Price of around $790,000.
A typical initial contract will offering intelligent solutions for targeting and likely include four of Autonomys 500 functions and around four connectors.
engagement, online marketing optimization, web The pricing model is based on three drivers of value: the number of users, content management all on a common platform the number of functions connectors, and the amount of information being processed: any two will be prevalent in a particular use case.
For example, IDOL branded for information management in the in intelligence processing type applications it will be the amount of data legal and professional services market rather than number of users that is the dominant factor, but in a corporate environment for a knowledge portal it may well be the large number of users that determines the pricing.
In addition to the upfront licence IDOL branded for Customer Interaction solutions payment these customers also pay a yearly support and maintenance fee, to automate interaction and provide immediate which renews on an annual basis.
intelligence on industry trends and customer behaviour The Cloud: SaaS and Hosted IDOL branded for Rich Media Management in In addition to the licensing model, Autonomy operates both a Software-asbroadcast production, archive management, a-Service and hosted delivery model in the cloud, where the solution is run Internet TV and IPTV applications, and Security on hardware owned by Autonomy in a dedicated data centre.
In fact, and Surveillance solutions facilitating real-time surveillance, detection and protection operations Autonomy runs the largest managed archive in the world at over 17 petabytes of data.
IDOL branded for information governance, archiving, policy management and eDiscovery Hosted revenues are where we provide  Service SaaS but on a single tenant architecture i. e. one customer on a version of the software with dedicated hardware.
SaaS describes a multiBusiness Model tenant architecture i. e. multiple customers on the Autonomy's unique business model enables highly efficient and profitable same instance of the software and hardware.
There indirect distribution of Autonomy's technology.
Autonomy's business is the is no difference in the margin structure for the two development and licensing of world-leading technology for the automated types of revenue stream, and they tend to be invoiced processing of all forms of unstructured information, working with worldone quarter in arrears, so they do not contribute to the leading organisations to sell and implement Autonomy solutions.
deferred revenue balance for the business.
Autonomys OEM customers bring Autonomy technology to vertical markets by embedding it in their own solutions.
Autonomy benefits from the Appliance expertise of a community of systems integrators and consultants who This is currently a small part of Autonomys business, focused on quick engage with customers to expand and sustain use of Autonomy products in time-to-value and high return.
Where customers have an urgent need to a wide variety of industries.
deploy IDOL, either for regulatory or commercial imperatives, we are able to provide a pre-installed licence on appropriate hardware to start Indirect generating an immediate return.
The value of these solutions is attributable Autonomy has over 400 Value Added Resellers such as Accenture, IBM almost entirely to the functions offered by the licence, so although there are Global Services, Cap Gemini, HP and Wipro.
This is Autonomys primary some hardware costs involved, the margin profile is not widely dissimilar to revenue channel.
Autonomy has a team of partner managers who attend our traditional licence business.
occasional client meetings and ensure that customers receive the appropriate level of service, but these partners offer domain specific 12 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Overview the number of times you send an email or pick up the phone, you find this Financial Model to be intuitively correct.
Now, remember that every piece of enterprise Autonomy is one of the very rare examples of a pure software model.
software has a database at its core.
Annual turnover from software sales Many software companies have a large percentage of revenues that stem accounted for around $200 billion in the year 2008.
The database market from professional services, because they have to do a lot of customisation is effectively on a royalty model, with a royalty rate of between 8-10% work on the product for every single implementation.
In contrast, Autonomy resulting in annual turnover from databases of approximately $20 billion in ships a standard product that requires little tailoring, with the necessary 2008. implementation work carried out by approved partners such as IBM Global Services, Accenture and others.
This means that after the cost base has been covered, for every extra dollar of revenue that comes in significant Based on Autonomys ability to automatically benefits can fall straight through to the bottom line.
What this offers is a identify concepts in structured and unstructured business model with a proven record of strong operating leverage and that information, Autonomys Meaning Based Marketing is expected to continue to deliver industry leading operating margins and platform is enabled to handle the scale, complexity and revenue to cash conversion.
speed required to succeed in the modern era.
Information Weekly, March 2010 Market Opportunity Industry Analysts estimate that only around 20% of enterprise information is IDOL is the equivalent of the database for unstructured information.
It sits of the structured type that is held in a database.
The remaining 80% is in human friendly forms such as email, telephone conversations and video, behind every enterprise application and allows human friendly information to be processed.
Even if Autonomy's end market were only the size of the which cannot easily be put into a database.
structured market it is still a massive opportunity that we have only begun to tap.
In reality, because there is much more unstructured information in Autonomy is unlike most systems, which traditionally the world than structured Gartner's head of worldwide research, Peter tried to match key words and tags, then searching for Sondergaard recently estimated that this area will one day generate matches for a human being to do the work.
Autonomy revenues of multiple trillions of dollars.
allows computers to understand the meaning of unstructured information and process it automatically, Offices Autonomy has a global presence with dual headquarters in Cambridge, UK enabling computers to do the work instead of humans.
and San Francisco, USA and offices throughout the world including North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific.
If you reflect on your working day, and consider the number of times you interact with structured data, such as a list of customers, or sales data, and Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13
