Directors and Senior Management Autonomy is led by a highly experienced management team.
They bring together extensive expertise covering multiple facets of information technology, its constituent sectors and markets.
Biographical details of the directors and senior management are as follows: Robert Webb Michael Lynch Sushovan Hussain Jonathan Bloomer Richard Gaunt Frank Kelly John McMonigall Chairman CEO CFO Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Board of Directors Robert S. Webb QC Queen's Counsel, Chairman of the Board, aged 62, was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the Board in May 2009.
From 1998 until March 2009, Mr. Webb served as General Counsel at British Airways with responsibility for Safety, Security, Government and Industry Affairs, Risk Management and Health Services, in addition to Legal and Regulatory functions.
Mr. Webb was called to The Bar of Inner Temple in 1971, made Queen's Counsel in 1988 and a Bencher in 1997.
He was Head of Chambers at 5 Bell Yard from 1988 to 1998 and a Recorder of the Crown Court from 1993 to 1998.
He currently serves as a non-executive director of the London Stock Exchange: the BBC where he acts as Chairman of BBC Worldwide : Hakluyt, a business intelligence company: and Argent, a property company: as well as Non-Executive Chairman of Sciemus, a private start up insurance data provision company.
He was educated at Wycliffe College and holds an LLB from Exeter University.
Dr. Michael Lynch OBE FREng, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, aged 45, co-founded Autonomy and has served as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer since our inception in March 1996.
Dr. Lynch is also a non-executive director of the BBC, blinkx Plc and Featurespace Limited, and a trustee of the U. K. s National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts.
Dr. Lynch holds an M. A. in electrical and information sciences, a Ph.
D in adaptive techniques in signal processing and connectionist models and held a research fellowship in adaptive pattern recognition at Cambridge University.
Dr. Lynch was named the Confederation of British Industry's Entrepreneur of the Year, won an IEE Award for Outstanding Achievement and was awarded an OBE for Services to Enterprise.
Dr. Lynch is also a Lady Margaret Beaufort Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge, and the author of a number of academic papers on the subject of Pattern Recognition and Signal Processing.
Dr. Lynch was appointed to the Board when Autonomy was founded in 1996.
Sushovan Hussain, Board Director and Chief Financial Officer, aged 46, has served as Chief Financial Officer since June 2001 and was appointed a Director in June 2003.
Prior to joining Autonomy, Mr. Hussain worked for LASMO plc, one of the world's largest independent oil and gas exploration companies, where he held a number of senior international financial positions, including three years in the Corporate Development department, charged with acquisitions and divestments.
Mr. Hussain is also a non-executive director of Monitise Plc.
Mr. Hussain received his BA in Economics from Cambridge University, England, and became a qualified Chartered Accountant while employed at Ernst & Young in London.
Jonathan Bloomer, Board Director, aged 56, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since August 2010.
Mr. Bloomer has been a partner with Cerberus European Capital Advisors, LLP since 2005.
He was previously Group Chief Executive of Prudential plc from March 2000 until May 2005, and Group Finance Director from January 1995.
Prior to this he was a senior partner in Arthur Andersen's financial markets division based in London and the managing partner of their European Insurance Practice.
Mr. Bloomer's other current engagements include: Chief Executive of Lucida plc: Chairman of Scottish Re: Non-Executive Director of Hargreaves Lansdown plc: and Chairman of the Advisory Panel of the Financial Institutions Faculty of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales ICAEW.
He is a Trustee and Treasurer of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
Mr. Bloomer previously was a member of the Financial Services Practitioner Panel of the Financial Services Authority from 2000 to 2006 Chairman Nov 2003 - Oct 2005.
He was a Member of the Board of the Geneva Association from 2001 to 2005 and a member of the Board of the Association of British Insurers from 2000 to 2005.
He was also a member of the Urgent Issues Task Force of the Accounting Standards Board from 1995 to 1999.
Richard Gaunt, Board Director, aged 43, co-founded Autonomy and has served as an executive and non-executive director at times since our inception in March 1996.
Mr. Gaunt holds a BSc in electronic engineering and an MSc from the University of Natal in Durban.
Mr. Gaunt was appointed to the Board when Autonomy was founded in 1996, and has served only as a non-executive director since 2006.
24 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors and Senior Management Dr. Frank Kelly FRS, Board Director, aged 60, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since May 2010.
Dr. Kelly is Professor of the Mathematics of Systems in the Statistical Laboratory, University of Cambridge, and Master of Christ's College, Cambridge.
His main research interests are in random processes, networks and optimization.
Professor Kelly is the author of scores of leading mathematics publications.
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1989.
Professor Kelly served as Chief Scientific Adviser to the U. K. 's Department for Transport from 2003 to 2006.
He currently serves as a Member of Cambridge University's Council and its Remuneration Committee.
Professor Kelly has received numerous honours, including: Guy Medal in Silver of the Royal Statistical Society 1989 : Lanchester Prize of the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences 1991 : Naylor Prize of the London Mathematical Society 1997 : Honorary Doctorate of Science, Heriot-Watt University 2001 : IEEE Koji Kobayashi Computers and Communications Award 2005 : John von Neumann Theory Prize of INFORMS 2008 : SIGMETRICS Achievement Award 2010 : and the Gold Medal of the Association of European Operational Research Societies 2010.
Professor Kelly is a trustee of RAND Europe, whose mission is to help improve policy and decision-making through research and analysis, and a non-executive director of RAND Europe Cambridge Limited.
Professor Kelly holds a B. Sc.
from Durham University 1971, and a Ph.
John McMonigall, Board Director, aged 67, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since July 1998.
From April 1990 until April 2010 Mr. McMonigall was a partner with Apax Partners Worldwide LLP, the private equity firm, where he specialized in telecommunications, software and related fields.
From 1986 to 1990, Mr. McMonigall held a variety of positions at British Telecom where he served as a member of the Management Board.
He currently serves on the Board of Dialog Semiconductor Plc.
Mr. McMonigall also serves on the Boards of several privately owned companies as a nonexecutive director.
Executive Management Andrew Kanter, Chief Operating Officer and General Counsel, aged 41, joined Autonomy in August 2000 as VP, International Operations and Legal Affairs, and has served as our COO since 2001.
Prior to joining Autonomy, through 2000 Mr. Kanter was an associate attorney with Brobeck Hale and Dorr in London, engaged in international mergers and acquisitions and corporate finance.
Through 1999, Mr. Kanter was an associate attorney at Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison in San Francisco, and prior to that was an associate attorney with Shearman & Sterling, San Francisco.
Mr. Kanter was Clerk to Hon.
Christine Miller of the U. S. Court of Federal Claims, Washington, DC.
Mr. Kanter holds a J. D. from the University of Southern California and a B.
A. from Johns Hopkins University, and also studied at Kansai University of Foreign Studies, Osaka, Japan.
Nicole Eagan, Chief Marketing Officer, aged 46, joined the Autonomy group as Chief Marketing Officer in January 2006.
Prior to working for Autonomy Ms. Eagan served Verity as a Senior Vice President of Marketing and Chief Marketing Officer from June 2005.
Before joining Verity, Ms. Eagan was Vice President, Global Marketing at Quest Software, an application, database and Windows management company from 2004 to 2005.
Prior to Quest, Ms. Eagan was the Senior Vice President of Global Marketing at Peregrine from 2001 to 2004.
Ms. Eagan also held senior marketing, strategy and business development positions at Extricity, a business process management company and Oracle Corporation.
Ms. Eagan holds a B. S. from Montclair University, N. J. Stouffer Egan, CEO Autonomy, Inc. aged 42, joined Autonomy in March 2001 as Director of Global Accounts.
He has served as our Chief Executive Officer, Autonomy, Inc. since 2002.
Prior to joining Autonomy, from February 2000 through to March 2001, Mr. Egan was Vice President of Corporate Development for LeadingSide Inc. From January 1995 through February 2000, Mr. Egan held various positions with Dataware Technologies, most recently as VP, Corporate Development.
A. in Economics from Trinity College, CT. Eloy Avila, Chief Technology Officer, aged 31, joined Autonomy in January of 2004 and has been a part of the technology team since, most recently holding the role of US CTO.
Prior to joining Autonomy, Mr. Avila did research and worked on building ultraefficient electric vehicles.
Mr. Avila holds a B. S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University, CA.
Oxon, Chief Research Officer, aged 44, joined Autonomy's Engineering and Technology Solutions unit in 1998 and has served in senior technology roles since 2004, including as Chief Technology Officer and Chief Research Officer.
During that time he has overseen a number of significant advances in Autonomy technology, including key new patents filed, and been responsible for the successful deployment of Autonomy software at multi-divisional organisations across the globe.
Prior to joining Autonomy, Dr. Menell conducted computational and neuro-physiology research.
from York University and a D. Phil.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25
