Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited accounts for the year Financial Instruments ended 31 December 2010 as set out on pages 45 to 85.
The Corporate The directors' objectives in relation to the use of financial instruments are to Governance Report on pages 28 to 34 forms part of this report.
minimize risk whilst achieving maximum return on liquid assets.
The directors are averse to principal loss and manage the safety and Principal Activity preservation of the companys invested funds by limiting default and market The group's business activities for the year are set out in the Business risks by investing with high rated financial institutions.
The companys Overview and the Financial Review on pages 8 to 20.
The principal investment portfolio is comprised almost entirely of cash and cash subsidiaries which affected our profit or net assets in the year are listed on equivalents with AAA-rated institutions.
All short-term investments have a page 86. fixed interest rate.
The company does not use derivative financial instruments.
Business Review The group historically has not faced material exposure to price risk, credit The company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out in this risk, liquidity risk or cash flow risk, outside of the ordinary course of report a fair review of the business of the group during 2010 and the business.
The company is marginally exposed to interest rate risk through position of the group at the end of the year.
This review is contained in the the companys bank loan and on its cash and cash equivalents.
Business Overview section of the Annual Report and Accounts pages 8 to 13, with further commentary on the groups strategy, performance and The company has one quoted investment blinkx Plc and a very small development in the Chairmans Statement pages 2 and 3 and the Chief number of small, minority private interests, which do not comprise a Executives Statement pages 4 to 7.
The Financial Review includes a material portion of the companys balance sheet.
description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group page 18 and a discussion of key performance measures page 20.
In Further information about the companys financial assets and liabilities is addition, note 31 to the financial statements includes the group's objectives, provided in the notes to the financial statements.
policies and processes for managing its capital and risk management, along with details of exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Full results of the group are set out beginning on page 45.
Post-balance sheet events Directors and Their Interests are shown in note 33.
The current directors of the company and their biographical details are on pages 24 and 25.
A statement of their interests in the ordinary share capital of the company, details of share options and details of service Research and Development contracts are set forth in the Remuneration Committee report beginning on The group remains firmly committed to research and development to page 35.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract, maintain its position as a market leader.
During the year the group other than a service contract or contract for services, with the company or expensed $114.8 million related to research and development any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
In addition, the group capitalised $38.5 million 2009: $24.7 million of qualifying research and development Re-election of Directors expenditure as required in accordance with IAS 38.
Whilst the companys Articles of Association require at least one third of the directors to be subject to re-election at each Annual General Meeting, the Dividends new UK Corporate Governance Code requires all directors of companies The Board reviews uses of cash resources on an ongoing basis.
In light of who form part of the FTSE350 be subject to re-election at each Annual the companys continued need for cash for potential trade investments for General Meeting, which the company has adopted this year.
As a result example, the Interwoven acquisition in March 2009 and expected the company intends to propose all of its directors for re-election or significant investment in further research and development, the company to election for the first time at this and future Annual General Meetings.
date has not paid or declared dividends, in common with most of its peer Mr. Bloomer and Professor Kelly were appointed as directors subsequent companies in the high technology sector.
The policy will be kept under to the notice of the last Annual General Meeting, and are thus standing for continual review.
Accordingly the directors do not recommend the payment election for the first time.
Each individuals performance continues to be of a dividend 2009: nil.
exemplary and they demonstrate commitment to and, in the case of the non-executives independence in, their roles.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the last Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorized market Substantial Shareholdings purchases by the company of up to 24,087,628 ordinary shares As at 21 February 2011, the company had been notified, in accordance representing approximately 10% of its issued share capital at that time.
with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 2006, of the following The authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of interests in the ordinary share capital of the company by persons other than the company unless renewed at that meeting.
During 2010 the company the directors of the company: did not conduct any share repurchases.
In total throughout its history the company has purchased for cancellation 20,997,824 shares, representing 1 Ordinary Shares approximately 8.66% of the company's total issued share capital at 31 December 2010, at an average price of 1.65 per share, for aggregate Janus Capital Management, LLC..... 12,253,715 5.05% consideration of 34.5 million.
Any repurchase program during 2011 will depend on TIAA-CREF and Teachers Advisors.
FMR LLC 11,957,373 4.93% Capital Group International, Inc........ 7,219,196 2.97% 1 Based on 242,711,358 shares outstanding as of 21 February 2011 26 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The Supplier Payment Policy company does not have any rules regarding the appointment and The company's policy is to settle payment terms with all suppliers when replacement of directors and amendment of the Articles of Association agreeing a transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms and other than those set forth in the Articles of Association.
The powers of the to abide by such terms.
Generally the company pays suppliers at the end directors are as set forth in the companys Articles of Association and as of the month following that in which the supplier's invoice is received.
permitted by shareholders pursuant to the companys Annual General Creditor days outstanding as at 31 December 2010 calculated in Meeting.
The company is not party to any material agreements that take accordance with Schedule 7 Companies Act 2006 for the company was effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, 27 days 2009: 34 days and for the principal U. K. subsidiary was 42 days or any agreements between the company and its directors or employees 2009: 66 days.
providing for compensation or loss of office or employment that occur directly because of a takeover bid.
Employees Matters relating to the companys employees are discussed on page 22.
Indemnity Provisions At the companys Annual General Meeting in May 2006 shareholders Corporate, Social and Environmental Matters approved an amendment to the companys Articles of Association providing Matters relating to corporate, social and environmental matters are for indemnification of directors, which remains in force.
A copy of the discussed beginning on page 21. companys Memorandum and Articles of Association are available for inspection at the companys office and from Companies House.
No Charitable and Political Contributions qualifying third party indemnity provisions or any qualifying pension scheme The companys charitable policies are discussed on page 23.
The group indemnity provisions are in force as of the date of this report or were in made $92,000 in charitable donations during 2010 to a variety of charities force during the year ended 31 December 2010. including the Princes Trust and the University of Calgary 2009: $110,000.
The group did not make any political contributions during 2010 2009: $nil.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the companys offices in Going Concern Cambridge, UK, on 24 March 2011, at 4:00 p. m. The company will convey The group has considerable financial resources together with a significant the results of proxy votes cast at the meeting, and the results will be number of customers across different geographic areas and industries.
At announced through the regulatory news services.
Notice of the Annual 31 December 2010 the group had cash balances of $1.1 billion and total General Meeting is set out in the circular to shareholders accompanying debt of $827 million assuming no conversion of the convertible loan note.
The company is committed to the policy of one share The group has no net debt.
As a consequence, the directors believe that one vote.
Deloitte LLP, the companys independent auditor, have the group is well placed to manage business risks successfully despite the expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor.
A resolution to current uncertain economic outlook.
reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
After making enquiries and considering the cash flow forecasts of the group and the groups trading prospects the directors have a reasonable Audit expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in Each of the persons who were a director at the date of approval of this operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue annual report confirms that: to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the twelve month consolidated financial statements.
so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company's auditor is unaware: and Capital Structure he has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a The structure of the companys capital consists solely of ordinary shares, director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information nominal value 1 3p per share, and convertible bonds.
There are no and to establish that the company's auditor is aware of that information.
restrictions imposed by the company on the transfer of securities in the company or limitations on the holding of securities or requirements to This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the obtain approval for a transfer of securities.
The Substantial Shareholdings provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. table above sets forth such details as are informed to the company of the identity of persons holding a significant direct or indirect interest, and the On behalf of the Board, holdings size.
The company has no information with regards to the holdings to believe such holdings are for any reason other than ordinary financial investment purposes.
The company has an Employee Benefit Trust which holds approximately 389,700 ordinary shares of the company and approximately 496,800 Dr. Michael R. Lynch ordinary shares of blinkx Plc.
All rights with respect to such shares are Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder exercised by the independent trustee of the trust.
22 February 2011 There are no restrictions on voting rights on the companys ordinary shares, Registered Office: Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge including any limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage or CB4 0WZ number of votes, deadlines for exercising voting rights, or arrangements by which with the companys co-operation financial rights carried by securities Registered Number: 3175909 are held by a person other than the holder of the securities.
The company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities which may Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27
