Senior management In addition to ABGs Executive Directors listed on previous page, Katrina White, age 35 General Counsel and CompanySecretary SeniorManagement includes the following: Ms White is the General Counsel and Company Secretary of the ABG Group.
Ms White was previously employed by Barrick for the last five Marco Zolezzi, age 55 Chief Operating Officer years where she served as Regional General Counsel and Company Mr Zolezzi is Chief Operating Officer of the ABG Group.
Mr Zolezzi Secretary for Barrick Australia Africa, subsequently Barrick Australia was previously employed as Director of Technical Services for Barricks Pacific and asa Director of Barricks subsidiaries in the region since Australia Pacific Region for the last four years.
Prior to joining Barrick, Ms White was employed as a senior held a number of senior project roles in the industry, including five associate at Hunt & Humphry in Australia.
Ms White has an Honours years with Newcrest Mining where he was General Manager at the degree in Law from the University of Western Australia.
She is admitted Telfer Mine, taking it from the project stage through to full production, to practise as a barrister and solicitor in Western Australia, the High as well as 13 years with WMC Resources in a number of senior Court of Australia and the Federal Court of Australia.
In total, Mr Zolezzi has over 30 years of experience in complex open pit and underground operations in Andrew Wray, age 47 Head of CorporateDevelopment and Australia and South Africa with a variety of operational, technical and Investor Relations project management roles.
In addition to Diplomas in Mining and Mr Wray is the Head of Corporate Development and Investor Relations Mechanical Engineering from Witwatersrand Institute of Technology for the ABG Group.
He was previously employed by JP Morgan in South Africa, Mr Zolezzi holds Bachelor Degrees in Applied Science, Cazenove where he was a Director in the Corporate Finance team.
Mechanical from the New South Wales Institute of Technology and MrWray has over 10 years of experience in advising a range of mining in Applied Science, Mining from the Western Australian Institute and other companies in their capital-raising activities and in other ofTechnology.
Prior to joining JP Morgan, Mr Wray worked for the Kuwait Investment Office in London, dealing with their portfolio Deodatus Mwanyika, age 48 Vice President, Corporate Affairs of investments in Spain.
Mr Wray holds a Bachelor of Arts Honours Mr Mwanyika is the Vice President, Corporate Affairs of the ABG Degree in Modern Languages from University College London.
He was previously employed by Barrick which he joined in 1999 as a Legal Consultant and where he occupied various managerial Kobus van Vuuren, age 51 Head of Human Resources positions in the last 11 years, culminating in his appointment in 2008 as Mr van Vuuren is the Head of Human Resources of the ABG Group.
Mr Mwanyika holds a Bachelor Heis responsible for overseeing all Human Resource activities, as well of Law Degree with Honours from the University of Dar es Salaam and as the management of the Johannesburg office.
Prior to joining Barrick, a Masters in Law from the University of Cambridge.
Mr Mwanyika Mr van Vuuren was Senior Director Human Resources and Services is a member of the Tanganyika Law Society and the East African at Midroc Gold Ethiopia, and occupied various managerial positions LawSociety.
over the previous 24 years at AngloGold and Harmony Gold.
He joined Barrick in 2007 as Human Resource Manager at North Mara, and Peter Spora, age 41 Vice President, Exploration served in a number of capacities including Organisational Effectiveness Mr Spora is the Vice President, Exploration of the ABG Group.
He was Manager and Mine General Manager, before being promoted to his previously employed by Barrick where he served as Principal Geologist, current position in 2009.
Mr van Vuuren is a diplomat of the Institute Africa, from 2006 to 2008 and Exploration Manager, Africa, since 2008. ofPersonnel Management and has several qualifications in HR, Mr Spora has over 15 years of experience as a geologist in Australia Training and Development and Industrial Relations.
He holds a Bachelor of Applied Science in Geology Degree ofthe Society for Human Resource Management SHRM.
from the University of Technology, Sydney, Australia.
He is currently the Chairman of the Exploration Committee of the Tanzanian Chamber of Minerals and Energy, and is a member of the Society of EconomicGeologists.
