Board of directors 3 Kevin Jennings, age 41 Chief Financial Officer Chairman Mr Jennings is the Chief Financial Officer of the ABG Group.
He was 1 Aaron Regent, age 45 Non-Executive Chairman previously employed by Barrick where he served from August 2009 Mr Regent is a Non-Executive Director of the ABG Group.
He has been as Vice-President of Corporate Development.
Mr Jennings has held a the President and Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Barrick variety of senior management positions in the mining industry over since 2009.
Prior to joining Barrick, Mr Regent was Senior Managing the last ten years, including Director, Business Optimisation at Xstrata Partner of Brookfield Asset Management and Co-Chief Executive plc, Director, Strategic Business Analysis at Falconbridge Ltd, and Officer of its Infrastructure Group.
Mr Regent previously served as Chief Financial Officer at American Racing Equipment Inc, a wholly President and Chief Executive Officer of Falconbridge Ltd. Mr Regent owned subsidiary of Falconbridge.
Mr Jennings holds a Bachelor of holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree from the University of Western Ontario Arts Degree in Economics from the University of Western Ontario and and is a Chartered Accountant.
a Bachelor of Administrative Studies, with Honours in Accounting, from York University.
Executive Directors 2 Greg Hawkins, age 42 Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Directors Mr Hawkins is the Chief Executive Officer of the ABG Group.
He was 4 Derek Pannell, age 64 Senior Independent previously employed by Barrick, where since June 2006 he served as Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer of the Australia Pacific Business Unit.
From Mr Pannell is an independent Non-Executive Director of the ABG 1999 to 2006, Mr Hawkins served in finance management roles Group.
Mr Pannell holds several other Board appointments, including for Barrick Australia Africa and for Homestake Mining before its Agrium Inc, and is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Brookfield acquisition by Barrick.
Mr Hawkins also previously held roles as the Infrastructure Partners LP.
Mr Pannell was formerly President, Chief Finance Manager for Normandy Mining and as an Audit Manager for Operating Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Noranda Inc, and Deloitte.
He holds a Bachelor of Commerce Degree from the University Falconbridge Ltd. Mr Pannell is a metallurgical engineer with over 40 of Western Australia.
He is a Chartered Accountant and a member of years of experience in the mining and metals industry.
He is former the Australian Institute of Company Directors.
Chair of the Mining Association of Canada and a Board member of the International Council on Mining and Metals.
Mr Pannell holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Engineering from Imperial College London, England, and is a professional engineer registered in Quebec and Peru.
He is also an Associate of the Royal School of Mines and aFellow of the Canadian Academy of Engineers.
com 70 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5 8 James Cross, age 62 Independent Non-Executive Director Bobby Godsell, age 58 Independent Non-Executive Director Mr Cross is an independent Non-Executive Director of the ABG Mr Godsell is an independent Non-Executive Director of the ABG Group.
He is also a Board member of the Financial Services Board of Group.
He has held numerous senior Chair and Board positions, South Africa, Deputy Chairman of the Policy Board of South Africa, including the former Chairmanship of the World Gold Council, Chairman of the Financial Markets Advisory Board and Non-Executive Presidency of the Chamber of Mines, and Non-Executive Chairmanship Chairman of Swiss Gold DMCC Dubai.
He was formerly Senior Deputy of Eskom Holdings Ltd.
He has over 30 years of experience in the Governor of the South African Reserve Bank, Chairman of Highland mining sector, previously serving as Director and Chief Executive Gold Mining Ltd, and a Director of Namakwa Diamonds Ltd and Officer of AngloGold Ashanti Ltd and as a Director of Anglo American MKS Finance Geneva.
He has a Bachelor of Commerce Degree from plc.
He holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree from the University of Natal, the University of Witwatersrand, South Africa, and is a fellow of the South Africa, and a Master of Arts Degree from the University of Cape Institute of Bankers of South Africa.
6 9 Andre Falzon, age 56 Independent Non-Executive Director Michael Kenyon, age 61 Independent Non-Executive Director Mr Falzon is an independent Non-Executive Director of the ABG Mr Kenyon is an independent Non-Executive Director of the ABG Group.
He is a financial consultant, and a Director of Aurizon Mines Group.
He is Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors at Detour Ltd. Mr Falzon is a senior financial executive with over 25 years of Gold Corporation, Chairman of the Board of Directors at Troon financial and management experience within the mining industry, Ventures Ltd, and has more than 35 years of experience in the mining including a period as Vice President and Controller at Barrick between industry.
He has previously been President and Chief Executive Officer 1994 and 2006.
He holds a Bachelor of Commerce Degree from the at both Canico Resource Corp and Sutton Resources Ltd, and a Director University of Toronto, Canada and is a Certified General Accountant of Cumberland Resources Ltd.
He is a geologist by training, and holds Canada and a Chartered Accountant Canada.
a Master of Science Geology Degree from the University of Alberta in Canada.
He was also the recipient of the 2005 Developer of the Year 7 Stephen Galbraith, age 39 Non-Executive Director award from the Prospector and Developers Association of Canada in Mr Galbraith is a Non-Executive Director of the ABG Group.
He has recognition of his accomplishments.
been employed by Barrick since August 2000 in treasury and finance functions, and is currently Managing Director of Barrick International Barbados Corporation.
Mr Galbraith previously held the role of Audit Manager for .
He holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Accountancy from Strathclyde University, is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and is a Chartered Financial Analyst Charterholder.
Committee members EHS&S committee: Bobby Godsell Chair, Derek Pannell, Stephen Galbraith, Audit committee: Andre Falzon Chair, James Cross, Michael Kenyon Compensation committee: Michael Kenyon Chair, Aaron Regent, Andre Falzon, James Cross Nomination committee: Derek Pannell Chair, Stephen Galbraith, Bobby Godsell 4 8 7 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71
