Exploration review Progress across the portfolio ABG is committed to expanding its gold resources, reserves and production profile through exploration.
The current platform of operating mines benefits from a significant resource base that underpins the Companys lifeof-mine plans.
This resource base has been built on our exploration efforts where our average finding cost is around US$15 per ounce.
Peter Spora 2010 highlights 2011 priorities Successful drill hole intercepts at the Nyanzaga project indicate Continuation of drill programmes at the Nyanzaga project thepotential to locate additional resources at the Tusker deposit.
Tusker and Kilimani resource areas in combination with testing of additional targets on the property.
Exploration drilling at Tulawaka continued to demonstrate the potential to extend the mine life to 2012.
Expansion of the Tulawaka Deeps Underground drill programmes to further extend the life of mine.
Announcement of initial underground indicated resource of 370,000 gold ounces at 8.29 g t beneath the planned final Gokona Progress infill and expansion resource drilling for North Mara and Nyabigena open pits.
Drilling along the Gokona Corridor to test for additional gold Testing of regional targets within the wider North Mara region for deposits has produced encouraging initial results.
Expansion of near mine exploration drill programmes at Bulyanhulu.
Exploration and Project Development Pipeline Grassroots Programme Target Delineation Advanced Exploration & Scoping & Feasibility Studies Resource Development Africa-wide M&A Buly Reef 1 & 2 East Gokona Buly Buly Reef Corridor Upper East 2 West Tulawaka Zone Jomu Deeps Karagwe Surubu Nyanzaga Kahama Komarera Ankolean Regional Tusker Nyakafuru Golden Kilimani North JV Ridge Mara UG Dett Masabi Extensions Target Size Opportunity Lake 750 500 100 AfricaVictoria 1 Moz Mine site Satellite wide koz koz koz Goldfields www.
com 44 Production Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information ABGs commitment to exploration continues to grow, and for 2011 our work in a number of countries, assessing the potential for projects exploration budget is again being increased following the additional that would add value through both enhancing our growth profile and expenditure in 2010.
For 2011, we are budgeting total exploration adding strategically important geographic diversification.
From a expenditure, both expensed and capitalised, of US$55 million.
This greenfield perspective, in May 2010 we completed the acquisition of represents a 103% increase on 2010.
Tusker Gold for a consideration of approximately US$63 million, net ofcash acquired.
As a result of this acquisition, we now control 100% The core objectives under which these funds will be deployed in our of the Nyanzaga project, which includes the Tusker deposit.
This is one exploration and development activities are threefold: of the largest undeveloped gold deposits in Tanzania.
to continue to drive our strategy of organic growth through near Overall, the positive progression of our exploration projects and efforts mine exploration and resource expansion: throughout the year by the Exploration and Technical Services teams to optimise our existing assets through the identification and clearly shows ABGs ability to recognise near mine opportunities delineation of higher-grade satellite deposits: and and additional upside opportunities across regional areas.
This is to progress regional exploration in order to evaluate new strategically important, as it supports both our existing production opportunities throughout Africa, particularly through acquisitions.
platform and organic growth prospects.
Throughout 2010, our Exploration and Technical Services teams have principally focused on advancing our organic growth projects Organic growth projects in and around each of ABGs current Tanzanian operations, as well as Brownfield projects advancing important regional exploration programmes at our North Mara and Nyanzaga projects.
The North Mara Underground extension We are undertaking ongoing feasibility studies at four key projects: This project is focused on developing underground resources beneath Golden Ridge, North Mara Underground, Bulyanhulu Upper East the Gokona and Nyabigena open pits.
The objective is to bring Zone and the Tulawaka East Zone Underground extension.
All four underground resources into production as soon as possible, with the studies have progressed in line with our expectations.
Of particular aim of processing higher-grade underground ore and displacing some of the lower-grade open pit ore in order to increase production levels note were the ongoing feasibility studies at Golden Ridge and and at the same time extend life-of-mine at North Mara.
Bulyanhulus Upper East Zone which progressed positively through the year.
So have our efforts on the East Zone Underground extension As announced in December 2010, following an earlier scoping study, at Tulawaka, where we have achieved an initial extension of the life of we have delineated and validated an initial high-grade underground the mine.
Key achievements during the year included the declaration indicated resource of 370,000 ounces of gold at 8.29 g t beneath the of an initial underground resource at North Mara.
Although at an planned final Gokona and Nyabigena open pits.
This indicates that earlier stage, we also reported a number of successes in the continuing there is the potential to develop a substantial underground operation developments of the drill programmes we have been carrying out at the at the Gokona and Nyabigena deposits with an attractive grade profile.
The underground feasibility study to assess the full potential of the During 2010, ABG reviewed a number of opportunities for regional current resource on the Gokona-Nyabigena project is on schedule for expansion.
We are continuing to undertake exploration and evaluation its targeted completion in mid-2011.
Drilling on Gokona Deeps Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45 Exploration continued In addition, ABGs exploration group has been completing deep 2010 we completed a reverse circulation scout drilling programme diamond drilling in and around the current Gokona underground along this corridor to test for additional gold deposits.
This drill programme is aimed at extending and are encouraging with several holes intersecting anomalous gold zones validating higher-grade mineralised zones.
Assay results for this drilling 100ppb Au along with zones of alteration and veining.
To build on programme have now been received for six holes.
Results from most of this progress and accurately assess gold deposit potential, we are now these holes have better delineated the extent of higher grade shoots and carrying out a significant programme of multi-element geochemistry the potential extension of the Gokona West high-grade shoot at depth.
on the drill samples in conjunction with the gold analysis.
Additional Based on the positive results of the initial resource estimate and the scout drilling and follow-up of the 2010 scout drilling will be ongoing exploration drilling programme we are scheduled to begin a significant throughout 2011. resource drill-out programme early in 2011.
The resource drill-out is Tulawaka East Zone Underground extension aimed at expanding the total underground resource to greater than one million ounces.
We will also use these programmes to demonstrate Throughout the year, the focus of our near mine expansion programmes and validate the economic viability of the project.
at Tulawaka was on the East Zone Underground extensions.
The objective of the drilling here is to identify and delineate additional North Mara Nyabigena East high-grade gold reserves and resources below the current East Zone Grade-control activities that we conducted throughout the year underground infrastructure, with the primary purpose of extending identified opportunities to extend the Nyabigena resource area at the thelife of the Tulawaka mine.
eastern end of the existing open pit.
A reverse circulation drilling Our exploration drilling continued to extend the known high-grade programme initiated during the first quarter of 2010 produced good results, highlighting the opportunity to extend mining operations in the mineralised shoots below the Level 7 resource we had previously Nyabigena East Main Zone and significantly close the gap between the defined, indicating potential to extend the mine life further.
Overall, Nyabigena main pit and the Nyabigena East mineralisation.
ourdrilling programmes indicate that existing mineralised zones continue to at least 150 metres below the floor of Tulawakas nowThe results of infill programmes conducted during the year have completed open pit.
We expect to continue drill programmes led to the upgrade from Inferred to Indicated of the resource of throughout 2011, which will aim to extend known high-grade zones Nyabigena East, for which a pit has been outlined as part of the for a further 100-200 metres below currently defined depths.
way, we will be able to assess the possible significant expansion of our current resource base to add further reserves and extend the mine life North Mara Gokona Corridor through an exclusively underground operation.
In addition to the underground targets at North Mara, we are also undertaking significant additional exploration elsewhere around the Golden Ridge mine, particularly along the Gokona Corridor.
Approximately 55 kilometres north of the Buzwagi operation, the The Gokona Corridor extends approximately six kilometres north west Golden Ridge project represents an important opportunity for ABG of the Gokona deposit and approximately ten kilometres south east of to exploit a higher-grade mineralisation deposit as a satellite feed to the Nyabigena deposit.
Historically, very little effective drilling has been the Buzwagi mill.
Findings to date indicate that it has the potential to completed outside the immediate mine area.
For this reason, during produce between 70,000 and 100,000 ounces per year from 2013 14.
Tulawaka East Zone West Pit Portal into Underground www.
com 46 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We are actively progressing the feasibility study, which is scheduled Greenfield projects for completion by mid-2011, in furtherance of our initial resource The Nyanzaga project declaration.
ABGs exploration team completed a programme of infill reverse circulation drilling and metallurgical test-work diamond We took control of 100% of the Nyanzaga project following completion drilling during 2010.
Elements of this programme confirmed the of our acquisition of Tusker Gold in May 2010.
Since then the focus width and tenor of mineralisation in the main zone and indicated the of our exploration activities has remained on further delineating and potential for further exploration drilling to target higher-grade areas.
expanding the projects current resources.
The actions we have taken include an aggressive reverse circulation Bulyanhulu Upper East Zone and diamond-core step-out and infill drill programme on the Tusker The Bulyanhulu Upper East Zone is approximately 2.5 kilometres east and Kilimani resource areas.
Additionally, these drill programmes of the main Bulyanhulu shaft and contains approximately one million also commenced testing of geophysical and geochemical targets across gold ounces at 10 g t within Reef 1 and 2.
The mineralisation in the the Nyanzaga project area for large-scale gold deposits and additional Bulyanhulu Upper East Zone is included in current reserves, but it satellite opportunities within 15 kilometres of the Tusker resource area.
was not scheduled for mining until later in the mine life.
However, following review of planning models and previous feasibility studies, Tusker Gold declared an inferred resource of approximately 4.2million weare now considering accelerating the timetable for mining the Upper ounces for the Nyanzaga project in June 2009.
Our current drill East Zone within the overall life of mine.
This would make use of an programme aims to confirm and expand this resource base, and it has existing 1.8-kilometre decline to this zone, which is being dewatered shown positive results to date.
Step-out and infill drilling on the southern and rehabilitated, as well as utilising excess milling capacity in the strike extensions of the Tusker prospect have identified wide, higher-grade processplant.
In particular, recent intercepts indicate that mineralisation on the southern extensions of the Tusker resource We started a further feasibility study into the Upper East Zone area area occurs closer to surface than previously modelled, and deeper during the year.
We intend to complete this study in the first half of intersections indicate the potential for grade quality to increase with depth 2011, allowing us to assess the viability of mining the reserves in the in this area of the system.
In addition, results obtained from the drill zone earlier than anticipated in the current life-of-mine plan.
programme are showing potential to locate additional resources on the north end of the Tusker resource area.
Bulyanhulu Reef 1 and 2 West During the year, we completed reverse circulation drilling programmes In 2011, our drilling will continue to focus on extending mineralisation on areas of Reef 2 West, along with Reef 1 and Reef 0b targets where onthe northern, western and southern domains of the Tusker deposit, there has previously been relatively limited exploration drilling.
andgiven the success of the drill programme to date, we will expand Favourable results from this programme warrant a second phase step-out drilling to allow accelerated follow-up of identified positive of follow-up drilling so that we can identify additional near surface intersections.
Infill drilling on the main resource area will commence resources for either open pit or underground mining.
We are planning toupgrade the existing mineral inventory and inferredresources.
deeper drill holes targeting extensions of higher-grade zones in early We aim to initiate a scoping study later in 2011 as we gain a greater 2011 from the existing underground development at Bulyanhulu.
understanding of the extent of the mineralisation on the Tusker and Kilimani project areas.
Diamond rig drilling at Tusker Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47
