The way we work Committed to excellence At the time of our IPO we made commitments to excellence, and to establish strong and effective leadership.
We believe this approach makes sound business sense as well as being crucial for risk and opportunity management.
Board effectiveness and strength Risk management ABG requires strong and effective leadership to achieve its business Effective risk management is imperative both to drive the success of objectives.
For this reason, all our Directors have considerable ABGs strategy and vision and to protect our values.
For this reason, we experience in the mining industry, sharing a collective spectrum of have adopted a comprehensive risk management framework to address expertise that spans finance and accounting, regional operational risk tolerance and control, based on international standards, applicable experience, geology and engineering.
governance requirements and the ethics that underpin our Code of Conduct.
All members of the ABG Group, our material operations, Our Board is responsible for the overall management of ABG and its support functions, processes and procedures must comply with and business.
It sets our standards, values and strategic aims, and ensures adhere to our risk management controls andprocedures.
that we have the resources in place to meet our objectives.
Supported by the Senior Leadership Team, the Board monitors and reviews material PG We give further details of our approach to risk management in the strategic issues, financial performance, risk management and critical Risk management section of this report on page 64. business issues.
PG You can find details of each of our Directors on pages 70-71, and we provide details of our governance structure in the Corporate governance report contained in this report.
Organisational structure e Board acts as overall guardian e Board of ABGs business and its strategy.
Speci c review and oversight functions are delegated to committees of the Board in line Audit EHS&S Nomination Compensation with applicable governance committee committee committee committee standards and requirements.
Day-to-day management of the business lies with the Senior Leadership Team, who work with Senior Leadership General the general managers of each mine Team Managers to progress operations.
com 30 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic shareholder support Our values Before our IPO in March 2010, ABG was a wholly owned subsidiary of Barrick.
Barrick continues to hold approximately 74% of ABGs shares, Behave like an owner making it our majority shareholder.
As a result of this close relationship, we continue to benefit from having access to the Barrick Group for We accept accountability for our actions and results.
We are a number of support and technical services.
We also receive strong entrepreneurial and look for opportunities to grow our business.
shareholder support for our initiatives, while retaining autonomy and We act with integrity operating within the letter and spirit of the law and ABGs Code of Conduct.
independence as a public company in the operation of our business.
Be a team player PG Further details of our relationship with Barrick are on page 76.
We work safely at all times.
We respect our colleagues and those we interact with outside our organisation.
We listen Responsible mining to others for understanding and we ask for help.
We build trust and we celebrate our successes.
We help others improve As one of Tanzanias largest investors, we strive to be a responsible their effectiveness.
We promote confidence and trust in one member of the communities in which we operate, and are determined anotherscapabilities.
to contribute not only to the national economy but also to the socioeconomic development of our host communities.
As such, we are Continually improve committed to creating a positive and sustainable legacy in Tanzania by operating in a socially responsible way over the life cycle of our mines We are always committed to improvement.
We build on good ideas, we learn from our mistakes and we challenge the status and by ensuring that our employees and local communities can share in quo.
We think outside the box and have a desire to succeed and the benefits of our mining activities.
We have been engaged in a number add value to our work.
of initiatives that reflect this vision with the local communities around our mines.
These can be broadly broken down into the following Act with a sense of urgency categories: community development, stakeholder engagement, and localprocurement and employment.
We are decisive, take the initiative and make tough decisions when necessary.
We set priorities and act on them.
Our values Deliver results ABGs conduct is guided by the highest standards of honesty and integrity, founded on our Code of Conduct that embodies our We have a clear vision of where we are going and of our plan commitment to conducting our business in accordance with all to get there.
We focus our resources to achieve our objectives.
applicable laws, rules, regulations and the highest ethical standards.
We pay attention to detail and keep our commitments.
We Wehave also adopted a number of core values, which underline our deliverresults.
vision and commitment to stakeholders.
