Our strategy Delivering our full potential The main focus of ABGs strategy is to increase our production levels toonemillion ounces of gold per year by 2014.
We aim to achieve this through continually optimising and reAt ABG, we strive to empower and incentivise our employees to sequencing our asset base, expanding our existing resources, realise and deliver the full potential of our assets in order to enhance accessing ore in satellite deposits and pursuing organic development shareholder value.
Above all else, we are committed to being a opportunities and acquisitions, with the goal of increasing metal responsible member of the communities where we operate and exposure per share.
determined to contribute not only to the national economy but also to the socio-economic development and wellbeing of our We aim to achieve our production targets while maintaining strict cost host communities.
discipline and optimising capital efficiency to create shareholder value on an absolute as well as a per share basis.
Increasing production to achieve one million ounces by 2014 Koz Nyanzaga 1,100 1,000 Bulyanhulu Upper East Zone Short medium term 900 North Mara Underground Golden Ridge 800 } 700 Tulawaka extension 600 2009 2010 2011 2012 2014 2013 www.
com 16 LOM production base Organic growth M&A and JVs Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic priorities Optimise Expand Grow the existing asset base through near mine projects through greenfield opportunities and acquisitions in Africa We aim to increase We pursue organic We are committed to growing production across our existing growth opportunities our operations in Tanzania assets through operational to expand our existing and transforming our business improvements such as: resources suchas: into a truly pan-African player within our industry through: moving to electricity supplied developing underground more than 50,000 metres of by the Tanzanian national operations at the Gokona and resource definition and exploration grid and away from in-house Nyabigena pits following highdrilling across Nyanzaga in 2011: powergeneration: grade success at North Mara: prospecting for future growth increasing training and extending the mine life along the Gokona Corridor development of our workforce at Tulawaka through the and at the Golden Ridge and with the introduction of additional underground extension in Nyanzagaprojects: training facilities such as the the East Zone: leveraging opportunities Bulyanhulu Underground accelerating production at the which exist within the African training centre: Bulyanhulu Upper East Zone.
stabilising operations at Buzwagi to achieve consistency in costs andproduction.
PG PG PG More information on pages 18 21 More information on pages 22 25 More information on pages 26 29 Optimise Expand Grow A move away from in-house power generation Realising the potential of our existing assets Growing our resource base Nyanzaga The acquisition of Tusker Gold in the resource area identified additional nearfirst half of 2010 resulted in ABG gaining surface mineralisation on the northern 100% control of the Nyanzaga project, end of the resource and new zones of which hosts the Tusker and Kilimani broad, higher-grade mineralisation North Mara Underground gold deposits as well as several other on the southern end of the resource.
The North Mara grid-connection project exploration targets.
The Nyanzaga project These intercepts indicate the potential covers some 353 square kilometres of to identify broad, higher-grade zones ABG is currently investigating the costs, infrastructure and risk analysis In late October 2006, the North Mara The final costs were in the order of potential for starting an underground assessments to assess the overall feasibility prospective Archaean greenstone geology within the very large Tusker gold deposit, gold mine entered into a memorandum of US$40 million for the two projects.
and lies approximately 35 kilometres and the current drill programmes are mine at North Mara to access a resource for this resource expansion.
We expect understanding with the Tanzania National that is currently outside the final planned to complete this phase of the study in north east of ABGs Bulyanhulu gold specifically aimed at extending these Power Utility, TANESCO, to examine the The project ran from January 2008 to mine.
Previous resource estimates by newly-identified zones.
Following commission, limits of the open pits.
feasibility of connecting to the TANESCO allow for simultaneous underground and Tusker Gold and Sub Sahara Resources electricity grid.
Until then the mine had further modifications were made to The initial resource announcement and NL reported inferred resources of The Company plans to drill more than address power-quality and grid-stability open pit mining for a period of time which 50,000 metres of resource definition and been supplied by diesel generators.
The would both add to our production profile on-going project reviews confirm the approximately four million ounces for project scope involved the installation issues.
These allow essential equipment encouraging progress ABG has made on Tusker and Kilimani projects although exploration drilling across the Nyanzaga to run on diesel generators until the grid and increase the life of the mine.
These drill programmes of 88 kilometres of 132kV overhead power assessing the upside potential of North ABG has so far only recognised a line from the Musoma substation to the power stabilises, with around 4Mw of the Initial investigations into possible Mara.
It is a testament to our strategy of resource of 963,000 ounces.
The are focused on identifying additional 12Mw on this spinning power.
Tusker and Kilimani gold deposits and gold deposits and satellite ore sources town of Nyamongo, the construction resource-expansion at Gokona have shown realising the additional potential of our that could enhance the economics of any of a new substation at Nyamongo and positive results.
In December 2010, we existing portfolio of high-quality assets.
the surrounding exploration targets In 2010, the mine benefited significantly announced an initial mineral resource together represent an opportunity to add operation established on the Nyanzaga modifications to the Musoma and Bunda from the projects outcome, thanks to its You can find further information on project.
We also aim to initiate a scoping substations.
This also included any voltage at the project, indicating the potential significantly to the Companys resourcesupport compensation required, and was reduced reliance on more expensive dieselto develop a substantial underground North Mara Underground on page 45. base, with the potential to contribute study later in 2011 as we gain a greater generated power.
understanding of the mineralisation in called the Grid Connection Project.
operation at the Gokona and Nyabigena substantially to annual production in the deposits with an attractive grade profile.
ABG and TANESCO completed a National Grid network study to finalise We are continuing deep drilling in The Company is presently continuing the requirements for the voltage support order to identify further high-grade step-out and infill resource drilling on compensation.
To support the network, gold mineralisation with the objective the Tusker and Kilimani deposits along a number of static variable compensators of locating an underground resource of 1Moz with scout exploration drill programmes m were relocated and capacitor banks US$40 up to one million ounces.
We are also across various geophysical and 52,000 upgraded in what was known as the The main plant at North Mara undertaking studies into suitable mining Total targeted underground geochemical targets within the project.
illuminated at night, powered with Drill rigs working on expanding the View from Tusker Hill southwest Grid Stability Project.
Capital investment electricity from the National Grid methods, potential operating and capital resource North Mara Underground resource In late 2010, our drilling on the Tusker Metres of drilling planned for 2011 across the Nyanzaga Property.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 22 www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 28 www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 Optimise A move away from in-house The North Mara grid-connection project In late October 2006, the North Mara The final costs were in the order of gold mine entered into a memorandum of US$40 million for the two projects.
understanding with the Tanzania National The project ran from January 2008 to Power Utility, TANESCO, to examine the September 2009.
Following commission, feasibility of connecting to the TANESCO further modifications were made to electricity grid.
Until then the mine had address power-quality and grid-stability been supplied by diesel generators.
These allow essential equipment project scope involved the installation to run on diesel generators until the grid of 88 kilometres of 132kV overhead power power stabilises, with around 4Mw of the line from the Musoma substation to the 12Mw on this spinning power.
town of Nyamongo, the construction of a new substation at Nyamongo and In 2010, the mine benefited significantly modifications to the Musoma and Bunda from the projects outcome, thanks to its substations.
This also included any voltage reduced reliance on more expensive dieselsupport compensation required, and was generated power.
called the Grid Connection Project.
ABG and TANESCO completed a National Grid network study to finalise the requirements for the voltage support compensation.
To support the network, a number of static variable compensators m were relocated and capacitor banks US$40 upgraded in what was known as the Grid Stability Project.
com 18 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information power generation The main plant at North Mara illuminated at night, powered with electricity from the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Optimise Creating capacity to meet The Bulyanhulu Underground Training Centre new to mining the opportunity to start As the Bulyanhulu mine makes progress their career by learning in a safe and towards growing production using the controlled environment.
conventional cut-and-fill mining method, there is an increased need to train large The next phase is to start a low-priority numbers of miners.
ABG carried out an production heading, where students can onsite gap assessment to highlight our experience actual working conditions training needs and to ensure we have without the added pressure of a fullythe capacity to meet the demand.
We meet this challenge, the mining team are also currently carrying out a gap has recruited a number of highly skilled assessment on all underground employees, trainers from one of South Africas who will be undergoing training at the leading mine training schools and has centre to ensure we have the skills required converted the mined-out 4700 level into to make the mine a success.
In the longer an underground mining school.
term, we envisage that the centre will also The space contains a number of areas to provide training for employees from other hold formal classroom lectures as well as ABG underground operations.
practical areas where employees can learn basic skills such as pipe-fitting, inspecting vehicles and rigging.
They can then progress to more demanding training on subjects such as jack legs and winches.
All training can be carried out in a genuine 2,210 underground environment without the added pressure of being in a production New and existing employees area.
This makes the training highly effective and gives people who are trained during 2010 www.
com 20 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information our demand Training underway at the Bulyanhulu Underground training centre.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Expand Realising the potential of our North Mara Underground ABG is currently investigating the costs, infrastructure and risk analysis potential for starting an underground assessments to assess the overall feasibility mine at North Mara to access a resource for this resource expansion.
We expect that is currently outside the final planned to complete this phase of the study in limits of the open pits.
allow for simultaneous underground and The initial resource announcement and open pit mining for a period of time which on-going project reviews confirm the would both add to our production profile encouraging progress ABG has made on and increase the life of the mine.
assessing the upside potential of North Initial investigations into possible resource Mara.
It is a testament to our strategy of expansion at Gokona have shown positive realising the additional potential of our results.
In December 2010, we announced existing portfolio of high-quality assets.
an initial mineral resource at the project, You can find further information on indicating the potential to develop a North Mara Underground on page 45. substantial underground operation at the Gokona and Nyabigena deposits with an attractive grade profile.
We are continuing deep drilling in order to identify further high-grade gold mineralisation with the objective 1Moz of locating an underground resource of up to one million ounces.
We are also Total targeted underground undertaking studies into suitable mining methods, potential operating and capital resource www.
com 22 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information existing assets Drill rigs working on expanding the North Mara Underground resource Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Expand Extending our mine life Tulawaka extension potential to recommence open pit mining Tulawaka commenced open pit operations from the West pit extension, something in 2005 with a declared reserve of 546,000 which had not been economically viable ounces.
It had produced 808,000 ounces up until the end of December 2010. in the past.
Because this would be an extension of historic open pit mining, no In 2009, open pit mining ceased and additional permitting would be required.
underground mining commenced, ABG is currently examining the overall exploiting the deeper extent of the ore viability of this opportunity.
body while supplementing production with surface stockpiles.
Operations We provide further information on the were due to cease in 2011.
However Tulawaka extension on page 46. underground resource delineation drilling has resulted in an initial mine life extension into the second quarter of 2012.
We will further explore opportunities during 2011 to build on this initial mine life extension.
2012 In addition to underground extensions, drilling programmes have indicated the Initial mine life extension www.
com 24 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information From open pit to underground the portal at Tulawaka leading to further underground mining opportunities Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 Grow Prospecting for future growth The Gokona Corridor A group of 57 prospecting licences programme on the Gokona Corridor and surround the North Mara operation, infill reverse circulation and diamond encompassing approximately 691 square core drilling by July 2011. kilometres of highly prospective Archaean To date, reverse circulation scout drilling geology.
ABG controls the majority of has identified favourable rock types, this prospective greenstone belt, with alteration and some gold anomalism in most licences owned 100% by members limited drilling.
This is very encouraging of the Group.
Currently, the top priority for what has initially been a broad-spaced target in the region is the 15 kilometre reconnaissance programme.
Drilling in long Gokona Corridor that straddles the 2011 will continue to target extensions Gokona and Nyabigena gold deposits and to the existing Gokona-Nyabigena which is interpreted to extend some five to mineralised system, with the objective six kilometres to the north west and nine of locating new high-grade gold deposits to ten kilometres to the south east of the within trucking distance of the North open pits.
Other targets in the North Mara Mara plant.
These programmes will run in project include the Komarera trend four conjunction with the programme being kilometres south east of the Nyabirama undertaken by North Mara mine to add open pit and, more regionally, the Dett and convert resources in the Gokona and and Surubu prospects some 45 kilometres Nyabigena underground areas.
west of the North Mara operation.
ABG believes that the North Mara District, particularly the Gokona Corridor, is one of the most highly prospective exploration areas in its current portfolio and that the region 12,000 could eventually add significantly to the existing North Mara resource base.
Metres of drilling planned The Company has plans to expand the 2010 reverse circulation scout drilling for 2011 www.
com 26 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A highly prospective area, the objective is to discover further open pit and underground potential Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27 Grow Growing our resource base Nyanzaga The acquisition of Tusker Gold in the resource area identified additional nearfirst half of 2010 resulted in ABG gaining surface mineralisation on the northern 100% control of the Nyanzaga project, end of the resource and new zones of which hosts the Tusker and Kilimani broad, higher-grade mineralisation gold deposits as well as several other on the southern end of the resource.
The Nyanzaga project These intercepts indicate the potential covers some 353 square kilometres of to identify broad, higher-grade zones prospective Archaean greenstone geology within the very large Tusker gold deposit, and lies approximately 35 kilometres and the current drill programmes are north east of ABGs Bulyanhulu gold specifically aimed at extending these mine.
Tusker Gold and Sub Sahara Resources The Company plans to drill more than NL reported inferred resources of 50,000 metres of resource definition and approximately four million ounces for exploration drilling across the Nyanzaga Tusker and Kilimani projects although property in 2011.
These drill programmes ABG has so far only recognised a are focused on identifying additional resource of 963,000 ounces.
The gold deposits and satellite ore sources Tusker and Kilimani gold deposits and that could enhance the economics of any the surrounding exploration targets operation established on the Nyanzaga together represent an opportunity to add project.
We also aim to initiate a scoping significantly to the Companys resource study later in 2011 as we gain a greater base, with the potential to contribute understanding of the mineralisation in substantially to annual production in the this area.
The Company is presently continuing step-out and infill resource drilling on the Tusker and Kilimani deposits along with scout exploration drill programmes across various geophysical and 52,000 geochemical targets within the project.
In late 2010, our drilling on the Tusker Metres of drilling planned for 2011 www.
com 28 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information View from Tusker Hill south west across the Nyanzaga Property.
