Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report ABG is incorporated and registered as a public limited company in England and Wales.
Its headquarters are in London and it is listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange under the symbol ABG.
Principal activities Directors With 16.8 million ounces of reserves, the ABG Group is the largest The names and biographies of the Directors serving at the date of this gold producer in Tanzania and the fifth largest in Africa, growing report are provided on pages 70-71. from no production in 2000 to approximately 701,000 attributable An overview of Directors appointments for the duration of the year ounces in 2010.
It has four producing mines, all located in north west under review is provided below: Tanzania, and seven principal exploration projects.
The ABG Group has substantial gold mining experience and expertise, from exploration and Date of Appointment Date of Termination development through to mine construction and operation.
Aaron Regent 15 February 2010 N A Greg Hawkins 15 February 2010 N A Our four mines are: Kevin Jennings 14 January 2010 N A Bulyanhulu: an underground gold mine, which began production James Cross 15 February 2010 N A inApril 2001: Andre Falzon 15 February 2010 N A Buzwagi: an open pit gold mine, which began production in Stephen Galbraith 19 January 2010 N A May2009: Bobby Godsell 15 February 2010 N A North Mara: an open pit gold mine consisting of three open pit Michael Kenyon 15 February 2010 N A deposits, which began production in April 2002: and Derek Pannell 15 February 2010 N A Tulawaka: an open pit gold mine, which has transitioned to an underground operation.
It began production in June 2005.
All Directors will put themselves forward for re-election at the The recent focus of ABGs exploration has been on advancing the forthcoming AGM.
Details of Director re-election requirements are exploration opportunities around its existing operating mines, in order provided on page 76. to increase the Companys reserves and resources.
Catherine Boggs was appointed to the Board on 14 January 2010 and Further details of ABG Groups activities are provided in the Overview resigned from the Board on 19 January 2010 as part of the preparations and Performance sections of this report.
Details of ABGs registered for ABGs IPO.
Paul Buchanan was appointed to the Board on office and business locations are provided on the back cover.
He resigned from the Board on 15 February 2010 aspart of IPO preparations.
Business review Directors indemnity insurance The requirements of the business review are contained in the Overview and Performance sections of this report: In accordance with ABGs articles of association and to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, ABG may indemnify its An overview of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Directors out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result ABGGroup is provided on pages 65-69. of their office.
The relevant provision contained in the Articles can be categorised as a qualifying third party indemnity provision under See pages 56-63 for information on environmental, employee and the Companies Act 2006.
As part of IPO preparations, ABG adopted socialand community matters.
Directors and Officers liability insurance.
This provides insurance All of the matters above are incorporated by reference in this cover for any claim brought against Directors or officers for wrongful DirectorsReport.
acts in connection with their positions.
The insurance provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty and it does not provide cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed by law.
Directors interests Details of the interests of Directors and their connected persons in ABGs shares or in related derivates or financial instruments are outlined in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 87-95.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 81 Directors report continued law.
ABG did not obtain any shareholder approval to repurchase any Employee share schemes ofits issued shares during the year under review.
Details of ABGs employee share plans and long-term incentive plans are contained on pages 89 and 90.
Details of ABGs issued share capital and any movements during the year are included on page 137 in Note 23 to the financial statements.
Employees Major shareholdings Information relating to employees is contained on page 126 in Note 6 to the financial statements and the corporate responsibility section.
ABG The following persons as at 1 March 2011 are interested in the following abides by anti-discrimination legislation in all jurisdictions in which it percentages of ABGs issued ordinary share capital.
These principles are also set out in ABGs Code of Conduct Percentage which sets out the framework in which ABG expects all staff to operate.
of issued This is supported by anti-discrimination standards and training in Name No.
of shares share capital offices and mine sites which identify the required standards and provide Barrick International Barbados Corp. 179,609,530 43.80 mechanisms to raise any concerns with management.
PDG Bank Limited 37,378,450 9.15 PDG Sona Cayman Ltd. 86,258,970 21.00 Dividends Total 303,246,950 73.95 An interim dividend of US1.6 cents per share was paid to shareholders on 27 September 2010.
The Directors recommend the payment of All of these shareholders are members of the Barrick Group.
a final dividend of US3.7 cents per share.
Subject to shareholders approval of this recommendation at the AGM, the dividend will be paid Relationship with major shareholder on 26 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at 3 May 2011.
The exAn overview of ABGs relationship with Barrick and the relationship dividend date is 27 April 2011. agreement that has been executed in respect of their ongoing ABG will declare the final dividend in US dollars.
Unless a shareholder relationship is provided on pages 76 and 77. has elected or elects to receive dividends in US dollars, dividends will be Political and charitable donations paid in pounds sterling with the US dollar amount being converted into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing on or around 9 May 2011.
ABG does not make political donations.
During the year under review, Currency elections must be made by return of currency election forms the ABG Group expended US$3.5 million on social and community by the deadline date of 6 May 2011. welfare activities surrounding its operations.
Annual General Meeting Creditor payment policy ABGs first AGM will be held on 21 April 2011 at the InterContinental It is ABG policy to settle all debts with creditors on a timely basis and London Park Lane at 1 Hamilton Place, Park Lane, London W1J 7QY.
in accordance with terms and conditions agreed in advance with each The notice of AGM and all accompanying details of business to be creditor.
Further details on trade creditors are provided on page 138 conducted there are included in a separate document accompanying inNote 25 to the financial statements.
this report: they are also available on ABGs website: www.
Suppliers It is ABGs policy that, subject to compliance with trading terms by the The right of a shareholder to participate in the business of the AGM supplier, payments are made in accordance with terms and conditions shall include without limitation the right to speak, vote on a show of agreed in advance with the supplier.
hands, vote on a poll, be represented by a proxy and have access to all documents which are required by the Companies Act 2006 or the As at 31 December 2010 ABG had an average of 51 creditor days for articles of association to be made available to the meeting.
theABG Group compared to 46 in 2009.
Share capital Policy on derivatives, financial instruments and financial As at 31 December 2010, ABGs issued share capital comprised riskmanagement 410,085,499 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
The voting rights of all ABGs policies on financial risk management, derivatives, financial ABG shares are identical, with each share carrying the right to one vote.
instruments and information on its exposures to foreign currency, ABG holds no Ordinary Shares in Treasury and does not have any class commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity and interest rates can be of share other than its Ordinary Shares.
Further details on voting rights found in Notes 27, 28 and 29 to the financial statements contained and rights relating to the transfer of shares are provided below.
ABGs articles of association provide the authority for ABG to purchase its own shares including any redeemable preference shares, provided that it complies with any applicable requirements contained in the Companies Act 2006, the CREST regulations or any other applicable www.
com 82 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information company, PGI and MDN Inc MDN.
The Tulawaka Agreement Material agreements containing change of control provisions provides that all capital and operating costs associated with the The Directors consider the following as material agreements and Tulawaka mine are funded by PGI and MDN on a 70:30 basis, and arrangements for ABGs business and operations, which contain that PGI is contractually obligated to pay MDN an amount equal provisions which alter or terminate on a change of control of ABG: to 30% of the net cash generated by the Tulawaka mine, less any Services Agreement: as part of its IPO preparations, ABG entered applicable withholding.
into a services agreement with Barrick under which Barrick provides Mineral development agreements: each ABG Group operating certain services to ABG and the other members of the ABG Group mine has a mineral development agreement MDA with the for the ongoing operation of the business.
These services include Tanzanian government.
The material terms and conditions of each support for information technology, technical services, security and such MDA are substantially similar and include provisions governing other administrative and corporate functions.
The services agreement royalty payments, taxes and other charges, banking arrangements, provides that the services are to be provided to the ABG Group local procurement obligations, and import rights.
The MDAs also for an initial period of 12 months and will continue in force unless provide for no expropriation or nationalisation rights.
The agreements termination events include a basis for rights provide that the Tanzanian government will not nationalise either party to terminate the agreement with immediate effect in the or compulsorily acquire the whole or any part of ABGs interest in event of specified breaches of the agreement, insolvency or analogous the applicable special mining licences or any of its property or its events or a change of control.
contractors or subcontractors property used for the purpose of Relationship Agreement: see pages 76 and 77 of this report for an mining operations or in relation to the applicable special mining overview of the Relationship Agreement.
Each MDA is governed by Credit Agreement: an overview of the credit agreement between, Tanzanian law.
Adherence to the terms and conditions of the MDAs among others, ABG and Citibank International plc as administrative is of significant importance to ABGs business, given the agreements agent, is provided on page 53 of this report.
A change of control of overall importance to our operations.
ABG is a mandatory prepayment event under the credit agreement TANESCO relationship: The North Mara, Buzwagi and Bulyanhulu and, subject to certain exceptions, a terminationevent.
mines rely upon electrical power generated by the state power utility company, TANESCO.
While North Mara and Bulyanhulu have ABGs mining concessions are held by its operating companies in diesel power generation facilities on site capable of supporting their Tanzania.
Under applicable law, a change of control of the operating operations, Buzwagi does not have such self-generation capacity companies requires the consent of the Minister of Energy and Minerals and there is no readily available alternative power supply to the in Tanzania.
ABG has entered into a number of agreements and There are no agreements in place between ABG and its Directors arrangements with TANESCO in respect of power supply and or employees which provide for compensation for loss of office or purchase prices.
These agreements are reviewed on a regular basis.
employment resulting from a change of control of ABG.
As national electricity generation and transmission systems in Tanzania are limited, ABGs ongoing relationship with TANESCO Special provisions also allow the early exercise of awards made is of significant importance to its operations and business.
Any under ABGs Stock Option Plan and early vesting of awards made adverse change or development in this relationship could produce under ABGs Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, in the event of a a material adverse effect on ABGs operations, performance and takeover, reconstruction or winding up.
In such circumstances, the financialcondition.
Compensation committee determines whether and to what extent options or awards become exercisable, by taking into account all All other material contracts and arrangements are summarised above, relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, under Material agreements containing change of control provisions.
satisfaction of any applicable performancecondition.
Going concern When determining the vesting of LTIP awards or options, the committee may proportionately reduce the award depending on the The Directors statement on going concern is contained on page 54 time which has elapsed between the first day of the performance ofthis report.
period and the date of change of control.
Alternatively, awards may Corporate governance compliance beexchanged for new equivalent awards where appropriate.
The statement on compliance with the Combined Code for the Significant relationships reporting period is contained on page 78 of this report.
ABGs relationship with Barrick as its majority shareholder is summarised Articles of association on pages 76 and 77 of this report.
In addition to this relationship, the Directors consider the following contractual relationships and The Companys articles of association may be amended by special arrangements as essential for the conduct of ABGsbusiness: resolution of the shareholders.
Tulawaka Agreement: although the Tulawaka mine is 100% owned Shareholder rights and operated by Pangea Minerals Limited, the economic interest in the mine is divided on a 70:30 basis following a 1998 contractual joint The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares contained venture agreement between Pangea Goldfields Inc, an ABG Group inABGs articles of association are as follows: Annual Report and Accounts 2010 83 Directors report continued Voting rights The Directors may retain any dividend or other money payable on or in respect of a share on which ABG has a lien and may apply the Subject to any special rights or voting restrictions contained in the same towards satisfaction of the monies payable to ABG in respect of articles of association for any class of share, at any general meeting every thatshare.
member who is present in person or by proxy shall on a show of hands have one vote and every member present in person or by proxy shall on Unless the Directors otherwise determine, the payment of any dividend a poll have one vote for each share of which he or she is the holder.
or other money that would otherwise be payable in respect of shares will be withheld, and ABG shall have no obligation to pay interest on it, A resolution put to a vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show if such shares represent at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the issued of hands, unless a poll is duly demanded.
Subject to the provisions of share capital of their class and the holder, or any other person appearing the Companies Act 2006, a poll may be demanded by the Chairman, to be interested in those shares, has been issued with a Section 793 by at least five members who have the right to vote at the meeting, by a notice and has failed to supply the information required by such notice member or members representing not less than one-tenth of the total within 14 days.
Furthermore, such a holder shall not be entitled to elect voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting, or by a member or members holding shares conferring a right to vote to receive shares instead of a dividend.
at the meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid The payment by the Board of any unclaimed dividend or other monies up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the on or in respect of a share into a separate account shall not constitute shares conferring that right.
ABG a trustee in respect thereof.
All dividends unclaimed for a period Unless the Directors otherwise determine, a shareholder is not entitled of 12 years after having been declared or become due for payment shall to vote at a shareholders meeting, either in person or by proxy, or be forfeited and shall revert to ABG.
to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to a Transfer of shares shareholders meeting, unless and until all calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect of that share with interest and expenses if Subject to any applicable restrictions, each member may transfer all or any have been paid to ABG or if he or any other person appearing to any of his or her shares, which are in certificated form, by instrument be interested in shares has been issued with a notice pursuant to Section of transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other form acceptable 793 of the Companies Act 2006 requiring disclosure of interest in to the Board and may be under hand only.
Such instrument shall be shares and has failed to provide the required information within 14 executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the case of a transfer days from the service of the notice.
of a share which is not fully paid up by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of such share until Dividend rights the name of the transferee is entered in the register in respect of it.
The Board may declare and pay dividends on any class of shares carrying a fixed dividend expressed to be payable on fixed dates and All transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form shall, unless the may from time to time pay interim dividends as it thinks fit.
Final CREST regulations otherwise provide, be effected on a relevant system.
dividends shall be declared by ordinary shareholder resolution, in The Directors may, in their absolute discretion and without giving accordance with Board recommendations.
No dividend declared by anyreason, refuse to register any transfer of a share in certificated form shareholders shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
orrenunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment unless: Provided that the Board acts in good faith, it shall not incur any liability i it is in respect of a share which is fully paid up: to shareholders for any loss that they may suffer by the lawful payment of any fixed or interim dividend on any shares ranking after or pari ii it is in respect of only one class of shares: passu with those shares.
iii it is in favour of not more than four joint transferees: Except as otherwise provided by the rights attached to shares, all dividends shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts iv it is lodged duly stamped if so required at the transfer office: paid up on the shares during any portion or portions of the period in v it is accompanied by the relevant certificate for the shares to which respect of which the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably providing that it shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend accordingly.
No amount paid up on a share in require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution of advance of the date on which a call is payable shall be treated as paid up the transfer or, if the transfer is executed by some other person on on the share.
his behalf, the authority of that person to do so: and vi in the case of partly paid shares listed on the London Stock Payment of any dividend declared may be satisfied wholly or partly by Exchange, such refusal would prevent dealings in such shares from the distribution of specific assets, and in particular of paid up shares or taking place on an open and proper basis.
debentures of ABG, with shareholder approval.
com 84 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Unless the Board otherwise determines, a transfer of shares will not liability or obligation of ABG or of any third party up to a maximum be registered if the transferor or any other person appearing to be amount of two times the aggregate of the ABG Groups adjusted total interested in the transferors shares has been issued with Section 793 equity, calculated in accordance with the procedure contained in the shares in respect of shares representing at least 0.25% of their class and articles of association.
Borrowings in excess of this amount require the relevant information has not been supplied within 14 days.
restriction on transfer will not automatically apply if the member is not New issues of shares personally in default as regards supplying the information required and the proposed transfer is only part of the members holding, provided The articles of association provide the Directors with a general and that certain requirements are satisfied at the time of presenting the unconditional authority to allot new shares up to a maximum amount transfer for registration.
of one-third of ABGs issued Ordinary Share capital for the period ending on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
Pursuant to this, the Division of ABG assets on a winding up Directors are empowered to allot any new equity securities wholly for If ABG is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of a cash pursuant to and within the terms of the allotment authority on a shareholder special resolution, divide the whole or any part of ABGs non-pre-emptive basis if the allotment is made in connection with a assets between shareholders.
In such circumstances the liquidator may rights issue or, if not, up to a maximum aggregate amount that is equal value any assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as to 5% of ABGs issued Ordinary Share capital.
The related authority to between the shareholders or different classes of shareholder.
Subject to allot shares on a non-pre-emptive basis also expires on the date of the certain requirements, the liquidator may also vest any part of the assets forthcoming AGM.
These powers were not exercised during the year in trustees on such trusts for the benefit of the shareholders, but no under review.
shareholder shall be compelled to accept any assets on which there is These powers are capable of renewal by shareholder resolution.
Resolutions for a renewal will be put to the shareholders at the forthcoming meeting.
Variation of rights If at any time the share capital of ABG is divided into shares of different Appointment and replacement of Directors classes, rights attached to a class may only be varied in such manner Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director ifany as may be provided by prescribed rights or, in the absence of any by ordinary resolution and may remove any Director by ordinary such provision, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not resolution.
The Board may appoint any person to fill any vacancy or as less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class an additional Director, provided that they are submitted for re-election or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general by the shareholders at the AGM following theirappointment.
meeting of the holders of shares of the class duly convened andheld.
Each Director shall retire at the AGM held in the third calendar Powers of Directors year following his or her election and subsequent re-elections.
NonManaging the business Executive Directors shall also retire at each AGM following the ninth anniversary of the date of their initial election.
All retiring Directors ABGs business is managed by the Board, and the articles of association shall be eligible for election or re-election unless otherwise determined permit the Board to exercise all of ABGs powers in this regard.
powers may be exercised by any meeting of the Board at which a quorum of two Directors is present.
The power of the Board to manage Specific conditions apply to the vacation of office, including cases where the business is subject to any limitations imposed by the Companies a Director becomes prohibited by law or regulation from holding office, Act, the articles of association or any directions given by special or is persistently absent from Directors meetings, or if three-quarters resolution of the shareholders applicable at a relevant time.
of appointed Directors request his or her resignation or in the case of mental incapacity or bankruptcy.
The articles contain an express authority for the appointment of Executive Directors and provide the Directors with the authority to Barricks rights to appoint Directors are summarised on page 76. delegate or confer upon such Directors any of the powers exercisable by them upon such terms and conditions and with such restrictions as they Related party transactions see fit.
The articles contain additional authorities to delegate powers and Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year are discretions to committees and subcommittees.
contained in Note 32 on pages 146-147 of the financial statements.
Borrowing powers Post balance sheet events Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST Particulars of any important events affecting the Company or the regulations and any other applicable law, the Directors may exercise all ABGGroup since the year end are contained in Note 34 on page 147 the powers of ABG to borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage ofthe financial statements.
or charge its undertaking, property present and future and uncalled capital or any part or parts thereof and issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, Annual Report and Accounts 2010 85
