D IRE CT ORS REPOR T 73 DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts for the year result of the process described on page 56, Robert Walker, Chairman, confirms ended 31 December 2010. on behalf of the Board that Andrew simon and Philip Jansen continue to be effective in, and committed to, their roles as non-executive directors.
Directors and officers of the Company are entitled to be indemnified out of PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES the assets of the Company in respect of any liability incurred in relation to the Travis Perkins is one of the largest builders merchants and home improvement affairs of the Company, or any associate company, to the extent the law allows.
The principal activities of the Group are the sale of timber, In this regard, the Company is required to disclose that under article 140 of building materials, and plumbing and heating products, and the hiring of tools, the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an to the building trade, industry generally and the general public, within the indemnity, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 against liabilities united kingdom.
The Directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any incurred by them in the execution of their duties and exercise of their powers.
likely major changes in the Groups activities in the next year.
This indemnity is currently in force.
In addition, if proceedings against Directors are instituted subsequent to any person acquiring control of the Company, the Company has agreed with each of the Directors that pursuant to article 140 D BUSINESS REVIEW of the Companys Articles of Association, the Company shall provide a Director A review of the Groups position, developments and future prospects is with funds subject to certain restrictions to meet expenditure incurred by that contained in the Chairmans statement on pages 12 and 13, the Chief Director in defending any criminal or civil proceedings.
Executives review of the year on pages 14 to 24, the Chief Operating Officers A copy of the Companys Articles of Association which contains this indemreview of the year on pages 26 to 30 and the Finance Directors review of the nity is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal year on pages 32 to 36.
A review of the Groups environmental performance business hours and will be available for inspection at and during the period of is on pages 37 to 42.
30 minutes prior to the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
None of the directors had an interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Company has undertaken to comply with the best practice on approval The Group results for the year ended 31 December 2010 and dividends for the of directors conflicts of interests in accordance with the Companys Articles of year ending 31 December 2010 are set out on page 80.
If approved, the final Association.
under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation dividend will be paid on 31 May 2011 to those shareholders on the register at where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly the close of business on 6 May 2011. may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 December 2010, including holdings, if any, of wives and of children aged under 18, were as detailed in BALANCE ShEET AND POST BALANCE ShEET EVENTS the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 71.
The balance sheet on pages 82 and 83 shows the Groups financial position.
No significant events have occurred since the balance sheet date.
SUBSTANTIAL ShAREhOLDINGS As at 22 February 2011, the Company had received notification under the PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Disclosure Transparency Rules that the holdings and voting rights exceeding A review of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are on pages 49 to 54. the 3% notification threshold were as follows: Number % DIRECTORS AND ThEIR INTERESTS Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd. 13,706,676 5.67 The names of the Directors at 31 December 2010, together with their biographical details, are set out on pages 46 and 47.
All of those Directors Standard Life Investments Ltd. 12,260,926 5.07 held office throughout the year.
In accordance with the Companys Articles Morgan Stanley 9,334,607 3.86 of Association, Andrew simon, Philip Jansen and John Carter will retire and, Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. 8,804,059 3.64 being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual Pzena Investment Management LLC 8,533,159 3.53 General Meeting.
John Carter has a rolling 12 month notice period in his AxA 8,147,201 3.37 contract.
As non-executive directors, Andrew simon and Philip Jansen do not BlackRock Advisors 7,322,733 3.03 have service contracts.
In the light of the evaluation of their performances as a 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 D IRE CT ORS REPOR T 74 DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 authorise the Directors to fix the auditors remuneration will be proposed at CLOSE COMPANY STATUS the Annual General Meeting.
The close company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
STATEMENT ON DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS EMPLOYEES AND ChARITABLE DONATIONS Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report statements on these matters are contained in the Chief Executives review of confirms that: the year on pages 21 and 22, respectively.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Details of the number of employees and related costs can be found in note 7 to the financial statements.
The Director has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as The Company is committed to equality of opportunity and recognises the a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information benefit of diversity within its workforce.
It has an equal opportunities policy and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
aimed at ensuring that employment decisions are based on ability and This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the potential regardless of gender, race, colour, ethnic origin or sexual orientation, provisions of s. 418 of the Companies Act 2006. age or disability.
In particular, applications for employment by disabled persons ShARE CAPITAL AND ChANGE OF CONTROL are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the person As at 31 December 2010 the Company had an allotted and fully paid share concerned.
In the event of a member of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that capital of 241,701,917 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, with an aggregate appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Company that the nominal value of 24,170,192 including shares owned by the employee share training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far ownership trust.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London stock Exchange.
as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
All the shares rank pari passu.
The rights and obligations attaching to the The Groups policies and practices have been designed to keep shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Fully paid shares in the Company are freely transferable.
There are no persons that hold securities employees informed on matters relevant to them as employees through carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
Details of regular meetings and newsletters.
Employee representatives are consulted the structure of the Companys share capital and changes in the share capital regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their interests.
All employees with more than three months service are eligible to participate in the during the year are also included in note 22 to the financial statements.
Companys sharesave and Buy as You Earn plans.
Details are provided in the The Travis Perkins Employee share Ownership Trust owns 6,961,930 Directors Remuneration Report.
shares in the Company 2.88% for use in connection with the Companys share schemes.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to those shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation POLITICAL DONATIONS of the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the Companys The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the uk nor did it make any donations to Eu political organisations or incur any Eu political ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between expenditure during the year.
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of board members SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY and changes to the Articles of Association accord with usual English company The Groups policy is to pay all of its suppliers in accordance with established law provisions.
The powers of the Companys Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
In particular, the Board has the power terms.
Group trade creditors at 31 December 2010 represented 55 days 31 to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the December 2009: 52 days of average purchases of goods and services.
The forthcoming Annual General Meeting within the limits set out in the notice of Companys trade creditors at 31 December 2010 represented 30 days 2009: that meeting.
There are a number of agreements to which the Company is a party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a AUDITORS takeover bid.
None of these agreements is considered to be significant in the context of the Company as a whole.
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors and to 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 D IRE CT ORS REPOR T 75 DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 There are no agreements providing for compensation for Directors or expire at the earlier of 30 June 2012 the last date by which the Company employees on change of control.
As set out in the Directors Remuneration must hold an annual general meeting in 2012 and the conclusion of the Report on page 66, service contracts for executive directors do not specify any annual general meeting of the Company held in 2012. particular level of compensation in the event of termination following change The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the authorities of control of the Company.
As noted above, the Company has agreed with sought under this resolution, except, under paragraph a, to satisfy options each of the Directors that it shall provide a Director with funds subject to under the Companys employee share option schemes.
certain restrictions to meet expenditure incurred in defending any criminal or civil proceedings if such proceedings are instituted subsequent to any person Resolution 10: Limited Authority to Allot Shares for Cash acquiring control of the Company.
This resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot ordinary shares or sell any ordinary shares which the Company elects to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING existing shareholdings.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Northampton Except as provided in the next paragraph, this authority would be limited Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 to allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to 5BG on Thursday 26 May 2011 at 11.45 am.
A buffet lunch will be available.
holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those shares or In addition to the resolutions to approve the receipt of the Companys annual as the board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up to an aggregate accounts, the declaration of a final dividend, the reappointment of certain nominal amount of 1,208,593 representing 12,085,926 ordinary shares.
of the Companys directors and the Companys auditors and to give the This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately 5% of the issued directors authority to fix the auditors remuneration, the following items are ordinary share capital of the Company as at 22 February 2011, the latest to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and the Board practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
In respect of this aggregate recommends that shareholders vote in favour of all resolutions put before the nominal amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions Annual General Meeting.
of the Pre-Emption Groups statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year period where the Principles provide Resolution 8: Directors Remuneration Report that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, this with shareholders.
resolution seeks shareholders approval of the Directors Remuneration Report Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph b of resolution 9 as set out on pages 61 to 71. would be limited to allotments by way of a rights issue only subject to the right of the board to impose necessary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for Resolution 9: Renewal of Authority to Allot Shares example, fractional entitlements and regulatory matters.
Paragraph a of this resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot The authority will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2012 the last date by ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 8,057,284 which the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2012 and the representing 80,572,842 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
This amount conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2012.
Any represents approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of issue of shares for cash will, however, still be subject to the requirements of the Company as at 22 February 2011, the latest practicable date prior to the uk Listing Authority.
In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers the Resolution 11: Notice of Meetings ABI, paragraph b of this resolution would give the Directors authority to under the shareholders Rights Regulations 2009, the notice period for allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary general meetings of a company has been extended to 21 days unless certain shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 16,114,568 requirements are satisfied.
The Company has met the requirements and representing 161,145,685 ordinary shares of 10p each, as reduced by the accordingly this resolution is proposed to allow the Company to continue to call nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph a of this resolution.
general meetings on 14 clear days notice.
The Directors believe it is in the best This amount before any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of the interests of the shareholders of the Company to preserve the shorter notice issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 22 February 2011, the period and accordingly are putting this resolution to the meeting.
The shorter latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
If this authority is notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for general meetings, exercised, the Directors intend to follow ABI guidance issued from time to time but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is including as to the re-election of directors.
thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The approval will The authorities sought under paragraphs a and b of this resolution will be effective until the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2012, when it is 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 D IRE CT ORS REPOR T 76 DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 expected that a similar resolution will be proposed.
under the Companies Act 2006 in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders.
Resolution 12: Authority to purchase own shares The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares of 10 pence each granted at last years Annual General Meeting will expire on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors wish to renew this authority and a special resolution, which is set out in full in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 129, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to give the Company the authority to purchase its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 24,171,853 representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 22 February 2011 and sets minimum and maximum prices.
This authority will expire no later than 30 June 2012.
The Directors consider that it is in the best interests of the Company to have available this authorisation, in case of circumstances when it would be appropriate to use it.
They would only use it after consideration of the effect on earnings per share and the longer term benefit for the Company and shareholders generally.
The fact that such authorisation is being sought should not be taken to imply that shares would be purchased at any particular price or indeed at all.
Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority may either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the Company, depending on which course of action is considered by the Directors to be in the best interests of shareholders at the time.
As at 22 February 2011, there were options over 12,810,861 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, including 1,969,082 Investment Matching shares, 203,322 Deferred Bonus share Plan shares and 1,474,383 Performance share Plan shares these are described in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 71, which represent 5.3% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding any treasury shares.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares were exercised in full, these options would represent 5.89% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding any treasury shares.
As at 22 February 2011, the Company did not hold any treasury shares in the Company and no warrants over ordinary shares in the capital of the Company existed.
By order of the Board, Andrew Pike Company secretary 22 February 2011 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11
