7 WHO WE ARE TRAVIS PERKINS PLC Travis Perkins, a major plc, is a main supplier to the building and construction market, one of the largest industries in Andrew Pike Company the UK.
Secretary and Lawyer The present day Company was formed in 1988 out of a merger between Travis and Arnold plc, a company with strong Midlands and Northern based business, and Sandell Perkins plc, a company with an equivalent strength in the South of England.
The origins of Sandell Perkins can be traced back over 200 years to 1797 when a carpentry Carol Kavanagh company was first established in London: Travis and Arnold was initially formed as a partnership in Group Human Resources 1899.
During the early to mid 20th century both businesses expanded before eventually becoming Director listed public companies, Travis and Arnold was the first to the market in 1964, followed 22 years later by Sandell Perkins.
Martin Meech Group Property Director Robin Proctor Supply Chain Director Norman Bell Category Management Director 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 8 MERCHANTING DIVISION The merchanting division of Travis Perkins plc supplies building materials to generalist and specialist professional tradesman Joe Mescall throughout Great Britain.
Divisional Chairman The core businesses of Travis and Arnold plc and Sandell Perkins plc formed, following the merger in 1988, what is now the general merchanting business within the merchanting division.
It trades nationally through the Travis Perkins brand and comprises four individual businesses.
Joe Mescall, who has been with the Group since 1974, leads the business in his role as Divisional Chairman.
The Managing Directors of the four regional businesses are Ian Church Travis Perkins Ian Church Midlands, Phil Gransden Travis Perkins South East, Andrew Popple Travis Perkins Northern and MD Midlands Mark Nottingham Travis Perkins South West.
The customers of the four general merchanting regional businesses are primarily professional tradesmen, ranging from sole traders to national housebuilders, whose key requirements are product range and availability, competitive pricing and customer service.
The strategy of the general merchanting business aims to increase market share through implementation of our Best Practice programme, ongoing branch network expansion, to enter new market Phil Gransden segments and to exploit multi channel opportunities.
The Best Practice programme is designed to MD South East enhance our overall service to trade customers and covers all of their key requirements: even though all four general merchanting businesses are already operating to high standards in these areas they have stretching targets in place to deliver further improvements.
Network expansion will be concentrated on identifying prime locations through brownfield openings and small acquisitions: store projects and framework agreements will continue to be expanded with Local Authorities and Housing Associations.
Andrew Popple MD Northern The specialist merchanting business of the merchanting division consists of four separate businesses trading under the following brands: Keyline, City Plumbing Supplies, CCF and Benchmarx.
It is led by the Divisional Chairman, Arthur Davidson.
He has worked in merchanting for over thirty years having joined Keyline prior to its acquisition by the Travis Perkins Group.
Mark Nottingham MD South West 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 9 Arthur Davidson Divisional Chairman Andrew Harrison, the Managing Director of Keyline, has been with the group since 1989.
Keyline is a specialist merchant supplying heavy building materials and civils and drainage solutions to the construction industry throughout the UK.
Keyline is known for its knowledgeable staff and excellent delivery service.
City Plumbing Supplies is a major nationwide plumbing and heating merchant serving both the Andrew Harrison contract market and the general plumbing and heating market.
The Company offers high quality prodMD Keyline ucts and expert service to the trade.
The Managing Director of City Plumbing Supplies is John Frost who joined the Travis Perkins Group in 1983.
In 2010, led by Ian Tillotson, City Heating Spares the spare parts division of City Plumbing Supplies was formed.
CCF is a leading supplier of interior building products to the construction industry.
It operates throughout the UK, offering a one-stop-shop to its customers from its nationwide branch network.
John Frost MD City CCFs Managing Director is Kieran Griffin who joined the Group in 1995 and progressed via its Plumbing management training scheme, branch management and regional management roles, to the position of Managing Director.
In 2006 Benchmarx became the first group brand to be created as a completely new business within a market adjacent to the markets already served by the Group.
Based mainly in the South East, the business is a leading supplier of kitchen and joinery products to the trade through its competitive pricing, quality products and knowledgeable staff.
Benchmarx is led by Chris Larkin, formerly a Kieran Griffin MD CCF Regional Director within Travis Perkins South East, who became Managing Director in July 2009.
Chris Larkin MD Benchmarx 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 10 RETAIL DIVISION The Retail division comprises two businesses: Wickes, a national chain of DIY retail outlets and Tile Giant, a ceramic tile Jeremy Bird Divisional merchant acquired in 2007.
Chairman and MD Wickes Wickes stores are designed to appeal to tradesmen, who undertake general repairs, maintenance and improvement projects for households and small businesses and to serious DIY customers, who carry out more complete DIY projects.
These customers are more demanding in terms of service, quality and price.
The Company meets these expectations by offering a focussed range of high quality primarily own Mo Iqbal brand, competitively priced home improvement products, such as timber, building materials, tools and MD Tile Giant decorative materials.
In addition, Wickes stores offer a range of kitchens and bathrooms, which are sold through in-store showrooms.
Wickes, which opened its first store in the UK in 1972 at Whitefield in Manchester, was acquired by Travis Perkins in 2005 and the Company now operates from 201 stores nationwide.
The Managing Director of Wickes is Jeremy Bird who joined Wickes eighteen years ago and has fulfilled various roles including that of Commercial Director.
In 2007 Travis Perkins acquired its seventh brand, Tile Giant, whilst in 2008 this business acquired Tile Magic, a 17 store chain and Tile it All a 16 store chain.
In 2009, Travis Perkins acquired Tile HQ an internet based retailer of ceramic and stone tiles.
The brand is now trading from a total of 101 stores.
Under the leadership of Mo Iqbal, the Managing Director of Tile Giant, up to the end of 2010 and his successor Andy Morrison, the brand offers a strong pipeline for further expansion.
Toolstation In 2008, the Group invested in a 30% share of a direct retailer of lightside products.
This multi-channel business has a strong internet and catalogue based business and a rapidly expanding store network which has extended to 84 stores throughout Great Britain by the end of 2010.
20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 11 BSS DIVISION Travis Perkins purchased the entire share capital of The BSS Group plc on 14 December 2010.
The BSS Group plc is a leading distributor to specialist trades and its principal activities are the distribution and sale of heating, ventilation and plumbing products, tools and industrial supplies to, amongst others, industrial contractors, domestic plumbers, independent merchants and industrial end users through a network of 446 branches.
443 branches are located in the United Kingdom and 3 in the Republic of Ireland.
The Groups business comprises three divisions, Domestic, Industrial and Specialist.
Its principal brands are PTS, BSS and F & P Wholesale.
PTS operates from 317 branches and supplies a wide range of customers from national contractors to sole trading plumbers and heating engineers.
Merchant heating, plumbing and sanitary ware is supplied through the 11 branches of F & P Wholesale.
The industrial, commercial and process industry, construction and warehouse markets are serviced by the 61 branches of BSS Industrial in the UK and Ireland.
The specialist division of BSS comprises Buck and Hickman, one of the UKs leading distributors of tools, maintenance and health and safety products, and Birchwood Price Tools a wholesaler of power tools and accessories, hand tools, safety wear and general consumables.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS The review of the businesses contained in the annual report and accounts contains forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, operations and business of the Travis Perkins plc group.
These statements and forecasts include risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward statements.
