46 DIRECTORS Robert Walker Geoff Cooper Paul Hampden Smith John Carter CHAIRMAN Robert Walker aged 66 was appointed as a non-executive director in September 2009 and succeeded Tim Stevenson as Chairman after the AGM on 17 May 2010.
He is chairman of Americana International Holdings Ltd and a non-executive director of Tate & Lyle PLC.
He has previously been chairman of W H Smith PLC and Williams Lea Group Ltd, and Chief Executive of Severn Trent Plc and held a number of senior posts with Pepsi Co Inc.
He has also been a non-executive director of BAA plc, Signet Group Plc, Thomson Travel Group Plc, British Car Auctions and Wolseley plc.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Health and Safety Committees.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE Geoff Cooper aged 56 joined the Company in February 2005 and was appointed Chief Executive on 1 March 2005.
He is a chartered management accountant and worked in management consultancy before joining Gateway now Somerfield plc as Finance Director in 1990.
In 1994 he became Finance Director of UniChem plc, subsequently Alliance UniChem plc which later became part of Alliance Boots plc, where he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in 2001.
He is non-executive Chairman of Dunelm Group Plc.
He is Chairman of the Executive Committee.
FINANCE DIRECTOR Paul Hampden Smith aged 50 is a chartered accountant and joined Sandell Perkins in 1988.
Following the merger with Travis & Arnold, he was appointed regional finance director.
In 1992, he became Finance Director of Travis Perkins Trading Company Limited and was appointed Finance Director of Travis Perkins plc in 1996.
He is a non-executive director of Redrow plc.
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER John Carter aged 49 joined Sandell Perkins as a management trainee in 1978.
He held a number of regional management positions, before being appointed Managing Director, Operations in 1996, and a director of Travis Perkins plc in July 2001.
He became Chief Operating Officer in February 2005, and is a member of the Health and Safety Committee.
20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 D IRE CT ORS 47 Chris Bunker John Coleman Philip Jansen Andrew Simon O.
B. E. NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Chris Bunker aged 64 was appointed as a non-executive director in 2004.
He is a chartered management accountant and was Finance Director of Thames Water plc, from 2000 until March 2004.
He was previously Finance Director of Tarmac PLC and Westland Group PLC.
He is a non-executive director of D S Smith Plc and formerly was a non-executive director of Mowlem plc, Baltimore Technologies plc and Xansa PLC.
He is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
John Coleman aged 58 was appointed as a non-executive director in 2005.
He is a chartered management accountant and Chairman of AGA Rangemaster Group plc and Holiday Break plc.
He was Chief Executive of House of Fraser plc from 1996 to 2006 and previously Chief Executive of Texas Homecare and of a number of businesses within Burton Group PLC.
He is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees.
Philip Jansen aged 44 was appointed as a non-executive director in April 2009.
He is Group Chief Executive of Brakes Group.
He has previously been Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Executive of Europe for Sodexo, Chief Operating Officer of MyTravel plc and Managing Director, Consumer Division of Telewest Communications PLC.
He was also a non-executive director of the Professional Cricketers Association.
He has also held senior positions with Procter & Gamble and Dunlop Slazenger Group.
He is a member of the Audit Committee.
B. E. aged 65 was appointed as a non-executive director in 2006.
He is a non-executive director of Finning International Inc. Canada, Management Consulting Group plc, SGL Carbon SE Germany, Exova Group plc, Icon Infrastructure Management Limited Guernsey and British Car Auctions.
He was previously Deputy Chairman of Dalkia plc, Chairman and or Chief Executive of Evode Group plc and has also held non-executive directorships with Severn Trent Plc, Ibstock PLC, Laporte Plc, Associated British Ports Holdings PLC, and Brake Bros Holdings Ltd.
He is chairman of the Remuneration and Health and Safety Committees.
