04 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Group at a glance Our structure In the financial year ended 30 September 2010 TUI Travel was organised and managed through four Sectors Mainstream, Activity, Specialist & Emerging Markets and Accommodation & Destinations.
Key activities Mainstream Sector Mainstream is the largest Sector in terms of size, financial performance and employee numbers.
It comprises leading tour operators and power brands and operates a fleet of 143 aircraft and circa 3,500 For further information retail shops.
There are three divisions: see page 33 Northern Region Top selling brands The Northern Region comprises the distribution, Thomson, First Choice tour operating businesses and airlines in the UK and Fritidsresor and Ireland, the Nordic countries and Canada.
The UK operates some of the best known and Customer numbers loved travel brands including the UKs third largest 6.6m excluding Canada airline, Thomson Airways.
The Nordics comprises the markets of Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Top three destinations Finland.
The Nordics has number one brands in all Balearics, Greece and Turkey markets, except Finland where it is number two.
Central Europe Top selling brands Central Europe comprises the distribution, tour TUI, 1-2-Fly and ltur operating businesses and airline in the source markets of Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Customer numbers Poland.
Germany is our largest source market.
7.9m In Germany and Austria, TUI is the market-leading brand.
The businesses are focused on providing a Top three destinations unique service and great products at the best value Spain, Germany and Turkey to our customers.
Western Europe Top selling brands Western Europe comprises the distribution, tour Jetair, Holland International operating businesses and airlines in France, and Marmara Belgium and the Netherlands.
In each country the brands have market-leading positions.
Customer numbers 5.1m Top three destinations Spain, Greece and Turkey By customer numbers.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 05 The chart below illustrates the underlying operating profit mix by Sector 15% Mainstream Sector Activity Sector 4% Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector 13% Accommodation & Destinations Sector 68% Before central costs.
Key activities Specialist Sectors The Specialist Sectors for the year ended 30 September 2010 included Accommodation & Destinations, Activity and Specialist & Emerging Markets.
Accommodation & The Accommodation & Destinations Sector A&D Top selling brands sells and provides a range of services in destination World of TUI umbrella brand for Destinations Sector to tour operators, travel agents, corporate clients, Group customers including TUI Espaa For further information and direct to the consumer worldwide.
Services see page 37 and TUI Hellas.
com and include hotel accommodation, transfers, excursions, round trips, organising meetings, incentives, LateRooms.
com conferences and events MICE, cruise handling as well as integrated website solutions for our Customer numbers roomnights customers.
A&D is structured along key business 29m offline passengers 12.5m, room lines Business to Business, Business to Consumer nights 16.8m and Specialist.
Top three destinations Spain, UK and Portugal Activity Sector This Sector has over 40 activity travel businesses Top selling brands that operate under five divisions Marine, For further information Crystal Ski, The Moorings and Le Boat Adventure, Ski, Student and Sport.
Each of see page 38 these divisions has market-leading positions.
Customer numbers The Adventure businesses take more customers 1.1m to iconic adventure destinations than any other operator.
The Sport businesses are leaders in Top three destinations supporter-led cricket and rugby tours in the UK France, Austria and Italy and Australia, while the Student businesses encompass everything from the traditional school trip to France, to trek holidays for groups of young adults in the Himalayas.
This Sector also includes the leading yacht brands in Europe and the US and the worlds largest ski operator.
Specialist & The Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector is Top selling brands an international portfolio of travel businesses Mostravel, Turchese and Emerging Markets focusing on specific destinations, premium travel Hayes & Jarvis Sector experiences or particular customer demographic segments often with differentiated and exclusive For further information Customer numbers product.
The Sector consists of 40 businesses see page 39 0.8m operating from North America, Europe and, most recently, emerging markets such as Russia and excluding Russia & Ukraine Ukraine.
Top three destinations US, Egypt and Italy By customer numbers.
com 06 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Group at a glance Our structure from 1 October 2010 TUI Travel PLC will continue to report in four Sectors.
The Mainstream Sector remains unchanged.
The remaining Sectors have been refined and renamed to reflect the strategic priorities of TUI Travel as it develops.
These Sectors are now called Accommodation & Destinations, Specialist & Activity and Emerging Markets.
Key activities Accommodation & Destinations Top selling brands The A&D Sector is a leading player in the World of TUI umbrella brand for accommodation and destination services industry, Group customers including TUI Espaa competing in four key business lines: and TUI Hellas.
com and Accommodation wholesaler worldwide online LateRooms.
com hotel intermediary offering over 34,000 hotels, via the brands Hotelbeds, Bedsonline and Hotelopia.
Customer numbers roomnights Accommodation online travel agent providing 29m offline passengers 12.5m, room hotel rooms to the final customer through popular nights 16.8m online brands LateRooms and AsiaRooms.
Top three destinations Destination services providing services to customers when they arrive in-destination such as Spain, UK and United States of airport transfers, excursions or tour trips.
These America services are provided in 42 countries both to leisure travellers and to corporations.
The brands include TUI Espaa, TUI Hellas and Pacific World.
Cruise handling offering turnaround services, excursions and port agency services to the main cruise lines on a global scale through the Intercruises brand.
Specialist & Activity Top selling brands This Sector is the worlds leading provider of Crystal, The Moorings and specialist and experiential travel.
It has over 100 Hayes & Jarvis specialist and activity brands delivering a range of unique customer experiences with the ethos of Customer numbers if you can dream it, we can take you there.
The 1.6m Sector operates under six divisions Adventure, Education, Marine, North American Specialist, Top three destinations Sport and Specialist Holiday Group.
France, Austria and Italy Emerging Markets Russia & CIS division: Emerging Markets is a Sector in development Top selling brands at TUI Travel.
It is a growing portfolio of travel Mostravel, VKO Travel and Voyage Kiev businesses focusing on the specific source markets of Brazil, Russia and CIS, India and China.
Customer numbers TUI Travel is the first international tour operator 0.5m to build a presence in Russia and CIS.
The TUI Russia & CIS brand was launched in March 2010.
Top three destinations TUI Travel continues to investigate its optimal Turkey, Egypt and Greece participation strategy for Brazil, India and China.
