12 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Strategic overview Market overview TUI Travel participates 317bn in markets which account for 343bn of global travel spend 26bn Our three largest markets TUI Relevant core Markets Germany 102bn UK, Sweden, Germany, France, Belgium, Netherlands, 80bn France Austria, Poland, Switzerland & Canada UK 57bn Euromonitor The economic environment page 10.
Other significant events in destinations Following the international economic and financial that impacted tourism included the civil unrest in crisis in 2008, the global recession impacted Bangkok and the strikes and unrest in Greece.
negatively on almost all major markets in 2009.
The Despite a period of economic decline and industry GDP of our two largest source markets, Germany turmoil, the overall travel market is expected to and UK, declined by 6% and almost 5% respectively continue to grow.
The economic uncertainty growth for international tourism with international continued into 2010 with concerns that there would arrivals expected to reach 1.6 billion in 2020, nearly be a double-dip recession and ongoing volatility in double 2010 figures 880 million 2010. fuel prices and currency.
The package holiday remains an important part of Despite this, as 2010 progressed there has been the future of leisure travel but, as the traditional recovery.
GDP growth has taken place in most major mainstream markets mature, we are continuing to source markets with Germany at 2.2% and the UK offer greater choice of destinations, unique and at 1.6% June 2010 Trading Economics Statistics.
differentiated products and look to new markets However the levels of growth have not been enough for growth.
We believe the BRIC Brazil, Russia, to offset the global recessionary environment of India and China countries represent a significant 2008 and 2009.
Unemployment has continued to opportunity to participate in longer-term travel rise with German and UK rates at 7.6% and 7.8% growth trends and have high growth potential.
The economic outlook for 2011 remains uncertain with The fastest growing area of leisure travel continues different markets at different points in the to be independent travel 3% CAGR Euromonitor recovery cycle.
which includes self-packaged holidays componentbased packages, activity holidays and online travel The leisure travel market agents.
The global online travel market is estimated Travel and tourism remains the worlds largest to be worth 52bn PhoCusWright with online sales export industry with the leisure travel market of travel retail products representing 34% of total estimated to be worth 740bn Euromonitor.
TUI travel sales in 2009 Euromonitor.
Travel participates in markets which account for 343bn or 46% of global travel spend.
Our three The political climate largest markets combined Germany, France and Travel and tourism are heavily regulated industries.
As a global organisation, TUI Travel has a public affairs team that works with governments and After 14 months of decline, which saw further tour regulators across our key source markets to address operator and airline failures, growth returned to issues that affect our industry and our customers.
international tourism in the last quarter of 2009 with an increase in international tourist arrivals of The issue of air passenger rights has assumed 2% United Nations World Tourism Organisation particular importance, the European institutions UNWTO.
This recovery continued into the early having focused heavily on this issue during the year.
part of 2010 but the industry faced a significant Our public affairs team has engaged regularly with setback in April May 2010 with the closure of politicians and officials both in Brussels and in key European airspace due to the volcanic ash cloud.
source markets in order to ensure regulation that This unprecedented event had a significant financial properly balances the needs and interests of impact on both the industry and TUI Travel see customers and industry.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13 All-inclusive packages and cruising proved The question of aviation taxation has also figured particularly popular as consumers sought financial prominently in a number of jurisdictions and we certainty of their total holiday spend.
have, together with trade associations and other industry partners, sought to press our case for The destinations of Morocco, Egypt and Turkey a more equitable taxation regime that properly continued to grow strongly in popularity due to rewards and incentivises efficient use of aircraft.
Departures to the Eurozone decreased but these destinations still Financial protection of air passengers continues to attracted the largest percentage of mainstream be an issue, particularly in the UK, and we have package holidaymakers.
Long-haul destinations, continued to lobby stakeholders to ensure a fair including Thailand and Goa, remained popular and affordable system of protection.
and particularly those destinations offering allFinally, our work to influence the European inclusive products.
Commission to extend the scope of the European With high internet penetration rates UK, Nordics Package Travel Directive in order to reflect the and Germany at 75% consumers increasingly turned changes in the industry, since the inception of online to research and book their holiday.
Social that regulation, has continued to gather pace.
media and customer travel review sites gained in popularity and prominence and are a key influencer The sustainability challenge on the consumers decision making process.
Travel and tourism accounts for 11% of the worlds 1 GDP and 12% of its exports.
Around 50 of the Despite the tough conditions, there is evidence that worlds least developed countries rely largely on consumers are feeling more positive about their tourism for economic development.
However, holiday plans for next year and demand for holidays travel and tourism are responsible for around 5% remains healthy.
Increased flexibility in duration and 2 of global carbon dioxide emissions and increasingly ease of booking for consumers remain key factors national and international carbon legislation is in the holiday-making decision process.
consumer research, commissioned by TUI Travel across its major source markets, shows planned As a leading tour operator TUI Travel aspires to holiday spending has either slightly increased or lead the travel and tourism sector and to lobby for remained stable compared to consumer sentiment in sustainability to be embraced as a business issue on September 2009 TUI consumer sentiment monitor which the future health of the industry depends.
As a tourism group we take our responsibilities very seriously and are working to ensure that sustainable Outlook, future trends and factors development aligns with the Groups key strategic TUI Travel has continued to prove resilient in imperatives.
Our challenge is to understand how these challenging times and maintains its marketour industry can optimise its social, economic and leading position.
TUI Travel has a 35% share of environmental benefits for all concerned.
TUI the European package holiday market and Travels goal in this respect is to make travel number one or two brand positions in its core experiences special by providing holidays that cause mainstream markets.
minimal environmental impact, respect the culture and people of destinations and offer real economic In the BRIC economies, TUI Travels participation benefit to local communities.
See Sustainable strategy is most developed in Russia and Ukraine Development on page 28. where it is the first international tour operator to build a presence.
TUI Travel continues to Consumer sentiment investigate its optimal participation strategy for The global recession and uncertain economic Brazil, India and China.
environment have had an effect on consumer travel In independent travel, TUI Travel has significant spending habits in 2009 10, however, for most positions in a number of segments including online consumers holidays continue to be of considerable accommodation, marine, adventure, education, importance and a planned annual expense.
language travel, ski, sport and specialist holidays Consumers are more discerning in their choice of and plans to continue to grow this portfolio of 1 holidays, looking for a greater variety of products United Nations World Tourism businesses.
TUI Travel has a strong online presence Organisation UNWTO Tourism Satellite and destinations, flexibility of duration and value for for package holidays, independent travel and online Accounts TSA.
Consumers prioritised their main summer accommodation sites and continues to review 2 holiday abroad and waited much later to book their United Nations World Tourism growth opportunities in the online arena.
Organisation UNWTO, United Nations trips to assess both the weather at home and their Environment Programme UNEP and Given the continued economic uncertainty we personal finances.
World Meteorological Organization remain cautious about 2011.
That said, there is WMO October 2007 Climate Change The package holiday saw a resurgence, as consumers every reason to believe that the demand for and Tourism: Responding to Global sought to fide-risk their holidays and book with international travel will continue to grow strongly Challenges.
a company that provided financial protection.
