18 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Strategic overview Key Performance Indicators KPIs Strategic imperative Performance Our main strategic objective is to improve the To measure our financial progress we have two Financial Groups profitability and to deliver enhanced Financial KPIs: i operating margin % and ii the returns on investment.
We believe that improving return on invested capital ROIC.
our financial performance will allow us to invest in In the year, margins improved by 40 basis points the future of our business for the benefit of over the restated 2009 margin of 2.9%, primarily shareholders, colleagues and customers.
driven by the delivery of merger synergies and turnaround progress, partially offset by a weaker trading performance in the UK source market.
Increasing the proportion of our products that In the year, we increased the differentiated product Product & Content are different to those offered by our competitors mix by one percentage point across the total is our most important strategic imperative.
Mainstream Sector, although certain source Differentiated products have earlier booking markets made greater improvements, such as the curves, higher customer satisfaction and retention Nordics up six percentage points and the UK and superior margins.
These products are difficult up three percentage points.
The overall increase for competitors to replicate and we have a was affected by a small reduction in France where significant competitive advantage due to our we are re-mixing away from some of our older existing brand loyalty and experience of designing differentiated products e. g. Club Paladien to and operating new concepts.
newer products e. g. Nouvelles Frontires Hotel Clubs and also growth in commodity product in Belgium where we increased our market share.
Increasing our direct distribution mix, with a focus We have increased our controlled distribution mix Distribution & Brands on online sales, is a key driver of reducing our in the year in all source markets, with the most distribution costs and enhancing our customer significant increases in France and Germany.
Direct distribution typically In France, the key driver of the increase has represents the most efficient distribution method been the introduction of our Marmara products and allows us to provide even better value to in our Nouvelles Frontires and Havas Voyages customers.
Importantly, selling directly to our retail stores.
customers means that we can further manage their end-to-end holiday experience and improve brand and product loyalty.
The proportion of operating profit contribution The Specialist Sectors add significant value to the Specialist Sectors from the Specialist Sectors has decreased in the Group as they enjoy higher margins and growth year as the Mainstream Sector profitability characteristics, and are virtually impossible to benefited from synergy delivery and turnaround replicate as we have crucial first mover advantage.
progress, whereas operating profit in the Specialist Having a relevant position in non-mainstream & Emerging Markets Sector was lower due to startmarkets is strategically important and is a key up investment in Russia and reduced capacity in differentiator and growth driver for the Group.
our private jet tours businesses.
For these reasons, the generation of a substantial proportion of the Groups operating profits from Specialist Sectors is an important objective.
We are experiencing greater consumer awareness TUI Travel airlines performance measured in terms Responsible of sustainability and believe that creating more of carbon dioxide emissions per revenue passenger Leadership sustainable holidays will help protect our product kilometre CO RPK makes our fleet one of the 2 into the future and also support product most efficient in Europe and beyond.
differentiation, brand loyalty and competitive advantage.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 19 Key Performance Indicators Target Operating margin % In January 2008, we set out a roadmap to increase TUI Travels operating margins from 2010 2009 1 2.0% to 4.7% and set out a target of doubling the Groups ROIC to a level in excess of the Groups 3.3% 2.9% cost of capital.
ROIC 2010 2009 1 9.9% 8.6% Differentiated exclusive product mix as a proportion of total Mainstream Sector holidays We are targeting a differentiated product mix of over 50% in our Mainstream Sector.
2010 2009 2008 38% 37% 33% Controlled distribution mix, as a proportion of total Mainstream Sector holidays We are targeting a controlled distribution mix of greater than two-thirds in our Mainstream Sector.
2010 2009 2008 62% 59% 53% 2 The proportion of Group operating profit generated by our Specialist Sectors We expect the mix of profits from the Specialist Sectors to increase in the medium term due to 2010 2009 their superior underlying growth characteristics.
1 32% 37% Aircraft carbon efficiency, measured through TUI Travel airlines fleet average CO RPK The Group has committed to reducing its airlines 2 direct carbon emissions by 6% by 2013 14 against 2010 2009 2008 a baseline of 2007 08 in terms of total carbon emissions as well as relative carbon emissions, 76.1g 78.1g 77.9g based on 2008 09 operational structure and plans.
CO RPK CO RPK CO RPK See Sustainable Development on page 28.
