02 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Group at a glance TUI Travel overview Who we are TUI Travel PLC TUI Travel PLC group of companies or the Group is the worlds leading leisure travel company operating in over 180 countries with more than 30 million customers in 27 key source markets.
TUI Travel has over 200 brands which are comprised of marketleading mainstream brands reported under Mainstream Sector and specialist travel businesses reported under Specialist Sectors.
TUI Travel is focused on providing customers with a wide choice of differentiated and flexible travel experiences.
TUI Travel is headquartered in the UK and employs approximately 49,000 people.
It is listed in the FTSE 100 and has the ticker code TT.
Our strategy Making travel experiences special vision Creating superior shareholder value by being the leading global leisure travel group providing customers with a wide choice of differentiated and flexible travel experiences to meet their changing needs strategic goal Product Distribution People & Growth & strategic & Content & Brands Operational Capital Go to Effectiveness Allocation imperatives page 14 Go to Customer obsessed Value driven Playing to win Responsible leadership page 25 values www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 03 Where we operate TUI Travel is a truly global player operating in 27 key source markets.
Our 27 key source markets: Australia Luxembourg Austria Netherlands Belgium New Zealand Canada Norway China Poland Czech Republic Russia Denmark Slovenia Finland Spain France Sweden Germany Switzerland Hungary Ukraine India United Kingdom Ireland United States Italy Our key brands TUI Travel operates under more than 200 brands.
A selection of our well-known brands includes: TUI operates in the German source Marmara is the leading tour operator LateRooms is the UKs leading online Hayes & Jarvis operates in the UK market and is the market-leading tour in France that provides exclusive accommodation site offering late source market and creates specialist operator brand.
package holidays to Mediterranean availability deals in over 44,000 holiday itineraries for discerning destinations.
co. uk Thomson is a leading UK tour operator The Moorings is the worlds premier Hotelbeds is a leading business-toMostravel is one of TUI Russias which also offers flights and yacht charter company and offers hire business provider of destination tour operating and retail businesses.
of its custom-designed yachts in North services and accommodation online It specialises in the destinations of America, UK, France and Germany.
to wholesalers, travel operators and Turkey and Egypt.
com Fritidsresor is a tour operator and Quark Expeditions is the worlds retail business in the Swedish source leading operator of expedition cruise market offering package tours to the voyages to the Polar Regions.
