14 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Strategic overview | Our strategy Strategic imperatives We have a clear strategic goal to create superior shareholder value by being the worlds leading leisure travel group providing customers with the widest choice of differentiated and flexible travel experiences to meet their changing needs.
To help achieve our goal, we are focused on four strategic imperatives Product & Content, Distribution & Brands, People & Operational Effectiveness and Growth & Capital Allocation.
We continually evaluate the delivery of these four strategic imperatives which link through to our key performance indicators.
Imperative 1: Product & Content Summary The portfolio of differentiated content not only increases our competitive advantage by Different products to our competitors distinguishing us from the competition, it also and unique in the marketplace drives higher margins, underpinning our plans High customer retention and repeat to improve underlying operating margins.
booking rates Differentiated products have an earlier booking profile which increases yields and removes pressure Earlier booking trends in the lates market, while customers also benefit Product innovation from a more added-value, unique experience.
Feedback shows that customers appreciate the Growth in the online accommodation quality and value of these products and higher market satisfaction levels drive repeat bookings and customer retention.
Differentiated content continues to be a central There is also a huge demand from consumers pillar of our product and content strategy.
We are for more experiential holidays.
In the Specialist developing a portfolio of exclusive products that Sectors product innovation continues to meet no competitor can easily match or replicate and this demand.
We have created the worlds largest which is tailored to include additional services marine charter business and are developing a and facilities that customers want on their holiday.
number of new yachts that are built exclusively for Every one of our businesses offer products that our marine businesses, including the new Sunsail are tailored to meet the holiday needs and tastes 384 Catamarans.
These new models create a of its customers.
leading and differentiated position in the fastest expanding section of the yacht charter market.
In the Mainstream Sector, the level of differentiated There is also a strong focus in the Education product has again increased over the last year and division to develop new and differentiated currently represents 38% of total holidays.
The purchase of Condover Hall, an have specific targets in each Sector to continue education campus in the UK, provides our JCA to increase this level of differentiation and are business, a specialist in residential school trips, constantly reviewing and evolving product content.
with a flagship centre for residential activity This year we have expanded our offering of holidays for schools and will be utilised across Mainstream differentiated products.
In the UK, the wider Education division.
Sensatori Tenerife was opened following the successful introduction of this five-star concept in In the OTA market we are building on the success Crete and Mexico over the last two years and the of LateRooms, our online accommodation business, First Choice Holiday Villages portfolio was also by investing in increasing the product offering of expanded by two further Holiday Villages.
In the our AsiaRooms brand.
We have increased our own Nordics three new family-focused Blue Villages hotel inventory in the Asian region by 62% 7,800 were opened.
In Germany we continue to hotels and rebranded the website to capture the experience strong demand for our new hotel brand significant forecasted growth in this market.
Sensimar, a five-star spa concept for couples and Robinson clubs for families.
In France, product differentiation continues with the launch of new Marmara Clubs in new destinations e. g. Sardinia and the roll-out of the new generation of Nouvelles Frontires hotel clubs.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 15 Imperative 2: Distribution & Brands Summary In the Mainstream businesses our leading brands drive bookings through controlled distribution Highly trusted brands that provide capability which is made up of three main channels: value and quality a retail network of circa 3,500 shops, an online Broadening customer choice booking capability for all major brands and call centres.
In the UK and Nordics for instance, where Building our customer relationships there is a high propensity to purchase online, we Increasing controlled distribution have invested heavily in web capability.
In the Nordics we have ceased production of traditional brochures from Summer 2011 and are promoting Our highly trusted brands represent excellent value online as the main distribution channel.
In the for money and drive customer loyalty and repeat UK, the trend towards online booking continues, bookings.
The advantages of travelling with a supported by improvements to the functionality leading tour operator were highlighted during the of the Thomson and First Choice websites and April 2010 volcanic ash crisis when we prioritised the success of the MyThomson portal allowing the needs of our customers and provided industrycustomers to manage bookings online.
In France, leading levels of service and support.
We have there is a higher propensity to purchase through market-leading brands in the Mainstream Sector more traditional travel agents and we are including TUI, Thomson, First Choice, Jetairfly, expanding our retail network both through owned Fritidsresor, Holland International, Arke, Nouvelles and franchise agencies.
We have also increased Frontires and Marmara.
In the Specialist Sectors controlled distribution for the Nouvelles Frontires we have well-known niche brands that have and Marmara brands by building their internet market-leading positions including Hayes & Jarvis, offering and selling our Marmara brand through Sovereign, Citalia, The Moorings, Crystal Ski, our network of Nouvelles Frontires shops and LateRooms.
Our aim is to provide customers with a wide choice In the Specialist businesses, we are focusing on of holiday options that meet their preferences and increasing the share of direct distribution to reduce a convenient range of booking options.
By securing distribution costs and to increase direct access to direct access to customers, we can manage and customers.
Our Adventure division is making wider deliver the whole holiday experience from booking use of our existing retail network and is crosswith an agent in our travel shops, online or via one selling product between brands.
New websites of our call centres, to in-resort and after-sales have been developed for a number of brands service, whilst driving customer satisfaction and including The Moorings, Quark Expeditions and TUI ultimately customer loyalty.
Ski to further improve the customer experience and to increase the level of controlled distribution.
In each source market the distribution of products is tailored to reflect different customer preferences The LateRooms brand has a strong leadership and market dynamics.
Each source market has its position in the UK OTA accommodation market own distribution strategy, which aims to reduce room night growth of 31% year-on-year and we costs by building controlled distribution through are starting to roll out our successful LateRooms the efficient operation of retail shops, the use of model to Continental Europe and Australia.
the internet as a research and booking tool and by the utilisation of call centres.
com 16 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Strategic overview | Our strategy Strategic imperatives continued Imperative 3: People & Operational Effectiveness Summary Our tour operators actively manage capacity through sophisticated capacity and yield Our colleagues are key to our success management systems.
The UK Mainstream Development of sophisticated capacity business has a market-leading yield system to and yield management systems plan and manage capacity allowing us to analyse profitability for Thomson and First Choice by Underlying operating profit margin up 40 creating a detailed picture of profitable capacity basis points from 2.9% 2009 restated by individual flight.
This allows us to determine to 3.3% optimum seat capacity by each UK airport and Integration progressing well with a total to ensure that we maintain the most appropriate synergies target of 200m aircraft fleet size and type.
This has enabled us to leverage the strength of both these brands by improving efficiency with fewer aircraft and The skills and expertise of our colleagues are less risk.
Our other businesses are also beginning the key to our success.
Across the Group we to implement this system: in the Activity Sector, have a unique breadth and depth of experience the ski business has fully implemented the same with innovative entrepreneurs in our specialist yield management tool driving further businesses, skilled tour operators in Mainstream, improvements in margin.
functional experts at the centre and a highly We have made excellent progress in delivering experienced and respected international cost synergies with 195m achieved to date and management team.
Our aim is to motivate and maintaining our target of 200m by 2011.
In engage our teams to deliver outstanding customer addition to the delivery of these cost synergies, the experiences and results for our businesses.
Talent businesses are continually working to leverage their across the Group is reviewed regularly with a focus market-leading positions and scale to maximise on retaining and developing individuals to drive the their cost competitiveness and rationalise the cost business forward see page 24. base further through the continual improvement of business processes and systems.
We are also further reviewing options to reduce the number of reservation and back office systems in the Mainstream businesses.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 17 Imperative 4: Growth & Capital Allocation Summary TUI brand into the market in March 2010.
We have an existing presence in Brazil, China and India, Acquired six niche high-growth through our inbound and destination management businesses in Specialist Sectors companies in the A&D Sector, and continue to build Creating a leading position in Russia our understanding of these leisure travel markets.
and CIS We are currently evaluating our optimal participation strategy for each market and discussing future Underlying operating profit up 11% collaboration opportunities with potential partners.
to 447m It is our intention to further expand in these markets Increase in return on invested capital to create long-term sustainable growth for TUI to 9.9% Travel on a global scale.
We continue to believe that the Boeing 787 Dreamliner represents a fantastic opportunity to We have identified a number of market segments deliver long-term growth for the Group.
Not only where we can allocate capital to drive growth.
will it be able to fly greater distances, enabling us These target market segments, primarily within our to offer a wider range of non-stop destinations to Specialist Sectors, are high-growth and high-margin our customers than equivalent aircraft today, but it and present excellent opportunities for us to create will do so with greater fuel efficiency and additional leading positions in fragmented markets.
As one of the first airlines to take delivery segments offer significant potential for further of these aircraft we plan to use the customer and growth and we are creating market-leading operational benefits to position the long-haul positions by a combination of the acquisition of offering as a key differentiator in Europe allowing us complementary businesses and organic growth in to develop a pre-eminent position in the long-haul our existing businesses.
We have completed eight charter market.
acquisitions this year, six in the Specialist Sectors, and will continue to make bolt-on acquisitions in We have an asset-right business model and typically targeted Specialist businesses.
only invest in assets such as yachts, inland waterway cruisers and expedition cruise ships that provide us Further organic long-term growth will be achieved with greater competitive advantage and enable us through the continued introduction of some of our to earn premium margins.
As a result of our assetSpecialist brands into new markets utilising our right business model, delivery against our strategic distribution strength, including our pan-European imperatives driving underlying margin enhancement retail estate of circa 3,500 branches.
For example, and delivery of synergy benefits of 200m, we we have launched the best of our Marine, Adventure remain confident of delivering our medium-term and Polar Cruising products into Germany, Russia margin targets.
Despite tough economic conditions and Ukraine.
Following the successful launch of Le and industry turmoil, we have made significant Boat within our German retail operation, we have progress in realising these key objectives improving positioned this customer offering in the Dutch and operating margins by 40 basis points to 3.3% 2009 Belgian markets.
restated: 2.9% and return on invested capital to As the leading international leisure travel group we 9.9% 2009 restated: 8.6%.
are well placed to benefit from the strong increase in demand for leisure travel in emerging markets to generate long-term growth for the Group.
Our strategy within Russia and CIS has been the main area of focus and our growth plans are progressing well.
We entered the Russia and Ukraine markets through the establishment of a joint venture with S-Group Capital Management and have subsequently completed three acquisitions.
The acquisitions of VKO Group and Mostravel in Russia and Voyage Kiev in Ukraine have provided us with a strong entry point into this market.
TUI Travel is the first international tour operator to build a presence in Russia and CIS and we successfully launched the www.
