4 issues such as salaries and benefits, training Reporting our progress anddevelopment, and internal communication ina focused manner and to build in improvements We will publish our 2010 Corporate in how we manage people and run our business.
In this Another important initiative in 2010 was to develop report we will report fully on the initiatives a new organisational structure for Tullow.
The outlined above and give a full account of our purpose was to ensure a clear focus on three performance and progress in 2010 in each area strategically important areas for continued growth of corporate responsibility.
Nationalisation We are very conscious of being part of an emerging industry in parts of Africa such as Ghana and Uganda.
Our focus here is to deliver training and development which allows us to achieve our localisation commitments.
In Uganda, we have To learn more about 2010 2011 initiatives visit: seven graduates in technical disciplines following www.
com casestudies ahands-on graduate programme across the Tullow world, along with four production technicians pursuing an NVQ course in England.
We also ran a competition to identify candidates for MSc scholarships and the four successful winners are all studying overseas.
In Ghana, we had 14 secondees from the Ghana National Petroleum Company during 2009 and 2010, whom we sponsored for Masters degrees.
1 2 In-country managers Tullow has in-country representatives and advisers in Namibia, Senegal and Madagascar.
Their primary role is to manage our small local offices and arrange meetings with Government ministers and national oil company staff for visiting Tullow people.
All undertake this role as part of running their own businesses.
Marcelle Dane, Country Manager, Madagascar.
Awa Ndongo, President, Tullow Senegal Limited.
Martha Namundjebo Tilahun, President & General Manager, Namibia.
indd 69 69 29 03 2011 29 03 2011 09:50 09:50 Directors Report: Business review Corporate responsibility A long-term approach New ventures In my role I am involved at the cutting edge of Tullows entry into some of the most exciting emerging petroleum economies on the African continent.
Being able to work closely with governments and national oil companies during the pioneering stages of exploration and development is a rare and valuable experience.
At Tullow, I enjoy being part of a multi-disciplinary team who work and travel together throughout Africa with the view to achieving a common goal to ensure Tullows success in whatever projects or transactions we embark on.
Daniel ONeill, Regional General Counsel, Legal Department, Cape Town, South Africa.
