Other statutory information 5 Results and dividends appointed by a shareholder and present at a general The profit on ordinary activities after taxation of the Group for meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares the year ended 31 December 2010 amounted to $72.5 million held by the shareholder or represented by the proxy or 2009: $30.6 million.
If a proxy has been appointed by more than one shareholder and has been instructed by one An interim dividend of Stg2.0p 2009: Stg2.0p per ordinary or more of those shareholders to vote for the resolution share was paid on 4 November 2010.
The Directors and by one or more of those shareholders to vote against recommend a final dividend of Stg4.0p 2009: Stg4.0p per a particular resolution, the proxy shall have one vote for and ordinary share which, if approved at the 2011 AGM, will be one vote against that resolution.
On a poll, every shareholder paid on 20 May 2011 to shareholders whose names are on who is present in person has one vote for every share held the Register of Members on 15 April 2011. by that shareholder and a proxy has one vote for every share in respect of which he has been appointed as proxy the Subsequent events Since the balance sheet date Tullow has continued to progress deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
On a poll, a corporate representative its exploration, development and business growth strategies.
may exercise all the powers of the company that has In January 2011, the Group announced the Tweneboa-3 authorised him.
A poll may be demanded by any of the appraisal well in the Deepwater Tano licence offshore Ghana following: a the Chairman of the meeting: b at least had successfully encountered gas condensate in excellent high five shareholders entitled to vote and present in person quality sandstone reservoirs.
The results of drilling, wireline or by proxy or represented by duly authorised corporate logs and samples of reservoir fluids, together with the wells representative at the meeting: c any shareholder or down-dip position, confirms the Greater Tweneboa Area shareholders present in person or by proxy or represented resource base potential.
by a duly authorised corporate representative and holding shares or being a representative in respect of a holder of In March 2011, the Group announced the Enyenra-2A appraisal shares representing in the aggregate not less than onewell in the Deepwater Tano licence offshore Ghana had tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled successfully encountered oil in excellent quality sandstone to attend and vote at the meeting: or d any shareholder or reservoirs.
Good evidence of communication with Owo-1 shareholders present in person or by proxy or represented confirms that the Owo oil discovery, now re-named Enyenra, by a duly authorised corporate representative and holder of is a major light oil field.
shares or being a representative in respect of a holding or Share capital shares conferring a right to attend and vote at the meeting As at 8 March 2011, the Company had an allotted and fully paid on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate up share capital of 888,445,501 ordinary shares of Stg10p each equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up with an aggregate nominal value of 88,844,550.10. on all the shares conferring that right.
Substantial shareholdings Return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the As at 8 March 2011, the Company had been notified of the Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions taking following significant holdings being 3% or more in the priority, the balance of assets available for distribution will be Companys ordinary share capital.
distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to Shareholder Number of shares % of issued capital the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
A liquidator may, with the authority of a special resolution, divide among BlackRock Inc 106,568,436 11.99% the shareholders the whole or any part of the Companys Prudential plc 72,123,865 8.12% assets: or vest the Companys assets in whole or in part in IFG International Trust 38,960,366 4.38% trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of shareholders, Company Limited but no shareholder is compelled to accept any property in Legal & General Group plc 35,414,975 3.98% respect of which there is a liability.
Control rights under employee share schemes.
The Shareholders rights Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares Under some of these arrangements, shares are held by are as follows: trustees on behalf of employees.
The employees are not Dividend rights hol ders of the Companys ordinary shares entitled to exercise directly any voting or other control may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not rights.
The trustees will generally vote in accordance with declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by employees instructions and abstain where no instructions the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends.
Unallocated shares are generally voted at the No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available discretion of the trustees.
Subject to shareholder approval, payment Restrictions on holding securities.
There are no restrictions or satisfaction of a dividend may be made wholly or partly under the Companys Articles of Association or under UK law by distribution of specific assets.
that either restrict the rights of UK resident shareholders to V oting rights voting at any general meeting is by a show of hold shares or limit the rights of non-resident or foreign hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands shareholders to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares.
every shareholder who is present in person at a general There are no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on meeting and every proxy or corporate representative the payment of dividends to US persons on the Companys ordinary shares.
indd 95 95 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 17:14 17:14 Directors Report: Corporate governance Other statutory information Directors Report: Corporate governance Other statutory information continued Material agreements containing change of control provisions may demand that full cash cover is provided immediately in The following significant agreements will, in the event of a respect of outstanding amounts or the buyer guarantee change of control of the Company, be affected as follows: provided thereunder is otherwise repaid immediately and repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the Company US$2.285 billion senior secured revolving credit facility and certain subsidiaries of the Company to it under the agreement between, among others, the Company and certain agreement and any connected finance document, which subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Bank of Scotland amount will become immediately due and payable, in the plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Standard Chartered event that any person or group of persons acting in concert Bank, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Credit Agricole Corporate and gains control of the Company.
Investment Bank and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each lender thereunder may demand repayment of Under the terms of each of these agreements, a change of all outstanding amounts owed by the Company and certain control occurs if any person, or group of people acting in subsidiaries of the Company to it under the agreement and concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers gains any connected finance document, which amount will become control of the Company.
immediately due and payable and, in respect of each letter Contractual or other arrangements of credit issued under the agreement, full cash cover will be The Group does not have any contractual or other arrangements required immediately, in the event that any person or group that are essential to the business of the Group as described by of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company: section 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006.
US$100 million junior secured revolving credit facility Directors agreement between, among others, the Company and certain The biographical details of the Directors of the Company subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Bank of Scotland at the date of this report are given on pages 74 and 75. plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each Details of Directors service agreements and letters of lender thereunder may demand repayment of all outstanding appointment are set out on pages 89 and 90.
Details of the amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company the Company to it under the agreement and any connected and in the Groups long-term incentive and other share option finance document, which amount will become immediately schemes are set out on pages 92 to 94 in the Directors due and payable, in the event that any person or group of remuneration report.
persons acting in concert gains control of the Company: Directors indemnities and insurance cover US$115 million financ e contract in respect of a senior As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under secured revolving credit facility agreement between, among which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to others, the Company and certain subsidiaries of the the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, against claims Company and International Finance Corporation and the from third parties in respect of certain liabilities arising out of, lenders specified therein pursuant to which each lender or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and thereunder may demand repayment of all outstanding responsibilities as Directors of the Company or any of its amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of subsidiaries.
The Directors are also indemnified against the cost the Company to it under the agreement and any connected of defending a criminal prosecution or a claim by the Company, finance document, which amount will become immediately its subsidiaries or a regulator provided that where the defence due and payable, in the event that any person or group of is unsuccessful the Director must repay those defence costs.
persons acting in concert gains control of the Company: The Company also maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
US$650 million secur ed revolving credit facility agreement between, among others, the Company and certain Powers of Directors subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Bank of Scotland The general powers of the Companys Directors are set out plc, Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, in Article 104 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
Standard Chartered Bank and The Royal Bank of Scotland It provides that the business of the Company shall be managed plc and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company each lender thereunder may demand repayment of all whether relating to the management of the business of the outstanding amounts owed by the Company and certain Company or not.
This power is subject to any limitations subsidiaries of the Company to it under the agreement and imposed on the Company by applicable legislation.
It is also any connected finance document, which amount will become limited by the provisions of the Memorandum and Articles of immediately due and payable, in the event that any person Association of the Company and any directions given by special or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the resolution of the shareholders of the Company which are Company: and applicable on the date that any power is exercised.
US$1.55 billion secured irrevocable guarantee facility Please note the following specific provisions relevant to the agreement between, among others, the Company and exercise of power by the Directors: certain subsidiaries of the Company, Standard Chartered Pr e-emptive rights and new issues of shares the holders Bank, Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, BNP of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the Paribas and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and the lenders Articles of Association of the Company.
However, the ability specified therein pursuant to which each lender thereunder of the Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, 96 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p70-p99 AW3.
indd 96 96 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 17:05 17:05 5 securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, Charitable and political donations otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is The Group made charitable, social and community-related restricted under the Companies Act 2006 which provides donations during the year totalling $2.6 million 2009: $2.2 that the directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, million.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made unable to allot any equity securities without express for political purposes.
authorisation, which may be contained in a companys Corporate responsibility articles of association or given by its shareholders in general The Group is fully committed to high standards of environmental, meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than health and safety management.
A review, together with an outline five years.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company of the Groups involvement in the community, is set out in the may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant Corporate Responsibility section on pages 64 to 69.
In addition, to an employee share scheme without first making an offer Tullow publishes annually a separate Corporate Responsibility on a pre-emptive basis to existing shareholders, unless Report which is available on the Group website: www.
this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The Company received authority at the last Supplier payment policy Annual General Meeting to allot shares for cash on a non It is Company and Group policy to settle all debts with pre-emptive basis up to a maximum nominal amount of creditors on a timely basis and in accordance with the terms 4,432,879.
The authority lasts until the earlier of the Annual of credit agreed with each supplier.
The Company had no trade General Meeting of the Company in 2011 or 30 June 2011: creditors outstanding at 31 December 2010.
R epurchase of shares subject to authorisation by Auditors and disclosure of relevant audit information shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors own shares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined Any shares which have been bought back may be held as by Section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the treasury shares or must be cancelled immediately upon Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken completion of the purchase.
The Company does not currently all steps that ought to have been taken to make themselves have shareholder authority to buy back shares: and aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Borrowing powers the net external borrowings of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys equal to four times the aggregate of the Groups adjusted auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed Annual General Meeting in Article 105 of the Companys Articles of Association, Your attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting accompanying unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the this Annual Report which sets out the resolutions to be Companys shareholders.
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The meeting will be held at Appointment and replacement of Directors Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ on The Company shall appoint disregarding Alternate Directors not Thursday 12 May 2011 at 11.00 a. m. less than two nor more than 15 Directors.
The appointment and This Directors Report comprising pages 4 to 97 and the replacement of Directors may be made as follows: information referred to therein has been approved by the The member s may by ordinary resolution elect any person Board and signed on its behalf by: who is willing to act to be a Director: The Board may elect any person who is willing to act to be a Director.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for election: Graham Martin, Each Dir ector shall retire from office at the third Annual General Counsel and Company Secretary General Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at which 8 March 2011 he was last elected or re-elected but he may be re-elected by ordinary resolution if eligible and willing: Registered office: 9 Chiswick Park The Company may by special r esolution remove any Director 566 Chiswick High Road before the expiration of his period of office or may, by London W4 5XT ordinary resolution, remove a Director where special notice has been given and the necessary statutory procedures are Company registered in England and Wales No.
3919249 complied with: and Ther e are a number of other grounds on which a Directors office may cease, namely voluntary resignation, where all the other Directors being at least three in number request his resignation, where he suffers physical or mental incapacity, becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors or is prohibited by law from being a Director.
indd 97 97 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:38 09:38 Directors Report: Corporate governance Other statutory information A long-term approach Organisation capability The people at Tullow make my job great.
There are people from all over the world, and as a Canadian in the London office, I have found the Company very welcoming.
Working for a growing company is challenging but rewarding as it pushes us to think outside our particular areas of expertise and work in crossfunctional teams to find the best solutions.
In other organisations there are often firm precedents and processes already in place but at Tullow we are developing these each day, giving us the opportunity to draw on each others experiences and in turn grow in our own roles.
Lindsay Golding, Tax adviser, Finance Department, London, UK.
