Directors Report: Business review Exploration and appraisal Pioneering and entrepreneurial Tullows exploration strategy is founded on basic principles and is focused on finding high-value oil in material commercial quantities.
Our ambition continues to grow and this drives Tullows exploration team to keep moving the needle in delivering shareholder value.
Angus McCoss, Exploration Director Building scale, not complexity inSierraLeone.
These results underpin the We focus on the areas and geologies we know best.
extentand strategic global importance of this Our portfolio of regionally related basins, gives us .
abroad foundation for risk-mitigated growth with The successful Cormoran-1 well in northern lots of follow-up potential.
offshore Mauritania gives us growing confidence We aim to discover and delineate material about the continuation of the Jubilee play further commercial volumes of high-value oil in our focus along the 3,000 km long West African Mauri-Tano areas and within our core geological plays.
The Mauri-Tano Trend extends from focus on rift basins, stratigraphic traps and salt Mauritania, southwards through Senegal, Sierra basins.
These are straight forward plays, proven Leone, Liberia, and Cte dIvoire to the Tano basin by our industry to be prolific in hydrocarbons.
It is currently the most material and prospective trend in our African exploration Our pioneering approach to exploration comes from portfolio.
The high-impact Cobalt prospect will be the teams collective geological capabilities and drilled by the high-risk wildcat Montserrado-1 well technical excellence that is recognised in the industry.
Our exploration focus is clear.
We aim to grow The East African Rifts are also very important for in Africa, expand and replicate our successes Tullow.
They include the prolific Lake Albert Rift Basin in South America, build on our North Atlantic in Uganda and extend across a series of rift basins position and mature our Asian acreage.
through Western Kenya into Southern Ethiopia.
Continue to grow in Africa The Lake Albert Rift Basin has yielded 1 billion West Africa continues to be a highly successful barrels of discovered oil P50 and could potentially exploration area for us.
We have had excellent results yield a further 1.5 billion barrels P50 to 2.5 billion to the west of Jubilee at Tweneboa and Enyenra barrels P10 through further exploration and andhave extended the Jubilee play further westwards appraisal programmes.
with encouraging results in the Liberian Basin at Venus and more recently in the Mercury-1 well 24 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p12-p27 AW.
indd 24 24 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 12:15 12:15 A & E 2 We are finding and sampling oil seeping from the Moving the needle Kenya-Ethiopia Rift Basin prospects and this makes Tullows exploration strategy is founded on basic it clear that this is a working petroleum system.
principles and is focused on finding high-value oil in In 1992 oil was discovered in the acreage.
Over the years our challenge, however, is to turn these geological strategy has evolved through building scale, not by clues into worthy prospects for drilling.
We have pushed Tullows exploration efforts gradually from simple prospects, Further to the east, we have a position on the through plays and basins, to our current needle East Africa Transform Margin comprising onshore moving inventory of highly prospective trends of acreage in the Rovuma Basin in Tanzania.
Our basins that have regional scale.
exploration strategy here focuses on finding oil in what is considered to be a gas-prone province.
Geological field work in 2010 in the Morondava Basin in south western Madagascar has been rewarding and the sampling of oil has helped us to refine which plays we should target.
We are also pursuing established oil plays in Gabon, extending the economic utilisation of infrastructure, albeit with smaller prospects and volumes of oil.
Building scale by simply pursuing our Expand and replicate success in South America successful oil plays in related basins.
We are leading the pursuit of the Jubilee play We aim to grow in Africa, replicate our Equatorial across the Equatorial Atlantic region off the coast Atlantic success in South America and build on our of South America.
We are focused on Upper North Atlantic position.
Cretaceous deep-water turbidite fans that appear to be remarkably similar to those on the African side of Equatorial Atlantic Region.
Africa Atlantic Margins Tullow Basins We are drilling a strategic deepwater basin-testing North well on the Zaedyus prospect in French Guiana.
Sea We are targeting the similar, but deeper, Jaguar prospect in shallower water, offshore Guyana.
Eurasia Build on our North Atlantic position Our geological knowledge and experience reveals Tethys clear opportunities in the North Atlantic.
There are Kurd-Pak North Trend Atlantic near-field opportunities in satellite prospects which extend the life of existing infrastructure and there are breakthrough plays in relatively under-explored Mauri-Tano Equatorial Trend Africa areas, including the North Sea.
Atlantic East Africa Guyanas Mature opportunities in Asia Rifts Trend In Asia, our high-potential exploration acreage Gabon sits in Pakistan, in the eastern part of the prolific Tethys Trend, which extends to Kurdistan in the South East Africa Transform west.
This is a low-cost, high-impact part of our America exploration portfolio which is being gradually matured as security improves.
South Atlantic For more information on our exploration and appraisal activities see our Operations review p50 www.
indd 25 25 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 13:13 13:13 Directors Report: Business review Exploration and appraisal
