Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Explanation of UBMs business measures Non-IFRS financial measure How we define it Why we use it Underlying revenue and Underlying measures are adjusted for the estimated effects The Group believes underlying revenue and underlying underlyingoperating profit ofacquisitions, discontinued products, foreign exchange operating profit assists investors in their assessment and andbiennial events.
understanding of our underlying business trends, without distortion from the effect of our acquisitions, discontinued products, biennial events and foreign currency movements during the period.
Adjusted operating profit Group operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible The Group believes adjusted operating profit, adjusted andadjustedEBITDA assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of operating margins and adjusted EBITDA assists investors taxation on joint ventures and associates.
Adjusted EBITDA intheir assessment and understanding of our earnings is adjusted Group operating profit before depreciation.
andisalso a measure commonly used by shareholders tomeasure our performance.
Margin Margin refers to our adjusted operating margin.
Itis adjusted operating profit expressed as a percentage of revenues.
Adjusted profit before Before amortisation of intangible assets on acquisitions, The Group believes adjusted profit before tax and adjusted taxandEPS exceptional items, share of taxation on profit from joint EPS assists investors in their assessment and understanding ventures and associates, net financing expense other.
EPS of our earnings and is also a measure commonly used by also excludes deferred tax on the amortisation of intangible shareholders to measure our performance.
Diluted EPS includes the impact of share options.
Net debt Net debt is current and non-current borrowings less cash Provides a measure of indebtedness in excess of the current andcash equivalents.
cash available to pay down debt.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA Net debt divided by adjusted EBITDA.
Provides a measure of financial leverage.
Net debt to LTM adjusted EBITDA EBITDA adjusted to include a full year of pro forma adjusted operating profit from acquisitions made during 2010.
Free cash flow Net cash provided by operating activities after meeting Helps assess our ability, over the long term, to create value obligations for interest, tax, dividends paid to nonfor our shareholders as it represents cash available to repay controlling interests, capital expenditures and other debt, pay dividends and fund future acquisitions.
Adjusted operating cash flow Adjusted to exclude non-operating movements in The Group believes adjusted operating cash flow assists working-capital, such as expenditure against reorganisation investors in their assessment and understanding of our and restructuring provisions.
Pre-tax return on investment Attributable operating profit divided by the cost of Helps us assess the performance of our acquisitions relative acquisitions.
Calculated on a pro forma basis, as if the to our target pre-tax cost of capital threshold of 10%.
acquired businesses were owned throughout the year.
Estimated total consideration Estimated total consideration includes initial consideration Provides a measure of total consideration for businesses net of cash acquired, the latest estimate of expected acquired.
Return on average capital employed ROACE is operating profit before exceptional items divided Provides a measure of the efficiency of profitability of our ROACE by average capital employed.
Average capital employed is the capital investment.
average of opening and closing total assets less current liabilities for each period.
Effective tax rate The effective tax rate on adjusted profit before tax reflects Provides a more comparable basis to analyse our tax rate.
thetax rate excluding movements on deferred tax balances on the amortisation of intangible assets.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51
