Section 2: Governance Report of the directors The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to year ended 31 December 2010. be held on 10 May 2011.
Resolutions to renew them will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
Business review The Company is not aware of any agreement between shareholders that restrict During 2010 the Groups principal activities were in the areas of Events: Data the transfer of shares or of voting interests attached to shares.
Services: Online: Print Magazines: and Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring.
The review of the Groups business and the description of the E-communications principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group comprises the sections entitled Shareholders have previously passed a resolution to enable the Company to send Strategy and Performance, Segmental Commentary and Risks and Uncertainties documents or information to members by making them available on the website which form part of the Operating and Financial Review on pages 6 to 43. or by electronic means.
Results for the year and dividends If any shareholder who has received a printed copy of this Annual Report would prefer to receive future communications by electronic means, they may elect to The results for the year are set out in the Group consolidated income statement do so by contacting the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Jersey Limited contact on page 72.
The balance to be transferred to reserves is 99.4m.
The directors details can be found in the Shareholder information section at the back of this have announced a second interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend of 19p per report or by registering at www.
share for the year ended 31 December 2010 to be paid on 19 May 2011 to those shareholders on the register on 15 April 2011.
An interim dividend of 6.0p Employee share plans per share was paid on 14 October 2010, making a total for the year of 25p 2009: 24.2p.
The Company operates a number of all-employee share plans and discretionary share plans.
Details of these plans can be found in Note 27 on pages 123 to 128.
Pursuant to the Dividend Access Plan put in place by the Company as part of the Scheme, the second interim dividend will be paid by United Business Media Statement of directors responsibilities for the GP No.
2 Limited, a UK subsidiary of UBM to those members who have financial statements elected or who are deemed to have elected to be paid dividends from a UK The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial source in accordance with the rules of the Dividend Access Plan.
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Directors and their interests The Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires the directors to prepare financial Biographical details of the directors in office as at1 March 2011 are set out on statements for each financial period in accordance with generally accepted pages 52 and 53.
The following directors held office during the year: accounting principles prescribed for the purposes of the Law for market traded companies, and to specify the generally accepted accounting principles that have John Botts, David Levin, Alan Gillespie, Robert Gray, Pradeep Kar, Greg Lock been adopted in their preparation.
The financial statements of the Company are appointed on 22 February 2010, Terry Neill, Jonathan Newcomb, Karen required by law to give a true and fair view of, or be presented fairly in all material Thomson.
respects so as to show, the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the period David Levin, Alan Gillespie and Jonathan Newcomb will retire from the Board covered by the accounts and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association at the Annual General In preparing these financial statements, the directors should: Meeting and, being eligible to do so, will stand for re-election.
David Levin has a Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
service contract which is subject to 12 months notice on either side.
Alan Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
Gillespie does not have a service contract and is considered by the Company to be independent.
Jonathan Newcomb does not have a service contract: he has State whether applicable accounting principles have been followed in their served on the Board since September 2001 and accordingly, pursuant to the UK preparation, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Governance Code, when he stands for re-election he may no longer be considered as independent for the purposes of the Code.
Nevertheless, the Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is Company considers Mr Newcomb to be independent in character and inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
judgement and values his experience.
The directors are responsible for keeping accounting records which are sufficient The interests of the directors in office at 1 March 2011 in the shares of the to show and explain the Companys transactions and are such as to disclose with Company and its subsidiary undertakings are set out in the Directors reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and remuneration report on pages 54 to 63. enable them to ensure that the financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are No director had a material interest in any contract other than a service contract also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking with the Company or any subsidiary at any time during the year.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Share capital The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital are set out in Note and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial As at 31 December 2010, the Company held a valid authority from shareholders statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
to make market purchases of up to 24,417,501 ordinary shares.
During the year Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR4 the Company did not repurchase any ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2010 the Company also held valid authorities from shareholders to allot ordinary Each of the directors at the date of this report, whose names and functions are shares up to a nominal value of 8,136,119.
During the year shares with a listed on pages 52 to 53 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: nominal value of 37,912 were allotted on the exercise of share options under the Companys employee share plans.
70 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements the Group financial statements in this report, which have been prepared Takeover directive in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC a general meeting of the shareholders.
Directors are re-appointed by ordinary interpretations, and the Company financial statements in this report, which resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Under the Companys Articles have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted of Association, at each Annual General Meeting any director then in office who accounting principles, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial has been appointed by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting position and result of the Company and the undertakings included in the and any director who at the date of the notice convening the meeting had held consolidation taken as a whole.
office for more than 30 months since they were last appointed or re-appointed by the management report contained in this report includes a fair review of the the Company in general meeting shall retire from office but are eligible for redevelopment and performance of the business and the position of the appointment.
Non-executive directors appointments are reviewed every three years.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company they face.
other than: Disclosure of information to the auditor Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws and market requirements The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report relating to close periods.
confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any deal in the Companys securities.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Substantial shareholdings Change of control As at 1 March 2011 the Company had been notified of the following significant interests in voting rights in its ordinary share capital in accordance with Chapter The Company is not party to any significant agreements which take effect, alter 5 of the FSAs Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees Ordinary % of Nature providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through shares share capital of holding resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a Black Rock, Inc 08.02.2011 38,980,036 15.94% Indirect interest takeover bid.
The Company is party to a number of banking arrangements FMR LLC 18.08.2010 12,879,489 5.27% Indirect interest which upon a change of control of the Company are terminable by the bank Standard Life 24.02.2011 12,249,815 5.01% Indirect interest upon the provision of 28 days notice.
Aviva plc 18.02.2011 12,184,377 4.98% Indirect interest Other information FIL Limited 06.09.2010 12,054,253 4.93% Indirect interest Other information relevant to and forming part of the Directors Report is to be Lloyds Banking Group plc found in the following sections of the Annual Report: 11.02.2011 11,727,687 4.80% Indirect interest Information Location in Annual Report Creditor payment policy Business Review Operating and Financial Review In view of the diversity of its businesses the Group does not offer or operate a Strategy and Performance pages 4 to 13 uniform timetable for payment of suppliers.
Each operating company is Segmental Performance pages 14 to 31 responsible for agreeing with its own suppliers the terms and conditions on Risks and Uncertainties pages 40 to 43 which it will transact business with them, including payment terms.
The Groups Corporate Responsibility Operating and Financial Review pages 44 to 50 policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with these agreed terms.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Corporate Governance Statement pages 64 to 68 Events since Note 33 to the Financial Statements page 139 Donations 31 December 2010 In 2010 the Group donated 437,971to charitable organisations 2009: 564,200.
Treasury Policy Operating and Financial Review pages 42 to 43 The Group made no political donations during 2010 2009: nil.
The Directors Report of United Business Media Limited for the year ended Annual General Meeting 31 December 2010 comprises pages 70 to 71 of this Annual Report and the The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 10 May 2011. other sections listed above, which are incorporated into the Directors Report The notice of meeting and a description of the business to be transacted is by reference.
contained in the accompanying document.
It is also available on the Companys By order of the Board website at www.
Anne Siddell Auditors Company Secretary 1 March 2011 Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution for their re-appointment and on their remuneration will be proposed Registered office: at the Annual General Meeting.
Ogier House, The Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71
