Section 2: Governance Board of Directors Previous employment included McGraw Hill where 1.
Robert Gray Age 54 3 he was responsible for Standard & Poors and Data Chairman Chief Financial Officer Resources and Dun & Bradstreet.
He is chairman Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director Robert Gray joined UBMs Board as Chief Financial ofUBMs Audit Committee.
in1997, John Botts became Chairman in December Officer in September 2009 from Codere S. A. where 2007.
He is a Senior Advisor of Allen & Company he was Chief Financial Officer.
Pradeep Kar Age 52 inLondon and Chairman of Botts & Company.
Codere, he was Managing Director, Latin American 1 Non-Executive Director Other directorships include Euromoney Institutional Investment Banking with Deutsche Bank, based in Investorplc, Songbird Estates plc, Glyndebourne New York from 1999 to 2004.
He began his career Appointed to the Board in 2006, Pradeep Kar is ArtsTrust and Tate Foundation.
P. Morgan Co. where he served in a variety of thefounder, chairman and managing director of ofWilliams.
roles with a particular focus on building investment Microland, Indias leading provider of outsourced banking businesses in international markets, ITinfrastructure management services.
Pradeep is notablyLatin America and the former Soviet Union.
thepresident of The Indus Entrepreneurs TiE, 2.
David Levin Age 49 He received a BA from Dartmouth College and Bangalore Chapter and Founder of the Bangalore Group Chief Executive anMBA from the Harvard Graduate School of Chapter of the Young Presidents Organization.
David Levin was appointed as Group Chief Executive .
Pradeeps leadership acumen has been recognised in 2005, having previously been chief executive of withnumerous accolades, notable among these are 4.
Jonathan Newcomb Age 64 Symbian, a mobile phone software licensing company, the India Young Business Achiever Award, Global 1 2 3 Non-Executive Director since April 2002.
He joined Symbian from Psion plc, Leader for Tomorrow by the World Economic the handheld computing company, where he Forum Stars of Asia by Newsweek and Stars of India Jonathan Newcomb was appointed to the Board waschief executive from February 1999.
Prior to by Business India.
He sits on the Advisory Board in2001.
He is a board member of Journal that, hehad various roles with the international ofLeaders Quest, an international social enterprise Communications NYSE and the BNA business publishing group Euromoney Institutional based in London, on the South Asia Initiative Board Corporation, and is currently the managing director Investor PLC, as Group COO, Group CFO and of Trinity College, Dublin and on the National of the New York-based investment firm Coady asPresident of Institutional Investor magazine and Council of the Confederation of Indian Industry.
He was chairman and CEO of Simon & media group in New York.
He also worked for the Pradeep holds a degree in mechanical engineering Schuster, one of the worlds largest book publishers private equity group Apax Partners, based in the anda post-graduate degree in management.
and providers of educational and training materials, UKas MD of a number of engineering companies, from 1994 until 2002, having been president and andwith the consultancy firm Bain and Company, chief operating officer from 1991.
From 2002 to mostly in Asia and the USA.
David has an MBA 2004 he was a principal with Leeds Equity Partners, from Stanford University and an MA from Oxford.
aNewYork-based private equity firm, and in 2006 and 2007 he was President and CEO of Cambium Learning, an educational services provider.
1 3 5 2 4 52 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 1 Member of the Remuneration Committee.
2 Member of the Audit Committee.
3 Member of the Nomination Committee.
He has previously held posts in both the public and 6.
Greg Lock Age 63 2 private sectors, including as chairman of Ulster Bank 2 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group, partner at Goldman Sachs &Co, chief Appointed to the Board in 2006, Karen Thomson Greg Lock was appointed to the Board in February executive of the Commonwealth Development isanexperienced executive, with a particular focus 2010.
Greg is Chairman of Computacenter plc, the Corporation, and chairman of the Northern Ireland onthe transformational power of the Internet.
IT services business, and Chairman of Kofax Plc, Industrial Development Board.
Heis chairman of Shelaunched AOL in the UK in 1995 and served theleading provider of document-driven business UBMs Remuneration Committee and the Senior asCEO of AOL UK and President of AOL Europe, process automation solutions.
He has more than Independent Director.
developing both the telecoms and advertising lines 38years experience in the software and computer ofbusiness.
As a Director of Vodafone UK she was servicesindustry, including four years as Chairman 8.
Terry Neill Age 65 responsible for developing Vodafone UKs Internet oftechnology company SurfControl Plc.
He is also 2 Non-Executive Director operations and fixed line telecoms business.
Since anon-executive director of technology company 2009 she has been an active investor in early stage Target Group.
Greg spent 30 years at IBM in a Terry Neill was appointed to the Board in September Internet-focused businesses such as MT Mobility Ltd varietyof senior roles including General Manager 2009.
He is based in Ireland, where UBM has its a company supplying mobility products and ofIBMsGlobal Industrial sector from 1998 to 2000, corporate headquarters.
He is a Governor of London services to customers with mobility problems.
amember of IBMs Worldwide Management Council Business School, where he is chair of the Finance Sheholds an MA hons in Philosophy from and Governor of the IBM Academy of Technology.
He held a range of senior roles in Aberdeen University and an MBA from Middlesex Greg has an MA in Natural Sciences from Churchill Accenture variously based in Dublin, Chicago and University.
She has also been awarded an honorary College, Cambridge.
During his career at IBM he London.
He was the worldwide Managing Partner of doctorate from Middlesex University.
lived and worked in the United States, France Andersen Accentures Change Management Practice andGermany.
and a senior partner in Accenture until August 2001, when he was part of the team that successfully 7.
Alan Gillespie Age 60 1 3 developed and executed the strategy for transforming Non-Executive Director Accenture into a public company.
Terry was Alan Gillespie CBE was appointed to the Board Chairman of Accenture Andersen Consultings inApril 2008.
He is chairman of the Economic board and served four terms as Chairman of andSocial Research Council ESRC and also Andersen Worldwide.
In 2010 he completed his thechairman of the International Finance Facility terms as a non-executive director of Bank of Ireland forImmunization IFFIm, an intergovernmental Group and CRH plc.
He is a member of the board of organisation established to fund vaccination Trinity Foundation and chair of the external advisory programmes for children in many of the worlds board for the humanities in Trinity College Dublin.
poorest countries, and a non-executive director ofOld Mutual plc.
6 8 9 7 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53
