More than 300 platforms and programme Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic review Strategies for growth In order to outperform the market, and thereby improve the Groups ranking in the FTSE index, Ultra must add shareholder value and increase its market capitalisation more rapidly than other companies.
This is facilitated if an above average rate of revenue growth is achieved.
Ultra constantly strives to increase its share of the high growth sectors of the markets in which it has positioned itself.
The four main strategies for growth are: 1 2 Increase the Groups portfolio of Augment the number of long-term specialist capability areas platforms and programmes on Ultra concentrates on providing its customers with which Ultras specialist capabilities capabilities and systems using the Groups electronic and are specified software solutions for niche markets in defence, security, transport and energy.
Within these market sectors Ultra Ultra positions these specialist capabilities on a long list of focuses on developing specialist capabilities that provide international platforms and programmes.
These are shown differentiated solutions to customers requirements.
Across as the rows in the matrix on the graphic.
This breadth of Ultras businesses there are about 150 of these specialist platform and programme coverage creates a flywheel capability areas.
These are shown as the columns in the effect that drives Ultras performance year after year, matrix shown in the graphic.
Ultra is positioned on more than 300 such platforms and programmes of which none contributes more than 5% of Ultras revenue in any year.
In 2010 In 2010 Ultra added 13 new specialist the Groups specialist capabilities capability areas to its portfolio.
were specified on 12 new platforms and programmes.
Over 150 specialist capabilities WIN-TUSArmy  MRC142U USMC F A-18E F Eurofighter UAESystemsAp pproa achtoTraining BritishArmybase ep protection 12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Line of sight radios Sonobuoys Network access equipment HiPPAG compressors Ice protection Landing gear control Cockpit equipment Training & consultancy Surveillance systems Magneto inductive Nuclear control systems Sonobuoy telemetry receivers Hand controls Acoustic countermeasures Communication systems Voice projection units Trackside electrical power Targeting pods Bow sonar systems Data links Gunshot detection systems Cryptographic equipment Data recordg & analysis eqt Video communication systems Electronic warfare eqt Ships combat systems Stabilised sensor platforms Geo data & mapping systems Crisis information mgt systems Secure network systems Submarine comms systems Active noise & vibration Structural integrity monitoring Aircraft system test equipment Electrical power mgt systems Situational awareness systems Long range acoustic hailing Strategic review Strategies for growth 60% 11% opening rm order cover increase in sales to the compared to analysts consensus Middle East & Asia Pacic forecast for 2011 revenue 76.5m 2009: 68.9m 3 4 Broaden the Groups customer base Widen Ultras geographic footprint Ultras independence allows it to sell its wide portfolio of Ultra has pursued a strategy of gaining access to the two specialist capabilities to a broad range of customers around largest addressable defence budgets in the world.
The graphic shows the major customers for the spends more on defence each year than the rest of the Groups 2010 revenue.
The majority of Ultras acquisitions have been in North America and the point has Within the top three customers, US DoD, UK MoD and BAE now been reached where the Group has a transatlantic Systems, Ultra actually supplies to a wide range of different capability and derives more of its revenue from the US and project ofces, integrated project teams and platform Canada than it does from the UK.
Ultra therefore deals with a larger number of different customers than the graphic might first suggest.
Revenue from the Middle East and Asia Pacific regions are also capable of expansion.
The Groups growing presence in Australia and its enlarged joint venture with Emirates Advanced Investments in the UAE indicates Ultras intent in this regard.
In 2010 In 2010 Ultra won business with the Group was successful in 17 new customers.
35% Revenue by region 30% 25% 4 1 United Kingdom 27% 20% 1 3 2 North America 53% 15% 3 Middle East & Asia Pacic 11% 10% 4 Mainland Europe 9% 5% 0% 2 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13 US DoD UK MoD BAE SYSTEMS ROLLS-ROYCE GENERAL DYNAMICS RAYTHEON THALES LOCKHEED MARTIN UAE MoD EADS ACMA UTC BOEING KONGSBERG KOREAN DoD 7.
