Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Board of Directors For the year ended 31 December 2010 Julian Blogh CBE PhD CEng Chairman Douglas Caster CBE BSc MIET Chief Executive Dr Julian Blogh created Ultra Electronics by leading the management Douglas Caster is a highly experienced engineer and manager of buy-out in 1993.
Since then he has adapted and developed as the electronics businesses.
He has a long track record of driving growth Group has grown whilst retaining the high level of intellectual and superior financial performance in the companies for which he challenge that tests and strengthens Ultras growth strategies.
Biographical details Biographical details Dr Blogh, age 67, worked for Ferranti Radar and Plessey Radar Douglas Caster, age 57, started his career as an electronics design before joining Dowty Electronic Systems where he was Managing engineer with the Racal Electronics Group in 1975, before moving Director of Sonar & Communication Systems from 1987 to 1992, to Schlumberger in 1986 and then to Dowty as Engineering when he was appointed Managing Director of Dowty Avionics.
He Director of Sonar & Communication Systems in 1988.
In 1992, he led the management buy-out of seven defence and aerospace became Managing Director of that business and, after participating electronics businesses from the Dowty Group to form Ultra in the management buy-out that formed Ultra Electronics, joined Electronics and became Chief Executive when it began trading in the Board in October 1993.
In April 2000, he was promoted to the October 1993.
Dr Blogh was also appointed Deputy Chairman in position of Managing Director of Ultras Information & Power April 2004 and became Chairman in April 2005.
Dr Blogh is also Systems division.
In April 2004 he was appointed Chief Operating the non-executive Chairman of Gooch & Housego.
officer and became Chief Executive in April 2005.
He was appointed deputy Chairman in April 2010.
Sir Robert Walmsley KCB, FREng Non-Executive Director Christopher Bailey FCA MCT Non-Executive Director Sir Robert Walmsley brings to Ultras Board a wealth of valuable Chris Bailey is an experienced plc Finance Director who brings experience in the defence security, energy and transport sectors, valuable specialist and general management expertise to Ultras markets in which the Group is investing for further growth.
With Aggregate Industries, Chris gained experience of an substantial knowledge of all of Ultras main geographic markets.
organisation with operations in all of Ultras main geographic markets.
Biographical details Biographical details Sir Robert Walmsley, age 69, was most recently Chief of Defence Chris Bailey, age 64, was appointed to the board in January 2005.
Procurement at the UK Ministry of Defence MoD, a post which he Mr Bailey was Group Finance Director of Aggregate Industries plc until held from 1996 until his retirement from public service in 2003.
He was the Finance Director of the precursor companies of to his MoD appointment, Sir Robert had a distinguished career in Aggregate Industries from 1984 until its formation in 1997.
He is a the Royal Navy, where he rose to the rank of Vice Admiral in 1994 Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Wales and served for two years as Controller of the Navy.
Sir Robert and is also a Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Walmsley is Chairman of the Board of the Major Projects Association, a non-executive director of Cohort plc and of the General Dynamics Corporation.
He is also a senior advisor at Morgan Stanley International plc.
He was appointed to the Board in January 2009.
36 36 Ultra Ultra Electr Electronics onics Holdings Holdings plc plc Audit and Remuneration Committee member Nominations Committee member Board of Directors Rakesh Sharma BSc MBA CPhys MInstP Chief Operating officer Ian Grifths BSc Non-Executive Director Rakesh Sharma has unmatched experience of running different Ultra Ian Grifths brings to the Ultra Board his substantial experience of businesses and divisions and his focus always has been on driving growth running complex engineering organisations around the world and in the Group.
He ensures Ultra businesses concentrate on maintaining has demonstrated his skill at driving programmes of reinvestment to competitive advantage in the various specialist market sectors in which underpin business growth.
Ultra operates and delivering superior financial performance.
Biographical details Biographical details Ian Grifths, age 60, was appointed to the Board in April 2003.
From Rakesh Sharma, age 49, started his career as an electronic design February 2006 until May 2007 Mr Grifths was Managing Director, engineer at Marconi in 1983 before moving to Dowty as Chief Royal Mail Letters.
Previously, he was a main Board executive Director Engineer of Sonar & Communication Systems in 1989.
He was of GKN plc, where he was Group Managing Director GKN appointed Marketing Director of that business in 1993 when Ultra Automotive, having been a member of the GKN Driveline senior Electronics was formed.
From 1997 to 1999 he worked in the US management team since 1990.
He is also a non-executive Director of as Ultras Operations Director, North America.
After returning to Renold plc.
the UK he was Managing Director of PMES and then of Sonar & Communication Systems before taking his first divisional role in 2005 as Managing Director, Tactical & Sonar Systems.
In 2008 he moved to run the Groups Information & Power Systems Division before being appointed Chief Operating Officer in January 2010 and was appointed to the Board in April 2010.
Paul Dean MA FCMA Finance Director Andy Hamment BA FRAeS Group Marketing Director Paul Dean is an excellent and very experienced plc Finance Director Andy Hamment has worked in the aerospace and defence industry whose experience, including participating in the buyout from Burmah for most of his career, mainly in business development and Castrol and subsequent otation, is an excellent match for Ultra.
He focuses on ensuring that there is a robust strategic review process in each of the Group businesses.
Biographical details Paul Dean, age 50, joined Ultra in January 2009 having been Biographical details Finance Director of Foseco from 2001 until its acquisition by Andy Hamment, age 56, started his career with Hawker Siddeley Cookson plc in April 2008.
He was a key part of the team that led before moving to Schlumberger in 1980, working in procurement the 2001 management buy-out from Burmah Castrol of five and then marketing at Weston Aerospace before transferring to specialty chemicals businesses to form Foseco Jersey Ltd which Solartron to become its Aerospace Business Manager.
He joined was oated as Foseco plc in May 2005.
From 1989 to 2001, Paul Dowty in 1988 as Managing Director of the Controls business and held a number of senior finance roles in Burmah Castrol plc, participated in the management buy-out that created Ultra including Finance Director of Castrol UK Limited, Chief Financial Electronics.
He was appointed to his current position in July 2000 officer of the Fosroc Division, Group Financial Controller and then and joined the Board at that time.
Corporate Treasurer for Burmah Castrol plc.
He was appointed to the Board in April 2009.
Note: All details correct as at 31st December 2010 Audit and Remuneration Committee member Ultra UltraElectr Electronics onicsHoldings Holdings plc plc 37 37 Nominations Committee member 7.
