Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic review Strategic tenets Ultras growth momentum has been maintained in 2010, as it has been for many years, by successfully pursuing its strategies for growth.
Underpinning these strategies are eight core strategic tenets.
They have been used consistently by the Group over many years.
They help shape the culture, defined as values and behaviours that drive results, that is encouraged in Ultra.
These are summarised below: one three To concentrate on defence, To offer a through-life product security, transport and energy and service portfolio that includes The Groups core competencies, domain knowledge and systems, sub-systems, products market positions give it particular credibility in these four sectors worldwide.
Core competencies include market and components positioning through an understanding of customer The Group values any position within the supply chain that requirements: responding to complex invitations to tender is held by any particular niche.
Frequently, more attractive or requests for proposals to capture large contracts: margins can be generated by providing components than managing complex development programmes where risks by supplying entire systems.
Where the Group has a need careful identication and control: manufacturing and number of complementary niches, it does combine these to aftermarket support over long timescales and the discipline offer sub-systems, systems and through-life management to meet our commitments.
The strategy is to enhance the solutions to satisfy customer requirements.
Generally capability of the Group to allow adjacent market sectors however, Ultra prefers to retain a leading niche position that exhibit growth to be served.
rather than constantly pursue the supply of systems with the hope of higher added value.
The scope of Ultras offering is determined after a rigorous strategic review.
two four To be a niche player where the Group To grow organically and by acquisition Ultra businesses are expected to contribute to the organic has competitive advantage through growth of the Group as well as identifying well matched technology or market position acquisition targets.
To ensure that organic growth is achieved, businesses produce annual five-year strategic plans Within the Groups 25 businesses, about 150 niches can be that target specic opportunities.
The focus on cash identied where the aim is to sustain competitive advantage generation is a key driver to the affordability of suitable and achieve a world-leading position.
The Group values its acquisitions to augment the Groups growth rate.
The portfolio of niches, since each offering can be defended Groups acquisition strategy is summarised as being the against competition through barriers to entry, resulting in pursuit of bolt-on and bolt-in acquisitions that enable Ultra the potential for superior financial performance.
This wide to successfully pursue its four main strategies for growth.
The spread gives the Group low dependency on any single ideal size of acquisitions, as measured by annual revenue, contract and provides resilience in the face of technological is currently about 30m to 100m for bolt-ons and up to changes or funding cut backs.
Organisation transforming acquisitions are unlikely owing to the risk prole of such transactions.
14 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic review Strategic tenets 96% 8% retention of key staff Ultras growth of in 2010 organic operating profit at constant currencies five seven To have an efficient organisation with To gain competitive advantage by committed and competent people internal and external teaming Ultra seeks to maximise efficiency throughout its Teaming, internally within the Group or externally with other organisation.
The levels of commitment and competency of companies, broadens offerings by combining niche products business management teams is continuously assessed or linking domain knowledge.
It attains competitive through strategic, budget, organisation, succession and advantage by accessing off-the-shelf technology at lower regular business performance reviews.
The Group places a cost, allowing timely delivery while avoiding expensive high degree of trust in, and has high expectations of, its development costs and high project risk.
Increasingly, Ultra senior staff and supports their development and teams with international, world-class partners to access improvement activities.
Ultra empowers management teams best of breed technology and undertakes specialist system to run their respective businesses to deliver agreed and sub-system design and integration, ensuring sovereign strategies, meet budgets and continuously develop their operational independence where required.
Ultra constantly develops its people and structure through a rigorous, annual organisation, succession and development planning process.
six eight To be an excellent and strategic To meet our commitments Ultra has built a reputation for meeting its commitments.
supplier to our customers This reputation is not only based on businesses meeting Ultra businesses are expected to maximise their relationships their obligations, but also by establishing a culture with customers for the long term, through sustained on-time within the Group which is based on this principle.
Ultra delivery of high quality products and services.
Many of the believes that this reputation is one of its defining and Groups niche offerings involve the design and supply of most valuable characteristics.
Behaving in this way fosters complex products and services which are typically safety or long-term relationships.
This creates a dependency from the customers perspective and encourages a long-term strategic relationship where Ultras businesses become part of the customers extended enterprises, to mutual benefit.
