Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic review Positioning in growing market sectors to maintain growth momentum Ultra has consistently and continuously positioned and repositioned itself in high growth sectors within its main defence, security, transport and energy markets.
The Group has demonstrated a long track record of identifying future high growth market sectors and then investing to create differentiated positions in them.
Ultras ever broadening range of specialist market positions underpins the Groups growth momentum.
Defence and security The level of international tension remains high, driven by Elsewhere, in areas where Ultra has achieved market the actions of rogue states, terrorist groups, organised presence, such as Australia, Turkey and the Middle East, the crime and state-sponsored cyber activity.
This underpins upward trend of defence spending is being maintained.
continuing expenditure worldwide in Ultras main markets, Modern armed forces around the world rely on many forms of defence and security.
sophisticated electronic systems to achieve smart capability for In the US, the Presidents budget requests for the near to precision targeting, information superiority as well as medium term are for the core defence budget to grow interoperability between coalition forces.
As a result, an slowly in real terms with substantial additional funds for increasing proportion of defence and security budgets is being continuing operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.
The focus of spent on electronics and Ultra should benefit from this trend.
expenditure is on improving information superiority, The broader security and intelligence markets for Ultra command & control, unmanned sensors & systems and continue to grow, driven by an undiminished level of secure communications.
These are all areas where Ultra has terrorist activity globally.
Covert surveillance and legal strong market positions.
The current delay in authorising intercept of electronic communications continue to be expenditure against the FY11 defence budget is slowing the effective ways of identifying and negating the threat.
The ow of new contracts but it is anticipated that the situation additional funding announced in the UK for addressing the will be resolved in the coming months.
cyber threat emphasises the increasing focus on this In the UK, defence budgets will be reduced, though, for Ultra, element of security concerns.
Ultras highly specialised UK defence represents only about 12% of Group revenue.
As capabilities in cryptology for information assurance are well a consequence of the squeeze, fewer new platforms will be positioned in this regard.
built so the military capability of existing platforms is likely to be upgraded.
This typically drives demand for advanced electronic solutions.
In the short term, the imperative for change and reorganisation within the MoD is likely to restrict or delay the authorisation of new contracts.
300 818m Ultras specialist capabilities are specified on over 300 international platforms and programmes order book value at the end of 2010 18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic review Market sectors and opportunities one To concentrate on defence, security, transport and energy see all eight of the strategic tenets on pages 14 & 15 Transport Energy Population growth is driving demand for civil aircraft and Around the world there is a strategic need to have secure infrastructure investment in mass passenger transport access to an increasing amount of energy with a low systems.
These investment decisions may, however, be carbon footprint from independent sources.
This is driving slowed by overall concerns about the state of some a steady increase in the level of investment in civil nuclear national economies as deficit reduction plans are power generation, in extending the life of existing plant as implemented.
Demand will remain strong, however, in well as building new reactors.
Ultra has niche capabilities in other, high-growth economies.
the supply of high integrity control systems and associated specialist sensors.
The Group is therefore well placed to Increases have been announced in production rates at both benefit as market opportunities develop globally.
Boeing and Airbus reecting their long order books.
Sales of equipment for the Boeing 787, when it enters airline service, will be additive to the Groups performance.
The long-term, worldwide increase in air travel drives investment in infrastructure including airport IT systems where Ultra has a strong capability and the Group continues to win new business around the world.
Ground transport systems also require continuing investment in regions of high population density, a trend from which Ultra should benefit.
$150,000 60 the number of nuclear power the value of Ultra equipment on stations currently under each Boeing 787 aircraft construction around the world Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19 7.
