Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic review Key Performance Indicators The indicators shown below have been identified by the Directors as giving the best overall indication of the Groups long-term success in improving its FTSE ranking by outperforming the market.
KPI 1 KPI 2 KPI 3 Revenue growth profit growth Growth in earnings per share over a three year period Growth in total Group revenue Growth in Group headline Annual growth in headline Denition earnings per share calculated compared to the prior year.
profit before tax compared over a rolling three year period.
2010 result 9% 15% 16% 2009 result 26% 24% 18% 2008 result 25% 18% 16% Revenue growth gives a quantified indication of the The Board uses operating cash conversion as a simple rate at which the Groups business activity is expanding.
yet reliable measure of cash generation, which represents the major element of the Groups short-term incentive A satisfactory headline profit growth trend confirms bonus scheme.
Whilst free cash will continue to fund that additional revenue is being gained without profit Ultras expansion by acquisition, it is important to ensure margins being compromised.
It also indicates that the that the balance sheet remains sufficiently strong and additional contribution to profits from new acquisitions that the cost of carrying additional debt does not become is greater than the extra financing costs associated with too high.
Interestcover is a reliable indicator of balance sheet strength.
A key objective of the Board is to increase headline Finally, it remains the overriding objective of the Board earnings per share at a faster rate than other similar to provide shareholders with a long-term return on their quoted companies in the UK.
If successful this should investment in Ultra that exceeds that of other potential ensure that investors will continue to hold Ultras shares, equity investments with a similar risk profile.
rather than those of its peers.
The Directors aim to manage the Group so that it continues to generate high Total shareholder return is a suitable measure, as levels of cash, which can be reinvested in the business in compared to the overall population of FTSE 250 companies.
the form of acquisitions or to develop new products.
10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Strategic review Key Performance Indicators KPI 4 KPI 5 KPI 6 Cash conversion Interest cover Relative shareholder return Net cash from operating The ratio of profit from Annual total shareholder return activities, less net purchases of operations to finance capital growth plus dividends property, plant and equipment, costs associated with paid, assuming dividends less expenditure on product bank borrowings.
reinvested over a rolling five development and LTIP purchases, year period compared to the expressed as a percentage of FTSE 250 index.
96% 23times 5% per annum 115% 20times 8% per annum 102% 19times 14% per annum Non-financial performance indicators Ultras four strategies for growth are described on pages 12 & 13 of this report.
Performance indicators relating to the Groups success in these four dimensions are shown on those pages.
The Groups right people are its most important asset.
Performance indicators that relate to the recruitment, retention and development of Ultras staff are included on Note: In 2009 and prior years, Ultra used a KPI relating to order book pages 16 and 17 of this report.
This is not included in 2010 as it is becoming a less useful measure for the Group.
Over half of Ultras revenue is derived from North America where order book visibility at the end of 2010 was less than 50% while outside North America it was over 70%.
A single KPI that combines these essentially dissimilar numbers is of reducing utility as the pattern of Group revenue evolves.
see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11 7.
