Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Performance Tactical & Sonar Systems Ultras Tactical Communication Systems business supplies dependable, reliable and powerful communication equipment for tactical military and defence system applications and is a world leader in high capacity radio communication systems.
In 2010, Ultra was awarded a contract worth up to US$650m over seven years by the US Department of Defense to supply upgraded versions of its High Capacity Line-of-Sight HCLOS radios.
These form the core of the wideband tactical radio systems used by US armed forces engaged in land operations.
Ultras HCLOS radios and associated equipment are key elements of the transformation of the US armed forces battlespace information management systems.
Pictured above, clockwise from bottom left: Roldan Perez Morales, Design Specialist RF : Karim Chebil Manager, RF & Physical Design: Franois Choquette, Design Specialist FPGA : XueMei Ma, IS Specialist: Ariane Boudreau-Tanghe, Continuous Improvement Facilitator: Simon Germain, Design Specialist RF : Patrick Guenole, Technical Leader, Operations: Chinh Nguyen Thuong, Design Specialist Analog Digital.
26 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Performance Tactical & Sonar Systems Revenue in Tactical & Sonar Systems increased by 12% to 311.9m 2009: 277.5m and headline operating profit rose 16% to 59.4m 2009: 51.1m.
These results include full-year contributions from Xerion and Avalon, acquired in 2009.
The closing order book was 402.3m 2009: 340.5m, reecting the success in winning the large UK contract for cryptographic equipment.
Revenue and profit growth reected strong demand for Revenue Ultras tactical communication products, including radios to the US, South Korea and the Middle East.
Initial revenue from 311.9m the UK cryptographic contract was supplemented by 44% 2009 277.5m international sales of airborne encrypted data link equipment.
of Group Demand for Ultras anti-submarine warfare systems and equipment remained strong, especially in the US.
12% Growth in future years will be underpinned by the following developments in 2010: successful ight demonstrations of Ultras innovative high Operating profit integrity data link on Watchkeeper and Fireshadow UAVs and initial development of a version suitable for land-based 59.4m uninhabited vehicles 54% 2009 51.1m the release of significant full development and initial of Group production options, following successful early development and risk reduction activities, relating to new 16% UK cryptographic equipment contracts to incorporate the latest technology in the Groups underwater acoustic transducers and to extend Order book the operational capability of Ultras sonar-based sea mine countermeasure system 402.3m 49% 2009 340.5m of Group 18% Number of employees 38% of Group 1,580 Capabilities Acoustic countermeasure systems: Airborne anti-submarine warfare systems: Autonomous underwater surveillance systems: Airborne targeting pods: Communications network interfacing equipment: Data recording and analysis solutions: Cryptographic equipment: Data link communication systems: Gunre location systems: Loitering munition systems: Radio communication systems: Sea mine disposal systems: Secure 160dB video communication systems: Sonar transducers and systems: Sonobuoys: Submarine tactical communication Ultras innovative HyperSpike systems: Tactical radio systems: Torpedo defence systems: Underwater acoustic countermeasures: Video, voice and data acoustic hailing device can deliver communication systems: Wireless network equipment up to 160dB of acoustic energy see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 27 7.
