Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Performance Information & Power Systems Ultras Command & Control Systems business provides solutions for protecting the Forward Operating Bases FOBs of countries in operational theatres and in 2010 continued to win business in this area.
In order to alert the FOB to enemy activity, sensors are placed within the base and the surrounding area.
Ultras Situational Awareness Management System SAMS processes the sensor data and can then automatically track several hundred individual targets at once, at rapid update rates.
SAMS manages the individual sensors, allowing it, for example, to use a camera to follow a specic target which has been identied by the system, utilising data received from a radar unit.
The system limits the ability of the enemy to launch a surprise attack on the base.
Pictured above, back row L to R: Ben Allen, Project Engineer: Steve McNamara, Senior Software Engineer: James Scrymgeour, Project Manager.
Centre row L to R: Russell Unsworth, Senior Software Engineer: Jon Thompson, Head of Programmes: Andy Russell, Business Unit Director: John Drummond, Chief Engineer: Chris Roberts, Business Development Manager.
Front row L to R: Mark Stillman, Project Engineer: Ambrose Sherlock, Project Engineer: Ben Dixon, Engineering and Service Manager.
24 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Performance Information & Power Systems Revenue in Information & Power Systems grew by 16% to 224.0m compared to 193.5m in the previous year.
Headline operating profit increased by 17% to 27.5m 2009: 23.6m.
These results included full-year contributions from Scytale and Tisys, acquired in 2009, and a part-year contribution from Transmag, acquired in July.
The order book at the end of the year was 204.7m 2009: 211.0m, reecting delays in contract awards, especially in the US.
Revenue and profit growth reected strong demand for Ultras Revenue nuclear sensors and systems, both for defence and civil applications, and for specialist power equipment for mass 224.0m transit systems and naval vessels.
Demand for airport IT 32% 2009 193.5m systems rose throughout the year though profit was impacted of Group by high bid costs for substantial overseas opportunities.
Features of the divisions performance in the year that 16% will support continuing growth included: qualication for ight of the integrated tactical communications system for the new Global Observer long Operating profit endurance UAV ahead of its first ight early in 2011 orders to supply trackside power for Network Rail, London 27.5m Underground and the Manchester tram system extension 25% 2009 23.6m a contract to supply an advanced passenger processing of Group solution at Orange County airport, California 17% Order book 204.7m 25% 2009 211.0m of Group -3% Number of employees 37% of Group 1,560 Capabilities Airport information management systems: Airport-wide systems integration: Combat systems: Command, control and information systems: Command information management systems: Enterprise IT solutions: Intelligence processing infrastructures: IT consultancy: Nuclear reactor control and instrumentation: Nucleonic sensors: Data fusion 39 systems: Local situational awareness systems: Radar and electro-optic systems: Surveillance and tracking systems: Ultra delivered 39 trackside Naval power conversion: Gas turbine electric start and regeneration systems: Signature measurement and control transformer rectier units in 2010 systems for naval vessels: Transformers and rectiers: Transit for use on rail and tram systems in system power conversion and controls the UK see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 25 7.
