Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic review Ultras objective Douglas Caster, Chief Executive The prime objective specialist activities in its 25 businesses, within which the The Boards prime objective continues to be to outperform Group has about 150 specialist capability areas.
The diversity the market in terms of annual increases in shareholder of specialist capabilities enables Ultra to contribute to a large value by delivering above average increases in earnings and number of defence, security, transport and energy platforms by communicating effectively with shareholders and the and programmes.
Ultra has world-leading positions in many financial community generally.
An anticipated outcome of of its specialities and, as an independent, non-threatening meeting this objective is that Ultras ranking in the FTSE partner, is able to support all of the main prime contractors index on the London Stock Exchange should improve.
with its capabilities and solutions.
Through such positioning, Ultras systems, equipment or services are often mission-critical Ultra seeks to extend its long track record of delivering to the successful operation of the platform to which they above average shareholder returns.
The Groups success in contribute.
In turn, this mission-criticality secures Ultras this regard since otation in 1996 is shown in the graph on positions for the long term which underpins the superior the previous page.
financial performance of the Group and drives the In order to outperform the market, Ultra must add shareholder sustainability of Ultras business model.
value and increase its market capitalisation more rapidly than Continuity of management other companies.
Ultra constantly strives to increase its share Working to attain the goals of these growth strategies also of the markets in which it has positioned itself.
The Group requires consistency of management focus and drive.
The focuses on those specialist sectors within the markets where continuity of Ultras management team ensures that the customers preferentially focus their expenditure.
expertise is retained to maintain the growth momentum in The four main strategies for growth are: the Group and to address and resolve issues posed by its markets.
When, as planned, I become the Groups 1 Increase the Groups portfolio of specialist Chairman in April 2011, Rakesh Sharma will take over from capability areas me as Chief Executive, having been Chief Operating officer since January 2010.
2 Augment the number of long-term Rakesh has been with the Group since 1989 and has platforms and programmes on which worked in the US as well as in the UK.
He has run a number Ultras specialist capabilities are specified of Ultras businesses and divisions and his focus has always been on driving growth in the Group.
He understands what makes Ultra different and how to focus Group businesses 3 Broaden the Groups customer base on maintaining competitive advantage in the various specialist market sectors in which Ultra operates.
I am 4 Widen Ultras geographic footprint confident that Ultra will continue to develop and grow under Rakeshs leadership.
Pages 12 and 13 expand on these growth strategies.
They are underpinned by the eight strategic tenets which are described on pages 14 and 15.
These tenets help determine the culture of the Group.
Competitive and corporate strategies Achieving success in these four areas requires the successful execution of both competitive and corporate strategies.
The Growth in headline earnings per share first element, the competitive strategies, are implemented by each of Ultras businesses and focus on winning new business in the niche market sectors in which the Group has positioned itself.
The corporate strategy adds value by focusing on Ultras investments in acquisitions and in significant internally-funded 12% development programmes.
Successful pursuit of these growth strategies drives the 107.9p 2009: 96.4p resilience of the Groups financial performance.
Ultras growth momentum is derived from the Groups broad mix of 08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Strategic review Ultras objective Ultra has achieved world-leading positions with many of its specialist capabilities and, as an independent, non-threatening partner, is able to support the worlds platform prime contractors Acquisitions One indicator of the success of Ultras growth strategies is the acquisitions that the Group makes.
Since the start of 2010, Ultra has bought four specialist businesses.
In July 2010 Ultra made two bolt-in acquisitions: Extec and Transmag in the UK.
Transmag augments the transit power system offering of Ultras PMES business in the Information & Power Systems division.
Extec designs and manufactures thick-lm hybrid electronic microcircuits and is part of the Manufacturing & Card Systems business Extec supplies high reliability in the Aircraft & Vehicle Systems division.
Extec will have a microcircuits for use in significant role in the production phase of the nuclear hostile environments reactor control programme for the Royal Navys submarines.
At the end of the year, Ultra acquired Adaptive Materials Inc. AMI in Michigan, USA, which is now part of the Aircraft & Vehicle Systems division.
AMI has developed fuel cells that provide more electrical power in less space than competing technologies and run on propane, a fuel that is readily available worldwide.
In early 2011 the Group acquired 3eTI, a business in Transmag Maryland, USA, that designs, develops, markets and supports supplies large, specialist electrical military grade wireless local area network access points, mesh transformers networks, security software, and encryption technologies for military, government and commercial markets.
It is now part of Ultras Tactical & Sonar Systems division.
AMI supplies innovative fuel cells that are more energy-efficient than batteries 3eTI supplies secure, on-the-move communication equipment 42nd 3eTI was Ultras 42nd acquisition Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09 7.
