Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee Terms of reference A review of all corporate policies was undertaken in 2010.
The The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee review was led by the Controllers Department and formed part overseesUnilevers conduct as a responsible multinational ofthe ongoing work to simplify business processes across the business.
The Committee is also charged with ensuring that company.
The previous 86 policies have been replaced by a Unilevers reputation is protected and enhanced.
A key element moreconcise framework of 26 Code Policies, such as the Unilever of the role is the need to identify any external developments Supplier Code and our Occupational Health and Safety Policy, that which are likely to have an influence upon Unilevers standing complement and support the Code of Business Principles.
More insociety and to bring these to the attention of the Boards.
detailed mandatory requirements in specialist areas have been reclassified as Unilever Standards.
The new Code Policies were The Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive communicated to all senior managers and their review and Directors: Sir Malcolm Rifkind, Hixonia Nyasulu and Louise Fresco.
acknowledgement of these is underway.
The communication and Two members of the Committee retired at the AGM in May training programme will be extended to all managers during 2011 2010 Leon Brittan and Narayana Murthy.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind and will include the development of new training and sign-off joined the Board at the AGM and succeeded Leon Brittan as systems.
The Committee followed the review during the course of the In addition to the expertise that individual members bring yearand scrutinised a number of the revised policies.
Members toUnilever, the Committees discussions are informed by the welcomed the outcome of the review as it ensures that the perspectives of our two sustainability leadership groups.
The first principles of the Code are embedded directly in Unilever policy is the Unilever Sustainable Development Group USDG five and the simplified processes give employees a better experts from outside the company who meet formally twice a understanding of Unilevers standards and provide clarity as year to advise Unilevers senior leadership on thedevelopment of towhere they will be held accountable.
The second is the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Steering Team, the group of senior executives who are Competition investigations accountable for the delivery of the Plan see below.
Drawing on Pursuant to the remit of the Committee, the Boards have expressly the insights from these groups helps to keep the Boards informed delegated to the Committee day-to-day oversight of the conduct of current and emerging trends and any potential risks arising of Unilevers response to the ongoing investigations by the from sustainability issues.
European Commission and other national authorities into alleged infringements of competition law.
The Chief Legal Officer and The Committees Terms of Reference are contained within The external counsel report to the Committee in this regard and Governance of Unilever and are also available on our website at matters are then considered by the full Boards.
Details of information, please refer to legal proceedings within note 25 on the Unilever Sustainable Development Group are available on our page 116. website at www.
Human rights Meetings The Committee reviewed the United Nations Framework for Meetings are held quarterly and ad hoc as required.
The Business and Human Rights.
The Framework outlines three Committee Chairman reports the conclusions to the Boards.
principles: the states duty to protect against human rights abuses by third parties, including business: the corporate responsibility In 2010 the Committee reviewed a range of topics including: torespect human rights: and the need for greater access by Unilevers Code of Business Principles and supporting corporate victims to effective remedies.
policies: competition-related issues: nanotechnology: animal testing: sensitive territories such as Zimbabwe: human rights: Unilever has supported the Framework by working with nine labour relations: and particular elements of the Unilever other companies as part of the Netherlands chapter of the United Sustainable Living Plan such as packaging and sustainable Nations Global Compact to publish apractical toolkit called How agricultural sourcing as well as the development of the Plan itself.
to do business with respect forHuman Rights.
It has also contributed to research for theState of Play, a review of human Code of Business Principles and supporting policy review rights due diligence conducted by the Institute for Human The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the Unilever Rightsand Business thatwill inform further development of Code of Business Principles which sets out the standards of theUN Framework.
conduct we expect of our employees.
The Committee ensures that the Code remains fit for purpose and is appropriately applied.
Infringements of the Code are monitored by the Committee.
Inthis regard the Committee complements the role of the Audit Committee which considers the Code as part of its remit to review risk management.
58 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors Governance Labour relations The Committee maintains a watching brief on Unilevers relationships with its workforce.
In November 2007 a complaint was brought to Unilevers attention by the International Union ofFood, Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers Associations IUF.
The complaint was refuted by our Indian business, Hindustan Unilever.
It alleged that Hindustan Unilever had conspired to force workers at its Doom Dooma factory in Assam to join a new trade union as a pre-condition fortheir continued employment at the factory.
If proven this would have constituted a breach of the freedom of association provisions of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Under the terms of the OECD procedures, the unions referred their complaint to the OECDs National Contact Point in the UK for investigation.
After a series of meetings with the IUF and with the help of theNational Contact Points conciliation service, a methodology for resolving the issue was agreed with the IUF.
This centres on aprocess for verifying union membership to the satisfaction of the IUF, the local trade union and the state government labour department.
Hindustan Unilever is seeking to implement this approach and discussions are ongoing to ensure that all concerned acknowledge the validity of the process.
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan The year was a significant one for Unilever: November marked the launch of an ambitious set of sustainability targets in the shape of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
The Plan aims to improve sustainability across not only Unilevers own business practices, but those of its suppliers and consumers see pages 20 and 21.
The Committee played an active role in monitoring the development of the Plan throughout the year.
It reviewed some of the potential risks that could damage the credibility of the Plan, commented in detail on the ambition of the targets and advised how they should be communicated.
As the Plan is central to Unilevers mission, the Committee will continue to monitor its delivery.
Evaluation of the Committee The Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, led by the Committee Chairman.
Members agreed to adopt a more forward-looking approach and to review issues according to strategic business and reputational priorities.
The Boards also evaluated the performance of the Committee.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility  Louise Fresco Hixonia Nyasulu Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59
