Report of the Directors About Unilever Outlook and risks The following discussion about outlook and risk management The competitive environment for our business is likely to remain activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk intense in 2011.
Our key competitors, both global and local, will and uncertainties.
The actual results could differ materially from be eager to rebuild market share in many of our markets and those projected.
See the Cautionary statement on the inside categories, and will design their activity plans accordingly.
expect continued high levels of competitive challenge to our many category leadership positions.
Some of this will be Outlook price-based, as in 2010, but we also expect strong Market conditions for our business were challenging in 2010 and innovation-based competition backed by wide-ranging brand we do not anticipate this changing significantly in 2011. support.
With the improvements we have been making to our business we are well prepared for these challenges.
Economic pressures are expected to continue to weigh heavily on consumer spending, particularly in developed markets where the Faced with these challenges we will continue to focus on our long combined impact of austerity measures and high unemployment term strategic priorities of driving volume growth ahead of our is likely to constrain disposable incomes.
Emerging market growth markets whilst providing a steady improvement in underlying should continue to be robust, although even here we expect to operating margin and strong cash flow.
We are well placed, with see a modest slowdown.
The most difficult environment is likely an impressive presence in emerging markets, more than 75% of to be in Western Europe, where higher taxes, lower public our business in either category leadership or number two expenditure and potentially rising interest rates mean that, for the positions, a portfolio of strong brands, an increasingly effective short term at least, growth will be limited.
In these conditions, innovation programme and a dynamic new performance culture.
consumer confidence is not expected to rise significantly in the These give us confidence that Unilever is fit to compete, whatever year ahead and the search for value by the consumer will the circumstances.
Principal risk factors A further source of volatility in the year ahead is the return of Risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to vary from inflationary pressure, particularly in respect of key commodity those described in forward-looking statements made within this costs.
We anticipate significant commodity cost inflation for at document, or could impact on our ability to meet our targets or least the first half of 2011.
If current trends continue then this be detrimental to our profitability or reputation.
The risks that we inflationary pressure will extend also into the second half and regard as the most relevant to our business are identified below.
In this environment we expect prices to rise, albeit at a We have also commented on certain mitigating actions that we lower rate than costs as competitors seek to protect market believe help us manage such risks: however, we may not be positions and offset higher commodity costs with savings successful in deploying some or all of these mitigating actions.
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Economic Decline in business during an economic downturn Avoiding customer and supplier default Unilevers business is dependent on continuing consumer demand The breadth of Unilevers portfolio and our geographic reach help for our brands.
Reduced consumer wealth driven by adverse tomitigate local economic risks.
We carefully monitor economic economic conditions may result in our consumers becoming indicators and regularly model the impact of different economic unwilling or unable to purchase our products, which could adversely scenarios.
We monitor consumer behaviour through regular market affect our cash flow, turnover, profits and profit margins.
In addition research and adopt a flexible business model which allows us to we have a large number of global brands, some of which have a adapt our portfolio and respond quickly to develop new offerings significant carrying value as intangible assets: adverse economic that suit consumers and customers changing needs during economic conditions may reduce the value of those brands which could require downturns.
We regularly update our forecast of business results and us to impair their balance sheet value.
cash flows and, where necessary, rebalance investment priorities.
We undertake impairment testing reviews in accordance with the relevant During economic downturns access to credit could be constrained.
This could impact the viability of our suppliers and customers and could temporarily inhibit the flow of day-to-day cash transactions We regularly monitor and review the health of our customers with suppliers and customers via the banks.
andsuppliers and implement credit limits and supply substitution arrangements.
These reviews are undertaken more frequently Adverse economic conditions may affect one or more countries duringeconomic downturns.
within a region, or may extend globally.
The impact on our overall portfolio will depend on the severity of the economic slowdown, themix of countries affected and any government response to reduce the impact such as fiscal stimulus, changes to taxation andmeasures to minimise unemployment.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Report of the Directors About Unilever Outlook and risks continued Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Markets Managing the business across globally competitive markets Volatility of emerging markets Building strategic alliances and partnerships Unilever operates globally in competitive markets where the activities Our strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments which of other multinational companies, local and regional companies and weidentify as attractive, i. e. where we have or can build competitive customers which have a significant private label business may advantage and where we can consistently grow sales and margins.
adversely affect our market shares, cash flow, turnover, profits Many years of exposure to D&E markets has given us the ability to be and or profit margins.
able to operate and develop our business successfully during periods of economic, political or social change.
In 2010, more than half of Unilevers turnover came from developing and emerging markets including Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, We seek in-fill acquisitions to support our category and geographic South Africa, China, Mexico and Russia.
These markets are typically ambitions and our New Business Board actively monitors more volatile than developed markets, so we are continually exposed opportunities to invest in potential future businesses, new to changing economic, political and social developments outside our technologies and different business models.
control, any of which could adversely affect our business.
Failure to understand and respond effectively to local market developments We identify strategic partnerships with specialists that enable us to could put at risk our cash flow, turnover, profit and or profit margins.
leverage external expertise to more efficiently and cost-effectively develop and manage our business.
Brands and Innovation Design, development and roll-out of consumer customer relevant products and services Unilevers Mission is to help people feel good, look good and get We have processes to monitor external market trends and collate more out of life with brands and services that are good for them consumer, customer and shopper insight in order to develop andgood for others.
This is achieved by designing and delivering long-term category and brand strategies.
Our established innovation superior branded products services at relevant price points to management process uses comprehensive marketing tools and consumers across the globe.
Failure to provide sufficient funding techniques to convert category strategies into a series of projects, todevelop new products, lack of technical capability in the research building on internally developed know-how and expertise.
It further and development function, lack of prioritisation of projects and or identifies, prioritises and allocates resources and develops relevant failure by operating management to successfully and quickly roll out brand communications.
We have well-established procedures to the products may adversely impact our cash flow, turnover, profit planand execute roll-out of products to our customers.
and or profit margins and may impact our reputation.
Customer Building long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with customers Customer consolidation and growth of discount sector Maintaining successful relationships with our customers is key to We build and maintain trading relationships across a broad ensuring our brands are successfully presented to our consumers spectrumof channels ranging from centrally managed, multinational andare available for purchase at all times.
Any breakdown in the customers, to discount chains and to the traditional trade via relationships with customers could reduce the availability to our distributors in many developing countries.
We develop joint business consumers of existing products and new product launches and plans with all our key customers, including detailed investment plans therefore impact our cash flow, turnover, profits and or profit and customer service objectives, and regularly monitor progress.
The retail industry continues to consolidate in many of our markets.
Further consolidation and the continuing growth of discounters could increase the competitive retail environment by increasing customers purchasing power, increasing the demand for competitive promotions and price discounts, increase cross-border sourcing to take advantage of pricing arbitrage and thus adversely impact our cash flow, turnover, profits and or profit margins.
Increased competition between retailers could place pressure on retailer margins and increase the counterparty risk to Unilever.
34 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors About Unilever Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Financial Treasury Funding the ongoing operation of the business Counterparty default in a financial institution Managing currency and interest rate differences andmovements Efficiently meeting our pension fund and tax obligations As a global organisation Unilevers asset values, earnings and cash A key target for the Group is to manage our financial affairs so as flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies, interest rates, tomaintain our A1 A credit rating, which gives us continued access taxjurisdictions and differing taxes.
If we are unable to manage our to the global debt markets, even when the overall financial markets exposures to any one, or a combination, of these factors, this could are under stress.
We seek to manage our liquidity requirements by adversely impact our cash flow, profits and or profit margins.
maintaining access to global debt markets through short-term and Amaterial and significant shortfall in net cash flow could undermine long-term debt programmes.
In addition, we have committed credit Unilevers credit rating, impair investor confidence and hinder our facilities to underpin our commercial paper programme and for ability to raise funds, whether through access to credit markets, general corporate purposes.
We regularly update our cash flow commercial paper programmes, long-term bond issuances forecasts and assess the range of volatility due to pension asset orotherwise.
In times of financial market volatility, we are also values, interest rates and currencies.
We concentrate cash in parent potentiallyexposed to counterparty risks with banks.
and finance companies to ensure maximum flexibility for meeting changing business needs.
We finance our operating subsidiaries We are exposed to market interest rate fluctuations on our floating through a mixture of retained earnings, third-party borrowings and rate debt.
Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase loans from parent and group companies.
Group Treasury regularly theinterest cost of our floating rate debt and increase the monitors exposure to our third-party banks, tightening counterparty costoffuture borrowings.
Our inability to manage the interest limits where appropriate.
The Group actively manages its banking costeffectively could have an adverse impact on our cash flow, exposures on a daily basis.
In order to minimise interest costs and reduce volatility, our interest rate management approach aims to achieve an appropriate balance Because of the breadth of our international operations we are between fixed and floating rate interest exposures on forecast net subject to risks from changes to the relative value of currencies debt levels for the next five years.
We achieve this through a whichcan fluctuate widely and could have a significant impact on combination of issuing fixed rate long-term debt and by modifying our assets, cash flow, turnover, profits and or profit margins.
Further, theinterest rate exposure of debt and cash positions through the because Unilever consolidates its financial statements in euros it is useof interest rate swaps.
subject to exchange risks associated with the translation of the underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
We are also subject In order to manage currency exposures Unilevers operating to the imposition of exchange controls by individual countries which companies are required to manage trading and financial foreign could limit our ability to import materials paid by foreign currency or exchange exposures within prescribed limits and by the use of to remit dividends to the parent company.
Regional groups monitor compliance with this requirement.
Further, operating companies Certain businesses have defined benefit pension plans, most now borrow in local currency except where inhibited by local regulations, closed to new employees, which are exposed to movements in lack of local liquidity or local market conditions.
For those countries interest rates, fluctuating values of underlying investments and that, in the view of management, have a substantial retranslation increased life expectancy.
Changes in any or all of these inputs could riskwe may decide to hedge such net investment through the use potentially increase the cost to Unilever of funding the schemes and offoreign currency borrowing or forward exchange contracts.
therefore have an adverse impact on profitability and cash flow.
Our pension investment standards require us to invest across a range In view of the current economic climate and deteriorating of equities, bonds, property, hedge funds and cash such that the government deficit positions, tax legislation in the countries in failure of any single investment will not have a material impact on whichwe operate may be subject to change, which may have the overall value of assets.
The majority of assets, including those anadverse impact on our profits.
held in our pooled investment vehicle, Univest, are managed by external fund managers and are regularly monitored by pension trustees and central pensions and investment teams.
On tax, we maintain high quality tax compliance procedures and documentation, execute prudent tax planning strategies and make proper provision for current and deferred taxation.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed regularly for recoverability.
Further information on financial instruments and treasury risk management is included in note 15 on pages 98 to 104.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Report of the Directors About Unilever Outlook and risks continued Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Consumer safety and sustainability Maintaining high social and environmental standards Designing and producing products that are safe for consumers Building a sustainable business Unilever has developed a strong corporate reputation over many years Our Code of Business Principles, Supplier Code and other operational for its focus on social and environmental issues, including promoting and business policies are designed to ensure that we consistently sustainable renewable resources.
maintain high social and environmental standards, and we have established processes to track performance in these areas.
The The Unilever brand logo is now displayed on all our products, and Unilever Sustainable Living Plan benefits from the insights of the increasingly displayed in our advertising, increasing our external Unilever Sustainable Development Group, comprising five external exposure.
In 2010 we launched the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan specialists in corporate responsibility and sustainability, that guide that sets out our social and environmental ambitions for the and critique the development of our strategy.
Progress against the ambitions in the Sustainable Living Plan will The environmental measures that we regard as most significant are bemonitored by the Unilever Executive and Board and progress those relating to CO from energy that we use, the water we 2 publishedannually.
consume as part of our production processes and the amount of waste that we generate for disposal see page 2.
Failure to design Detailed operational policies and procedures ensure that quality and products with a lower environmental footprint could damage our safety are built in to the design, manufacture and distribution of all reputation and hence long-term cash flow, turnover, profits and or of our products.
Procedures are also in place to respond quickly to profit margins.
consumer safety and quality incidents including provision to initiate product recalls where necessary.
Should we fail to meet high product safety, social, environmental and ethical standards across all our products and in all our operations and activities it could impact our reputation, leading to the rejection of products by consumers, damage to our brands including growth and profitability, and diversion of management time into rebuilding our reputation.
Operations Securing raw materials and key third-party services Maintaining safe, secure and operational production anddistribution capability Maintaining a competitive cost structure Handling major incidents and crises Our ability to make products is dependent on securing timely and We have processes in place to monitor shortand long-term raw cost-effective supplies of production materials, some of which are material demand forecasts.
These are used to determine future globally traded commodities.
The price of commodities and other key production requirements and facilitate the forward-buying of traded materials, labour, warehousing and distribution fluctuates according commodities to reduce future volatility of commodity costs.
to global economic conditions, which can have a significant impact on our product costs.
We saw commodity prices rise during the We have contingency plans to enable us to secure alternative second half of 2010 and this looks set to continue in 2011.
If we are keymaterial supplies at short notice, to transfer share production unable to increase prices to compensate for higher input costs, this between manufacturing sites and to use substitute materials in could reduce our cash flow, profits and or profit margins.
If we ourproduct formulations and recipes.
increase prices more than our competitors, this could undermine our competitiveness and hence market shares.
We have programmes of regular preventative maintenance for key lines and production sites.
We have in place mandatory occupational Further, two-thirds of the raw materials that we buy come from health and safety policies to ensure the well-being and safety of our agriculture.
Changing weather patterns, water scarcity and employees, including procedures for regular self-certification.
unsustainable farming practices threaten the long-term viability ofagricultural production.
A reduction in agricultural production We regularly undertake value improvement programmes to identify maylimit our ability to manufacture products in the long term.
cost value opportunities in direct and indirect costs.
We benchmark internal product and service costs against external providers and we regularly model our production, distribution and warehousing We are dependent on regional and global supply chains for the capability to optimise capacity utilisation and cost.
supply of raw materials and services and for the manufacture, distribution and delivery of our products.
We may be unable to We routinely assess potential threats to our operations that could, if respond to adverse events occurring in any part of this supply they materialise, give rise to a major incident or crisis.
We review the chainsuch as changes in local legal and regulatory schemes, labour appropriateness of our incident response, business continuity and shortages and disruptions, environmental and industrial accidents, disaster recovery plans taking into account external developments.
bankruptcy of a key supplier or failure to deliver supplies on time andin full, which could impact our ability to deliver orders to our customers.
Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our cash flow, turnover, profits and or profit margins and harm our reputation and our brands.
36 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors About Unilever Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk People and talent Attracting, developing and retaining a skilled workforce tobuild and maintain a fit-for-purpose organisation Attracting, developing and retaining talented employees is essential Resource Committees have been established and implemented to the delivery of our strategy.
If we fail to determine the appropriate throughout our business.
These committees have responsibility for mix of skills required to implement our strategy and subsequently identifying future skills and capability needs, defining career paths failto recruit or develop the right number of appropriately qualified and professional training programmes, benchmarking the elements people, or if there are high levels of staff turnover, this could of reward structures, both shortand long-term, and identifying the adversely affect our ability to operate successfully, and hence key talent and leaders of the future.
Regular internal surveys are growour business and effectively compete in the marketplace.
conducted to gauge employee views and obtain feedback.
We have an integrated management development process which includes regular performance review, underpinned by a common set of Standards of Leadership behaviours, skills and competency profiling, mentoring, coaching and training.
Legal and regulatory Complying with and anticipating new legal  Unilever is subject to local, regional and global rules, laws and There is a Code Policy on legal consultation which sets out our regulations, covering such diverse areas as product safety, product commitment to complying with laws and regulations of the countries claims, trademarks, copyright, patents, employee health and safety, in which we operate and the specific activities and processes for the environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure, which employees must seek the agreement of internal legal counsel employment and taxes.
Important regulatory bodies in respect of in advance of making a commitment.
In specialist areas the relevant our business include the European Commission and the US Food teams at global, regional or local level are responsible for setting andDrug Administration.
Failure to comply with laws and regulations detailed standards and ensuring that all employees are aware and could leave Unilever open to civil and or criminal legal challenge and, comply with regulations and laws specific and relevant to their roles.
if upheld, fines or imprisonment imposed on us orour employees.
Internal competition law compliance procedures and training are Further, ourreputation could be significantly damaged by adverse reinforced and enhanced on an ongoing basis.
publicity relating to such a breach of lawsorregulations and such damage could extend beyond a singlegeography.
Integration of acquisitions, restructuring and change management M&A integration Delivering major restructuring projects effectively All M&A and significant global and regional restructuring projects are sponsored by a Unilever Executive member.
Regular progress Since 2009, Unilever has announced 4.6 billion of acquisitions and updates are provided to the Unilever Executive.
ourglobal and regional restructuring programmes will continue in 2011.
In the event that we are unable to successfully implement Sound project disciplines are used in all M&A and restructuring these changes in a timely manner or at all, or effectively manage projects: clearly articulated project objectives, scope and deliverables: third-party relationships and or outsourced processes, we may not an approved and properly authorised business case updated over be able to realise some or all of the anticipated expense reductions.
time as necessary: detailed and up-to-date project planning: In addition, because some of the restructuring changes involve resourcing by appropriately qualified personnel: an effective important functions, any disruption could harm the operations of our communication and change management plan: and proper business, our reputation and or relationship withour employees.
closure, where learnings are captured and disseminated.
Other risks Unilever is exposed to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty related to other factors including physical, environmental, political, social and terrorism risks within the environments in which we operate, failure to complete planned divestments, taxation risks, failure to resolve insurance matters within current estimates and changing priorities of our boards of directors.
All these risks could materially affect the Groups business, our turnover, operating profits, net profits, net assets and liquidity.
There may be risks which are unknown to Unilever or which are currently believed to be immaterial.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Report of the Directors About Unilever Outlook and risks continued Risk Management Approach We have a framework of Code Policies that underpin the Code The identification and management of risk is integral to Unilevers and set out the non-negotiable standards of behaviour expected strategy and to achieving its long-term goals.
The Boards have from all our employees and those acting on our behalf.
Unilevers overall responsibility for the management of risk and for Standards define detailed mandatory requirements for a range of reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control specialist areas.
Together these cover many areas of the business andrisk management approach.
including employee health & safety, product safety & quality, the environment, ethical research, use of certain ingredients in our We believe that good risk management is fundamental to good products, risk management, accounting and reporting, share business management and that our success as an organisation dealing, corporate disclosure, pension fund management, depends on our ability to identify and then exploit the key risks treasury management and transfer pricing.
and opportunities for the business.
Successful businesses manage risks and opportunities in a considered, structured, Processes controlled and effective way.
Our risk management approach Unilever operates a wide range of processes and activities isembedded in the normal course of business and is summarised acrossall its operations covering strategy, planning, execution in the diagram below.
These are formalised and documented as procedures at a global, regional or local Our approach is designed to provide reasonable, but not levelasappropriate.
Increasingly, these procedures are being absolute, assurance that our assets are safeguarded, the risks centralised globally and automated into transactional and facing the business are being addressed and all information otherinformation technology systems.
required to be disclosed is reported to the Groups senior management including, where appropriate, the Chief Assurance and Re-Assurance ExecutiveOfficer and Chief Financial Officer.
Senior management provide an annual Code and Code Policy Declaration that is monitored by the Chief Legal Officer and Organisation Regional Presidents.
The Boards have established a clear organisational structure, including formally delegated authorities, that responds to the There are also specialist ongoing compliance programmes that Principal Risk Factors that Unilever faces in the short, medium supplement the Code and Code Policy declaration.
ofthese include Health, Safety & Environment, Product Safety and Quality, Information Technology, Finance and Pensions Foundation and Principles Management.
Unilevers approach to doing business is framed by our Corporate Mission.
Our Code of Business Principles sets out the standards of The Corporate Audit function plays a key role in providing to both behaviour that we expect all employees to adhere to.
Day-to-day management and the Boards an objective view and reassurance responsibility for ensuring these principles are applied throughout of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk Unilever rests with senior management across regions, categories, management throughout Unilever.
A network of Code Officers and Committees supports the responsible operational leaders withthe activities necessary to communicate the Code, deliver training, maintain processes and procedures to report and respond to alleged breaches including hotlines, and to capture and communicate learnings.
38 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors About Unilever Boards assessment of compliance with the RiskManagement frameworks The Boards, through Committees where appropriate, regularly review significant risk areas and decisions that could have a material impact on Unilever.
These reviews consider the risks thatUnilever is prepared to accept or tolerate, and how to manage and control those risks.
The Boards, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the assessment of risks, internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures that operate in the Group and have considered the effectiveness and remedial actions where applicable for the year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by theBoards of Directors.
Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in relation to this can be found in the Report of theAudit Committee on pages 56 and 57.
Further statements on compliance with the specific risk management and control requirements in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the UK Combined Code and the US Securities Exchange 1934 & Sarbanes-Oxley 2002 Acts can be found on pages 52 and 53, 54 and 55 respectively.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39
