Report of the Directors Governance Biographies Board of Directors Chairman Vice-Chairman & Executive Directors Michael Treschow Senior Independent Director Paul Polman Jean-Marc Hut Nationality: Swedish.
Jeroen van der Veer Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chairman since May 2007.
Non-Executive Appointed Chief Executive Officer Appointed Chief Financial Officer Executive Director, ABB Group.
Board Director, Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Executive Vice President member, Knut and Alice Wallenberg Member, Supervisory Board of Philips, October 2008.
Non-Executive Director, and Chief Financial Officer, BristolFoundation, Member of the European and Vice-Chairman ING.
Member, The Dow Chemical Company.
Advisory, Eli Lilly and Company.
Supervisory Board of fide Nederlandsche Kilimanjaro Blind Trust.
Procter & Gamble Non-Executive Director Mead Johnson Chairman, AB Electrolux 2004-2007 Bank N. V. 2000-2004.
Co. 1979-2001, Group President Europe Nutrition 2009.
Chief Financial and Confederation of Swedish and Officer, Procter & Gamble Co. 2001- OfficerRoyal Numico NV 2003-2007.
Chief Financial Officer, Nestl S. A.
Executive Vice President and International 1993-2003.
Clement Zone Director for the Americas 2008.
Non-Executive Directors Louise Fresco Ann Fudge Charles E Golden Byron E Grote Nationality: Dutch.
Chief Financial ofInternational Development and Director, Novartis AG, General Electric Indiana University Health, Hill-Rom Officer, BP p. l. c. Member, UK Business Sustainability at the University of Co. and Buzzient Inc. Chairman, Holdings, Eaton Corporation and the Government Forum on Tax and Amsterdam.
Supervisory Director, USPrograms Advisory Panel of Gates LillyEndowment.
Honorary director Committee, Indianapolis Museum of Art.
chairman, UK Governments Public Roosevelt Academy.
Executive Vice-President, Chief Financial Services Productivity Panel 1998-2000.
Officer and Director, Eli Lilly and Company 1996-2006.
Hixonia Nyasulu Sir Malcolm Rifkind Kees J Storm Paul Walsh Nationality: South African.
Chief Executive Non-Executive Director, Barloworld Counsel.
Served in Cabinets of Board and Member of the Audit Officer of Diageo.
Member, Advisory Board of JP Margaret Thatcher and John Major, Committee, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines N. V. Director, FedEx Corporation Inc. Morgan SA.
lastposition being that of Foreign Member, Supervisory Board, AEGON N. V. Chairman, The Scotch Whisky Secretary.
Non-Executive Director, Board member and Chairman of Audit Association.
Member, Business Aberdeen Asset Management.
Advisor to the Non-Executive Director, Adam Board member and member of the Department of Energy and Climate SmithInternational.
Member, International Inc. Chairman, Supervisory Board, Business Leaders Forum.
V. Chairman, Executive Board, AEGONN.
Unilever Executive UEx For Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Hut see above Doug Baillie Professor Genevive Berger Dave Lewis Harish Manwani Chief HR Officer Chief Research & Development Officer President Americas President Asia Africa CEE Nationality: British.
Appointed Chief HR Officer in February Appointed to UEx in July 2008.
Joined Appointed to UEx in April 2005 as 2011.
Previous Previously, Chairman of the Health Unilever 1987.
Previous posts include: President Asia Africa.
Appointed posts include: Appointed to UEx as Advisory Board for the European Chairman Unilever UK and Ireland.
President Asia Africa Central & Eastern President of Western Europe in May Commission and a Professor at the Managing Director UK home and Europe in May 2008.
CEO Hindustan Unilever Limited, University of Paris and LaPiti-Salptrire personal care business.
He is also Non-Executive Group Vice President South Asia 2006, Teaching Hospital and Director General President for Home and Personal Care Chairman Hindustan Lever.
Previous Group Vice-President Africa, Middle of the French Centre National fide la Central and Eastern Europe.
Managing posts include: Business Group President East & Turkey AMET 2005, President Recherche Scientifique.
Marketing Home and Personal Care North America Africa Regional Group 2004, National Executive Director toSmith & Nephew in Director in South America.
Michael Polk Pier Luigi Sigismondi Keith Weed Jan Zijderveld President Global Foods, Chief Supply Chain Officer Chief Marketing and President Western Europe Nationality: Italian.
Home & Personal Care CommunicationOfficer Appointed to UEX in September 2009.
Appointed to UEx in February 2011.
Prior to his appointment at Unilever, he Joined Unilever in 1988.
Previous posts Appointed President Global Foods, Appointed to UEx in April 2010.
Joined Home and Personal Care in March 2010. joined Nestl S. A. in 2002.
Previous posts include: include: EVP of South East Asia and Nestl Mexico in 2005 as Vice President Australasia, Chairman ofUnilever Previous posts: Appointed to UEx as Executive Vice President for Global ofOperations and R&D.
Prior to Middle East North Africa, Chairman of President Americas in March 2007, Home Care & Hygiene, Chairman of NestlS.
A. he was Vice President the Nordic ice-cream business, President Unilever USA.
Joined Unilever Lever Faberg, SVP Hair and Oral Care, 2003.
Prior to Unilever, he held senior ofOperations for A T Kearney.
senior positions in France, the United Marketing Director Italy, European Olive Oil Category Director, and General positions at Kraft Foods including States, and global roles.
Outside Manager Sauces andDressings President Nabisco Sector and President Unilever: a Non-Executive Director of Europe, the first Europeanisation of Asia Pacific.
External: Non-Executive Sun Products Corporation.
Director Newell-Rubbermaid, Director Unilevers foodsbusiness based in theNetherlands.
Students in Free Enterprise and Grocery Manufacturers of America.
40 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
