Report of the Directors AboutUnilever Ourfootprint  .
Whetheritbe Asia Africa CEE Turnover ,  14.6bn .
Our markets Share of revenue from Our strong performance in 2010 came in the context of a continuing tough emergingmarkets economic environment.
Western Europe and North America remained soft, with markets flat at best.
We do not anticipate significant improvements in the near future.
53% Emerging markets were in a much healthier state, particularly in the early part of 2010.
Although the latter part of the year saw a modest slowdown and growing the momentum remains strong and we expect this to continue through 2011.
Accelerate emerging markets Market value growth Our growth is increasingly led by emerging markets.
We already have just over half our turnover in these markets, and with their strong economic momentum we expect them to become even more significant over time.
8  Report of the Directors AboutUnilever Great portfolio, and strengthening Our categories New additions Savoury, Global leadership in Savoury,  Dressings and Dressings and Spreads.
Spreads Key brands include Knorr, Underlying Becel Flora, Hellmanns Sara Lee volumegrowth andRama Blue Band.
The acquisition of the Personal Care business of 35% of turnover in Sara Lee was completed 2.5% emergingmarkets.
Turnover It added leading brands such as Radox, Duschdas 14.2bn andNeutral to our portfolio in Western Europe.
Ice Cream and Global leadership in icecream Beverages and tea.
Underlying Key brands include the Ice cream volumegrowth Heartbrand and Ben & Jerrys We strengthened our ice cream business in Western inicecream, andLipton Europe, announcing 5.9% andBrooke Bondintea.
acquisitions in both Greece Turnover 45% of turnover in and Denmark that will further enhance ourleadership 8.6bn emergingmarkets.
Personal Care Global leadership in  Underlying deodorants and mass skin, .
volumegrowth world number two in daily haircare, significant local Alberto Culver 7.9% strength in toothpaste.
The Alberto Culver company includes Turnover brands such as TRESemm, Nexxus and Key brands include Dove, St. Ives.
These brands would complement 13.8bn Rexona, Lux, Axe Lynx, Suave, our existingportfolio, transforming our Signal, Ponds and Lifebuoy.
hair businessin NorthAmerica, theUK andelsewhere, and adding substantially 61% of turnover in to ourpresence in the skincategory.
Thistransaction remains subject to regulatoryapproval.
Home Care World number two in laundry Underlying and significant local strength volumegrowth in household cleaning.
Key brands include Omo 8.2% Persil, Surf, Comfort, Turnover CifandPureit.
