Developing global networks In a global marketplace, projects and assets are managed on an international scale.
AVEVA supports this by delivering the most advanced enabling technologies and close customer support through a steadily expanding global network of offices and strategic partnerships.
Americas revenue Kharkov Mr. Badzym, Chief of Board Directors, Kharkov Scientific Research & Design Institute: As we continually increase our library of proven designs and innovations, AVEVA PDMS allows 26.9m us to reuse them on subsequent projects, so we progressively become more efficient with every project.
Our engineers are happier, because their work is easier and of high quality, and AVEVA Inc. celebrated its 25th anniversary our customers are delighted with our projects.
New Business Performance Centre opened in Houston First AVEVA NET installations delivered in North America AVEVA NET is a powerful information management solution, capable AVEVA Plant is the most powerful and comprehensive suite of integrated of handling all types of digital information not just engineering data software solutions available for creating and supporting all types of to create a complete digital model of a plant or ship.
It enables the full engineering plant.
Whether on complex new-build assets, or the smallest exploitation of reliable, up-to-date and fully cross-referenced project in-service upgrade, AVEVA Plant enables maximum productivity, error-free and operational information.
design, minimum project cost and the most rapid return on investment.
for AVEVA NET in action: for AVEVA PLANT in action: see page 05 see page 06 AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2010 02 2 AVE ar10 front.
indd 2 01 06 2010 16:40:48 Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Europe, Middle East and Africa revenue GL Noble Denton Nandakumar Kunnanchath, General Manager, 70.9m Competency Centre MEA Region: AVEVA is like a friend around the corner, always delivering beyond expectations.
Hung arys largest electricity provider Paks selected AVEVA Plant and AVEVA NET for nuclear plant design and information management v oestalpine AG, Europes number one high-quality steel fabricator, deployed over 50 AVEVA NET clients for daily operations Ov er 50 installations of the new AVEVA Diagrams application achieved in its first year Asia Pacific revenue Woodside Energy Ltd Australia Bill van Butzelaar, Business Improvement Manager: We simply couldnt have delivered this level of saving, productivity boost and shareholder value without the use of AVEVA NET as a core 50.5m part of our technology solution.
Woodside had to make payback happen, and AVEVA NET has delivered financially as well as operationally, and well ahead of expectations.
AVEVAs Shanghai office celebrated its 20th anniversary AVEVAs Yokohama office celebrated its 10th anniversary Major contract wins with leading companies including Daelim Industrial, Mitsui Engineering and Shipbuilding, Namura Shipbuilding, Thiess Degremont Joint Venture and WorleyParsons AVEVA Marine is the culmination of AVEVAs largest single development programme, fusing best-in-class shipbuilding and plant engineering software into an unrivalled solution for the design and construction of every type of ship and floating structure.
for AVEVA MARINE in action: see pages 04 and 07 Directors report AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2010 03 2 AVE ar10 front.
