Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 21 BOARD OF DIRECTORS JEFF HARRIS c, d chairman Joined the cookson Board in April 2010 and a member of the Audit committee assumed the role of chairman at the close of the b member of the Remuneration committee companys Annual General meeting on 13 may c member of the nominations committee: the 2010.
Jeff was senior independent director and membership also includes any three noninterim chairman of Bunzl plc until he retired in executive Directors 2010. prior to that, he was chairman of Alliance d member of the Finance committee unichem plc from 2001 until 2005.
He has been e senior independent Director chairman of Filtrona plc since 2005. f not a member of the Board NICK SALmON c, d mIKE BUTTERwORTH d FRANOIS wANECQ chief executive Group Finance Director executive Director Appointed chief executive in July 2004. prior Appointed to the cookson Board in February Appointed to the cookson Board in June 2005 to joining cookson, nick was executive Vice- 2010.
Franois has been the chief executive and assumed the role of Group Finance Director president at Alstom sA.
previously he was ceO of Officer of cooksons ceramics division since in August 2005. prior to joining cookson, mike Babcock international Group plc and held senior October 2005. prior to joining cookson he held a was group finance director of incepta Group management positions at Gec and china Light series of senior management roles at ArjoWiggins plc.
He previously spent five years as group & power company Limited.
nick is the senior Group and from 1985 to 1995 he was managing financial controller of BBA Group plc.
mike is a independent non-executive director of united director of the technical ceramics division of non-executive director and chairman of the audit utilities Group plc.
JEFF HEwITT a, b JAN OOSTERVELD a, b PETER HILL CBE a, b non-executive Director non-executive Director non-executive Director Appointed to the cookson Board in June 2005 Appointed to the cookson Board in June 2004.
Appointed to the cookson Board in February and is chairman of the Audit committee.
Jeff was Jan spent the majority of his career at Royal 2010. peter is chief executive of Laird pLc.
He was a previously deputy chairman and group finance philips electronics, latterly serving as a member non-executive director of meggitt plc until march director of electrocomponents plc.
He is a nonof the group management committee.
He previously held senior management executive director and chairman of the audit chairman of the supervisory board of crucell positions with BtR plc subsequently invensys committee of cenkos securities plc and a nonn.
V. a non-executive director and chairman plc and was an executive director of costain executive director of cyril sweett Group plc and of the remuneration committee of candover Group plc.
Foreign & colonial investment trust plc.
He is also investments plc and a non-executive director of the external chairman of the audit committee of Barco n. V. Jan is also a professor at iese Business the John Lewis partnership and the chairman of school in Barcelona.
RICHARD mALTHOUSE f BARRY w PERRY a, b JOHN SUSSENS a, b, e Group secretary non-executive Director non-executive Director Appointed to the cookson Board in January 2002.
Richard Appointed to the cookson Board in may 2004 and Barry was formerly chairman and chief executive was previously the group secretary of Del is senior independent Director and chairman officer of engelhard corporation, a us-based monte Foods international.
He has held senior of the Remuneration committee.
John was surface and materials science company.
prior to company secretarial positions in pharmaceutical, previously managing director of misys plc.
He that he held senior executive positions with Rhoneengineering and automobile manufacturing is currently senior independent non-executive poulenc and with General electric co. Barry is a companies.
director and chairman of the remuneration non-executive director of Albemarle corporation, committee of Admiral Group plc.
He is also a nonArrow electronics, inc and Ashland inc. executive director of Anglo & Overseas plc.
com 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Our Financials Our Governance Our Business
