co. uk 30 DIRECTORS REPORT the Directors submit their Annual Report together with the audited GOING CONCERN accounts of the Group and of the company, cookson Group plc, registered information on the business environment in which the Group operates, in england and Wales no.
251977, for the year ended 31 December 2010. including the factors that are likely to impact the future prospects of the the chairmans statement, the chief executives statement, the Operating Group, is included in the chief executives statement and the Operating Review, the Financial Review, the Directors Remuneration Report, and the Review.
the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces corporate Governance, the principal Risks and uncertainties, the corporate throughout its global operations are shown on pages 27 to 29. the financial social Responsibility, the targets and strategy, the Key performance position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and debt facilities indicators and Board of Directors sections of the Annual Report are each are described in the Financial Review.
in addition, notes 4 and 37 to the incorporated by reference into, and form part of, this Directors Report.
this consolidated financial statements set out the Groups objectives, policies Directors Report also represents the management report for the purpose and processes for managing its capital: financial risks: financial instruments of compliance with DtR 4.1.
8R of the uK Listing Authority disclosure rules.
and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit, market both currency and interest rate-related and liquidity risk.
Further details of the Groups the Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with cash balances and borrowings are included in notes 18, 19 and 36 to the respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the consolidated financial statements.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ the Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a period materially from those anticipated.
the forward-looking statements reflect in excess of twelve months from the date of approval of the 2010 financial knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this statements.
these forecasts reflect an assessment of current and future Annual Report and the company undertakes no obligation to update these end-market conditions and their impact on the Groups future trading forward-looking statements.
nothing in this Annual Report should be performance.
the forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group construed as a profit forecast.
will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the companys financial covenants.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES On the basis of the exercise described above and the Groups available cookson Group plc is a leading materials science company which provides committed debt facilities, the Directors consider that the Group and materials, processes and services to customers worldwide.
the Groups company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for operations are formed into three divisions ceramics, electronics and precious the forseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern metals.
trading under the Vesuvius and Foseco brand names, cooksons basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the company.
ceramics division is the world leader in the supply of advanced consumable products and systems to the global steel and foundry industries and a leading DIVIDENDS supplier of specialist ceramic products to the glass and solar industries.
it is the Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2010 of also a regional leader in the us, uK and Australia in the supply and installation 11.5p per ordinary share which, if approved, will be paid on 6 June 2011 to of monolithic refractory linings.
the electronics division is a leading supplier shareholders on the register at 20 may 2011. no final dividend for the 2009 of consumable electronic assembly materials to assemblers of pcBs and the financial year was recommended to shareholders and no interim dividend semi-conductor packaging industry and advanced surface treatment and was declared for 2009 or 2010. electro-plating chemicals to the electronics industry and for industrial and ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT automotive applications.
the precious metals division is a leading supplier of A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by the fabricated precious metals primarily gold, silver and platinum to the jewellery Auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 45 industry in the us, the uK, France and spain, and in europe also has significant and 46 respectively.
the Directors fulfil the responsibilities set out in their precious metal recycling operations.
products include alloy materials, semistatement within the context of an overall control environment of central finished jewellery components and finished jewellery.
strategic direction and decentralised operating responsibility.
BUSINESS REVIEw DISCLOSURE OF INFORmATION TO THE AUDITOR As required by the companies Act 2006, the company must provide a fair As at the date of this report, so far as each Director of the company is aware, review of the development and performance of the Group during 2010, its there is no relevant audit information of which the companys Auditor is financial position at the end of the year and likely future developments in unaware and each Director hereby confirms that he has taken all the steps the Groups business, together with information on environmental matters that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of and employees and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys Auditor facing the Group.
the information which satisfies these requirements is aware of that information.
is to be found in the chief executives statement on pages 4 and 5: the Operating Review on pages 9 to 15: the Financial Review on pages 16 to 20: the corporate social Responsibility report on pages 6 to 8: the Key performance indicators on page 2: this Directors Report on pages 30 to 34: the corporate Governance Report on pages 22 to 26: and the principal Risks and uncertainties section on pages 27 to 29.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 31 AUDITOR DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Resolutions for the reappointment of KpmG Audit plc as Auditor of the provisions in the companys Articles of Association permit the Board to company and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration are consider and, if thought fit, to authorise situations where a Director has to be proposed at the AGm.
an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the company situational conflicts.
the Board has established a formal system REmUNERATION mATTERS for Directors to declare situational conflicts so that they can be considered the Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 35 to 44. none of the for authorisation by the remaining members of the Board.
in deciding executive Directors contracts contains any change of control provisions.
whether to authorise a situational conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the way they consider would be most likely to promote REmUNERATION OF THE CHAIRmAN AND the success of the company, and they may impose limits or conditions NON-ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS when giving authorisation or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
the Board considers the remuneration policy for the non-executive the Group secretary minutes the consideration of any conflict and records Directors.
non-executive Directors fees have not been increased during any authorisations granted.
the Board believes that the systems it has in the year and remain at 40,000 per annum.
A supplementary fee is payable place for reporting situational conflicts continue to operate effectively.
to the chairman of the Audit committee of 15,000 per annum and the chairman of the Remuneration committee receives a supplementary fee EmPLOYmENT POLICIES of 10,000 per annum.
A supplementary fee of 5,000 per annum is also A fundamental concept embodied in the companys code of conduct is that payable to the senior independent Director.
no changes were made in 2010 cooksons goals can only be met through the efforts of its employees.
cookson to the supplementary fees payable.
the chairman is paid a fee of 164,000 recognises that job satisfaction requires working environments that motivate p. a. the chairmans remuneration, which is subject to periodic review, is employees to be productive and innovative and provide opportunities for determined by the Remuneration committee.
there has been no change employee training and development to maximise personal potential and to the chairmans remuneration since his appointment to the role in may develop careers within the Group.
cookson is managed on a decentralised 2010. neither the chairman, who is not an executive Director, nor the other basis and within each division it is the responsibility of the relevant divisional non-executive Directors are members of the Groups pension plans, nor do chief executive to adopt employment policies and practices that best suit the they participate in the Groups incentive schemes.
size, style and geographical location of their operations.
DIRECTORS this management structure allows the Groups operations to respond messrs Beeston, Butterworth, Harris, Hewitt, Hill, Oosterveld, perry, salmon, competitively to changes in the marketplace and to develop and retain sussens and Wanecq all served as Directors of the company during the year.
a strong sense of identity whilst benefiting from being a part of a major mr Beeston retired from the Board at the close of the AGm on 13 may 2010. international Group.
cookson values the involvement of its employees and messrs Hill and Wanecq were appointed as Directors on 1 February 2010 keeps them informed on matters affecting them as employees and factors and mr Harris was appointed on 1 April 2010.
Biographical information relevant to Group performance.
it is established policy throughout cookson for all the current Directors of the company is given on page 21.
All the that decisions on recruitment, career development, training, promotion Directors will retire at the AGm and, with the exception of mr perry, all will and other employment-related issues are made solely on the grounds of offer themselves for election.
mr perry will step down from the Board at the individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
these principles close of the AGm.
Further information on the contractual arrangements of are operated on a non-discriminatory basis.
cookson gives full and fair the executive Directors is given on page 41. the non-executive Directors do consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
should an employee become disabled during their employment with cookson, every effort is made to enable them to continue their service with LEGAL mATTERS the Group.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group secretary.
there is also an agreed procedure in place for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent legal advice if necessary, at the companys expense.
DIRECTORS INDEmNITIES to the extent permitted by section 236 of the companies Act 2006, the Directors have been granted Qualifying third party indemnity provisions by the company and the Directors of the Groups uK pension plan trustee Board have been granted Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions by cookson pension plans trustees Ltd. these indemnities were in force throughout the last financial year and remain in force.
com 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Our Financials Our Governance Our Business www.
co. uk 32 DIRECTORS REPORT continued PENSIONS CREDITOR PAYmENT POLICY in each country in which the Group operates, the pension arrangements each operating company in the Group is responsible for agreeing the terms in place are considered to be consistent with good employment and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers practice in that particular area.
independent advisers are used to ensure that are conducted.
it is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in the plans are operated in accordance with local legislation and the rules of accordance with these terms, provided that the supplier is also complying each plan.
Group policy prohibits direct investment of pension fund assets with all relevant terms and conditions.
Outside the uK, us, Germany, the netherlands in the accounts of the company as at 31 December 2010, the number of and Belgium, the majority of pension plans in the Group are of a defined days purchases outstanding was 18 2009: 16 days.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEmENTS wITH CUSTOmERS, the Groups main us defined benefit plans are closed to new entrants and CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS have ceased providing future benefits accrual, with all eligible employees the company is required to disclose any contractual or other arrangements instead being provided with benefits through a defined contribution plan.
with customers, contractors and suppliers which it considers are essential During 2010, the uK defined benefit and defined contribution plans were to its business.
the company has a number of contractual arrangements closed to future benefit accrual and a new Group personal pension plan was in support of its business activities.
Whilst the loss of some of these implemented in their place to provide defined contribution benefits for all arrangements may cause temporary disruption, none is considered to be eligible uK employees.
essential in the context of cooksons business as a whole.
For the Groups closed uK defined benefit and defined contribution plans CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS a trustee Board exists comprising employees, former employees and an the terms of the Groups committed bank facility and us private placement independent trustee.
the Board currently comprises seven trustee directors, Loan notes contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise of whom three are member nominated.
the administration of each plan is termination or other rights in the event of a change of control on takeover outsourced.
the company is mindful of its obligations under the pensions of the company.
A number of other arrangements to which the company Act 2004 and of the need to comply with the guidance issued by the pensions and its subsidiaries are party, such as other debt arrangements and share Regulator.
Regular dialogue is maintained between the company and the incentive plans, may alter or terminate on a change of control in the event of trustee Board of the uK plans to ensure that both company and trustee are a takeover.
in the context of the Group as a whole, these other arrangements apprised of the same financial and other information about the Group and are not considered to be significant.
this is pertinent to each being able to contribute to the effective functioning of the plans.
the company currently has in place a schedule of SHARE CAPITAL contributions, agreed with the trustee Board, which aims to reduce to zero As at the date of this report, the company had an issued share capital of the deficit existing on the uK defined benefit plan as at 31 December 2009 276,435,881 ordinary shares of 1 each, being the total number of cookson by February 2016. the adequacy of this schedule of contributions will be Group plc shares with voting rights.
the company currently has only one monitored over time, so as to assess the need for it to be modified in the class of shares.
light of changes in the deficit position.
All us retirement plan assets are held in 2009 the company conducted a rights issue.
Ordinary shareholders on in trust for the exclusive benefit of plan participants and their beneficiaries.
the share register at the close of business on 13 February 2009 were offered, An independent financial institution acts as the trustee.
the trust assets are by way of a rights issue, 2,551m 10p ordinary shares on the basis of 12 new protected by law and by Federal Government Regulation and are subject to 10p ordinary shares for each existing 10p ordinary share held.
these shares annual audit by an independent accountant, the internal Revenue service were fully subscribed, resulting in total proceeds on issue of 241m, net of and the Department of Labor.
Further details of pension arrangements are expenses.
Following the increase in the companys issued share capital as a result DONATIONS of the rights issue, the Directors considered it desirable to consolidate Donations in the uK and Group for charitable purposes each totalled nil the ordinary shares of the company.
At the companys AGm in 2009, 2009: nil.
in accordance with company policy, no political donations were shareholders approved a share consolidation, which took effect following made in either 2010 or 2009. the close of business on that same date.
the 2,763.9m existing ordinary shares of 10p in issue were consolidated into new ordinary shares on the basis of ten 10p ordinary shares for one new ordinary share, to create 276m new ordinary shares of 1 each.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 33 Details of movements in the companys issued share capital during 2010 are TRANSFER OF SHARES given in note 13 to the company financial statements on page 111.
All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the company operates a number of share-based incentive plans further the Directors and may be under hand only.
the instrument of transfer shall details about these are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
For the be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully majority of these plans the company can satisfy entitlements either by the paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
the transferor will remain the acquisition of existing shares or by the issue of new shares.
existing shares are holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered held in an employee share ownership trust esOp.
the trustee of the esOp in the share register.
All instruments of transfer which are registered may be purchases shares in the open market as required, to enable the company to retained by the company.
the Directors may dispense with the execution of meet liabilities for the provision of existing shares to satisfy awards that vest.
the instrument of transfer by the transferee in any case in which they think fit the trustee does not register votes in respect of these shares.
in their discretion to do so.
All transfers of shares which are in uncertificated Adjustments were made to outstanding share-based incentives as form may be effected by means of the cRest system.
appropriate following the rights issue, including to the number of shares the Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating granted under options and awards and to the exercise price, if any, of to shares in certificated form unless it is in respect of only one class of share those options and awards, and any relevant performance conditions.
such and is lodged duly stamped if required at the place where the companys adjustments were made in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan share register is located accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and, where required by the relevant plan rules, adjustments were made with and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the prior approval of Hm Revenue & customs and or the companys Auditor.
the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of since the year-end, 4,541 ordinary shares have been issued as a result of transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that exercises of options granted under the companys share option schemes.
in the case of a transfer by a recognised clearing house, or Resolutions giving the Directors the authority to allot further shares and by a nominee of a recognised clearing house or of a recognised investment make allotments of shares to persons other than existing shareholders in exchange, the lodgement of share certificates will only be necessary if and certain circumstances will again be proposed at the AGm.
to the extent that certificates have been issued in respect of the shares in ADDITIONAL INFORmATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS question.
the Directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the companys current their absolute discretion refuse to register any transfer of shares not being Articles of Association Articles and applicable english law concerning fully paid shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such companies the companies Act 2006, the companies Act.
this is a a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the companies on an open and proper basis.
the Directors may also refuse to register an Act should be consulted if further information is required.
allotment or transfer of shares whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
if the Directors refuse to register an allotment or AUTHORITY FOR PURCHASE OF OwN SHARES transfer of shares they shall within two months after the date on which the subject to the provisions of company law and any other applicable letter of allotment or instrument of transfer was lodged with the company regulations, the company may purchase its own shares.
At the 2010 AGm, or the operator instruction was received by the company in the case of shareholders gave the company renewed authority to make market shares held in uncertificated form send to the allottee or transferee notice purchases of up to a maximum of 10% at that time of the companys issued of the refusal.
As at the date of this report, the company has made no A shareholder does not generally need to obtain the approval of the such purchases under this authority.
the Directors believe it advisable to seek company, or of other shareholders of shares in the company, for a transfer renewal of this authority at each AGm.
the companys Articles specify that, to take place.
subject to the authorisation of an appropriate resolution passed by a general meeting of the company, Directors can allot relevant securities under section the Articles contain certain restrictions on the number of us persons who 551 of the companies Act, up to the aggregate nominal amount specified by hold shares in the company so as to have enabled the company to suspend that Act.
in addition, the Articles state that the Directors can seek the authority its obligations under the us securities exchange Act of 1934 and to prevent of shareholders in general meeting to allot equity securities for cash without any such obligations from arising again in the future.
first being required to offer such shares to existing ordinary shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings in connection with a rights issue and in other circumstances up to an aggregate nominal amount as specified in section 561 of the companies Act.
co. uk 34 DIRECTORS REPORT continued VOTING RIGHTS APPOINTmENT AND REPLACEmENT OF DIRECTORS subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or restrictions the company shall have no fewer than five and no more than fifteen attached to any class of shares, at a shareholders meeting, every shareholder Directors.
the company may by ordinary resolution from time to time vary who is present in person and every duly appointed proxy shall have one the minimum number and or maximum number of Directors.
At each AGm vote on a show of hands, and on a poll every shareholder who is present in all those Directors who were elected or last re-elected at or before the AGm person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share of which he or held in the third calendar year before the current year shall retire from office she is the holder.
in the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior by rotation.
holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted the Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the total to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Any such Director shall only hold office until the next AGm and shall then share register.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a shareholders be eligible for election.
meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend and speak and vote in his or her place.
A shareholder AmENDmENT OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting provided the company may make amendments to the Articles of the company by that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different way of special resolution in accordance with the companies Act.
share or shares held by the shareholder.
proxies need not be shareholders of INTERESTS IN THE COmPANYS SHARES the company.
For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled As at the date of this report, the company has been notified in accordance to attend or vote at a meeting and how many votes such person may cast, with DtR 5 of the Disclosure and transparency Rules of the following the company may specify in the notice of the meeting a time, not more than interests in its issued ordinary shares: 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, by which a person must be entered on the share register in order to have the right to attend or vote at % the meeting.
standard Life investments Ltd 11.97% BlackRock, inc 5.03% RESTRICTIONS ON SHARES AXA s. A.
5.00% the Board may withhold payment of all or any part of dividends or other Jpmorgan Asset management Holdings inc 4.96% monies payable in respect of the companys shares from a person with Lloyds Banking Group plc 4.78% 0.25% interest or more if such person has been served with a notice after Fidelity investments Limited 4.20% failure to provide the company with information concerning interest in ignis investment services Limited 4.02% those shares required to be provided under the companies Act.
Governance for Owners LLp 4.00% VARIATION OF RIGHTS Legal & General Group plc 3.94% subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than the interests of Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the of the company, all of which are beneficial, as disclosed in accordance with sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the the Listing Rules of the uK Listing Authority are as set out on page 44 and holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum details of the Directors long-term incentive awards are set out on page 43. shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
the rights conferred upon By Order of the Board the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING no shareholder shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be entitled Richard m H malthouse in respect of any share held by him or her to vote either personally or by Group secretary proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right conferred 1 march 2011 by membership in relation to shareholders meetings if any call or other sum presently payable by him or her to the company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
in addition, if any shareholder, or any other person appearing to be interested in shares held by such shareholder, has been duly served with a notice to provide the company with information under section 793 of the companies Act and has failed to do so within 14 days, then unless the Directors otherwise determine the shareholder shall not for so long as the default continues be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings.
