com Annual Report 2010 governance Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2010 the Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the Share capital year ended 31 December 2010.
Details of the share capital of the Company and changes during the year covered by this Report are set out in Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Principal activities and business review Statements.
the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary the principal activity of the group is the supply of rental vehicle services.
A shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
there are no full review of the groups activities and a report on its business, including Key restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares Performance Indicators, strategy and likely future developments are set out or on the transfer of securities in the Company.
in the Chief Executives review and the Business review on pages 6 to 24, incorporated in this report by reference.
the last Annual general Meeting authorised the Company to purchase up to 92,052,404 of its own ordinary shares of 1 pence each.
this authority will Results and dividends expire, and is due to be renewed, at the next Annual general Meeting.
the the results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Financial Statements Company made no purchases of its own shares during 2010 pursuant to this on pages 45 to 78. the Directors do not recommend the payment of an authority.
Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 29 interim or final dividend for the year 2009: nil.
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Directors and their interests Substantial shareholdings the names of the Directors of the Company as at 31 December 2010 appear At 25 February 2011, the Company had been advised of the following in the Corporate governance report on page 26. there were no appointments notifiable interests in its issued ordinary share capital, and the voting rights during the period 1 January 25 February 2011. attached to those shares: % of voting rights Details of the Directors interests in shares and options to purchase shares DIeteren Car Rental s. a.
59.59 are detailed in the Remuneration report on 39 to 41.
In addition, Jean-Pierre odey Asset Management LLP 13.25 Bizet and Benoit ghiot are Directors of DIeteren Car Rental s. a. an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of s. a. DIeteren n. v. which held 116,574,579 Schroders plc 4.67 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company as at 31 December 2010.
Details of significant contracts entered into with s. a. the Company entered into an agreement with s. a. DIeteren n. v. at the time DIeteren n. v. are disclosed below.
there have been no changes in the above of its flotation in 1997 which governs the relationship between s. a. DIeteren Directors interests between 31 December 2010 and 25 February 2011. n. v. and the Company.
the agreement includes restrictions on s. a. DIeteren n. v. s power to appoint Directors and obligations on those Directors to ensure Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any interests in the shares that the majority of the Board is independent of s. a. DIeteren n. v. It also of the Company or in any material contract or arrangement with the Company provides that all transactions between the Company and s. a. DIeteren n. v. or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
will be on an arms length basis.
the agreement also contains certain antidilution rights for s. a. DIeteren n. v. provided that the DIeteren group owns Appointment of Directors and Articles of Association more than 30% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
the Companys Articles of Association provide that the Company may appoint Directors by ordinary resolution.
the Companys Articles of Association During the year, the group has entered into transactions with the DIeteren themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
group on an arms length basis with respect to the purchase and sale of Details of the Relationship Agreement with s. a. DIeteren n. v. which includes vehicles and the provision of finance.
Further details of these transactions are rights for s. a. DIeteren n. v. to appoint and remove up to three Directors, are set out in Note 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Employee involvement and share schemes Directors liability cover Details of employee involvement are included in the Corporate social As recommended by the Combined Code the Company carries directors responsibility report on pages 12 to 17.
Details of the Companys employee and officers liability insurance which is arranged under an umbrella policy share schemes, including any provisions relating to a change of control, are effected by s. a. DIeteren n. v. the Company has entered into indemnities to set out in the Remuneration report on pages 34 to 41. the extent permitted by English law, indemnifying the Directors against claims brought against them.
Health and safety at work the Company has a health and safety policy approved by the Board.
the Conflicts of interest Chief Executive is responsible for oversight of policy and each operating the Company has implemented procedures to deal with any Directors unit in the uK has a nominated member of senior management who has conflicts of interest which may arise, and considers that these procedures overall responsibility for setting goals and performance targets.
Measures of are operating effectively.
the Company carries out an annual review of performance are reviewed regularly, and include work-related accidents and authorisations given by the Board.
ill health, health and safety training and risk assessment activities.
com Annual Report 2010 43 Charitable and political donations During the year, the group made charitable donations totalling 22,872: 19,682 2009: 14,000: 13,000. the group made no political donations during the year 2009: nil.
Payments to creditors given the number of countries in which the group operates it is practice to agree the terms of payment at the start of business with each supplier and to pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
the Company had no trade creditors at 31 December 2010 2009: nil and hence the number of creditor days outstanding for the Company was nil 2009: nil.
Post balance sheet events there are no significant events affecting the group since year end.
Financial instruments the groups financial risk management objective is set out in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Significant agreements the group has entered into the following significant agreements which are subject to change of control provisions: 1 trademark and System Licences dated 4 April 1997 for use of the Avis trademarks and operating system in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia which can be terminated in the event that a major competitor obtains control of 35% or more of voting capital, whereupon associated agreements, including the Computer Services Agreement dated 1 January 1991 for use of the Wizard system, would also terminate.
2 trademark Licence dated 11 March 2003 for use of the Budget trademarks in Europe, Africa and the Middle East which can be terminated in the event that a major competitor obtains control of 35% or more of voting capital.
3 A 375,000,000 Facilities Agreement dated 24 June 2010 under which lenders have the right to cancel their commitments in the event of a change of control.
4 250,000,000 Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2013 dated 21 July 2006 which can be accelerated in the event of a change of control.
Disclosure of information to auditors So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors,  LLP, are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of this information.
Auditors  LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the Annual general Meeting.
By order of the Board Judith Nicholson Company Secretary 25 February 2011 Corporate governance
