com Annual Report 2010 overview Market analysis Very strong 2010 performance in the improving trading environment Operating environment growth expectations for the airline sector tend shops with which Avis has a direct contractual Market analysis and growth to be higher than gDP growth, driven in part by relationship.
this category also displays a there is little external data available regarding structural trends, in particular by the continued relatively even pattern of demand throughout the the European car rental market.
the main growth of low cost airlines.
the Airports Council year and customers requirements are similar to source is Euromonitor, who estimate that 8.0 International currently estimates growth in those in the Corporate customer group.
billion of car rental revenues were generated passenger traffic for flights in Europe of 3.1% in Europe during 2010. the largest countries for 2011 and 4.1% for 2012.
Partnerships by revenue were germany 24%, Spain 17%, to support business from both Individual and France 17%, the uK 15%, and Italy 14%.
Market composition Corporate customers we have an extensive During the year, Euromonitor estimated that the car rental market is generally categorised portfolio of over 70 international partnerships with a combined fleet of approximately 1.1 million either by the type of customer group, Individual, the worlds airlines, railway networks and other vehicles was employed by the car rental Corporate, Insurance Replacement or by the leading travel companies.
industry, representing a reduction of 2.3% location of the rental service airport, non-airport.
In 2010, approximately 52% of the market was Stations locations estimated to be Individual, with 40% being Rental locations throughout the network are Car rental industry transaction growth has Corporate and 8% being Insurance Replacement selected for their convenience to customers, with historically been approximately correlated business.
During 2010, 65% of the industrys particular importance attached to representation to general economic activity levels plus, in revenue came from airport rentals, with 35% at airports, rail locations and other major travel the case of rentals from airports, to airline attributable to non-airport locations.
Whilst Euromonitor estimates that across passenger volume growth.
From these the market as a whole 65% of revenue comes perspectives, the operating environment in We recognise three key customer groups within from airport rentals, Avis benefits from a broadly 2010 began to recover from the difficulties our corporately-owned network, each with even distribution of revenue from airport and nonexperienced in 2009. differing needs and expectations: Individuals, airport locations due to its significant international Corporate and Insurance Replacement.
Consensus Economics Inc report an estimated 1.7% increase in euro-area gDP for 2010, Individual: Competition contrasting with a decline of 4.0% for 2009 and these customers are individual travellers booking In Europe three large multinational companies growth of 0.3% in 2008.
In respect of the uK, directly or indirectly through travel companies, comprise around 61% of the overall market.
they report estimated gDP growth of 1.7% for tour operators, partnership arrangements and Euromonitor research shows that the Avis and 2010, following declines of 5.0% and 0.1% for brokers.
this category is more seasonal than Budget brands had the second highest aggregate 2009 and 2008 respectively.
the Corporate customer category, with demand market revenue share in Europe in 2010 at peaking over the key holiday periods.
the Europcar group which includes the the Airports Council International reported growth customers are principally attracted to Avis by its National and Alamo brands holds the highest of 4.2% in European passenger numbers in 2010 widespread network, quality of service, reliability, reported share at 26.7%, while Hertz is the third compared with a reduction of 5.4% in 2009. car choice, brand, website and competitive prices.
largest operator with a reported market share of 16.1%.
Correspondingly, during 2010 the operating Corporate: environment began to ease across most European Corporate customers book via negotiated In specific markets we face competition from countries compared to that experienced in 2009. arrangements with their employers and other car rental operators.
For example, Sixt is Euromonitor report a reduction of 2.3% in the through vehicle replacement companies.
this a major competitor in germany with a share of number of rental transactions for the industry, customer category displays a relatively even 31.8% in that market and Enterprise in the uK with revenues ahead by 0.1%.
this compares to a pattern of demand throughout the year.
the holding 8.1% of that market source: Euromonitor.
reduction of 10.4% in rental transactions in 2009, key requirements of Corporate customers are there are a large number of other operators with with an 8.8% reduction in revenues.
competitive prices, speed and quality of service, strength in particular markets, examples being reliability, car choice, availability of management Maggiore in Italy and ADA in France.
In respect of 2011, Consensus Economics Inc information and geographical coverage.
forecast growth of 1.5% in euro-area gDP.
In It is noteworthy that in our territories we operate respect of the uK, they report forecast gDP Insurance Replacement: two of the three established global brands, Avis, growth of 2.1%.
Both these figures are broadly these customers come through insurance and Budget and Hertz.
leasing companies, vehicle dealerships and repair avis-europe.
com Annual Report 2010 3 WHERE WE oPERAtE our network comprises Avis: geographic presence as operated by Avis Europe plc countries in Western Europe the corporately-owned countries plus a wider network of licensee operations across the rest of Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
Avis Europe plc Avis Budget group, Inc. Europe Americas Africa Australasia Middle East Asia Territories: Asia Corporately-owned: Countries 13 7 Corporately-owned Licensee Locations 1,897 1,997 Austria Asia Belgium Africa & Indian Ocean Czech Republic Central Eastern Europe Licensees: France Middle East & Mediterranean Germany Scandinavia Avis Countries 99 49 Italy Luxembourg No Avis presence.
Budget Countries 54 52 Netherlands Avis Locations 1,301 897 Portugal Singapore Budget Locations 613 937 Spain Switzerland Avis Budget group, Inc. independently owned and quoted in UK the uS, operates Avis and Budget brands in the Americas, Australasia and Asia.
the Budget-branded business Budget: geographic presence as operated by Avis Europe plc is corporately-owned in seven western European countries with the remainder of the network represented by licensees.
Corporately-owned Licensee Austria Africa & Indian Ocean France Central Eastern Europe Germany Middle East & Mediterranean Netherlands Scandinavia Spain Switzerland No Budget presence.
In Asia, UK the Budget brand is operated by Avis Budget Group, Inc. overview
