34 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Responsibility Statement of the Directors Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible Responsibility of Directors for the preparation of the for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys applicable law and regulations.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in Annual Report and Accounts accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law and have The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements on the The Group and Parent Companys financial statements, prepared in same basis.
accordance with applicable UK law and in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their The management report, which comprises the Directors Report profit or loss for that period.
and the Business Review, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and position of the Company and In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole, together statements, the Directors are required to: with a description of the principal risks and the uncertainties they Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: face.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as The Directors of Victrex plc are detailed on page 21. adopted by the EU: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless By order of the Board it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Peter Bream records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys Finance Director transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 6 December 2010 financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
