22 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and Accounts to shareholders in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights and no for the year ended 30 September 2010. known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Principal activity Shares acquired by employees under employee share schemes rank The Groups principal activity is the manufacture and sale of high equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
Own shares held Annual business review Details of own shares held are given in note 19 to the financial The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the statements.
business of the Group during the financial year ended 30 September 2010, the position of the Group at the end of that financial year and At the 2010 Annual General Meeting AGM, shareholders renewed a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group the Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 8,319,636 known as a Business Review.
of its own ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 4 December 2009.
No market purchases of the The information that fulfils the requirements of this Business Review Companys own shares were made during the year.
At the forthcoming can be found on pages 4 to 20.
AGM the Board will again seek shareholders approval to renew the annual authority for the Company to make purchases of its own shares Results and dividends through the market.
Group profit after tax for the year was 54.0m 2009: 17.8m.
AGM The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 18.6p per The notice of the 2011 AGM of the Company is given on page 73. ordinary share and a special dividend of 50.0p per ordinary share on 25 February 2011 to all shareholders on the register on 11 February 2011.
Directors This makes a total dividend of 75.0p per ordinary share for the year 2009: 19.2p per ordinary share.
Details of the Directors of the Company are given on page 21.
Details of Directors interests in shares are provided in the Report on Directors Share capital Remuneration on pages 28 to 33.
Details of the Companys share capital and reserve for own shares are As previously announced, during the year Tim Walker stepped down given in note 19.
During the year 482,203 shares were issued in respect from the Board as Production and Technical Director in February 2010. of options exercised under employee share schemes.
Details of these schemes are summarised in note 18.
As early adopters of the new UK Corporate Governance Code issued in June 2010, resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for Rights and obligations attaching to shares the re-election of Mr P E Bream, Ms A M Frew, Mr G F B Kerr, The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when Mr P J M fide Smedt, Mr L C Pentz and Mr D R Hummel.
declared, the Companys report and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise Appointment and replacement of Directors voting rights.
The Articles of Association of the Company provide that the number of Directors shall be not more than ten and not less than two, unless There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of otherwise determined by the Company by Ordinary Resolution.
ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval to any Directors may be appointed by an Ordinary Resolution of the members transfer except where the Company has exercised its right to suspend or by a resolution of the Directors.
their voting rights, withhold a dividend or prohibit their transfer following failure by the member or any other person appearing to A Director appointed either by the Directors, or at the previous AGM, be interested in the shares to provide the Company with information must retire at the next AGM and offer himself for re-election.
A Director requested under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors may be removed by an Extraordinary Resolution of the Company.
In may, in certain circumstances, also refuse to register the transfer of a addition, a Director must automatically cease to be a Director if i he share in certified form which is not fully paid up, where the instrument ceases to be a Director by virtue of any provision of the Companies of transfer does not comply with the requirements of the Articles of Act or he becomes prohibited by law from being a Director, or ii he Association, or if entitled to do so under the Uncertificated Securities becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or composition with Regulations 2001.
No shares carry any special rights with regard to his creditors generally, or iii he is suffering from a mental disorder, or control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights iv he resigns from his office by notice in writing to the Company, or except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a share in the case of an executive Director, his appointment is terminated or unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid.
There are expires and the Directors resolve that his office be vacated, or v he is no known agreements between holders of securities that may result 18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 absent for more than six consecutive months without permission of the Donations Directors from meetings of the Directors and the Directors resolve that Details of charitable donations made in the year are set out on page 20. his office be vacated or vi he is requested in writing, or by electronic No political donations were made 2009: nil.
form, by all the other Directors to resign.
Creditor payment policy Powers of the Directors The Group does not follow any standard code on payment practice.
The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companys Articles Terms and conditions are agreed with each supplier as appropriate.
The of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by Group had trade creditors outstanding at the year end representing the Company in general meeting.
The Directors have been authorised 25 days 2009: 25 days of purchases.
The Company did not have any by the Articles of Association to issue and allot ordinary shares and significant external trade creditors.
to make market purchases of shares.
These powers are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
Any shares purchased may be Going concern cancelled or held as treasury shares.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this Directors indemnities reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing The Company has granted indemnities in favour of Directors under the financial statements.
These Deeds were in force during the year ended 30 September 2010 and remain in force as at the date of this report.
Disclosure of information to auditor The Deeds and the Companys Articles of Association are available for The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors inspection during normal business hours at the Companys Registered Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant Office and will be available at the AGM.
audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken Change of control as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit None of the Directors or employees service contracts contain information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of provisions providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that information.
that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Auditor Employment policies A resolution proposing the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor The Groups employment policies, including its policy regarding the of the Company will be put to the AGM.
employment of disabled people, are set out on page 19.
By order of the Board Major interests in shares The Company has been notified of the following interests in 3% or more of its issued share capital as at 3 December 2010: Number of Gary Hulme ordinary shares Company Secretary BlackRock Investment 6 December 2010 Management UK Limited 10,034,530 12.00% Schroders plc 8,115,152 9.71% AEGON UK Group of Companies 5,064,894 6.06% Legal and General Group Plc 4,389,243 5.25% F&C Asset Management plc 4,228,620 5.06% Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 4,151,130 4.96% Standard Life Investments Ltd 4,101,202 4.90% AXA S. A.
3,729,607 4.46% Combined Code A statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 24 to 27.
Financial instruments Details of financial risk management are given in note 15.
