Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 05 As at 30 September 2010, the Group had cash of 77.3m and no debt Key Performance Indicators 2009: 18.6m and no debt.
The Group has a committed bank facility of 40m, all of which was undrawn at the year end.
This facility expires Financial Performance Target in September 2012.
Five year compound annual growth Sustainable earnings rate in basic EPS growth Dividend 10 16.9% In recognition of the Groups strong performance and our confidence in the strength and growth potential of our business, we are recommending 09 1.9% a final dividend of 18.6p 2009: 14.0p per ordinary share making a total 08 20.2% of 25.0p 2009: 19.2p per ordinary share for the year, an increase of 30% over last year.
Dividend cover is 2.6 times 2009: 1.1 times.
Target New Application Development During the year we completed our review of the requirement for capital Delivery of sufficient Commercialised applications in the strategic development of our business.
As a result and taking into number new commercialised account our strong cash position and exceptional return on capital, we applications to underpin are also recommending a special dividend of 50.0p per ordinary share.
10 634 308t mAV growth 09 533 314t mAV Victrex Polymer Solutions VPS 08 723 487t mAV 2010 2009 Change m m % Target Supply Chain Revenue 145.3 69.6 109% Delivery of sufficient Capacity Gross profit 80.9 34.4 135% tonnes per annum high quality capacity Operating profit 48.3 6.3 670% to meet demand 10 4,250 09 4,250 VPS has had an excellent year with record revenue and profits.
08 4,250 Revenue for the year was 145.3m 2009: 69.6m representing an increase of 109% over 2009.
All of our major markets have seen a significant recovery during the year and we have had continued success Target Employees in closing new business.
Revenue also benefited significantly in 2010 as Minimise Voluntary staff turnover a result of improved effective exchange rates with the underlying year on year increase in revenue being 61%.
10 2.8% 09 3.3% The sharp recovery in sales volume and the need to adjust inventory levels in line with demand resulted in production volume increasing 08 4.0% significantly compared to 2009.
New annual production volume records have been achieved on all our major assets.
Our recent investment in capacity for monomer and polymer production, and the dedication of Health and Safety Target our employees across all sites, allowed us to provide security of supply Reportable injuries Zero to our customers during this challenging period.
The improvement over the period reflects the favourable effective exchange rates together with 08 1 a lower underlying cost of sales per tonne in the second half resulting from lower fixed costs per tonne as production volume increased.
Target Environment Zero Notifiable events 10 4 09 0 08 1 Mature annualised volume 18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Business Review 06 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Business Review continued Business Overview continued Sales, marketing and administrative expenses increased by 16% to Product and market development 32.6m 2009: 28.1m.
The increase predominantly reflects increased We commercialised 634 new VICTREX PEEK polymer applications staff costs as elements of staff remuneration are linked to underlying with an estimated mature annualised volume MAV of 308 tonnes performance of the division.
We have also continued to invest in compared with 533 commercialised applications with an MAV of 314 resources to support new application development and have undertaken tonnes in 2009. a strategic review during the year to deploy resources to key areas of future growth.
The development pipeline has also strengthened as new opportunities have been generated and at the year end contained 3,267 potential Resulting operating profit at 48.3m 2009: 6.3m increased by 670% developments 2009: 2,942 with an estimated MAV of 2,271 tonnes over the prior year.
Underlying growth in operating profit adjusted for 2009: 1,966 tonnes if all of the developments were successfully effective exchange rates increased by 86%.
Trading We continue to see growth opportunities across all of our major All of our major markets, geographical and industrial, have seen a strong geographies and industries through further penetration and broader rebound during the year with second half global sales volume being a acceptance of existing applications and technologies.
A recovery in end user demand for our products has led to trends and innovation in many of our markets continue to broaden the higher manufacturing rates and inventory levels, both at our customers range of opportunities for our products to help our customers and end and throughout the supply chain.
In addition, we have continued to users overcome their challenges.
have success in developing and closing new business during the year.
Within industrial, the oil and gas sector is developing deeper and Industrial sales volume at 1,028 tonnes increased by 53% compared more chemically aggressive wells operating at higher temperatures to 2009 reflecting a strong recovery across all sub markets.
The main and pressures which is opening up new opportunities for our product growth areas were the industrial machinery sector, driven mainly by range.
Within the processing industries, our products are helping to increased activity in Asia, and renewed investment in exploration and develop longer life components and belting that are able to withstand production in the oil and gas sector resulting from increasing demand more demanding processing and cleaning conditions.
Innovation in the and higher prices for these resources.
alternative energy sector is growing and we are exploring opportunities for our products in the wind, geothermal and nuclear sectors.
Transport sales volume at 674 tonnes increased by 59% over 2009 with the recovery dominated by the automotive sector.
Whilst manufacturing Within transport, opportunities in the automotive sector for our is not yet back to 2008 levels, we have benefited globally from a strong products include further replacement of metal components, providing recovery in vehicle production and sales as well as a higher proportion weight reduction without compromising performance, as well as the of sales being luxury cars where technology is more advanced and more translation of existing technology and safety features from the luxury of our products are used.
In addition, we continue to close new business car market to a broader range of vehicles.
We are also exploring for applications driven by the trends for improved fuel efficiency and opportunities for our products in the development of hybrid technology.
Aerospace also showed strong growth due to a In aerospace the acceptance and awareness of our products as an 2 combination of higher production levels and new aircraft orders driven enabler for weight reduction, whilst providing a broad range of by positive trends and forecasts for both business and tourism travel performance properties, is increasing and has led to a number of and new application development for our products to help meet the development opportunities both on new aircraft platforms and also for demands for weight reduction across all platforms.
Electronics sales volume at 558 tonnes increased by 96% over 2009 which reflected strong sales into the consumer electronics and semiconductor manufacturing sectors.
In consumer electronics, innovation and new product launches have continued to drive growth and manufacturing activity.
In the semiconductor manufacturing sector, investment activity is recovering as forecasts for the industry improve.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 07 Within electronics, the rate of innovation in the consumer electronics Invibio continues to work closely with medical device manufacturers, industry continues apace.
Many of the trends, including miniaturisation, surgeons and clinicians.
A network of relationships with key opinion play to the strengths of our products and we continue to work leaders has enabled increased research collaborations with world leading closely with customers and end users to understand their challenges.
Invibio has been awarded several EU government funded Investment in the semiconductor manufacturing sector is forecast to research grants to support material and device innovation.
steadily increase and our products are well positioned both in existing and potential future technologies.
During 2010, Invibio entered into 53 additional long-term supply assurance agreements with implantable medical device manufacturers.
New product development is an important part of our growth strategy.
These agreements were with manufacturers based in Europe and the We work closely with customers and end users to understand the United States and increasingly in emerging geographic markets including challenges they are facing to innovate in their markets and identify Asia-Pacific and South America.
where existing products need to be improved to enable or optimise the opportunity.
Typically we look to develop our product range Risks, trends, factors and uncertainties by enhancing one or more existing properties to meet specific Victrexs business and share price may be affected by a number of risks, requirements.
Recent examples include products that provide better trends, factors and uncertainties, not all of which are in our control.
The wear performance as well as materials that offer higher temperature process Victrex has in place for identifying, assessing and managing risks performance.
through the Risk Management Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 26.
Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Invibio Sections of this Annual Report contain forward-looking statements, 2010 2009 Change including statements relating to: future demand and markets for the m m % Groups products and services: research and development relating to new products and services and liquidity and capital resources.
These Revenue 44.2 34.2 29% forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they Gross profit 39.7 30.1 32% relate to events that may or may not occur in the future.
Operating profit 28.1 20.0 40% The specific principal risks, trends, factors and uncertainties which Invibio had a strong year and generated record revenue of 44.2m, an could impact the Groups revenues, profits and reputation and relevant increase of 29% over 2009 34.2m.
Underlying revenue at constant mitigating factors, as currently identified by Victrexs risk management exchange rates increased by 15%.
Gross margins have remained strong process, are described below.
However, other risks may also adversely and broadly stable at 89.7% 2009: 88.0%.
Sales, marketing and administrative expenses increased by 1.5m to Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from anticipated results 11.5m, primarily due to targeted investment in resources to drive because of a variety of risk factors, including: changes in interest growth.
As planned, Invibio ended 2010 with 58 employees 2009: 47 and exchange rates: changes in global, political, economic, business, as a result of its ongoing recruitment programme.
competitive and market forces: changes in raw material pricing and availability: changes to legislation and tax rates: future business Operating profit increased to 28.1m, up 40% compared to 2009 combinations or disposals: relations with customers and customer credit 20.0m.
Underlying operating profit at constant exchange rates risk: events affecting international security, including global health issues increased by 16%.
and terrorism: changes in regulatory environment and the outcome of litigation.
Further information on financial risk management is set out in The results in 2010 were driven by continued growth and innovation note 15. within spinal fusion and arthroscopy applications.
Other targeted markets such as orthopaedics and bariatric continue to yield successes and lay the foundation for future growth.
Since its introduction over ten years ago, more than 2.5 million devices containing Invibios PEEK-OPTIMA polymer have been implanted in patients.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Business Review 08 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Business Review continued Business Overview continued Principal risks Insufficient capacity Our customers businesses depend on maintaining a consistent supply of Economic environment high quality products.
Any unexpected upsurge in demand could The global economic environment and the levels of activity in the lead to insufficient capacity to fulfil customers needs.
Additionally, any markets and territories in which the Group operates could adversely delays in the implementation of major capital expenditure programmes affect the Groups revenues, profitability and cash flow.
could create a capacity shortage, leading to customers seeking alternative products.
Mitigating factors The diverse nature of the Groups markets and the territories in which Mitigating factors each division operates, together with appropriate contingency planning, Our stocks of finished goods enable us to supply any short-term surge help to mitigate the impact of a global economic downturn.
in demand from our customers.
Additionally, it is our policy to keep capacity well ahead of demand, by investing in our supply chain, so that Technological change our customers can be confident that we can meet their requirements.
Victrexs business is dependent on manufacturing and selling high quality products into advanced applications.
Demand for these Product specifications applications and, consequently, for our products could be impacted as The Groups products are used in highly demanding end use new technologies and materials are developed.
Any failure to supply products in accordance with their specifications could lead to loss of business and, potentially, a product Mitigating factors liability claim.
We employ specialists covering the major market segments for our products to maintain and advance our skills and knowledge.
This Mitigating factors enables us to develop new applications for our products, so that we VICTREX PEEK is manufactured within a quality management system maintain our position as a leading solutions provider to designers and approved to ISO 9001:2008.
Invibio PEEK-OPTIMA polymer is engineers at our customers and end users.
additionally manufactured within the requirements of ISO 13485:2003, a system of good manufacturing practice often used by the Operational disruption pharmaceutical industry and by medical companies.
The Groups business is dependent on the ongoing operation of our various manufacturing facilities.
A significant operational disruption Competitor activity could adversely affect our ability to make and supply products.
Victrex operates in competitive markets, both in terms of competitors offering directly comparable materials other polyaryletherketone Mitigating factors products and alternative materials.
Failure to compete successfully could We have implemented policies and procedures to efficiently and safely negatively impact the business.
manage all our operations and to maintain our supply of products to our customers.
In particular, we employ a dedicated and empowered Safety, Mitigating factors Health and Environment SHE department to assist line management We continue to work closely with our customers to provide high quality and to provide expert guidance.
Further information on SHE matters is products as required and to invest in resources to bring cost effective, set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 18. high quality application solutions to our customers.
Additionally we hold significant stocks of raw materials and finished goods which should enable us to maintain supplies during any short-term disruption.
Furthermore, our two polymer manufacturing plants are able to operate independently, thereby reducing the impact of any operational disruption on our ability to continue manufacturing products.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 09 Currency exposure Currently, the Group exports 98% of sales from the UK.
Primarily, these sales are denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Yen.
Fluctuations in exchange rates between sterling and these other currencies could cause profit and balance sheet volatility.
Mitigating factors The Group hedging policy to mitigate the short-term risk is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 26.
Relationships with customers and suppliers We have essential relationships with our customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders and the environment.
All our relationships are managed in accordance with the Groups global ethics policies described on pages 19 and 20.
Relationships with our customers and suppliers are described in further detail below: Customers Our customers are a combination of polymer processors and end users located worldwide.
We have long-term supply assurance agreements in place with all of the implantable medical device manufacturers that comprise Invibios PEEK-OPTIMA polymer customers.
These agreements guarantee the specification of, and production methods for, the biomaterial over the term of the agreements.
We also have supply agreements in place with the majority of our major processing customers and supply to other customers on an order by order basis in accordance with the Groups applicable terms and conditions of sale.
The loss of a major processing customer or a worsening of commercial terms could have a material impact on the Groups results, accordingly we devote significant resources to supporting our customer global ethics policies, including maintaining regular contact with major customers and undertaking surveys of customer satisfaction, with a global customer survey being carried out by both VPS and Invibio divisions in 2010.
Suppliers Victrex is self sufficient in the manufacture of BDF the key raw material from which VICTREX PEEK is produced.
The provision of other key raw materials and services remain essential to the operation of our various manufacturing facilities and we seek to maintain appropriate contracts, where available, with suppliers for the supply of key raw materials.
In addition to the steps taken to manage the risk of operational disruption caused by a shortage of key raw materials as described on page 8, we devote significant resources to maintaining our supplier relationships to ensure they continue to operate satisfactorily, including regular audits of and performance reviews with key suppliers.
David Hummel Peter Bream Chief Executive Finance Director 6 December 2010 18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Business Review
