10 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Business Review continued Victrex Polymer Solutions % of Group revenue 77% Our business With over 30 years of focus and experience, VPS is the worlds leading manufacturer of high performance polyaryletherketones, including VICTREX PEEK polymer.
VPS provides a wide range of products and technical and marketing support to our customers and end users to help them deliver innovative, cost effective solutions in our major markets of industrial, transport and electronics.
The increasing demand for higher performing, more efficient and Tim Cooper cost effective products to provide companies with a competitive Managing Director advantage is driving innovation in the choice of materials used Tim was appointed to the position of Managing Director of the Victrex both in the materials of construction of new products as well as Polymer Solutions VPS division in January 2010.
He joined VPS in the manufacturing equipment to make new products.
Our high from his previous position as Group Managing Director of Umeco performance materials are increasingly the materials of choice due to Composites Process Materials, part of Umeco plc, a leading provider of the unique combination of properties and physical forms that can help supply chain services and advanced composite materials.
achieve benefits such as weight reduction, enhanced energy efficiency, miniaturisation without loss of performance, increased application lifetime, enhanced performance in more challenging conditions and operating environments, compliance with environmental and safety standards and lower overall system costs.
With dedicated field based market development, sales and technical teams organised around our main regional offices in Germany, the United States, Strategy Japan and China, plus satellite offices in a number of other countries, VPSs divisional strategy is to: we provide assistance to customers and end users in new application development, product performance data and processing support.
Maximise gr owth by working closely with our customers to fulfil their needs and leverage our focused global Providing world class technical expertise VPS has two complementary organisation and infrastructure to build awareness and customer focused technology centres, the Applied Technology Centre develop the market for our products: in the UK and the Asia Innovation and Technology Center in China.
Provide market, product and technical leadership to the These facilities house a team of dedicated and highly knowledgeable industries we serve helping end users and customers to professionals who provide continual assistance and support in process innovate and gain competitive advantage by enhancing troubleshooting, moulds validation and prototyping, on-site customer their products and processes with the use of Victrex trials and technical seminars.
products: Our core technology and manufacturing expertise resides in the UK Offer security of supply by optimising production capacity, where we operate three manufacturing sites and the Victrex Technology key supplier relationships and inventory policy whilst Centre.
Our core technology team includes organic and polymer continuously improving efficiency and product cost: and chemists, physicists and material scientists who work with both the commercial team on new product development and the operations team Pr ovide a safe and rewarding environment for our on asset and process development.
The operations team operate the employees and operate our assets to appropriate environmental standards.
manufacturing assets to high quality, safety, health and environmental standards and with a pro-active asset care and development strategy to optimise efficiency, availability and sustainability.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Our brands Our activities are enhanced by global infrastructure and communication systems and a network of logistics, customer service, finance, HR and IT professionals focused on optimising service to our customers and the % of Group revenue efficiency of our business processes.
Focus and experience: VICTREX PEEK polymers Comprehensive product portfolio: VICTREX PEEK polymers provide a unique combination and range of Security of supply: high performance properties.
They are used in the design and Product quality and consistency: manufacture of high performance applications to replace metals Global application and technical development support: and and other materials to improve performance, increase design freedom and reduce system costs.
Our products Our range of polyaryletherketones provides exceptional performance over a wide range of temperatures and extreme conditions.
When an end use application demands a combination of three or more performance properties our materials offer a tremendous advantage with unmatched versatility.
This ability to combine properties without sacrificing performance allows our materials to perform in a broad range of applications.
APTIV films APTIV films provide all of the properties of VICTREX PEEK polymer in a Performance properties thin, flexible format.
The extensive range of properties which includes thermoformability and excellent acoustic performance makes it the highest performing, most versatile thermoplastic film available.
APTIV Excellent high temperature performance: films are a technology enabler to facilitate reduced system costs and Inherent purity: improved product performance whilst providing increased design freedom and ease of processing.
Hydrolysis resistance: Chemical resistance: Mechanical strength and dimensional stability: Electrical performance: High abrasion and wear resistance: Low smoke and toxic gas emission: and Processability.
VICOTE coatings VICOTE coatings are a dedicated range of eco-friendly, high Our products include a diversified range of polyaryletherketones performance coatings, manufactured from VICTREX PEEK polymers.
including standard grades, as well as blends and compounds to The powder and aqueous dispersions provide high temperature enhance certain properties that are critical to an end use application.
performance, exceptional scratch and wear resistance, high strength In addition to granules and powder, materials are available in finished and durability.
When compared with traditional coatings, these coatings forms such as stock shapes, fibres, films and coatings.
can be considered to improve performance, extend application life, facilitate design freedom and reduce system costs.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Business Review 12 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Business Review continued Victrex Polymer Solutions continued Our markets Industrial Geographic Oil and gas, chemical, textile machinery, food processing, alternative We export 98% of our sales, selling to over 30 countries energy and other industrial sectors demand materials that can globally.
Our key markets are Europe, USA and Asia-Pacific.
withstand increasingly harsh temperatures and extreme operating conditions.
Parts and systems made with Victrex materials can help We continue to explore opportunities and develop new markets to improve operating performance and reduce the risk of downtime in areas such as India, Russia and Brazil.
Providing high temperature performance and a unique combination of properties, such as lighter Volume by region weight, processability, decreased reliance on lubricants and reduced noise levels, Victrex polymers are being used as a replacement for metal and other plastics in a growing range of industrial applications such as EMEA 53% compressors, bearings and bushings, hydraulic couplings and hoses.
Americas 30% Asia-Pacific 17% Transport The transportation industry is increasingly demanding solutions Europe, Middle East and Africa that provide weight reduction, energy efficiency, improved safety performance, increased part performance and lower manufacturing cost.
Additionally there is a requirement for the miniaturisation of components and functional integration along with increasing safety Industries and environmental legislation.
Victrex polymers offer a unique We sell into a diverse range of applications across a wide range of combination of performance properties, the ability to withstand markets.
We analyse our business into the main markets of industrial, extreme temperature conditions and harsh environments as well as transport, electronics, as well as medical where VPS focuses only on processing advantages.
As such our materials are increasingly displacing non-implantable applications for our products.
metals, traditional composites and other plastics in automotive, aerospace and mass transit applications.
Volume by industry Industrial 41% Transport 26% Electronics Electronics 22% Material selection is critical to todays electronic components.
Demands Medical 11% for higher performance, portability, wireless high frequency and longer life, as well as concerns about the environment, are all shaping the way electronic parts are designed.
Our products offer a unique combination of properties including wear resistance, processing flexibility, dimensional stability, low out gassing, low moisture absorption, and high temperature resistance.
Designers and manufacturers of electrical components such as mobile phones, circuit boards, printers, connectors, LEDs, switches and batteries are specifying Victrex materials to improve process efficiency, enhance part performance, exploit greater design freedom, achieve product differentiation and reduce system costs.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 Application examples Industrial processing Food and textile processing Providing superior chemical Victrex polymers are successfully and abrasion resistance, Victrex replacing metals and other polymers are increasingly plastics to facilitate the design being used as an alternative of long-life conveyer belts and to conventional plastics and belting components for food and metals which cannot satisfy textile processing.
the demanding processing conditions required to In these applications our process corrosive or reactive products provide the opportunity substances in the chemical or to design components with pharmaceutical industries or the ability to withstand harsh abrasive media in the paper and chemical and steam cleaning oil and gas industries.
Aerospace Automotive Commercial aircraft producers Victrex high performance and insulation manufacturers polymers are displacing metals in the aerospace industry are and other polymers in a wide replacing traditional films with range of demanding automotive Victrex APTIV films in new applications such as gears, lightweight thermal acoustic bearings and thrust washers that blanket insulation systems require long-term performance that satisfy FAA safety and under extreme pressures, at performance requirements.
high temperatures and varying speeds.
Semiconductor Consumer electronics Offering high purity, and Our products are used to enhance chemical and abrasion the design and performance of resistance, VICTREX PEEK electronic components.
Offering polymer is widely accepted in a thin format with inherent the semiconductor market and acoustics, APTIV films present is displacing traditional materials numerous opportunities for OEMs, for applications such as Chemical designers and processors in the Mechanical Planarisation rings manufacture of high performance which play a critical role in the speaker systems and acoustics fabrication and processing of components such as mobile semiconductor wafers.
