14 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Business Review continued Invibio Biomaterial Solutions % of Group revenue 23% Why Invibio?
Market leader producing superior biomaterial solutions for medical device manufacturers: Trusted for advanced biomaterial and value-add solutions: More than a decade of implanted device experience: Uncompromised quality for complete confidence in product excellence: and Proprietary research and technology investment.
Michael Callahan Managing Director Michael joined Victrex plc in 1998 and has led Invibio since its launch Continued commitment to unsurpassed quality, in 2001.
He developed and implemented the introduction of Invibios focus and innovation PEEK-OPTIMA polymer to the medical device market.
He was formerly The business continues to prioritise and invest in delivering safe, with DSM Engineering Plastics Products and General Electric.
reliable and consistently high quality implantable biomaterials.
A best in class standard of quality, control and risk management underpins all operations, and is routinely acknowledged by regulators, customers and auditors.
Significant investment in resource and infrastructure supports Strategy global expansion in technology and production activities.
Evidence of this investment is the advanced logistics facilities, which have been Invibios divisional strategy is to: established in the United States and the Invibio Global Technology Centre expansion.
The expansion will double the current size, such M aintain and expand our global leadership in the medical that advanced R&D, product and process innovation and applications device market through the exceptional provision of: High performance biomaterials and capabilities: specialism can meet demand.
Advanced technical research and services: Proven market expertise across a wide range of New service offerings have experienced enthusiastic uptake.
device applications: and Components is a service established in response to customers need Enhanced biomaterial solutions offering.
to speed up product development.
Interest in the Component offering has grown quickly, with many programmes now in delivery across diverse application sectors.
Enabling technology, clinical and regulatory Our business solutions are examples of other services that help medical device manufacturers continue to develop and approve new products.
Invibio was formed in 2001 to address the unmet needs of the longterm implantable device market.
We deliver solutions to the medical Key market highlights device industry with superior biomaterials, advanced technical research and capabilities across multiple targeted markets.
Invibio continues to focus on maintaining and growing the use of our materials in key market applications such as spinal fusion and We continue to pursue new application areas and developments that arthroscopy.
Invibio has focused on further strengthening our regulatory require the unique services and capabilities for which we are well expertise to support our customers in expanding the geographical reach recognised.
Our biomaterials are utilised in many markets including spine, of these applications, resulting in the increased use of our material in arthroscopy and target markets including orthopaedic, trauma and cranialAsia-Pacific and South America.
Additionally, we maintain our drive in maxillo facial.
We continually enhance our biomaterial solutions offering to growing clinical use and surgeon awareness of our materials in new enable our customers to deliver innovative medical devices and procedures, application areas such as bone fixation in trauma and the first clinical use realise accelerated market success and enhance patient quality of life.
of our materials in revision knee surgery in orthopaedics.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Invibio key markets Case Study By revenue % of Group revenue Developing expertise and emerging markets Asian regulatory support Spinal fusion 75% and expertise Arthroscopy 10% Japan and China, with a combined 2009 medical Target markets 10% device market value estimate of over $40b, are important Spinal non-fusion 5% emerging markets for medical device manufacturers.
However, these markets also represent significant regulatory challenges and approvals can take up to 10 times longer than for the equivalent device in the United States and Europe.
Spine Recognising this challenge, Invibio has worked pro-actively to Invibios market leading biomaterials continue to be extensively used assist customers in overcoming regulatory obstacles.
in implantable medical devices used to treat spinal disorders a global In 2010, these efforts contributed to three additional approvals industry with annual sales in excess of $9b.
Within spinal fusion, for PEEK-OPTIMA based medical devices in Japan, including the more than 80 clinical studies support the use of PEEK-OPTIMA based Cespace from B. Braun Aesculap AG, Tuttlingen, and the first devices in alleviating patient pain and discomfort.
These clinical studies, in China for an interbody fusion device since the 2007 increased combined with Invibios focus on this application area, increased our regulatory requirements.
market share in both lumbar and cervical fusion.
Invibio regulatory support in Japan and China includes: Robust data dossiers addressing regional requirements: Case Study Meetings with regulatory authorities at SFDA China and PMDA Japan : Strong device development partnership Educational symposia at SFDA orthopaedic testing centres: and Direct customer collaboration.
The US minimally Data sources: ADMIS: BCC Research: FDA 510k searchable database invasive spine surgery market is projected During 2010, Invibio continued to see strong usage of PEEK-OPTIMA in to expand at a a diverse range of demanding applications aimed at maintaining mobility compound annual of the spine, including solutions such as interspinous devices, nucleus growth rate of nearly replacement, treatments for vertebral compression fractures and spinal 30% from 2006 to arthroplasty.
Invibios ongoing commitment to partnering with medical 2012, fuelled by faster recovery times, shorter hospital stays device manufacturers in bringing innovative and high quality biomaterial and reduced complication rates of minimally invasive solutions to the industry provides the basis for continued advancement surgery MIS.
and market presence across the spinal implant market.
The InterFuse interbody fusion device, from Vertebral Technologies Inc VTI, is an advanced MIS technology There is a growing customer commitment to commercialise spinal manufactured from unfilled PEEK-OPTIMA polymer.
Invibio has invested in detailed research Collaboration between Invibio and VTI was instrumental and data generation specifically to support regulatory requirements to the realisation of this innovative design and advanced within these emerging markets.
Of note, Invibios medical device MIS platform.
partners have achieved numerous approvals in important emerging From initial bench test work through to post launch countries such as Japan, China and Brazil.
refinements, Invibio worked closely with VTI product development, strategic sourcing and regulatory, as well as Implantable medical devices used to treat spinal disorders will continue to with manufacturing partners.
The companies continue be tied to an ageing global population and greater emphasis worldwide to actively work together on additional InterFuse on improved healthcare and patient outcomes.
Invibio remains well platform developments to further leverage this MIS placed within an industry striving to meet these needs.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Business Review 16 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Business Review continued Invibio Biomaterial Solutions continued Arthroscopy In 2009 nearly 3.8 million knee, shoulder, small joint and hip arthroscopic procedures were performed in the US.
Growth in procedures is expected to be positively influenced by factors such as: Increasingly active elder generation: Improved surgeon training in arthroscopic procedures: and Increased desire to gain benefits of minimally invasive surgery.
PEEK-OPTIMA is now an established material in shoulder arthroscopic repair, where it competes with metallic and bioresorbable materials.
PEEK-OPTIMAs strength, imaging capability and ease of revision has helped drive considerable growth in this market.
As surgeons gain confidence in our biomaterials, we are now seeing increased use of PEEK-OPTIMA in knee arthroscopy treatments aimed at soft tissue and ligament repair, such as interference screws and meniscus repair.
The progress Invibio has made within the soft tissue repair space is Pictured: Investment in United States logistics facilities.
yet another demonstration of the versatility of Invibios biomaterial portfolio, and our commitment to supporting and fuelling growth within a broad array of implantable medical device markets.
Target markets Case Study Resulting from more than a decade of clinical use, market confidence in the biocompatibility and quality of our materials is the foundation Compressing the timeline from innovation to market of Invibios success.
Building on this, specific material properties and capabilities make it a strong fit for a wide range of emerging applications.
The US and European market value for suture anchors, primarily used for shoulder rotator cuff repair, has experienced 10% PEEK-OPTIMAs use in the leads of cardiovascular and neurological growth for 2010.
This growth is driven certainly by active baby devices results from the materials electrical properties and ease of boomers but also by improved technologies, in which Invibio manufacturing.
Ease of manufacturing is also influencing the growing can play an important role.
use of PEEK-OPTIMA in trauma devices known as patient specific implants that are custom designed to the anatomical needs of each Invibios Components Team works closely with device patient.
As device manufacturers continue to seek solutions that reduce manufacturers to speed the progression from drawing board to surgical complications and operating time, we continue to engage market launch by providing: with our customers and clinicians to identify further areas where our Manufacturing evaluation: materials can provide improvements in the clinical success rates of Prototype manufacturing: and medical devices.
The Invibio Components Team and MOTIS polymer B1 Medical worked closely starting Introduced in 2009 as a bearing material in the development of new with early designs for the SPEEDLOK hip and knee joint replacement devices, MOTIS targets excellent wear PEEK-OPTIMA based suture anchor, resistance and facilitates new designs that provide the benefits of identifying modifications to enable conserving natural bone, reducing stress shielding and transmitting load injection moulding and supporting the in a more anatomical fashion.
manufacturing feasibility assessment of design iterations.
Managing prototype manufacturing for the first phase design evaluation, Invibio eliminated time and cost associated with a third party manufacturer at this stage.
The Components Team will continue to develop the manufacturing route through to market launch.
Data source: MRG REF: Years 2008, 2009 for product codes MAX and ODP: Source FDA 510k searchable database 18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 MOTIS is well placed as an alternative to traditional metal-on-metal joint replacements, which have been under increased scrutiny due Case Study to clinical efficacy and metal ion concerns, especially in areas such as hip resurfacing.
Invibio are progressing a number of customer device New and innovative ideas development programmes using MOTIS as a bearing component in hip replacement devices.
The design and performance advantages of Aesculap and Invibio R&D collaboration on MOTIS in hip and knee replacement devices were a focus of an industry EnduRo knee project workshop session at the 2010 European Orthopaedic Research Revision knee surgery, following the failure of an initial implant, Society meeting.
already accounts for approximately 15% of procedures in knee surgery.
The Invibio Components Team play an important role in providing expertise For patients with severe knee joint disorders, an implant linked for the efficient manufacturing of MOTIS based hip and knee devices using to a rotating hinge can often be the treatment of choice.
methods such as injection moulding, which were not previously an option However, these types of implant have been prone to premature for this market.
Sustained support will take place in both material evaluation loosening and eventual implant failure.
and in components manufacturing solutions in 2011.
The EnduRo rotating hinged knee from Aesculap uses Invibios carbon fibre reinforced PEEK-OPTIMA polymer to prolong Latest developments and future innovations implant service life by providing Invibio continues to work closely with medical device manufacturers, excellent wear performance surgeons and clinicians.
Their needs and challenges will guide the and strength in the implants direction of research investment to deliver defined, specialised, axle bearings.
A network of relationships with key performance was achieved opinion leaders has enabled increased research collaborations with through close collaboration with world leading organisations.
Invibio has been awarded several EU Invibio in relation to material government funded research grants to support material and device properties, wear performance, innovation primarily for the orthopaedic sectors.
component manufacturing and biocompatibility data for As part of a holistic approach to product stewardship, fundamental regulatory approval.
research investments help to understand the behaviours of the product in the body.
Such research is broad ranging, from the comparative behaviour of bacterial infections on the surface of PEEK-OPTIMA, to the use of PEEK-OPTIMA in active implantable medical devices AIMDs.
Advanced engineering expertise delivers process development and innovation in design for manufacture and our product portfolio continues to grow with the addition of new material grades, structures, forms and shapes of PEEK-OPTIMA.
These advances enable fresh approaches to design and construction, device processing efficiency and surgical procedures.
Specific product developments include formulations to aid implant imaging capabilities and materials designed towards better bone integration or fixation.
Building on the ENDOLIGN product family, implantable composites are further evolving with sophisticated formulation and process developments.
Looking forward, Invibio is working with those at the forefront of science to investigate the potential to include functionality and biological performance into biomaterials.
Pictured: Dr Thomas Grupp, Director of Research & Development in Knee Arthroplasty & Biomechanical Research Aesculap, presenting at European Orthopaedic Research Society 2010 Invibio Workshop.
