Proportionate mobile customers across the globe.
1m 2009: 302.6m: 2008: 260.5m BrandFinance global ranking th 7 most valuable brand 2009: 8th: 2008: 11th Customers and distribution Customers are at the core of everything we do.
Through our products and services we endeavour to address all our customers communications needs.
International customer base with diverse needs Enterprise Vodafone has a truly international customer base with 341.1 million Vodafone also caters to all business segments ranging from smallproportionate mobile customers across the world.
We continually office-home-office SoHo and small-medium enterprises SMEs to seek to develop new and innovative propositions that deliver relevance corporates and multinational corporations MNCs.
While our core and value to all our customers and build a long lasting relationship mobile voice and data business continues to grow, our enterprise meeting their expectations and needs.
As customers move between customers are increasingly asking for combined fixed and mobile work and home environments and look for integrated solutions, solutions for their voice and data needs as well as integrated services we have a suite of propositions which often bundle together and productivity tools.
voice, messaging, data and increasingly fixed line services to meet their needs.
Brand We have continued to build brand value by delivering a superior, consistent and differentiated customer experience.
During the 2010 financial year we evolved our brand positioning to power to you emphasising our role of empowering customers to be able to live their lives to the full.
It is a further expression of the importance of the customer being central to everything we do and is reinforced in communications substantiating how products and services impact and empower our customers.
Global sponsorship We regularly conduct brand health tracking which is designed to measure the performance of the brand in each country and generate Our title sponsorship of the Vodafone insights to manage the brand as effectively as possible.
External McLaren Mercedes F1 team delivered benchmark studies have shown that Vodafone brand equity has strong coverage across an exciting and maintained a top ten position in a number of rankings of brands across hard contested 2009 championship.
In all industries including the seventh most valuable brand in the world addition to press and news coverage we as measured by BrandFinance.
integrated the sponsorship into a wide variety of business activities including communications, events, content, and Customer segmentation acquisition and retention promotions to Consumer maximise the impact and return on its Consumer customers are typically classified as prepaid or contract investment.
Prepaid customers pay in advance and are generally not support is also undertaken at a local bound to minimum contractual commitments offering great country level where it builds awareness flexibility and cost control.
Contract customers usually sign up for a and brand value by resonating with our predetermined length of time and are invoiced for services, typically customers and their interests.
Increasingly we offer SIM-only tariffs allowing customers to benefit from our network whilst keeping their existing handset.
Around a third of our proportionate customer base including consumer and enterprise customers are contract customers and the remainder are prepaid.
12 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Business Vodafone branded franchise stores Directly owned and managed stores 7,600 2009: 5,300: 2008: 5,800 2,100 2009: 1,800: 2008: 1,150 Distribution Our customers interact with us in a variety of ways including via retail locations, by telephone or increasingly online.
Through our subsidiaries, we directly own and manage approximately 2,100 stores selling services to customers and providing customer support.
To be most accessible to our customers we constantly review our store footprint and capabilities.
We also have around 7,600 Vodafone branded stores in our controlled markets which sell our products and services exclusively through franchise and exclusive dealer arrangements.
Additionally, in most operating companies, sales forces are in place to sell directly to business customers.
The internet is increasingly a key channel to promote and sell our products and services and to provide customers with an easy, user friendly and accessible way to manage their services and access support, whilst reducing costs for the Group.
The extent of indirect distribution varies between markets but may include using third party service providers, independent dealers, Customer satisfaction distributors and retailers.
We host mobile virtual network operators MVNOs in a number of markets, selling access to our network at a Historically we have measured customer wholesale level.
satisfaction using our customer delight index, a proprietary diagnostic system which tracks customer satisfaction across all points of interaction with Vodafone and identifies the drivers of customer delight and their relative impact.
At the end of the 2010 financial year we migrated to the net promoter score NPS customer measurement system to monitor and drive customer satisfaction at both an operational and country level in many of our markets.
The NPS diagnostic system replaces the customer delight Customer delight index index and uses a scale of how likely customers would be to recommend us to friends and family.
