Vodafone Group Plc 2010 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action to be taken, you should consult your This Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting does not constitute a summary of the Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2010 the Annual stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other professional adviser Report and should not be relied upon as a substitute for reading the full Annual Report.
authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in The Annual Report is available on Vodafones website at www.
com investor or can the United Kingdom or, if not, another appropriately authorised independent adviser.
be obtained by contacting Vodafones Registrars whose details are on page 12.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Vodafone Group Plc please Vodafone will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US its Annual Report forward this document together with any accompanying Form of Proxy at once to the on Form 20-F which corresponds to the 10-K for a US corporation and any other information purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the as required.
sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred only part of your holding of shares, you should Vodafone, the Vodafone logo, Vodafone 360, Vodacom, Vodafone Money Transfer, M-PESA and World of Difference are trade marks of the Vodafone Group.
The BlackBerry family of retain these documents.
trade marks, images and symbols are the exclusive properties and trade marks of Research in Motion Limited, used by permission.
BlackBerry is registered with the US Patent and Trademark Office and may be pending or registered in other countries.
Other product and company names mentioned herein may be the trade marks of their respective owners.
