Board of directors and Group management 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Directors and senior management 4.
Michel Combes, aged 48, Chief Executive Officer, Europe Region, was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June 2009.
He joined the Company in October 2008.
Our business is managed by our Board of directors the Board.
Biographical details He began his career at France Telecom in 1986 in the External Networks Division and of the directors and senior management at 18 May 2010 are as follows: then moved to the Industrial and International Affairs Division.
After being technical advisor to the Minister of Transportation from 1991 to 1995, he served as Chairman Board of directors and Chief Executive Officer of GlobeCast from 1995 to 1999.
He was Executive Vice Chairman President of Nouvelles Frontieres Group from December 1999 until the end of 2001 1.
Sir John Bond, aged 68, became Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc in July 2006, when he moved to the position of Chief Executive Officer of Assystem-Brime, a having previously served as a non-executive director of the Board, and is Chairman company specialising in industrial engineering.
He returned to France Telecom Group of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
He is a non-executive director of in 2003 as Senior Vice President of Group Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Until A. P. Mller Mrsk A S and Shui On Land Limited Hong Kong SAR.
He retired from January 2006 he was Senior Executive Vice President, in charge of NExT Financial the position of Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc in May 2006.
Previous nonBalance & Value Creation and a member of the France Telecom Group Strategic executive directorships include the London Stock Exchange plc, Orange plc, British Committee.
From 2006 to 2008 he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of TDF Steel plc, the Court of the Bank of England and Ford Motor Company, USA.
He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Assystem SA in France.
an advisor to Northern Trust in Chicago.
Stephen Pusey, aged 48, Group Chief Technology Officer, joined Vodafone in Executive directors September 2006 and was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June 2009.
Vittorio Colao, Chief Executive, aged 48, was appointed Chief Executive of is responsible for all aspects of Vodafones networks, IT capability, research and Vodafone Group Plc after the AGM on 29 July 2008.
He joined the Board in October development and supply chain management.
Prior to joining Vodafone he held the 2006 as Chief Executive, Europe and Deputy Chief Executive.
He spent the early part positions of Executive Vice President and President, Nortel EMEA, having joined of his career as a partner in the Milan office of McKinsey & Co working on media, Nortel in 1982 gaining a wealth of international experience across both the wireline telecommunications and industrial goods and was responsible for recruitment.
In and wireless industries and in business applications and solutions.
Prior to Nortel, he 1996 he joined Omnitel Pronto Italia, which subsequently became Vodafone Italy, spent several years with British Telecom.
and he was appointed Chief Executive in 1999.
He was then appointed Regional Chief Executive Officer, Southern Europe for Vodafone Group Plc in 2001, became a Deputy Chairman and senior independent director member of the Board in 2002 and was appointed to the role of Regional Chief 6.
John Buchanan, aged 66, became Deputy Chairman and senior independent Executive Officer for Southern Europe, Middle East and Africa for Vodafone in 2003. director in July 2006 and has been a member of the Board since April 2003.
He retired In 2004 he left Vodafone to join RCS MediaGroup, the leading Italian publishing from the board of directors of BP p. l. c. in 2002 after six years as Group Chief Financial company, where he was Chief Executive until he rejoined Vodafone.
He sits on the Officer and executive director following a wide-ranging career with the company.
He International Advisory Board of Bocconi University, Italy.
was a member of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards Board from 1997 to 2001.
He is Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc and senior independent director of BHP 3.
Andy Halford, Chief Financial Officer, aged 51, joined the Board in July 2005.
He is Chairman of The International Chamber of Commerce UK and joined Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director for Vodafone Limited, the UK operating previous non-executive directorships include AstraZeneca plc and Boots plc.
company, and in 2001 he became Financial Director for Vodafones Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa region.
In 2002 he was appointed Chief Financial Officer of Non-executive directors Verizon Wireless in the US and is currently a member of the Board of Representatives 7.
Alan Jebson, aged 60, joined the Board in December 2006.
He retired in May of the Verizon Wireless partnership.
Prior to joining Vodafone he was Group Finance 2006 from his role as Group Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Holdings plc, a position Director at East Midlands Electricity Plc.
He holds a bachelors degree in Industrial which included responsibility for IT and Global Resourcing.
During a long career with Economics from Nottingham University and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered HSBC he held various positions in IT including the position of Group Chief Information Accountants in England and Wales.
His roles included responsibility for the Groups international systems including the consolidation of HSBC and Midland systems following the acquisition of Midland Bank in 1993.
He originally joined HSBC as Head of IT Audit in 1978 where, building upon his qualification as a chartered accountant, he built an international 48 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Governance 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 audit team and implemented controls in the Groups application systems.
He is also he oversaw the development and launch of mobile telecommunications networks a non-executive director of Experian Group plc and MacDonald Dettwiler and in many parts of the world.
He remains on the Boards of Cheung Kong Holdings Associates Ltd. in Canada.
Limited, Compagnie Financire Richemont SA and Orient Overseas International Limited.
He also sits on the Advisory Board of Imperial College in London.
Samuel Jonah, aged 60, was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2009.
He is Executive retire from the Board on conclusion of the AGM on 27 July 2010.
Chairman of Jonah Capital Pty Limited, an investment holding company in South Africa and serves on the boards of various public and private companies including The 12.
Luc Vandevelde, aged 59, joined the Board in September 2003 and is Chairman Standard Bank Group.
He previously worked for Ashanti Goldfields Company Limited, of the Remuneration Committee.
He is a director of Socit Gnrale and the Founder becoming Chief Executive Officer in 1986, and was formerly Executive President of and Managing Director of Change Capital Partners LLP, a private equity fund.
He was AngloGold Ashanti Limited, a director of Lonmin Plc and a member of the Advisory formerly Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Carrefour SA, Chairman of Marks & Council of the President of the African Development Bank.
He is an advisor to the Spencer Group plc and Chief Executive Officer of Promods, and has held senior Presidents of Ghana, South Africa, Nigeria and Namibia.
An Honorary Knighthood was European and international roles with Kraft General Foods.
conferred on him by Her Majesty the Queen in 2003 and in 2006 he was awarded Ghanas highest national award, the Companion of the Order of the Star.
Anthony Watson CBE, aged 65, was appointed to the Board in May 2006.
He is currently Chairman of Marks & Spencer Pension Trust Ltd and the Asian Infrastructure 9.
Nick Land, aged 62, joined the Board in December 2006 and is Chairman of the Fund.
He is the senior independent director of Hammerson plc and Witan Investment Audit Committee.
Solely for the purposes of relevant legislation he is the Boards Trust, a non-executive director of Lloyds Banking Group plc and sits on the Advisory appointed financial expert on the Audit Committee.
In June 2006 he retired as Board of Norges Bank Investment Management.
He joined the Board of the Chairman of Ernst & Young LLP after a distinguished career spanning 36 years with Shareholder Executive in October 2009, having been a member of its Advisory Group the firm.
He became an audit partner in 1978 and held a number of management since April 2008.
Prior to joining the Vodafone Board he was Chief Executive of appointments before becoming Managing Partner in 1992.
He was appointed Hermes Pensions Management Limited, a position he had held since 2002.
Previously Chairman and joined the Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young Global LLP in 1995. he was Hermes Chief Investment Officer having been Managing Director of AMP He is a non-executive director of Royal Dutch Shell plc, Alliance Boots GmbH, BBA Asset Management plc and the Chief International Investment Officer of Citicorp Aviation plc and the Ashmore Group plc.
He is an advisor to the board of Denton Wilde Investment Management from 1991 until joining Hermes in 1998.
He was Chairman Sapte, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Farnham Castle, and is a member of the of The Strategic Investment Board in Northern Ireland until he retired in March 2009.
Finance and Audit Committees of the National Gallery.
He is also Chairman of The In January 2009 he was awarded a CBE for his services to the economic Vodafone Foundation.
Anne Lauvergeon, aged 50, joined the Board in November 2005.
Philip Yea, aged 55, became a member of the Board in September 2005.
He is Executive Officer of AREVA Group, the leading French energy company, having been currently the Chairman of Majid Al Futtaim Properties LLC, a UAE based property appointed to that role in July 2001.
She started her professional career in 1983 in the group.
He is also Chairman of the trustees of the British Heart Foundation.
He is the steel industry and in 1990 she was named Advisor for Economic International Affairs Senior Business Advisor to HRH Duke of York in his role as the UKs Special at the French Presidency and Deputy Chief of its Staff in 1991.
In 1995 she became a Representative for International Trade & Investment, and is a member of a number of Partner of Lazard Frres & Cie, subsequently joining Alcatel Telecom as Senior Advisory Boards, including  in the UK and Bridges Ventures.
Executive Vice President in March 1997.
She was responsible for international From July 2004 until January 2009 he was Chief Executive Officer of 3i Group plc.
Prior activities and the Groups industrial shareholdings in the energy and nuclear fields.
to joining 3i he was Managing Director of Investcorp and from 1997 to 1999 Group In 1999 she was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AREVA NC.
She Finance Director of Diageo plc following the merger of Guinness plc, where he was is currently also a member of the Advisory Board of the Global Business Coalition on Finance Director, and Grand Metropolitan P. L. C. He has previously held non-executive HIV AIDS and a non-executive director of Total S. A. and GDF SUEZ.
roles at HBOS plc and Manchester United plc.
Simon Murray CBE, aged 70, joined the Board in July 2007.
His career has been Audit Committee largely based in Asia where he has held positions with Jardine Matheson Limited, Nominations and Governance Committee Deutsche Bank and Hutchison Whampoa Limited where, as Group Managing Director, Remuneration Committee Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 49 Board of directors and Group management continued Executive Committee Nick Read, aged 45, Chief Executive Officer, Asia Pacific and Middle East Region, was Chaired by Vittorio Colao, this committee focuses on the Groups strategy, financial appointed to this position and joined the Executive Committee in November 2008. structure and planning, succession planning, organisational development and He joined Vodafone in 2002 and has held a variety of senior roles including Chief Group-wide policies.
The Executive Committee membership comprises the executive Financial Officer and Chief Commercial Officer of Vodafone Limited, the UK operating directors, details of whom are shown on pages 48 and 49 above, and the senior company, and was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Limited in early managers who are listed below.
Prior to joining Vodafone he held senior global finance positions with United Business Media plc and Federal Express Worldwide.
Senior management Members of the Executive Committee who are not also executive directors are Ronald Schellekens, aged 46, Group Human Resources Director, joined Vodafone regarded as senior managers of the Company.
and the Executive Committee in January 2009.
Prior to joining Vodafone he was Executive Vice President Human Resources for Royal Dutch Shell plcs global Wendy Becker, aged 44, Chief Marketing Officer, was appointed to this position and downstream business refining, retail, commercial, lubricants, chemicals and joined the Executive Committee in September 2009.
She was previously Managing Canadian Oil Sands responsible for approximately 81,000 employees in 120 Director of Talk Talk, a subsidiary of the Carphone Warehouse.
Prior to this role she countries.
Prior to working for Shell he spent nine years working for PepsiCo in various was a partner at McKinsey & Company with responsibility for the UK consumer international senior human resources roles including assignments in Switzerland, practice, which specialises in strategic marketing and brand roles at Procter & Spain, South Africa, the UK and Poland.
In his last role he was responsible for the Gamble.
She is a non-executive director of Whitbread plc.
Europe, Middle East and Africa region for PepsiCo Foods International.
Prior to PepsiCo he worked for nine years for AT&T Network Systems in human resources Warren Finegold, aged 53, Group Strategy and Business Development Director, roles in the Netherlands and Poland.
joined the Executive Committee in April 2006 as Chief Executive, Global Business Development with responsibility for mergers and acquisitions, business development Other Board and Executive Committee members and partner markets.
He assumed his current position in August 2009 when his role The following members also served on the Board or the Executive Committee during was expanded to include Group Strategy.
He started his career with Hill Samuel & Co. the 2010 financial year: Limited as an Executive in the Corporate Finance department, advising clients on mergers and acquisitions.
He then moved to Goldman Sachs International in 1986 Stephen Scott was Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and a member where he held positions in New York and London.
Prior to joining Vodafone he was a of the Executive Committee until his retirement on 30 March 2010.
Frank Rovekamp Managing Director of UBS Investment Bank where he held a number of senior was Group Chief Marketing Officer and a member of the Executive Committee until positions, most recently as head of its technology team in Europe.
Matthew Kirk, aged 49, Group External Affairs Director, was appointed to his current position and joined the Executive Committee in March 2009.
Matthew joined Vodafone in 2006 as Group Director of External Relationships.
Prior to that he was a member of the British Diplomatic Service for more than 20 years and before joining Vodafone served as British Ambassador to Finland.
Terry Kramer, aged 50, Regional President Vodafone Americas, joined Vodafone in January 2005 as Chief of Staff.
Before moving to his present role he also served as Group Human Resources Director and Group Strategy and Business Improvement Director.
He is a Board member of Verizon Wireless and the mobile industry association, GSMA, Chairman of Vodafone Ventures Limited and Chairman of the Vodafone Americas Foundation.
Prior to joining Vodafone he was Chief Executive Officer of Q Comm International Inc. a publicly traded provider of transaction processing services for the telecommunications industry.
He also worked for 12 years at PacTel AirTouch Communications in a variety of roles including President AirTouch Paging, Vice President Human Resources-AirTouch Communications, Vice President Business Development-AirTouch Europe and Vice President & General Manager-AirTouch Cellular Southwest Market.
Prior to that he was an Associate with Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc, a management consulting firm.
Morten Lundal, aged 45, Chief Executive Officer, Africa and Central Europe Region, was appointed to his current position and joined the Executive Committee in November 2008.
He joined Nordic mobile operator, Telenor, in 1997 and held several Chief Executive Officer positions including for the Internet Division and Telenor Business Solutions as well as the position of Executive Vice President for Corporate Strategy before becoming the Chief Executive Officer of Telenors Malaysian subsidiary, DiGi Telecommunications.
Rosemary Martin, aged 50, was appointed Group General Counsel and Company Secretary in March 2010.
She previously served as Chief Executive Officer of the Practical Law Group prior to which she previously spent 11 years with Reuters Group Plc.
in various company secretary and legal roles with the last five years as Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Before joining Reuters she was a partner with Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw.
She is a non-executive director of HSBC Bank Plc the European arm of HSBC Group and a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales Corporate Governance Committee.
50 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010
