Vodafone 360 is a new internet service for mobile, PC and Mac.
It brings phone, email, chat and social network contacts together in one place.
Vodafone 360 provides customers with access to games, music and thousands of applications as well as browsing the internet.
Vodafone Money Transfer The Vodafone Money Transfer system is available in three countries with 13 million customers moving US$3.6 billion during the year.
We expect to roll-out the service to Value added services further markets later this year.
Vodafone Money Transfer customers We have continued to diversify and expand Applications millions the services we provide to our customers to 13.0 meet their total communications needs.
We provide a wide range of additional services 6.5 to customers.
Consumer 2.5 During the 2010 financial year we launched an exciting new suite of Vodafone Email Plus, Windows services called Vodafone 360 particularly catering to the needs of Mobile Email from Vodafone customers wanting to be always connected both on the move and at and BlackBerry from Vodafone 2008 2009 2010 home.
This allows customers to keep all their contacts and content in provide enterprise customers one place and access the latest information available on the internet.
with real time handheld access Vodafone 360 integrates the latest updates from popular social to email, calendar, address book Roaming services networking sites, such as Facebook, so customers can stay instantly and other applications.
up to date with their friends latest news.
Vodafone PC Backup and Restore enables users to remotely store Our roaming services The Vodafone 360 store gives customers the choice to download from data securely and automatically allow Vodafone customers over 8,000 applications ranging from checking the weather and news to via their internet connection.
to make calls and use the latest music and games.
All the information, social contacts and Full track music down loads with data services on other content can also be seamlessly accessed online from PCs and Macs, in more than 2m songs available.
operators mobile networks addition to handsets, allowing customers the freedom to connect via whichever channel is most convenient to them.
Vodafone was the first whilst travelling abroad.
operator to offer DRM-free bundles and now has the largest number of paid digital music subscriptions in Europe, with over 500,000 customers.
4.5m Over the last three years we Mobile email users, up 29% have reduced the cost of voice Applications roaming by 38% in Europe.
Our range of total communications solutions provides customers with Vodafone Passport enables PC Backup and Restore integrated office and mobile voice and data services, such as Vodafone customers to take their home Always Best Connected, an internet connection management tariff abroad offering greater software tool which manages connections across all network price transparency and certainty.
connection types including Mobile Broadband, Wi-Fi and LAN.
This service allows customers to stay connected to the internet on the best Vodafone Passport customers millions available connection, simply and securely.
The software provides a 24.9 simple user experience for managing different connections in the 22.5 office, at home, in a hotspot or on the move by automatically Enables PC users to store data securely 17.5 and automatically, allowing access to files managing the switching between available connection types.
and documents at any time from any computer with an internet connection, whether fixed or mobile.
Service focus: DRM-free deals with all four major record labels in 2009 More than 500,000 customers signed up 2008 2009 2010 for music subscription services provided in partnership with all four major labels EMI, Sony, Universal and Warner, making us the largest provider of paid digital music subscription services in Europe.
16 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Business Share of Europe service revenue from enterprise services 30% Product focus: Vodafone One Net Provides small and medium-sized business with just one number for their fixed and mobile calls.
Mobile broadband solutions 7 Causes is a marketing consultancy with a difference.
Based in the Netherlands, theyve changed the way they work with clients.
Out went expensive office space and long commutes.
Instead they bought a bus and turned it into a mobile office complete with Vodafone mobile broadband.
So now instead of wasting time travelling, they can work on the move and see more of their clients and their own families.
Enterprise services Business managed services Vodafone offers total communications solutions As customers look to improve their for a wide range of enterprise efficiency they are increasingly customers from small looking to Vodafone to take control businesses to large of their technology for them.
Business managed services We continue to add value to our enterprise customers, building on our provide fully managed solutions core mobile business and leading the way with a range of services which bring together every Vodafone One Net where applications and data are secured and hosted in the Vodafone aspect of a customers network or cloud.
In addition, we are providing mobile internet telecommunications infrastructure, bundles for smartphones, mobile email BlackBerry, Microsoft Vodafone One Net brings together both fixed and mobile, into a single ActiveSync and Vodafone Email Plus and mobile broadband via a fixed and mobile communications in management view.
range of innovative devices, such as the Vodafone Mobile Wi-Fi, a one system.
It means that every user Services include logistics, cost portable mobile broadband powered Wi-Fi hub, and class leading USB can have just one number for their control, and security and online dongles, embedded laptops and netbooks.
desk phone and mobile, and one management portals offering voicemail box for their messages.
As we embrace the convergence of mobile and fixed networks our For a fixed cost per employee, customers are seeing the value it brings to their business through a customers can get business quality Machine-to-machine range of convergent services.
Building on our success in Italy and internet and email, a mobile and or Spain with our cloud-based office phone solution, Vodafone One Net, desk phone for every user, with the service is expected to be launched in Germany and the UK during advanced call management Machine-to-machine M2M the 2011 financial year.
The service provides enterprise customers of features and unlimited calls communication allows businesses all sizes with advanced office desk phone functionality integrated with between all their company phones to automate the capture of data, their mobile services.
perform real-time diagnostics and repair and to control Our partnership with Microsoft has enabled us to combine these assets remotely.
Vodafone Unified Communications converged services with the Microsoft online suite, providing our We support M2M solutions ranging customers with hosted email and productivity tools as well as from location monitoring of conferencing and collaboration services in a single package.
The An integrated communications vehicles and remote patient services have launched successfully in Germany and Spain.
solution in partnership with monitoring through to supporting Microsoft which provides a real-time secure payments and Vodafone Global Enterprise VGE manages the relationships with customer with just one interface providing real-time inventory over 550 of our largest multinational corporate customers.
VGE for all of their communications, reports for retailers.
corporate simplifies the provision of fixed, mobile and data services for MNCs enabling employees to access and MNC segments.
who need a single operational and commercial relationship with emails, share documents and files, Vodafone worldwide.
It provides a range of managed services, such as access calendars, hold web and central ordering, customer self-serve web portals, telecommunications video conferences and exchange expense management tools and device management coupled with a instant messages from any location single contract and guaranteed service level agreements.
and using almost any device.
Within VGE, our machine-to-machine M2M business unit provides Enterprise mobile voice connections MNC customers with global capabilities for M2M services through a millions single platform and a global numbering range.
The business has achieved major customer wins in both the automotive and smart 25.2 22.4 metering sectors.
VGE has continued to expand both its footprint and Product focus: Vodafone Mobile Wi-Fi 19.6 Provides a personal Wi-Fi network the services it provides to our customers and now has dedicated for up to five users.
resources in India and Africa, both growing areas for VGEs services.
For the fourth year running VGE has extended its position in the Gartner Magic quadrant report to become the clear industry leader.
