Directors remuneration continued Summary of key reward philosophies continued Overview of remuneration philosophy Risk and reward Remuneration policy In setting the balance between base salary, annual bonus and long-term The Remuneration Committee commissioned a full review of the reward incentive levels, the Remuneration Committee has considered the risk involved arrangements for the Companys executive directors in the 2008 financial year and in the incentive schemes and is satisfied that the following design elements the remuneration policy was last updated at this point.
The policy is felt to be mitigate the principal risks: appropriate for the coming financial year.
the heavy weighting towards long-term incentives: the need for short-term incentive payouts to be used to purchase and hold investment shares in order to fully participate in the long-term Vodafone wishes to provide a level of remuneration which attracts, retains and arrangements: and motivates executive directors of the highest calibre.
To maximise the effectiveness the enhanced weighting on non-financial measures in the short-term plan.
of the remuneration policy careful consideration will be given to aligning the The Remuneration Committee will continue to consider the risks involved in remuneration package with shareholder interests and best practice.
the incentive plans on an on-going basis.
The aim is to target an appropriate level of remuneration for managing the Changes to plans for the 2011 financial year business in line with the strategy.
There will be the opportunity for executive The table below sets out any changes to the individual elements of the reward directors to achieve significant upside for truly exceptional performance.
package for the 2011 financial year: In setting total remuneration the Remuneration Committee will consider a Reward elements 2011 financial year relevant group of comparators which will be selected on the basis of the role Base salary No change to the benchmarking policy.
Typically no more than three reference points will be used.
Annual bonus There has been a re-balancing of the These will be as follows: top European companies, top UK companies and, weighting for the performance measures particularly for scarce skills, the relevant market in question.
to focus on service revenue.
A competitive performance assessment has been These comparators reflect the fact that currently the majority of the business is introduced which incorporates net in Europe, the Companys primary listing is in the UK and that the Remuneration promotor score and in some markets Committee is aware that, in some markets, the competition is tough for the very customer delight index.
Long-term incentive plan No change to the plan design.
Investment opportunity No changes to the level of investment A high proportion of total remuneration will be awarded through short-term and an individual may make.
The Remuneration Committee believes that incorporating and setting appropriate performance measures and targets in the package is paramount this will be reflected in an appropriate Setting remuneration levels balance of operational and equity performance.
The remuneration package for executive directors is benchmarked by reference to total data for the base salary, annual bonus and long-term incentive levels combined.
Finally, to fully embed the link to shareholder alignment, all executive directors The principal comparator group used for benchmarking only is made up of 28 top are expected to comply with the rigorous and stretching share ownership European companies excluding any in the financial services sector.
requirements set by the Remuneration Committee.
When undertaking the benchmarking process the Remuneration Committee makes assumptions that individuals will invest their own money into the long-term incentive plan.
This means that individuals will need to make a significant investment in order Summary of key reward philosophies to achieve a market competitive level of remuneration.
Link to business strategy Performance conditions have been determined to align with business strategy Comparison of the ratio of fixed pay to variable pay and to maximise shareholder value.
The base salary and pension contributions to executives are considered to be fixed The annual bonus continues to support the short-term operational performance levels of remuneration.
The annual bonus and the long-term incentive awards are of the business by measuring against the business fundamentals of revenue, variable, i. e. the actual value the executive receives will depend on the performance profit, cash flow and competitive performance.
The long-term incentive measures performance against: free cash flow, which is believed to be the single most important operational As can be seen below the variable elements of the executive directors remuneration measure: and package are in excess of 77% assuming target performance, maximum co-investment total shareholder return TSR relative to our key competitors.
and no movement in current share price.
Shareholder alignment The executives are required to meet stretching share ownership Analysis of executive directors pay as a percentage of total package requirements which are supported by the opportunity to invest into the longChief Executive Other executive directors term incentive plan.
The performance conditions on the long-term incentive plan are there to underpin shareholder value creation.
21.4 22.7 6.4 Base Base 50.8 47.8 6.8 Pension Pension allowance allowance Bonus Bonus 21.4 22.7 Long-term Long-term incentives incentives 58 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010
