Governance Re-election of directors engaging independent advisors as it determines is necessary and to Although not required by the articles, in the interests of good corporate governance perform investigations: the directors have resolved that, subject to the recommendation of the Nominations reporting to the Board on the quality and acceptability of our accounting policies and Governance Committee, they will all submit themselves for annual re-election and practices including, without limitation, critical accounting policies and at each AGM.
Accordingly, at the AGM to be held on 27 July 2010 all the directors will practices: and offer themselves for re-election with the exception of Simon Murray who is retiring playing an active role in monitoring our compliance efforts for Section 404 of the from the Board.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act and receiving progress updates at each of its meetings.
At least twice a year the Audit Committee meets separately with the external auditors Independent advice and the Group Audit Director without management being present.
Further details on The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of the directors the work of the Audit Committee and its oversight of the relationships with the feels it is necessary to take independent legal and or financial advice at the external auditors can be found under Auditors and the Report from the Audit Companys expense.
There is an agreed procedure to enable them to do so.
Committee which are set out on pages 55 and 56.
Indemnification of directors Nominations and Governance Committee In accordance with our articles of association and to the extent permitted by the laws The members of the Nominations and Governance Committee during the year, of England and Wales, directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in together with a record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
In respect of those matters for eligible to attend, are set out below: which the directors may not be indemnified, we maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
Neither our indemnity nor the Meetings attended insurance provides cover in the event that a director is proven to have acted Sir John Bond, Chairman 3 3 dishonestly or fraudulently.
John Buchanan 3 3 Luc Vandevelde 3 3 Board committees The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nominations and Governance The Nominations and Governance Committees key objective is to ensure that the Committee and a Remuneration Committee, each of which has formal terms of Board comprises individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to reference approved by the Board.
The Board is satisfied that the terms of reference ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Nominations and for each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the Combined Code and Governance Committee: are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by the Board.
The terms of reference for all Board committees can be found on our website at www.
com leads the process for identifying and making recommendations to the Board of governance or a copy can be obtained by application to the Company Secretary at candidates for appointment as directors giving full consideration to succession our registered office.
planning and the leadership needs of the Group: makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nominations The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to and Governance Committee and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary or her and Remuneration Committees: delegate acts as secretary to the committees.
The minutes of committee meetings regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board including the are circulated to all directors.
balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the independence of the nonexecutive directors, and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any Each committee has access to such information and advice, both from within the change: and Group and externally, at the Companys cost as it deems necessary.
This may include is responsible for the oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, the appointment of external consultants where appropriate.
Each committee bringing any issues to the attention of the Board.
undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of its terms of reference and makes recommendations to the Board for changes where appropriate.
The Nominations and Governance Committee meets periodically when required.
In addition to scheduled meetings there are a number of ad hoc meetings to address specific matters.
No one other than a member of the Nominations and Governance Audit Committee Committee is entitled to be present at its meetings.
The Chief Executive, other nonThe members of the Audit Committee during the year, together with a record of executive directors and external advisors may be invited to attend.
their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible to attend, are set out below: Remuneration Committee Meetings attended The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year, together with a John Buchanan 4 4 record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible to attend, Alan Jebson 4 4 are set out below: Nick Land, Chairman and financial expert 4 4 Anne Lauvergeon 4 4 Meetings attended Luc Vandevelde, Chairman 5 5 The Audit Committee is comprised of financially literate members having the Simon Murray 3 5 necessary ability and experience to understand financial statements.
Solely for the Anthony Watson 5 5 purpose of fulfilling the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Combined Philip Yea 5 5 Code, the Board has designated Nick Land, who is an independent non-executive director satisfying the independence requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Samuel Jonah was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 11 May 2010.
Exchange Act 1934, as its financial expert on the Audit Committee.
Further details on Nick Land can be found in Board of directors and Group management on page 49.
In addition to scheduled meetings there are a number of ad hoc meetings to deal with specific matters.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include: The Audit Committees responsibilities include: determining, on behalf of the Board, the policy on the remuneration of the overseeing the relationship with the external auditor: Chairman, the executive directors and the senior management team: reviewing our preliminary results announcement, half-year results and annual determining the total remuneration packages for these individuals including any financial statements: compensation on termination of office: and monitoring compliance with statutory and listing requirements for any exchange appointing any consultants in respect of executive directors remuneration.
on which our shares and debt instruments are quoted: reviewing the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of the Group internal audit department: Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 53
