67 Other statutory information 2011 annual general meeting The aim is to encourage a culture in which all employees have the The annual general meeting will be held at 11am on Wednesday opportunity to develop fully according to their individual abilities 4 May 2011 at the Radisson Hotel, Argyle Street, Glasgow.
The and the needs of the Group.
The Group remains committed to notice of meeting along with an explanation of the proposed the fair treatment of people with disabilities regarding applications, resolutions are set out in a separate circular to shareholders which training, promotion and career development.
accompanies this annual report and can be downloaded from the Employee involvement and feedback is actively encouraged.
variety of ways are used to consult and inform employees including Substantial shareholders a Group-wide bulletin, e-mail, intranet and local briefings.
These At 8 March 2011, the Company had been notified in accordance are designed to facilitate dialogue while enabling the development with the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency of a common awareness among employees of what affects Rules that the following held, or were beneficially interested in 3% business performance.
or more of the Companys issued share capital: Financial instruments Percentage of The information required in respect of financial instruments Number of issued share as required by Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium Sized Shareholder shares capital Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is given in note 30 to the Group financial statements on M&G Prudential 13,171,856 6.24% page 110.
AXA 10,812,658 5.14% BlackRock 10,748,289 5.10% Auditors Legal & General 10,612,532 5.03% A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Aberdeen Asset Management 10,443,509 4.96% auditors will be put to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Details of the issued share capital of the Company, which Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12.5p each, shareholder listed above may have increased or decreased.
No are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements on page requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease 106.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the articles would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through of association.
There are no special control rights in relation to a whole number percentage level.
The percentage level may the Companys shares and the Company is not aware of any increase if the Company cancelled shares pursuant to the power agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions to purchase its own shares or decrease on the issue of new on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
During the period, the 2007 LTIP award vested and the trustees of Material contracts the Companys employees benefit trust EBT, Kleinwort Benson There are no persons with whom the Company has contractual Guernsey Trustees Limited, transferred 37,794 ordinary shares or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the to employees to satisfy the LTIP awards using ordinary shares Company.
purchased by the EBT in the market.
A further 343,078 ordinary Employment policy and involvement shares were transferred out of treasury to satisfy awards under The average number of employees in the Group during the period the LTIP.
In addition, a total of 123,596 ordinary shares, with an is given in note 4 to the Group financial statements on page 85. aggregate value of 15,449.50 were allotted during the period in connection with the Companys LTIP and executive share Group companies operate within a framework of HR policies, option scheme.
practices and regulations appropriate to their market sector and country of operation.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, The EBT has agreed to waive any right to all dividend payments training and career development promote equality of opportunity on shares held by it.
Details of the shares held by the EBT are set regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disout in note 25 to the Group financial statements on page 106. ability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The EBT holds, through its designated ESOP account nominee K. B CI Nominees Limited, 0.07% of the issued share capital of the Company, as at 31 December 2010, in trust for the benefit of certain executive directors and senior executives of the Group.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustee.
The EBT may vote or abstain from voting the shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way it sees fit, without incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for its decision.
68 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Other statutory information continued Repurchase of shares Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws At the 2010 annual general meeting, shareholders renewed the and regulations, for example, insider trading laws, in relation to the Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 21.05m transfer of shares.
ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital Appointment and replacement of directors excluding treasury shares.
No shares were purchased under this The provisions about the appointment and re-election of directors authority during the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 and, of the Company are contained in the articles of association.
at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the Board will again seek shareholder approval to renew the annual authority for the Powers of directors Company to make market purchases.
The business of the Company is managed by the directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the Voting rights provisions of the Companys articles of association, any special The Companys articles of association provide that on a show resolution of the Company and any relevant legislation.
of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of ordinary shares present in person and by proxy and entitled to Change of control significant agreements vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, every ordinary share held.
The notice of the annual general meeting alteration or similar rights in the event of a change of control of specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a the Company.
proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at During 2010, the Group secured a new four year US$800m multi the annual general meeting.
The Company conducts the vote at currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 12 banks.
the annual general meeting by electronic poll.
All proxy votes are This facility replaced the 625m bilateral facilities which were due counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to to mature in the third quarter of 2011.
Under the terms of these each resolution are announced at the annual general meeting and agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company any published on the Companys website after the meeting.
lender may request, by not less than 30 days notice to the Company, The articles of association may only be amended by a Special that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding amounts be Resolution passed at a general meeting of shareholders.
repaid to that lender at the expiry of such notice period.
Transfer of shares The Company is party to various note purchase agreements to There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the issue an equivalent of US$250m five year and eight year fixed rate Company, other than as contained in the articles of association: notes in a combination of US dollar and sterling at an average US dollar equivalent interest rate of 4.8% due 11 January 2015 and The directors may refuse to register any transfer of any certificated 11 January 2018.
Under the terms of the agreements, if there is a share which is not fully paid up, provided that this power will change of control of the Company, the notes must be offered for not be exercised so as to disturb the market in the Companys prepayment by the Company within seven days of the change of shares.
The prepayment date would be no later than 60 days after The directors may also refuse to register the transfer of a certhe offer of prepayment by the Company.
tificated share unless it is delivered to the registrars office, or There are no agreements between the Company and its directors such other place as the directors have specified, accompanied or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or by a certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy evidence as the directors may reasonably require to prove title or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Alan Mitchelson Secretary Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board 8 March 2011
