08 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Driving growth The Weir Way innOvaTivE 1 SOLUTiOnS Innovation is at the heart of our processes at Weir.
A major differentiator for Weir is the superiority of our materials and products with our Pump Technology Centre in Sydney, Australia focused solely on the research and development of improved materials and designs.
Key objectives for our engineering teams globally is to ensure that products continually deliver longer plant life, extend maintenance cycles, reduce downtime and lower whole-life operating costs.
During 2010, our Engineering Excellence Committee was re-energised with cross divisional working at its core to drive engineering best practice throughout the Group.
While we have increased our spend in research and development, we strongly believe that innovation is not restricted to the technological aspects.
Innovation is also about being proactive and creative in delivering operational improvement and increasing customer focus, introducing new products to existing customers and taking existing products to new markets.
During 2010, Minerals Multiflo and Hazleton companies found just such Pump Technology Centre, Sydney, Australia markets with their respective specialist pumps forming part of barge packages developed by Weir Minerals Canada for the Canadian Oil Sands.
Meanwhile, Weir Minerals Lewis Pumps, already a world leader in vertical pumps for the sulphur chemicals industry, is now applying its expertise toward solar power.
A historical drawback of solar power generation is the inability to generate electricity when the sun is not shining.
One solution is to use molten salt which operates at up to 550C, as a means of storing heat.
Lewis Pumps vertical centrifugal pump technology is uniquely suited for the challenging application of pumping high temperature, high specific gravity molten salt, making them one of only a small handful of companies in the world capable of satisfying the high flow, high head requirements of a full Weir Oil & Gas Services, Dubai scale solar power plant.
Along with continued capital investment in its facilities and service centres, Weir SPM has targeted technical differentiation as a strategic driver of growth.
As a result, Weir SPM effectively doubled its engineering resources in 2010, and aligned itself strategically with the University of Strathclyde, a leading engineering faculty, with the intent of developing technically superior products to support its strong operational position in meeting the increasing demands of the market place.
The relationship has given access to world class engineering talent and, combined with our increased internal resources, led to a number of new product initiatives currently being developed.
The Weir Production Systems Lean methodology continues at the heart of Weir SPM - developing world class products our operational excellence.
A new pull system at Weir Valves & Controls UK saw lead time reduced by 78%, work in progress cut by 90% and an immediate capacity increase of 50%.
Power & Industrial Services Europes finance team has adopted Lean as operational excellence expands into support functions.
Through a continuous improvement programme involving a series of small process changes, they identified annual savings of 600,000 and a working capital improvement of 7m.
Weir Minerals Multiflo, Coolum, Australia 09 Innovation is not restricted to the technological aspects.
It is also about being proactive and creative in delivering operational improvement and increasing customer focus.
10 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Driving growth The Weir Way COLLaBORaTivE 2 MinDSET At Weir we believe in developing a collaborative mindset and that we can achieve much more when we work together across businesses, divisions, markets and regions to solve problems and exploit market opportunities.
Weir people are willing and able to work in partnership with each other, as well as with our customers and partners and during 2010 one of our aims was to further optimise our ability to operate to best effect across divisions and regions.
Towards the end of 2010, the Oil & Gas Forum was created with the aim of identifying opportunities to take products from all divisions to a wider customer and market base within the oil and gas sector, providing major potential for further organic growth within the business.
Within this framework, Weir Floway, our Minerals speciality pumps business, has been working with the Oil & Gas Houston facility to bring their products and services to identified markets and together they are already delivering real benefits to maximise revenues in the upstream oil & gas sector.
Minerals has continued to develop its proven Total Care Centre offering to Weir Minerals Multiflo, Coolum, Australia customers adding new on-site service facilities for customers in Russia and Africa to its already extensive global Total Care Centre footprint where the objective is to minimise the customers downtime while maximising the divisions share of aftermarket revenues.
In the growing wind energy market, Power & Industrial has developed a unique collaborative approach to windfarm support.
As well as providing field and engineering services, Weir works closely with both windfarm owner operators and turbine manufacturers to create a model that ensures the most comprehensive use of resources.
The first contract under this model was from Alstom at ScottishPower Renewables Clachan Flats windfarm in western Scotland.
Weir Oil & Gas Services, Abu Dhabi Power & Industrial strengthened its nuclear offering with a cooperation agreement with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries MHI.
The agreement combines MHIs considerable technical expertise in nuclear pumps with Weirs engineered nuclear valves and aftermarket services.
The initial and primary focus of the agreement is on the UK.
The agreement with KHD Humboldt Wedag International Ltd to make Minerals the exclusive worldwide agent for KHD and recommended service provider for their high pressure grinding rollers in minerals processing applications is already providing an excellent extension to our substantial offering in the mining mill circuit with orders received in Australia and South America.
Weir Valves & Controls, Elland, UK Weir Oil & Gas, Dubai 11 We believe in developing a collaborative mindset and that we can achieve much more when we work together across businesses.
12 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Driving growth The Weir Way GLOBaL 3 CaPaBiLiTY Around 40% of the Groups revenue comes from emerging markets in Asia-Pacific, South America, Middle East and Africa as the demand for resources continues.
We have always been committed to going where our customers are, from the most challenging oil production environment, to the emerging power and energy markets of Asia and Africa and this commitment brings extensive opportunities for us to further internationalise our products and services.
During 2010 we made considerable progress in leveraging our presence in some of the fastest growing emerging markets.
To capitalise on the growing investments in the rapidly expanding China shale gas industry, a 60% joint venture was signed with Shengli Oilfield Highland Petroleum Equipment Company Limited to produce Weir SPM frac and cement pumps.
An agreement with Loftyman Engineering HK Ltd signed at the end of the year will strengthen our control valve offering with the introduction of eight sales offices throughout China with manufacturing and aftermarket support from our existing Suzhou plant.
At the start of 2011 an assembly centre with test stand was opened in Taicang to build the GEHO Weir SOS, Baku, Azerbaijan brand of pumps.
This facility will also be a key element in supporting the already considerable installed base of GEHO pumps in China.
Along with the Wuxi manufacturing facility from the Linatex acquisition, these developments add to Weirs well established presence in China, substantially increasing our growth prospects in the region.
Our existing Indian businesses saw good growth during the year and the opportunities in India have been extended with the acquisition of the BDK valves business.
BDKs range of industrial valves will also enhance our global customer offering of specialist valves including the nuclear products manufactured in the US and Europe.
At the same time, BDKs own extensive sales network in India and elsewhere will provide an additional route to market Weir Minerals, Sydney, Australia for many of our existing products.
Weir Oil & Gas also accelerated its regional expansion in the newer oil and gas producing areas of Australia and South East Asia during the year with the acquisition of PCS and in South America with the opening of its first service facility in Brasil, positioning the business for the expected rapid expansion of the oil and gas industry there.
Towards the end of 2010, the acquisition of American Hydro in Pennsylvania strengthened Weirs global reach in hydro power, the largest source of renewable energy worldwide.
American Hydro specialises in high-efficiency hydro-turbines and components.
Combined with Weirs existing engineering New acquisition American Hydro hydro service and rehabilitation know-how developed over many years in the UK and more recently in Canada, Weir American Hydro will look to develop its geographical presence beyond its traditional markets.
The already considerable skills in the growing area of renewable power was further extended with the addition of Ynfiniti Engineering Services, based in Madrid, Spain.
13 Our commitment to going where our customers are brings extensive opportunities to further internationalise our products and services.
