direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW Continued objectives: details of its financial instruments and annual general meeting hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and The AGM of the Company will be held at JPMorgan liquidity risk.
The Directors Report and Business Cazenove, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA on Review also highlights the principal risks and 26 January 2011 at 11.30am.
The Notice of Annual uncertainties facing the Group.
General Meeting is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
The Group has committed working capital facilities of This report was approved by the Board on 90m through to June 2011.
The Group continues to be 14 October 2010. highly cash generative, and preliminary discussions have commenced with banks regarding an appropriate new facility.
As a result, the Group is confident that an appropriate committed facility will be in place by by order of the board June 2011. ian Houghton Company Secretary The directors report that they have reviewed current 14 October 2010 performance and forecasts, combined with expenditure commitments, including capital expenditure, proposed dividends and share buyback, and borrowing facilities.
After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue its current operations, including contractual and commercial commitments for the foreseeable future despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company and a resolution to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
disclosure of information to auditors Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each of the directors has taken all steps he should have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 24
