38 Annual Report 2009 10 Senior management This table shows the membership 01 of the Executive Committee, the John Derkach Whitbread Hotels and Restaurants Position: WHR Management Board and Managing Director, Costa the Costa Management Board.
The Age: 53 biographical details of Alan Parker, At Whitbread: Christopher Rogers and Patrick John joined Whitbread in 1995 as Marketing Dempsey are shown on the previous Director of Whitbread Beer Company, page.
The biographical details of before becoming Managing Director of the other members of the Executive Beefeater in 1999.
Appointed CEO of Pizza Committee, John Derkach, Louise Hut UK in 2002 and Managing Director of Smalley and Simon Barratt are Costa in 2006.
01 shown to the right of the table.
Previous Experience: Spent three years at Procter & Gamble Board and and ten years with Pepsi Cola International committee in the roles of UK Marketing Manager, UK members Operations Director, Northern Europe Marketing Director and Area Vice President Executive Alan Parker for Spain and Portugal.
Committee Simon Barratt Patrick Dempsey 02 John Derkach Louise Smalley Christopher Rogers Position: Louise Smalley Group Human Resources Director Age: 42 02 WHR Mark Anderson At Whitbread: Management Paul Flaum Joined Whitbread in 1995 as HR Projects Board Maria Horn Manager of Pizza Hut UK.
Served as HR Andrew Pellington Director of David Lloyd Leisure and then Gerard Tempest Whitbread Restaurants before becoming Ben Wishart Group Human Resources Director in 2007.
External appointments: Costa Clive Bentley People 1st Trustee.
Management Russell Fairhurst Previous Experience: Board Helen Hardy Spent five years working as a human Adrian Johnson resources professional in the oil industry Andrew Marshall with BP and Esso Petroleum.
Matthew Price 03 Jim Slater 03 Simon Barratt 01 John Derkach 02 Louise Smalley The members of the Executive Committee are Position: 03 Simon Barratt also members of both Management Boards, General Counsel although John Derkach is not a member of Age: 50 the WHR Management Board and Patrick At Whitbread: Dempsey is not a member of the Costa Management Board.
Joined the Group in 1991 as Group Legal Adviser, before becoming Company Secretary and Group Legal Affairs Director in 1997.
Has had accountability for group development and was a director of Whitbread Pension Trustees Limited between 1997 and 2009.
Previous experience: Trained as a solicitor at Slaughter and May and then held positions in the legal teams at Rio Tinto and Heron prior to joining Whitbread.
