39 Directors report The directors present their report Results and dividends share capital.
However, subject and accounts for the year ended to approval of the new Articles of 4 March 2010 Group profit before 223.6m Association at the Annual General Certain information required for tax and exceptional Meeting, the Company will cease to disclosure in this report is provided items have an authorised share capital in in other appropriate sections of accordance with the Companies the Annual Report and Financial Group profit before 208.0m Act 2006.
These include the tax and after Business Review, the Corporate exceptional items Details of the issued share capital can Governance and Remuneration be found in note 28 to the accounts.
Reports and the Group Financial Interim dividend paid 9.65p per Statements and accordingly these on 5 January 2010 share Holders of ordinary shares are are incorporated into the report entitled to attend and speak at by reference.
Recommended final 28.35p general meetings of the Company, dividend per share to appoint one or more proxies and, Principal activities and review if they are corporations, corporate of business Total dividend for 38.0p per representatives to attend general The principal activity of the the year share meetings and to exercise voting Group is the operation of hotels, rights.
Holders of ordinary shares restaurants and coffee shops.
may receive a dividend and on These operations are largely a liquidation may share in the carried out in the UK, although Subject to approval at the Annual assets of the Company.
Holders Premier Inn operates one hotel in General Meeting, the final dividend of ordinary shares are entitled Ireland, one hotel in India and three will be payable on 14 July 2010 to to receive the Companys annual hotels in Dubai via a joint venture.
shareholders on the register at the report and accounts.
Subject to Costa operates coffee shops in 24 close of business on 14 May 2010. meeting certain thresholds, holders international markets through joint of ordinary shares may requisition ventures or on a franchise basis, Board of directors a general meeting of the Company and, following the acquisition of The directors at the date of this or the proposal of resolutions at Coffeeheaven International plc, report are listed on pages 36 and annual general meetings.
wholly owned coffee shops in 37.
Richard Baker joined the Board five Central European countries.
on 7 September 2009, Charles Voting rights Details of the Groups activities, Gurassa stepped down from the On a show of hands at a general developments and performance Board on 7 September 2009 and all meeting of the Company, every for the year, the main trends and others served throughout the year.
holder of ordinary shares present factors likely to affect its future in person or by proxy and entitled development and performance Richard Baker will stand for election to vote has one vote and on a poll and information required by the and Anthony Habgood, Simon every member present in person Companies Act 2006 relating to Melliss and Christopher Rogers or by proxy and entitled to vote the business review are set out will stand for re-election at the has one vote for every ordinary on pages 4 to 35.
Details of the forthcoming AGM in accordance share held.
Voting rights for any Companys WINcard, containing with the Companys Articles of ordinary shares held in treasury are the key performance indicators, Association.
None of the ordinary can be found on pages 32 and 33. shares carry any special rights Details of the directors service with regard to control of the contracts are given in the Company.
Electronic and paper remuneration report on page 47. proxy appointments and voting None of the non-executive directors instructions must be received by the has a service contract.
Companys Registrars not later than i 48 hours before a meeting or Details of continuing professional adjourned meeting, or ii 24 hours development for all directors are before a poll is taken, if the poll is given in the corporate governance not taken on the same day as the report on page 44. meeting or adjourned meeting.
Share capital Unless the directors decide Throughout the year, the authorised otherwise, a shareholder cannot share capital has been 319,889,877 attend or vote shares at any general divided into 410,170,050 ordinary meeting of the Company or at any 122 shares of 76 153 p each separate general meeting of the representing 98.47% of the total holders of any class of shares in share capital, 265 million B nonthe Company or upon a poll or cumulative preference shares of exercise any other right conferred 1 penny each representing 0.83% by membership in relation to of the total share capital and general meetings or polls if he has 224 million C non-cumulative not paid all amounts relating to preference shares of 1 penny each those shares which are due at the representing 0.70% of the total time of the meeting.
co. uk 40 Annual Report 2009 10 Restrictions on transfer of shares are not exercisable directly by the any arrangement or composition There are the following restrictions employees.
with his creditors generally, vii he on the transfer of shares in the is prohibited from being a director Company: Appointment and replacement under any applicable legislation, certain restrictions which may of directors or viii he ceases to be a director from time to time be imposed by Directors shall be no less than under any applicable legislation or laws and regulations for example, two and no more than twenty he is removed from office under the insider trading laws : in number.
Directors may be Companys Articles of Association.
pursuant to the Companys share appointed by the Company by dealing code, the directors and ordinary resolution or by the Board Amendment of the Companys senior executives of the Company of directors.
A director appointed Articles of Association require approval to deal in the by the Board holds office until the Any amendments to the Articles Companys shares: next Annual General Meeting and of Association of the Company where a person with at least a is then eligible for election by the may be made in accordance with 0.25% interest in a class of shares members.
the provisions of the Companies Act has been served with a disclosure by way of special resolution.
notice and has failed to provide At every Annual General Meeting the Company with information the following directors shall retire Powers of the directors concerning interests in those from office: The business of the Company is shares: Any director who has been managed by the directors who the subscriber ordinary shares appointed by the directors since may exercise all the powers of may not be transferred without the last Annual General Meeting: the Company, subject to the the prior written consent of the Any director who held office at Companys Memorandum and directors: the time of the two preceding Articles of Association, any the directors can, without giving Annual General Meetings and relevant legislation and any any reason, refuse to register the who did not retire at either of directions given by the Company transfer of any shares which are them: and by passing a special resolution at not fully paid: and Any director who has been in a general meeting.
In particular, transfers cannot be in favour office, other than as a director the directors may exercise all the of more than four joint holders.
holding an executive position, powers of the Company to borrow for a continuous period of nine money, issue shares, appoint and The Company is not aware of any years or more at the date of remove directors and recommend agreements between shareholders the meeting.
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on Any director who retires at an Significant agreements voting rights.
annual general meeting may The Companys facility offer himself for reappointment agreements, details of which B shares and C shares by the shareholders.
can be found in note 22 to the Holders of B shares and C shares accounts, contain provisions are entitled to receive an annual The Company may by special entitling the counterparties to non-cumulative preferential resolution remove any director exercise termination or other dividend calculated at a rate of 75% before the expiration of his term rights in the event of a change of 6 month LIBOR on a value of 155 of office.
of control of the Company.
pence per B share and 159 pence per C share respectively, but are Any director automatically stops Contractual arrangements not entitled to any further right of being a director if i he gives The Group has contractual participation in the profits of the the Company a written notice arrangements with numerous Company.
They are also entitled of resignation, ii he gives the third parties in support of its to the payment of 155 pence per Company a written notice in business activities, none of B share and 159 pence per C share which he offers to resign and the which are considered individually respectively on a return of capital directors decide to accept this to be essential to its business on winding-up excluding any offer, iii all of the other directors and, accordingly, it has not been intra-group reorganisation on a who must comprise at least considered necessary for an solvent basis.
three people pass a resolution understanding of the development, or sign a written notice requiring performance or position of the Except in limited circumstances, the director to resign, iv he is or Groups business to disclose the holders of the B shares and has been suffering from mental information about any of those C shares are not entitled, in their ill health and the directors pass a third parties.
capacity as holders of such shares, resolution removing the director to receive notice of any general from office, v he has missed Financial Instruments meeting of the Company nor to directors meetings whether or Information on the Companys use attend, speak or vote at any such not an alternate director appointed of financial instruments, financial general meeting.
by him attends those meetings risk management objectives and for a continuous period of six policies and exposure is given Employee share schemes months without permission from in note 26 of the consolidated Whitbread does not have any the directors and the directors pass financial statements.
employee share scheme with shares a resolution removing the director which have rights with regard to from office, vi a bankruptcy order the control of the Company that is made against him or he makes 41 Compensation for loss of office Directors share interests There are no agreements between The interests of directors and their connected persons at the end of 122 the Company and its directors the year in the ordinary shares of 76 p each in the Company are 153 or employees providing for shown below: compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
Held at Held at Held at 28 04 2010 04 03 2010 26 02 2009 Supplier payment policy The Company has no trade creditors Anthony Habgood 50,797 50,797 50,797 26 February 2009: nil.
The Group Alan Parker 45,263 45,263 65,263 keeps to the payment terms which have been agreed with suppliers.
Patrick Dempsey 27,086 15,938 1,984 Where payment terms have not been Christopher Rogers 47,976 34,821 14,319 specifically agreed, it is the Groups 2 policy to settle invoices close to Richard Baker 1,450 1,450 the end of the month following the Wendy Becker 6,000 6,000 2,500 month of invoicing.
The Groups ability to keep to these terms is Philip Clarke 3,939 3,939 3,797 dependent upon suppliers sending 1 Charles Gurassa n a 1,821 1,821 accurate and adequately detailed invoices to the correct address on a Simon Melliss 1,500 1,500 1,500 timely basis.
The Group had 48 days Stephen Williams 4,000 4,000 4,000 purchases outstanding at 4 March 2010 26 February 2009: 46 days, The share interests shown above include the non-beneficial interests 122 based on the trade creditors at that of Anthony Habgood in 522 ordinary shares of 76 153p each.
date and purchases made during 1 the year.
at date stepped down from the Board 2 at date of appointment Major interests As at 28 April 2010, the Company Further details regarding the interests of the directors in the share capital had received formal notification, of the Company, including with respect to options to acquire ordinary under the Disclosure and shares, are set out in the remuneration report.
Transparency Rules, of the following material holdings in its shares: Charitable and political donations prospective employees because No.
of % of No direct charitable donations of any disability.
Employees who shares issued have been made by the Company.
become disabled during their career share The Whitbread Charitable Trust at Whitbread will be retained in capital made donations totaling 41,872 employment wherever possible during the year.
Costa Limited, a and given help with rehabilitation BlackRock 17,667,678 10.03% subsidiary of the Company, made a and training.
direct donation of 176,307 to the Schroders Plc 10,531,421 5.35% Costa Foundation.
Further details Employee involvement about the Costa Foundation can be The importance of good relations Legal & 6,978,034 3.97% found on page 31.
In addition, the and communications with General Company organised and supported employees is fundamental to a number of charitable events and a the continued success of our number of its employees carried out business.
Each of the Groups charitable activities during working operating businesses maintains hours.
The value of these activities employee relations and consults has not been quantified.
employees as appropriate to its own particular needs.
Regular The Company has not made any internal communications are made political donations during the to all employees to ensure that year and intends to continue its they are kept well informed of the policy of not doing so for the performance of the Group.
information can be found on pages 12 and 13.
Employment policies Whitbread has a range of Directors indemnity employment policies covering such A qualifying third party indemnity issues as diversity, employee wellprovision as defined in Section 236 being and equal opportunities.
1 of the Companies Act 2006 is in force for the benefit of the The Company takes its directors.
responsibilities to the disabled seriously and seeks not to discriminate against current or http: annualreport.
co. uk 42 Annual Report 2009 10 Purchase of own shares Going concern By order of the Board.
The Company is authorised to The Groups business activities, purchase its own shares in the together with the factors likely Simon Barratt market.
Approval to renew this to effect its future development, General Counsel and Company authority for a further year will be performance and position are set Secretary sought from shareholders at the out in the Business Review on pages 2010 AGM.
The financial position of 28 April 2010 the Company, its cash flows, net The Company did not purchase debt and borrowing facilities and Registered Office: any of its own shares during the maturity of those facilities are Whitbread Court the year.
14.7 million shares set out in the Finance Directors Houghton Hall Business Park representing 7.8% of the total report on pages 28 and 29.
In Porz Avenue called up share capital at the addition there are further details Dunstable beginning of the year are held as in the financial statements on the Bedfordshire treasury shares.
This number has Groups financial risk management, LU5 5XE not changed throughout the year.
objectives and policies note 25 and details of the financial Registered in England: No.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed The directors report has been their willingness to continue in The Group has considerable drawn up and presented in office as auditor of the Company financial resources and, as a accordance with and in reliance and a resolution proposing their consequence, the directors believe upon applicable English company reappointment will be put to that the Group is well placed to law and any liability of the directors shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
After manage its business risks.
in connection with this report shall proper consideration, the Audit be subject to the limitations and Committee is satisfied that the The directors have a reasonable restrictions provided by such law.
Companys auditor, Ernst & Young expectation that the Company has The directors report includes the LLP, continues to be objective and adequate resources to continue Chairmans statement on pages independent of the Company.
In in operational existence for the 4 and 5, the Business Review on coming to this conclusion, the Audit foreseeable future.
Thus they pages 6 to 35 and this report on Committee gave full consideration continue to adopt the going pages 39 to 42. to the non-audit work carried out concern basis of accounting in by Ernst & Young LLP.
The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain statements about The Audit Committee has Annual General Meeting the future outlook for the Group.
considered what work should not The AGM will be held at 2.00pm Although the Company believes be carried out by the external on 22 June 2010 at the Queen that the expectations are based auditor and have concluded that Elizabeth II Conference Centre, on reasonable assumptions, any certain services, including internal Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, statements about future outlook audit, acquisition due diligence and London SW1P 3EE.
The notice of may be influenced by factors that IT consulting services, will not be meeting is enclosed with this report could cause actual outcomes and carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
for those shareholders receiving results to be materially different.
hard copy documents, and available Disclosure of information to auditor at www.
co. uk for those The directors have taken all who elected to receive documents reasonable steps to make electronically.
At the 2010 AGM, all themselves aware of relevant voting will be by poll.
Electronic audit information and to establish handsets will be utilised and results that the auditor is aware of that will be displayed on the screen at information.
The directors are the meeting.
not aware of any relevant audit information which has not been disclosed to the auditor.
