36 Annual Report 2009 10 Board of directors 01 02 Anthony Habgood Alan Parker, CBE Position: Position: Chairman since August 2005 Chief Executive since June 2004 Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: May 2005 May 2000 retiring in November 2010 Age: 63 Age: 63 Committee membership: Committee membership: Nomination Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee External appointments: External appointments: Jumeirah Group LLC Non-executive Reed Elsevier PLC and NV Chairman director, British Hospitality Association Previous experience: Director, University of Surrey Visiting Director of The Boston Consulting Professor, World Travel & Tourism Group Inc from 1977 to 1986.
Director, Council Director, West Buckland School and then Chief Executive of Tootal Group Foundation Trustee & Director PLC until 1991.
Chief Executive and then Previous experience: Chairman of Bunzl PLC until 2009.
Managing Director of Crest Hotels Europe, Having been Chairman of Mlnlycke based in Frankfurt.
Senior Vice-President Healthcare UK Limited he has also held of Holiday Inn Europe, Middle East and non-executive directorships at Geest PLC, Africa, based in Brussels.
Joined Whitbread Marks and Spencer Group plc, National in 1992 as Managing Director of Whitbread Westminster Bank Plc, Powergen plc and Hotel Company.
03 04 Patrick Dempsey Christopher Rogers Position: Position: Executive Director Finance Director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: January 2009 May 2005 Age: 51 Age: 50 External appointments: External appointments: Hospitality Action Trustee, Business in the HMV Group plc Non-executive director Community talent and skills leadership Previous experience: team, DCMS Tourism Advisory Council Qualified as an accountant with Price Previous experience: Waterhouse before joining Kingfisher plc Patrick joined Whitbread in 2004 and has in 1988.
Subsequent roles included Group been in the hotel and restaurant business Financial Controller at Kingfisher plc, for the past thirty years.
Patrick was with Finance Director, and then Commercial Forte Hotels for twenty years, then went Director, at Comet Group plc before on to join Compass Group as CEO of becoming Finance Director at Woolworths Restaurant Associates.
In 2005, Patrick Group plc and Chairman of Woolworths became Managing Director of Premier Inn.
01 Anthony Habgood 02 Alan Parker, CBE 03 Patrick Dempsey 04 Christopher Rogers 05 Stephen Williams 06 Simon Melliss 07 Philip Clarke 08 Wendy Becker 09 Richard Baker 01 02 03 04 37 05 06 07 Stephen Williams Simon Melliss Philip Clarke Position: Position: Position: Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: April 2008 April 2007 January 2006 Age: 62 Age: 57 Age: 50 Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee Chairman, Remuneration Committee Chairman Nomination Committee Nomination Committee External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: Tesco PLC Director Unilever PLC and NV General Counsel Hammerson PLC Group Financial Previous experience: and Chief Legal Officer, Arriva PLC Director, Member of the Committee of Has eleven years board experience gained Senior Independent Director, Management of Hermes Property Unit Trust at Tesco where he has responsibility for Arts and Business Chairman, Previous experience: operations in eleven countries across Asia fide la Warr Pavilion Trust Chairman Having trained as an accountant and Europe together with the IT function.
Previous experience: he held a number of financial After spending three years in the tax roles at Reed International PLC planning and commercial departments and Sketchley PLC, before joining at Slaughter and May, Stephen joined the Hammerson in 1991 where he became legal department of Imperial Chemical Group Finance Director in 1995.
Simon Industries PLC, before joining Unilever PLC has also previously held a non-executive in 1986.
He became General Counsel at directorship at Associated British Ports Unilever in 1993.
08 09 Wendy Becker Richard Baker Position: Position: Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: January 2008 September 2009 Age: 44 Age: 47 Committee membership: Committee membership: Audit Committee, Audit Committee Remuneration Committee External appointments: External appointments: Virgin Active Group Non-executive Vodafone Group Chief Marketing Officer Chairman, Group Aeroplan Inc Chairman, Working Families Trustee European Advisory Board, Member of Vodafone Foundation Trustee Heidrick & Struggles Advisory Board, Advent Previous experience: International PLC Operating Partner Previously Managing Director of Talk Talk.
Previous experience: Partner of McKinsey & Company for 14 years.
Chief Executive of Alliance Boots Brand Manager of Procter & Gamble and Group plc and Chief Operating Officer Boston Consulting Group.
