32 Annual Report 2009 10 Business review key performance indicators We use a balanced scorecard, called the WINcard to measure our performance against key indicators.
Whitbread in numbers WINcard results in 2009 10 Health and safety has been a key The WINcard is our unique balanced The measures on the WINcard measure on the WINcard since it scorecard.
It drives high performance were updated in 2009 10 to include was first established, and continues and maps our progress against the central costs and cash.
However, rather than being Whitbread Way Forward.
Every measures replaced ROCE growth included simply as a bonusable leader in the business from the and brand expansion.
These measure, health and safety is now management teams in our Costa changes were made to reflect the a hurdle and 20% of the total stores, restaurants and Premier Groups new priorities in light of the WINcard bonus payable will be lost Inns, to the Chief Executive has a general economic conditions.
if health and safety targets are not WINcard which is relevant to their met.
This further demonstrates the role and level of contribution.
All During the year, Whitbread importance of health and safety team members in Whitbread can achieved an all green WINcard to Whitbread and our ongoing see their achievements and progress at Group level.
This is an excellent commitment to looking after the on a monthly basis wherever they result and means that we met or welfare of our customers and work.
The WINcard measures exceeded our targets on all key employees.
our performance around our key measures.
Information on our stakeholders: our customers, our achievements during the year and As detailed on pages 30 and 31 people, our shareholders and a more on our targets for the year ahead of this report, we have launched recent stakeholder addition, our are set out in the table opposite.
Good Together during the year.
community which is better known In addition, the WINcard results For 2010 11 we have added a new as our Good Together strategy.
for Hotels and Restaurants and measure at Group level of electricity The WINcard aligns our day-to-day Costa are set out on pages 20 and carbon reduction.
We have also activities to the overall vision and and 26 respectively.
replaced the team turnover measure strategy of the Company and helps with team engagement, which is us to measure our progress.
Changes for the year ahead described in more detail on page We have given careful consideration 12.
Another new measure is Premier The WINcard has enabled a as to what the appropriate indicators Inn market performance, which performance culture to thrive across should be going forward and to the measures Premier Inns RevPAR all levels of the organisation and setting of targets for the year ahead.
against the budget hotel sector.
mobilises our people to act around shared goals.
The WINcard measures A fundamental change of approach are used as key indicators in made following consultation with The WINcard is personal development planning, for the Remuneration Committee was designed to ensure recognising excellent performance, that the WINcard should have a in coaching and performance longer-term perspective and should that we are meeting management, supporting talent not be set with just the year ahead our objectives to our management and succession in mind.
As such, provisional targets planning.
It is a core component of have been established for each stakeholder groups: our incentive framework at all levels.
of the WINcard measures for the investors, customers, next five years, with the overriding The WINcard educates, motivates principle being one of continuous our people: and and engages our leaders and improvement.
teams across the business to 2010 11 are simply the first step.
focus, prioritise and deliver what Targets will still be set annually, but is required to achieve success.
33 Achievements in 2009 10 Targets for 2010 11 Investor measures Central costs Achieved 20 million of cost efficiencies.
Not a WINcard measure in 2010 11, but a further annual saving of 5million is targeted.
Cash Positive cash flow of 109.7million, Cash neutrality.
Profit Underlying profit ahead of budget at Improved profit performance.
Premier Inn market Premier Inn outperformed the budget This will be a new measure performance hotel sector on RevPAR.
on the WINcard requiring continued outperformance.
Customer measures Like-for-like sales Group like for like sales down by 0.6%.
Improved like for like sales growth A good result in light of the general growth.
Brand standards Both businesses achieved a green rating in The audit benchmark 2009 10.
At Group level, the measure is a has been raised for both combination of the brand standards scores businesses.
Customer recommend Targets exceeded in Costa and Restaurants.
The target in all businesses Premier Inn improved on the previous has been increased for year, but did not reach the tough target the year ahead.
and achieved an amber rating.
At Group level, the combined results produced a green rating.
People measures Health and safety The Group and each of the businesses met The health and safety audit health and safety targets.
The health and benchmark has been raised safety audit had been made tougher, so for all businesses.
this was an excellent result.
Team turnover Team turnover across Whitbread in Continued improvement 2009 10 was 40.1%, compared to in retention.
Team engagement The team engagement score across the Improved team Group, as obtained from the YOUR SAY engagement result.
survey, was 60.0%, outperforming the UK norm.
Good Together Electricity carbon This was not a WINcard measure in 2009 10.
Decrease in consumption reduction relative to sales.
The WINcard Performance significantly below budget Performance marginally below budget Performance has met or exceeded the budget Note: measures in the table above without a result were not 2009 10 measures, but will be in 2010 11 http: annualreport.
