20 Summary Directors report Summary financial statement auditors annual General Meeting The auditors have reported on the full Annual Notice of the 2010 AGM of the Company The Summary financial statement on pages 26 to 27, the Summary Directors remuneration report and financial statements.
Their report was to be held at the Companys Head Office at unqualified and did not include a reference to any Gain Lane in Bradford on 3 June 2010 is sent report on pages 21 to 24 and the Summary corporate governance report below, are matters to which the auditors drew attention by to shareholders.
Shareholders will also receive way of emphasis without qualifying their report, notification of the availability of the Annual summaries of the information contained in the Annual report and financial statements 2010. and did not contain a statement under sections report and financial statements 2010 to view 498 2 or 498 3 of the Companies Act 2006. on the Groups website, unless they have elected The aim of the Annual review is to provide to receive printed shareholder communications.
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are The Directors believe each of the resolutions to shareholders with the key financial information in a clear and concise manner.
Therefore the Annual aware, there is no relevant audit information of be proposed at the AGM is in the best interests which the auditors are unaware and that each of the Group and recommend shareholders to review and Summary financial statement do not contain sufficient information to allow as full an Director has taken all reasonable steps to make vote in favour of each of them.
themselves aware of any relevant audit understanding on the results of the Group, its state of affairs or the policies and arrangements information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
concerning Directors remuneration, as is provided in the Annual report and financial A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as statements.
The Annual report and financial statements can be viewed and downloaded from auditors and to authorise the Directors to set their remuneration is to be proposed at the our website and may also be obtained free of charge from the Company as noted in the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
Investor relations and financial calendar section at the back of this report.
Summary corporate governance report In light of recent Board changes, the process A report explaining our governance policies and This Summary corporate governance report is an extract from the Corporate governance for the external review of the performance practices is given in the Annual report.
The full of the Board, which had been scheduled for terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration report within the Annual report and financial statements for the 52 weeks ended the early part of 2010, has been postponed and Nomination Committees, the schedule of and will now take place in the second half matters reserved for the Board along with the 31 January 2010. of the current financial year.
In the meantime, full Corporate governance report can be found in however, a review process has been the Annual report and on the corporate website, Throughout the financial year 2009 10 the Group has complied with the provisions set out commissioned as to the effectiveness of the www.
co. uk corporate investors individual board committees, and of their corporate-governance in Section 1 of the Combined Code and applied its principles, as reported below in this Corporate members, which will take place during the first half of the current financial year.
That committee Governance report with the exception that at the beginning of the year, the Audit Committee did review will be conducted by an external agency and the results and any major findings of not have a member with recent relevant financial experience.
With the appointment of Philip Cox that process will be considered and, as appropriate, acted upon in the second half as chair of the Audit Committee on 4 June 2009 there is a member of the Audit Committee with of the financial year.
recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board is satisfied that, in the light of changed circumstances that exist at the time of the During the year the Group has developed, and the Board has approved, a Corporate Governance publication of this report, the arrangements for review and appraisal of the performance of the Compliance Statement which sets out how the Group complies with each of the provisions of Board, its Committees and individual Directors are appropriate.
The Board is also confident that the Combined Code.
That document also sets out the statement of the division of responsibilities the initiatives it has commenced will enable the Group to satisfy any recommendations of the between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, the list of matters reserved to the Board, revised Combined Code the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to Board evaluation the membership of the Board and of the various Board Committees together with the terms of which it is understood will come into force during reference of the various standing Board the current financial year.
This document is available in the Investor relations section of the Groups website, www.
co. uk Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual review 2010
