Sir ian gibson 4. richard pennycook 8. paul manduca Chairman Group Finance Director Senior Independent Director Sir Ian Gibson aged 63 joined the Group as Richard Pennycook aged 46 joined the Board Paul Manduca aged 58 was appointed as a Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in September as Group Finance Director in October 2005.
He was appointed Chairman, following the Prior to that, he was the Group Finance Director He is a member of the Nomination and retirement of Sir Ken Morrison, in March 2008. of RAC Plc, the quoted specialist motoring and Remuneration Committees and became the He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Trinity vehicle management company.
Previous senior Chair of the Remuneration Committee from Mirror plc.
Previous Board appointments include roles include Group Finance Director of September 2009.
He is also Chairman of Aon Chairman of BPB PLC, Deputy Chairman of Asda HP Bulmer Holdings PLC, Laura Ashley Plc UK Limited and Henderson Diversified Income Group PLC, and a Director of Chelys Limited, and JD Wetherspoon plc and Chief Executive plc, and a Non-Executive Director of GKN PLC, Greggs Plc and Northern Rock Plc.
of Welcome Break Holdings plc.
He is also Development Securities PLC, JPMF European He is also a former member of the Court of the a Non-Executive Director of Persimmon Plc.
Fledgling Investment Trust Plc, JSC KazMunaiGas Bank of England.
Sir Ian enjoyed a distinguished Exploration Production Plc, as well as other 30-year career in the motor industry, most companies.
He was the Chairman of Bridgewell recently as President of Nissan Europe.
Non-Executive Directors Group plc until August 2007, when it was sold to Landsbanki Securities UK Ltd.
Prior to that, 5. philip Cox he was the Global CEO of Rothschild Asset Executive Directors Philip Cox aged 58 joined the Group as a Management Limited and CEO of Deutsche Non-Executive Director in April 2009.
He is a Asset Management Europe.
Dalton philips member of the Audit Committee and became Chief Executive its Chair in September 2009.
He is also Chief 9. nigel robertson Nigel Robertson aged 50 joined the Group We welcome Dalton Philips aged 41 who joins Executive Officer of International Power plc, us as Chief Executive from 29 March 2010. a position that he has held since 2003, when as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and he was promoted from his previous role of Chief 2. mark gunter Financial Officer 20002003.
He is a member Remuneration Committees, and became Chair of the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Group Retail Director of the Presidents Committee of the CBI.
He was Mark Gunter aged 51 joined the Group in 1986 a Non-Executive Director at Wincanton Plc Committee in September 2009.
Working in the private equity sector, he is the Group Chief as a Store General Manager.
In 1993, he was from 2001 to 2009, having chaired their Audit appointed Regional Director and subsequently Committee from 2001 to 2008 and was Chair of Executive of Covenant Healthcare Ltd. Until the business was sold in 2007 he was the Chief Stores Director in 1999.
He was appointed their Remuneration Committee from 2008.
His to the Board of the Group in 2000 as Group previous board position was as Chief Financial Executive Officer of Chelsea Stores Holdings Ltd and he was previously the Managing Director Store Operations Director with additional Officer at Siebe Plc.
responsibility for retail operations, retail fuel, of Ocado, the online grocery shopping business set up in partnership with Waitrose.
Prior to retail projects and Company-wide security.
Prior 6. brian Flanagan to joining Morrisons, he gained wide experience Brian Flanagan aged 57 was appointed to this he held senior positions in Marks and Spencer Group PLC both in the UK and USA.
in UK food retailing, which included working at the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July Iceland, Fine Fare, Tesco, Argyll Foods and Asda.
He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Johanna Waterous 3. martyn Jones Non-Executive Director of The Financial Services Johanna Waterous aged 52 joined the Group Authority and is an adviser to Jet Environmental as a Non-Executive Director in February 2010.
Group Trading Director Martyn Jones aged 51 joined the Group in Systems.
Previously, he worked for the Mars She is currently a Non-Executive Director of RSA Corporation for 26 years and possesses broad Group Plc and Sandpiper CI, as well as being an 1990 after gaining wide buying, marketing and product development experience in fresh and international business experience.
He has Operating Partner of Global Leisure Partners.
After eight years with J Sainsbury, held senior management positions in finance, Her previous experience includes 22 years with he moved into manufacturing with RHM and information systems, manufacturing, purchasing McKinsey & Co, London, ultimately as Co-Leader Campbells before joining Morrisons.
Starting and was, most recently, the global Vice President of the firms Global Marketing and Sales Practice.
as Trading Manager for frozen foods, he was of Business Transformation for Mars Inc. She is a Non-Executive Director of the Kew promoted to Trading Operations Director Foundation, the Chair of Royal Horticultural in 1993.
He was appointed Grocery Director 7. penny hughes Society Enterprises and a Trustee of English in 1997 and then Senior Trading Director Penny Hughes aged 50 joined the Group National Opera.
He was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in January 2010. she was Chairman of Tate Enterprises.
as Group Trading Director in March 2007.
She is currently a Non-Executive Director of He is also a member of the Corporate Cable & Wireless Plc and Home Retail Group plc, Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
the president of the Advertising Association and a trustee of the British Museum and she has recently accepted a Non-Executive Directorship of Royal Bank of Scotland.
Her previous experience includes 10 years with Coca-Cola ultimately as president of Coca-Cola GB & Ireland and various non-executive roles including Body Shop International plc, GAP Inc, Reuters plc, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Trinity Mirror plc and Vodafone plc.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual review 2010 19 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 www.
