6 Strategy Keeping things simple: Our vision to be the Food Specialist for Everyone is now well advanced.
Our constant focus on freshness, great value and outstanding service is appealing to more and more people.
And were now closer to customers having opened 43 new stores last year.
A simple strategy BRanD valueS POSItIOnInG Morrisons has three distinct As a food specialist we differentiate ourselves from our major brand values that strengthen our competitors, all of whom have significant non-food offers.
The brand values give us We are unique in having our own manufacturing and packing the flexibility to react to market facilities, and being farmers ourselves.
We also prepare more changes and consumer trends.
food and employ more specialist butchers, fishmongers and bakers in-store than our competitors.
We can clearly demonstrate our deep understanding of food and ensure that everyone who Fresh shops with us receives outstanding value, freshness and service.
Value natIOnal tO natIOnwIDe Service We identified an opportunity for space growth so that more households in the UK are within a 15 minute drive of one of Freshness, great value and outstanding service mean our brand and our products are appealing our stores.
This space growth started with the acquisition of to more people for more reasons.
38 stores from Co-operative Somerfield in 2009, 34 of which were converted and fully trading as Morrisons during 2009.
Our research supports this as we are attracting more customers from higher income groups as This added 480,000 square feet of space during the year.
We are consistently ranked higher than our competitors for having the freshest food possible.
We will also be increasing our number of smaller stores.
These are stores with less than 20,000 square feet sales area but that still have a complete Market Street.
These smaller stores are not convenience shops but do provide convenient shopping.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual review 2010 7 Morrisons share of grocers uk 2010 MaRket SHaRe StRateGy DelIveRy Percentage % A Our market share continues Success at Morrisons relies on to increase as we move from our 134,000 people delivering B D National to Nationwide.
great service to our customers C Morrisons market share growth each and every day.
was greater than the total market See page 15 for more on our people growth year-on-year and as a result we grew market share.
A. Morrisons 12.6% B. Tesco, Asda, Sainsburys combined 63.5% C. Premium combined 5.8% D. Discounter and others combined 18.1% % 2.4increase 2 4 hours Market share growth in 2009 10 Basket size total average British peas and beans can arrive in a Morrisons Percentage % has increased 2.4% in the year.
store just 24 hours after being picked.
Market growth 4.7 9.1 6.0 Morrisons Tesco, Asda, Sainsburys average Source: Kantar Worldpanel www.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual review 2010 8 Strategy continued A broad appeal: In the past year we attracted more customers than ever before.
Our fresh approach has a wider appeal across the whole country.
From Folkestone to Falkirk... FROM natIOnal tO natIOnwIDe a BROaD aPPeal We identified an opportunity for space growth A wider range of store sizes we now have 96 smaller stores so that more households in the UK are within a 15 minute drive of one of our stores.
30,000 price cuts through the year Our Big Price Crunch weeks and Essentials For Less were popular with customers 3,000 new fresh and core grocery products 56 Scotland 20,000 colleagues working towards a national recognised retail qualification through our Fresh Food Academy 78 % North 6.7footfall 22,000 This year we attracted an additional 500,000 Over 22,000 own label lines, including customers to our stores each week.
Fresh Ideas, which uses raw, easy to cook ingredients so that the products are fresher 81 than ready meals.
Midlands 64 74 South West 72 South East South Central Key Stores Manufacturing sites Distribution centres Sittingbourne distribution centre, Kent opened August 2009 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual review 2010 9 Anna Hall Customer, Leicester Im a regular at your Winsford store and think its excellent.
The shelves are always well-stocked, and at Christmas I found everything I needed.
Your staff are cheerful and helpful too.
Morrisons own brand products and produce are really good, and if we need anything while holidaying in the UK, we always head for your nearest store.
45stores opened during the year, two of which were replacements.
SuStaInaBle FOOD FOR... Today Fresh fish: 100% of our own brand fresh fish complies with our sustainable sourcing policy.
Our counters have been certified under the Marine Stewardship Council MSC Chain of Custody programme.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual review 2010 10 Strategy continued A simple model: Where possible, we source locally and manufacture in our own sites.
We distribute to our stores through our own network.
Were able to deliver consistent freshness at a reduced cost whilst being in control of our supply chain.
From Manor Farm to milk moustache... HOw OuR MODel wORkS HOw OuR MODel BeneFItS OuR BuSIneSS We are closer to source From selection...
Being closer to source means we can better Costs are reduced by cutting out the middle man control the provenance and quality of our food.
Sustainable and responsible sourcing Our food is fresher and in-store quicker is important to us.
We react to the weather quicker than other supermarkets Savings are passed on to our customers To packhouse... We own manufacturing facilities, which means we reduce our supply chain lead times, allowing us to maximise freshness in-store and reduce waste and costs.
% Distributed and delivered to... 1 8m cases 1 00British We own 13 distribution centres and operate of products pass through our distribution All Morrisons own brand eggs are free a very modern transport fleet, ensuring network and are delivered to stores each week.
range from the UK and approved by freshness and cost control.
the RSPCAs Freedom Food scheme.
Because we prepare food in-store, we can react to customer trends throughout the day, only producing what the customer wants.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual review 2010 11 Locally sourced fresh milk We source all our standard milk from seven regions in England, Wales and Scotland.
This means that our customers are not only getting the freshest milk possible, but theyre also supporting local British farmers.
OuR PaCkaGInG... Today Milk: Changes to the recycled content of our milk containers have helped divert around 800 tonnes of material from landfill.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual review 2010 12 Strategy continued A real difference: In Market Street we have more people preparing food than any other retailer and we employ more specialist butchers, fishmongers and bakers than any of our competitors.
From freshly baked to Family Butcher...
In tHe MaRket StReet yOull FInD Meet tHe FReSH FOOD PeOPle Over 1,200 fully trained fishmongers serving 50 kinds of fresh fish 2,200 bakers trained in baking craft skills 2,000 trained butchers in-store who prepare over 120 different cuts of British beef, pork, lamb and poultry each day Our cake experts can produce, at customer request, one of our cakes within minutes InveStMent In SeRvICe anD SkIllS Through our Fresh Food Made fresh in-store 1 0,000 Academy, our Market Street 33,000 sandwiches are made fresh jobs were created during the year, 9,000 colleagues will receive training in-store every day.
of which will service our unique fresh food Market Street counters.
for professional and vocational qualifications.
By April 2010, they will all be accredited and qualified to Royal Society for Public Health standards of food safety making us the only retailer to operate to this standard.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual review 2010 13 OuR PaCkaGInG... Today Packaging: Since 2006, we have saved over 1,000 tonnes of packaging used in Market Street.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual review 2010 14 Strategy continued A simple commitment: We are a practical, down to earth business and thats how we approach corporate social responsibility.
Our programme is consistent with our Vision and Values and reflects sound commercial thinking as part of everyday business.
What we do Today makes for a better tomorrow...
Carbon management reSponSible & SuStainable SourCing Since our 2005 baseline year weve made We are closer to source through our business operation an absolute saving of over 240,000 tonnes and owning and operating our supply chain.
The principles of CO e through an active programme of 2 energy management, refrigeration efficiency, of responsible and sustainable sourcing underlines our good housekeeping, renewables, resource approach, recognising the value of the resources on which efficiency, technology and raised awareness.
Despite significant business growth over that we depend to carry out our business.
time, our emissions remain on a downward trend.
tonnes of carbon emissions Co e Examples of what we are doing: 2 Tonnes t The 2009 Marine Conservation Society Survey highlighted that we have a strong 2009 1,235,760 seafood sourcing policy and the largest choice of sustainable seafood from their 2008 1,270,608 Fish to Eat list.
2007 1,235,410 Our Farm Programme began in 2009 when we took the decision to invest in a 2006 1,334,842 series of different activities with the core aim of working with farmers to develop a 2005 1,477,141 sustainable British farming industry.
This includes Farming Producer Groups, Research We have committed to ensure that palm oil Our carbon footprint includes energy waste, and establishing a farm at Dumfries House.
used in our own label products is sourced refrigeration and transport for our stores, through Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil offices, manufacturing and packing facilities.
recognised supply chain systems by 2015.
NB: All years are calendar years We have extended our ethical audit Morrisons carbon emissions from 2005 to 2008 inclusive programme to extend to over 600 have been updated based on increased accuracy in the suppliers in the next three years.
measurement and recording of electricity consumption.
SKM Enviros Environmental Consultancy Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual review 2010 15 envIROnMentally FRIenDly StOReS... Today Our Halifax store followed Kidderminsters success to receive one of the greenest awards for a supermarket, achieving an Excellent rating from the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM.
Our ongoing design and build programme incorporates lessons learnt from stores like Kidderminster and Halifax.
It enables us to make practical applications across our estate to reduce environmental impact.
FReSH FOOD aCaDeMy employee stability Percentage % Our Fresh Food Academy was launched this year to enhance the 2010 84 craft, food knowledge, food safety and customer service skills of our 2009 78 people.
By Spring 2010, we will have trained 20,000 colleagues to QCF Level 2 and are on track to train 100,000 colleagues by 2011.
2008 76 This is the biggest programme of its kind in the UK and provides Our employee stability rate has improved.
employees with tailored training leading to a nationally recognised Moreover, some 33% of our employees have been with us for over five years.
Employee stability is measured as the percentage of employees who have been with us for over one year.
We are committed to ensuring that all employees, new and existing, are engaged % Our building blocks in the future of our business: 80 236 people celebrated 25 years service 1 values 2 leadership in 2009: of our employees are promoted from within.
Values are incorporated in We will develop effective over 57% of our Senior Management We believe in giving everyone the opportunity everything we do and leaders working to our are at the core of what we Values because they create to progress from shop floor to top floor.
Group have over 10 years experience expect our leaders and the right workplace at Morrisons: and colleagues to be about.
conditions in which customers receive a great service.
more than 30% of our Senior Management Group started at the shop floor.
Retail Industry Award 4 Performance 3 talent Sustainable performance At Morrisons we believe relies on having people in that everyone has talent place to: grow the business: and we are committed to strengthen our unique selecting, developing Morrisons culture and deliver and growing the best Store Manager of the year our vision of being the food people for our business.
3 years running 2007, 2008 and 2009. specialist for everyone.
