10 Our business model A simple model: Where possible, we source locally and manufacture in our own sites.
We distribute to our stores through our own network.
Were able to deliver consistent freshness at a reduced cost whilst being in control of our supply chain.
HOw OuR MODel wORKs Stage Supply chain element Business model facts Business model highlights 2009 10 Being closer to source means we can better Regional milk 100% British fresh beef, pork, 1 control the provenance and quality of our We source all our standard milk from farms that are in the same region as the Morrisons lamb and poultry.
Sustainable and responsible sourcing store it is sold in.
This means that the milk has not travelled far, stays fantastically fresh is important to us and we work with the and supports our local British farmers.
producers to develop a relationship that Morrisons Farm at Dumfries House 100% sustainable fresh fish is reasonable and fair to all parties.
We launched a Farm Programme focused on research to help improve the efficiency on our fish counters.
and sustainability of British farming.
Morrisons Farm at Dumfries House will work in a new partnership with the Scottish Agricultural College, with support of the National Farmers Union Scotland, to become one of the leading centres of excellence for 100% own brand British free applied farming research.
More information about the farm is on our website range eggs from April 2010. www.
co. uk Fresh-Food  We own manufacturing facilities, which means Packing house at Flaxby We own: 2 we reduce our supply chain lead times, allowing Our packing house at Flaxby, North Yorkshire, has been extended and refurbished 3 abattoirs us to maximise the freshness in-store and reduce during the year, bringing efficiency improvements.
To packhouse waste and costs.
Many of these facilities are 3 bakeries situated close to our distribution centres, enabling 6 fruit & vegetable packhouses us also to reduce our food miles.
The majority of our fresh food is prepared by our production 1 food preparation factory plants providing us with security of supply.
1.9m trays of loose fruit are packed each week.
We own and operate a very modern transport Sittingbourne distribution centre 18m cases delivered to stores 3 fleet, ensuring freshness and cost control.
A new purpose-built distribution centre opened during the year, supplying our stores each week.
We believe we have the quickest turnaround in London and the South East.
It will reduce the distance our fleet travels by around Distributed and time between order and delivery compared 20m km every year and has created around 1,000 new jobs.
delivered to to any other supermarket.
We have 12 distribution centres across the UK.
Distribution fleet of over 700 tractor units and 1,800 trailers.
Because we prepare food in-store, we can Training Academy Market Street where we have 4 react to customer trends throughout the day, The Morrisons Fresh Food Academy was launched in-stores to give all Market Street more craft-skilled employees only producing what the customer wants.
colleagues a nationally recognised qualification in Retail Skills.
This reduces waste, makes us cost efficient preparing more fresh food and keeps our prices low to the customer, in-store than any other as well as ensuring our products are always freshly made.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 11 OuR integRity... Today Product stewardship: We know and care about where the food we sell comes from.
supply chain integrity: Our policy is to be fair and honest in our dealings with farmers and suppliers.
co. uk today HOw OuR MODel wORKs Stage Supply chain element Business model facts Business model highlights 2009 10 Being closer to source means we can better Regional milk 100% British fresh beef, pork, 1 control the provenance and quality of our We source all our standard milk from farms that are in the same region as the Morrisons lamb and poultry.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Strategic review 4 17
