6 Our strategy Keeping things simple: Our vision to be the OVeRView Food Specialist for Everyone is now well advanced.
Positioning Our constant focus on freshness, great value and Morrisons has three distinct brand values that strengthen our vision.
The brand outstanding service is appealing to more and more values give us the flexibility to react to market changes and consumer trends.
And were now closer to more customers, having opened 43 new stores last year.
Fresh Value Service Freshness, great value and outstanding Value service mean our brand and our products are appealing to more people for more reasons.
Fresh Our research supports this as we are attracting more customers from higher Great selling and service for our customers income groups as well as younger customers.
We are consistently ranked higher than our competitors for having the freshest Moving from National food possible.
to Nationwide Keeping costs low to ensure our prices are competitive Our employees Fresh in-store Service Success at Morrisons relies on our preparation 134,000 people delivering great service Vertical integration to our customers each and every day by in the supply chain living our values.
The Food Specialist See p age 16 for more information Ensuring the right for Everyone.
product is always available A sustainable and responsible retailer We aim to build responsible and sustainable Brand values values into our business and the products Great value across we sell.
our ranges Objectives Visit w ww.
co. uk today Vision Vision Objectives Our vision to become the food specialist Our strategic objectives build on Morrisons for everyone means: historic strengths and make us unique in the UK grocery market.
They are aligned Food specialist to our brand values.
We really understand food... we know where it comes from: Fresh we pack it and make it in our factories: We aim to offer more freshly prepared food we make it in our stores: and than any other supermarket retailer, through we employ craft skills in every store.
our own manufacturing facilities and in-store food preparation.
For everyone Great food which is also: We can better control fresh and quality produce great value: and through being vertically integrated.
Having our for every day, not just special days.
own manufacturing, packing facilities and distribution network means we can get food This vision is supported by our brand values to our stores faster so that its always fresher.
Value Brand values We offer quality and freshness at a price people Our brand values are important to delivering like.
Our famous promotional offers always our strategy and underpin all our strategic save our customers money.
We dont just offer objectives.
Fresh, Value and Service are value on a few items our prices are great value discussed in the box above.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 7 Business aCtiVity DeliVeRing Results What we do National to Nationwide Key Stores We have 425 food supermarkets across the We identified an opportunity for space growth Manufacturing sites UK.
Our strength is that we take pride in so that more households in the UK are within Distribution centres being great shopkeepers and providing fresh, a 15 minute drive of one of our stores.
This Sittingbourne distribution centre, Kent great value food with outstanding service.
space growth started with the acquisition of opened August 2009 38 stores from Co-operative Somerfield in 2009, 34 of which were converted and fully A simple strategy trading as Morrisons during 2009.
This added Our strategy is simple and builds on our 480,000 square feet of space during the year.
historical strengths of offering great value We will also be increasing our number of and fresh food.
These are stores with less than Unlike other retailers we are focused almost 20,000 square feet of sales area but still with entirely on food.
Its this focus thats delivering a complete Market Street.
These smaller stores our increased sales and market share.
are not convenience shops but do provide convenient shopping.
56 What makes us different Scotland We are different from other supermarkets as we produce fresh food for our stores by making it in-store or in our own manufacturing facilities.
We deliver to our stores using our own distribution network.
78 49 North What we mean by fresh Scotland Its a commitment to sourcing locally and preparing as much as possible in-store.
74 North It means people who know their trade providing service and choice for people who 81 know what they like.
This means freshly baked bread: meat cut to order: advice on fresh fish: Midlands seasonal deli selections: and a constantly 70 64 changing selection of fresh cakes and treats.
Midlands 74 54 South West 56 72 South West South East 65 South East South Central South Central 2007 2010 Visit www.
co. uk corporate Total stores 368 total stores 425 Service Optimisation Plan sustainaBle fOOD fOR...
It is our aim that, in the future, most households The Optimisation Plan was announced in Today in the UK will be within a 15 minute drive of one March 2006 and set out a number of of our stores.
Our plan to move from National programmes designed to deliver by this fresh fish: 100% of our own to Nationwide will make our stores accessible year end.
The programmes have helped deliver brand fresh fish complies with our to more people.
our strategy in this time and will continue sustainable sourcing policy.
Our to shape the business for growth.
Further counters have been certified under We aim to have the right product always information on how we have performed against the Marine Stewardship Council available for our customers.
Our integrated these objectives can be found on page 21.
MSC Chain of Custody programme.
supply chain means we can get food to our stores quickly, increasing choice and availability.
2010 and beyond Our strategy continues to be based on delivering Our craft-skilled employees prepare more fresh our vision of being the food specialist for food in-store than any other supermarket.
A major extension to our strategy, know their trade and they give our customers announced in 2009, is our programme to take what they want fresh food served by helpful, the business from National to Nationwide.
There continue to be large parts of Great Britain where potential customers do not have easy access to a Morrisons store.
We want to open Visit w ww ww w.. m mo or rr ri is so on ns s. c. co. u o. uk k t to od day ay stores in these parts of the country, so that we can take our food specialist offer to everyone.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Strategic review 4 17
