Board of Directors John W Whybrow Ian K Meakins John W Martin Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 August 1997 and Appointed to the Board on 13 July 2009.
Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2010. became Chairman on 13 December 2002.
Experience Experience Experience Mr Meakins was, until April 2009, Chief Mr Martin, a chartered accountant, joined the Mr Whybrow was a non executive director Executive of Travelex Holdings Ltd, the Company in February 2010.
He was previously ofDSG International plc from June 2003 until international foreign exchange and payments a partner at Alchemy Partners and prior to April 2010 and Chairman of CSR plc from business.
Previously he was Chief Executive that was Chief Financial officer with Travelex March 2004 until May 2007.
He was President officer of Alliance UniChem plc until its merger Holdings Ltd and Hays Plc, the business and Chief Executive officer of Philips Lighting with Boots in July 2006 and prior to that, services group.
Mr Martin started his career at Holding B. V. based in the Netherlands, until between 2000 and 2004, was President, Arthur Andersen before joining The Stationery 2001 and Executive Vice President, Philips European Major Markets and Global Supply Ofce Group, on its privatisation, where he was Electronics from 1998 until March 2002, for Diageo plc, spending over 12 years with Group Controller.
Age 44. whenhe returned to the UK.
Age 63. that company in a variety of international Committee membership management positions.
Committee membership Chairman of the Disclosure and Treasury Chairman of Nominations Committee and Committee membership Committees and a member of the Executive member of Disclosure Committee.
Chairman of the Executive Committee Committee.
and member of Treasury and Disclosure External appointments External appointments Committees.
Chairman of Petworth Cottage Nursing Home Member of the Advisory Board Director of AZ Electronic Materials.
Director of the Impetus Trust.
Non executive director of Centrica plc witheffect from 1 October 2010.
Andrew J Duff Alain Le Goff James I K Murray Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2004.
Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2009.
Appointed to the Board on 12 April 2002.
Mr Murray will retire from the Board on Experience Experience 30September 2010.
Mr Duff spent 16 years at BP plc working Mr Le Goff retired as Executive Vice President, in Europe, the USA, Far East and Africa in Supply of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc in March Experience marketing, strategy and oil trading.
He joined 2009, a position he had held for 10 years.
Mr Murray, a chartered accountant, was a non National Power in 1998, becoming Chief Hejoined Benckiser in 1986 as industrial director executive director of UK Coal PLC and was also Executive of its successor company, npower, in France before moving to Germany in 1992, Finance Director of Land Securities PLC from in2003 until stepping down from this position later becoming global logistics director.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Member of the Remuneration and Nominations Member of the Audit and Nominations Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Committees.
a member of the Nominations Committee.
External appointments External appointments External appointments Non executive director of Coty Inc. a US Chairman of Trustees of the Land Securities Chairman of RWE npower plc.
Chairman of based leader in fragrances and of the holding Pension Fund.
Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Ltd. company of the Birds Eye Iglo Group, a UK based leader in frozen food.
Member of the CBI Presidents committee and the CBI Climate Change board.
A fellow of the Energy Institute.
42 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Frank W Roach Gareth Davis Chief Executive officer, Non Executive Director North America Appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2003.
Appointment Appointed to the Board on 16 December 2005.
Experience Senior Independent Director, Mr Davis, spent Experience 38 years in the tobacco industry and was Mr Roach is responsible for all the North Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco Group plc American businesses.
He first joined Ferguson from its incorporation in 1996 until May 2010.
Enterprises Inc. in 1976 and has since held a Age 60. number of business roles.
In 2005, Mr Roach was appointed as Senior Vice President of Committee membership the Wolseley North America management Member of the Audit, Remuneration and team, playing a key part in further developing Nominations Committees.
and expanding the Groups North American External appointments businesses.
Became a non executive director of DS Smith Committee membership Plc, the international packaging manufacturer Member of the Executive Committee.
and ofce products wholesaler, in June 2010 and Chairman of William Hill PLC in September External appointments 2010.
Richard Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Appointment Appointed in November 2007.
Responsibilities Mr Shoylekov, a solicitor, has responsibility for the Groups governance, legal affairs, risk management and corporate responsibility.
Committee membership Secretary to the Board and all Committees of the Board.
Member of the Disclosure and Executive Committees.
Nigel M Stein Michael Wareing CMG Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 December 2003.
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2009.
Experience Experience Mr Stein, a chartered accountant, has been Mr Wareing was International Chief Executive of a director of GKN plc for the last nine years, KPMG from 2005 until he retired in September initially as Finance Director and, since 2007, 2009, having previously been Chief Executive asChief Executive, Automotive.
Prior to of KPMGs EMEA region.
Throughout his that, heheld senior financial positions with career he has been closely involved with a GKN, Laird Security Systems and Hestair number of charities public bodies, including his DupleLimited.
Age 54. appointment in 2007 as the Prime Ministers Special Envoy for the reconstruction of Committee membership Southern Iraq and Chairman of the Basra Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Development Commission.
Committee membership External appointments Chairman of the Audit Committee and member Chief Executive, Automotive of GKN plc.
of the Treasury and Nominations Committees.
Director of the Society of Motor Manufacturersand Traders and External appointments amemberofthe Automotive Council.
Board member of Business in the Communityand Chairman of Business intheCommunity International.
Wolseley plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
