Our business Wolseley is the largest specialist trade distributor of plumbing and heating products to professional contractors and a leading supplier of building materialsto the professional market.
Activities Revenue split by region Total Group revenue: 13.2 billion Wolseley is the worlds largest specialist trade Central and Eastern Europe distributor of heating and plumbing products to 6% professional contractors and a leading supplier of building materials to the professional market.
France USA 15% 39% The Group is an international business, operating 4,118 branches in 25 countries andemploying 47,000 people.
Nordic 15% The Groups business falls into six geographic segments the United States, Canada, Canada UnitedKingdom, France, Nordic region and UK 19% 6% Central and EasternEurope.
The business model is simple.
Products are Customer mix sourced directly from suppliers or through % agents and delivered to distribution centres and Heating, ventilation and branches.
Sales to customers can be made Electrical air conditioning contractors over the counter at our branches, through 6% 1% supply contracts which are managed centrally, Utilities Building 9% or through orders that can be placed with contractors branches, into call centres, or over the internet.
24% Mechanical Products are either delivered directly to our contractors 10% customers or collected from our branches.
End users Customers 13% The Group has a wide range of customers Plumbing and operating in different industry sectors, ranging Industrial heating engineers 13% 24% from individual plumbers or builders through to national contractor chains and house builders, and including large publicly quoted businesses.
Wolseleys primary customer focus is on Business driver professional contractors, who constituted 87 per % cent of the Groups customer base during the year ended 31 July 2010.
These contractors Civil work with households, governments, property infrastructure developers and industrial companies in the 7% Non-residential repair and maintenance of properties and in the new construction 16% Residential construction of new homes, ofces and buildings.
RMI 36% Suppliers The Group has over 100,000 trade suppliers.
Key suppliers are manufacturers with marketResidential leading brands, usually operating internationally new construction but focused on the needs of localmarkets.
20% Non-residential TheGroup works in partnership with key RMI 21% suppliers, offering market breadth and penetration and collaborating on promotions and incentive programmes.
The Group continues to work with low-cost, high-quality manufacturers tosupply our own label productranges.
12 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Products Markets The Group supplies plumbing and heating The markets for plumbing and heating and products and building materials.
The range building materials are directly exposed to ofproducts is broad and the Group continually macroeconomic cycles.
At the start of the seeks opportunities to widen that choice for its financial year to 31July 2010, most of the customers.
The main product categories are countries in which theGroup operates were in setout in the following list: arecession with rising unemployment, restricted availability ofcommercial and consumer credit, Plumbing, heating and air conditioning falling property prices and low consumer Baths, showers and accessories confidence.
In the second half, like-for-like sales Sanitaryware in most territories stopped falling although Brassware revenue for the full financial year is below last Bathroom furniture years level.
Boilers and burners Although our markets are cyclical, the business Radiators and valves model is strong and it is underpinned by Hot water cylinders and ues demographic trends towards ageing populations Control equipment in smaller households and by the ageing Ventilation and air conditioning equipment ofhousing stocks.
The construction industry Heat pumps and solar equipment can be expected to continue toaccount for a Plastic pipes and ttings significant proportion of economic activity.
Copper tubing and ttings While the Group does not operate in a regulated Building materials industry, the performance of the Group can be Insulation affected by government legislation.
Changes Plaster and plasterboard tobuilding codes and regulations, particularly Roong materials those promoting energy efficiency and reducing Bricks, blocks and aggregates environmental harm, can provide new sources Tiles and ooring of growth but can also make certain product Timber products lines obsolete.
Doors and frames Our six geographic segments sell to customers Glass ranging across the RMI, commercial, industrial Beams, trusses and frames and construction sectors.
Hardware and tools Cement Competition Civils waterworks, industrial The distribution of plumbing and heating and andcommercial building materials is fundamentally alocal Drainage pipes, associated supplies business, in that the majority of our customers andcovers are serviced by a local branch a short distance Underground pressure pipes from their workplace.
Itis also highly fragmented, Small bore pressure pipes and ttings with nodominant, and few large, players.
Carbon and stainless steel pipes, valves Wolseley aims to have a leading market position andttings in the territories in which it operates, with strong Other pipes, valves and ttings local and national brands.
Electrical Using public and private sources of information, the management of each of our business units Cables and cabling accessories estimates its position in the markets it addresses Controls and switchgear relative to its competitors.
These estimates are Wiring accessories presented for our larger business units in each Lighting geographic segment.
Data networking supplies Cable management Services Management of customer inventory Installation of cabinets and replaces Pipe fabrication and valve actuation Bathroom layout and design Maintenance contracts Wolseley plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group contribution USA Revenue USA 39% 9 1,241 16,900 Business units Branches Employees Business prole Five year performance m Revenue Ferguson is the market leading distributor of Trading profit plumbing supplies in the US andhas a history of very strong financial performance.
The blended 2010 239 5,174 branches business sells to customers that rangeacross the residential, commercial and 2009 309 5,820 industrial sectors for new construction, repair, 2008 389 5,613 maintenance and improvement projects.
Insmaller markets that may not justify a 2007 401 5,685 stand-alone presence for heating, ventilation 2006 367 5,396 and air conditioning HVAC and Waterworks, ablended location can also provide the products and services for these customers.
Thebusiness is served by 11 distribution centres Quarterly like-for-like revenue across the country which enables purchasing benets from scale and next day product 10% availability which is a competitive advantage.
0% The Waterworks business distributes pipes, valves, hydrants, ttings and meters to 10% residential, commercial and municipal 20% contractors.
This is a strong business which has 30% been diversifying its customer base into private water companies and treatment plants, and Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 expanding its product range into new areas 2009 2010 such as metering technologies.
The HVAC business distributes heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration Business unit contribution equipment to specialist contractors, predominantly % of total revenue in the residential and commercial sectors.
Vendors have a strong position in this market, Other 13% and branded dealerships of high-end equipment Industrial PVF HDPE are the most important parts of thebusiness.
4% The majority of revenues are generated by HVAC providing parts for repair andreplacement.
8% The Industrial PVF HDPE business distributes pipes, valves and ttings, including specialist Waterworks Blended 15% high-density polyethylene pipes, to industrial branches customers, primarily in the oil and gas, mining 60% and power generation sectors.
Although project driven, the business has historically performed Market strongly over the cycle.
position Blended branches 1 The other smaller business units specialise in: Waterworks 1 off-site integrated supply with centralised HVAC 2 procurement, storeroom management, and Industrial PVF HDPE 4 commodity management, integrated services : the supply and fabrication of re protection systems Fire and Fabrication : maintenance, repair and operations services MRO : websites and platforms to support ebusiness B2C : and 14 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information master distribution of plumbing, heating andpipe supplies to retailers and small wholesalers Master distribution.
These business units have synergies with the distribution and branch network of the larger units, and frequently share suppliers.
100 per cent ll is the key to Fergusons attitude change Performance Ferguson has recently developed a goal ofproviding 100per cent availability of the Fergusons revenue was 11 per cent below last companys top 2,000 Stock Keeping Units year though the like-for-like revenue decline was SKUs by Distribution Centre servicearea.
During the fourth quarter of the year the business generated As a first step, Ferguson collaborated with like-for-like revenue growth for the first time in their suppliers to ensure proper planning and three years as New Residential and RMI markets production for the 5,400 unique SKUs that continued to recover.
Overall, the recovery in make up the regional top 2,000 SKUs.
new construction has been modest as factors Next, they increased inventory and visibility such as high unemployment, low availability of ofthe top 2,000 SKUs in their distribution credit, high levels of unsold housing inventory centres to improve ll rates.
Top 2,000 and the recent expiry of tax incentives have SKUsinformation isincorporated into daily continued to hold back demand.
The less purchasing reports for immediate visibility volatile RMI segment has been relatively more andaction.
The Commercial sector, in particular, In branches, the feedback has been positive remained weak throughout the year and from customers and branches have continued to be restricted by the lack of generated improvedsales.
availability of finance for construction projects.
Industrial markets were generally better.
Withtheexception of Fire and Fabrication, whichis particularly exposed to the commercial market, we believe all Ferguson businesses continued to gain market share during the year.
The gross margin was slightly lower than the prior year, with pricing pressure largely mitigated by a focus on improvements in the business mix towards showrooms, counter sales and own label products.
Trading profit of 239 million was 70million below last year with the gross profit shortfall partly offset by the improved cost base.
Second half profit was ahead of last year.
Thetrading profit benefited from a much lower bad debt expense than last year and this was 10 million to 15 million lower than the expected rate in a normal year.
In the Blended Branches business, while Commercial revenue was weak, New Residentialand RMI markets showed modest improvements in the period.
The Industrial PVF, Waterworks and HVAC businesses made good progress in the period.
HVAC, inparticular, performed strongly benefiting froma change instrategy to fewer key vendors, improved product availability to drive service and a lowercost base.
The USA trading margin was4.6 per cent 2009: 5.3 per cent.
Wolseley plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
