Group contribution United Kingdom Revenue UK 19% 10 1,486 10,100 Business units Branches Employees Business prole Five year performance m Revenue Plumb and Parts Center, the countrys leading Trading profit plumbing and heating brand, represents 43 per cent of the UKs revenues, and hasdelivered a 2010 91 2,466 resilient financial performance ina tough trading environment.
The business also provides 2009 55 2,699 spares and replacements for much ofthe 2008 176 3,203 product range and efficiencies arise from 2007 211 3,171 purchasing volumes, from opportunities to cross-sell and toshare sites, and from use of 2006 201 2,690 the distribution centre network.
More than half of its revenue comes from the RMI market.
Build Center is a national builders merchant, supplying contractors with bricks and blocks, Quarterly like-for-like revenue aggregates and cement, insulation and plasterboard, timber, tools, and drainage 5% materials.
There are also specialist timber, 0% ironmongery and landscape branches.
5% Abouthalf its revenue comes from the new buildmarket 30 per cent residential, 20 per 10% centnon-residential.
The business has been 15% restructured over the last two years by closing underperforming branches and reducing Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 xedcosts.
2009 2010 Pipe and Climate Centers distribute pipes, valves, ttings, air conditioning and refrigeration products.
The business has a sound track Business unit contribution % of total revenue record of profitability, though volumes are particularly dependent on non-residential Disposals newbuild projects.
Other 6% 27% During the year the Irish business was disposed of, and Brandon Hire, the tool hire business wassold after the end of the financial year, in line with the Groups strategy of focusing on Pipe businesses with significant scale and leading Climate Plumb and market positions.
10% Parts The smaller business units include: 43% Build 14% Encon, a specialist distributor of insulation, Market drywall, ceilings, partitioning and re position protection products: Plumb and Parts Center 1 Electric Center, which distributes lighting, Build Center 4 cabling, controls, switchgear and wiring Pipe and Climate Centers 2 accessories: Disposals include Irish businesses and Bathstore, a retail bathroom specialist, whose BrandonHire product range includes baths, basins, showers, toilets, taps and bathroom furniture: 18 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information BCG, which supplies kitchens, bathrooms and associated ttings to other builders merchants and to retailers: Drain Center, a specialist in above-ground drainage: and Reaping the benets of branch William Wilson, which distributes plumbing managertraining and heating products in Scotland.
A major training programme designed anddelivered in-house for branch managers Performance in the UK has supported a business Revenue in the UK declined by 9 per cent in the turnaround in the last 12 months.
year, due to the impact of disposals and branch The Addvance Branch Manager training closures with like-for-like revenue broadly at.
programme has trained more than 1,880 The business generated 5 per cent like-for-like branch managers who have participated revenue growth in the second half as markets inover 146 training sessions since January started to recover.
Plumb andParts Center completed recovery to remain weak as activity levels are the roll-out of the programme in held back by fragile consumer confidence, and September2010.
In addition, public sector activity, which represents around 25 per cent The programme is designed to give branch ofour UK revenue, may come under pressure managers the knowledge and skills they later in the year, following the UK Governments need to add increased value to the business.
We have seen Addvance focuses on six key modules: a continuation of the gradual recovery in the Employee and Customer Care, Performance moreresilient RMI sector, which represents Management, Recruitment and Selection, about 65 per cent of ourrevenue.
Commercial Operational Management, Trading and and industrial markets have remained relatively Metrics and Developing Sales.
Trading profit in the year of 91 million was 36million ahead of the prior year, of which 23million arose from the exit of the business inIreland.
Asignicant decline in gross marginsasa result of competitive pressure wassubstantially offset byreductions in the costbase arising from restructuring actions taken in the prior year.
Plumb and Parts Center performed well and ahead of the prior year.
In addition, Build Center, which was loss making in 2009, strongly improved its trading performance and returned to profit in the year benefiting from a lower cost base.
The UK businesses maintained market share in the year.
The trading margin forthe UK was higher at 3.7 per cent 2009: 2.0percent.
Wolseley plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
