Group contribution Nordic region Revenue Nordic 15% 7 285 6,600 Business units Branches Employees Business prole Four year performance m Revenue Stark is the leading Danish distributor of heavy Trading profit building materials, tools, hardware, timber and panels.
Local building contractors generate 2010 100 2,001 more than half its revenue, and approximately aquarter comes from do-it-yourself DIY and 2009 96 2,113 retail consumers.
The market is driven more 2008 159 2,290 byRMI than new construction.
Starks market leadership and its efficiencies of scale have 2007 102 1,670 10 months historically delivered strong results.
Acquired by the Group in September 2006.
Beijer is a leading Swedish distributor of building materials.
About half its revenue comes from local building contractors and another third fromretail consumers.
As the Swedish market Quarterly like-for-like revenue isvery fragmented, Beijers reach is valuable tosuppliers, and by maintaining efficiencies of 10% scale and working capital management it has 0% delivered good results over time.
10% Starkki is a Finnish chain of builders merchants with a business model based on large stores 20% and well-trained specialist staff.
While local 30% building contractors are the largest single Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 customer segment, consumers and small retail stores generate nearly 50 per cent ofits revenue.
2009 2010 Starkki has a strong record of profitability based on efficiency and a exible cost base.
Business unit contribution Silvan is a DIY and retail chain in Denmark.
% of total revenue Its specialist DIY market, focused on tools and hardware, is driven by RMI.
Silvan has Other 4% Norway building historically performed strongly on the basis of materials 7% Denmark good local coverage, high gross margins and building Denmark efficient supply chain management.
The majority materials DIY 9% 37% of its sourcing overlaps with other businesses in the Nordic region and therefore the business Finland delivers significant economies of scale.
building materials Neumann Bygg is a Norwegian distributor 21% ofbuilding materials.
Sweden building materials 22% Market position Denmark building materials 1 Sweden building materials 1 Finland building materials 2 Denmark DIY 2 20 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Performance In the Nordic region revenue declined by 8 per cent in constant currency although the second half performance was stronger.
Themarket inDenmark, our largest revenue generator, Starkki makes it simple continued to decline as a result of low levels ofconstruction activity and poor consumer One of the branches at Starkki, the Nordic confidence.
In contrast our building materials regions Finnish chain of builders merchants, businesses in Sweden, Finland and Norway came up with asimple concept to improve allgenerated like-for-like revenue growth with their performance.
Thedownturn in the Sweden performing strongest.
Overall, the market was having an impact on their sales business held market share in Denmark as they were selling tofewer customers andimproved market share in Sweden, thanbefore.
Branch staff and management FinlandandNorway.
decided to work together to nd a solution toimprove their performance through Trading profit in the year of 100 million was increasing the value of eachsale per 4million higher than last year.
included a one-off credit of 4 million and the business also benefited from a lower cost base The team focused on listening hard to the offsetting revenue decline and a slight reduction customers developing amethodology to in gross margins.
The trading margin was higher ndoutwhat else they needed tocomplete at5.0 per cent 2009: 4.6 per cent.
the project that theywere working on.
Theinitiative was very successful and the branch managed to increase the average sale per customer by30 per cent exceeding their original targets.
Thisapproach is now beingused across all of the Starkkibranches.
Wolseley plc 21 A Annual Report and Accounts 2010 nnua
