Group contribution France Revenue France 15% 9 697 8,300 business units Branches Employees Business prole Five year performance m Revenue The building materials division comprises Rseau Trading profit Pro, the number two integrated distributor of building materials in France, selling heavy building 2010 30 1,937 materials, roong, insulation, timber andooring, and Panofrance, focused on timber, panels and 2009 32 2,144 interior design.
The businesses haveefciencies 2008 103 2,116 in both sourcing and shared services.
2007 101 1,872 The import and wood solutions division includes 2006 91 1,725 Softwood, the market leaderin specialist sawn and processed woods.
Thestructural wood business derives the majority of its revenue fromtrusses and other carpentry systems.
Inaddition, the Group owns Cerland, agarden Quarterly like-for-like revenue furniture specialist.
5% The plumbing, heating and pipes business mostly trades through the national branch 0% network branded as Brossette Btiment.
5% Itscustomer base is mainly small plumbing andheating contractors, though it also services 10% some larger contractors andregional accounts, 15% and has limited consumer sales.
The other Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 business units are specialists inheating, ventilation andairconditioning, electricals, 2009 2010 drains and industrial pipes.
During the year the underperforming Public Business unit contribution Works business was disposed of.
% of total revenue Other 8% Import and wood solutions Building 15% materials 52% Plumbing, heating and pipes 25% Market position Building materials 2 Plumbing, heating and pipes 2 Import and wood solutions 1 22 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Performance Revenue in France declined by 11 per cent in constant currency.
The French economy waslate into recession, compared with other European economies.
Construction markets Wolseley France on the front line continue to recover slowly with weak consumer confidence also affecting RMI markets.
Like-forWolseley France reviewed the results from like revenue growth in the fourth quarter of the customer surveys for each of their divisions year remained negative although the overall to identify areas where they need to focus trend continues to improve.
As a result of a inorder to further improve their customer sustained focus on achieving a good mix of service performance.
These include product customers and vendors, the business improved availability, respecting commitments such its gross margin over the prior year.
Trading asdelivery times andfrequency of sales profit in the year of 30 million was 2million representative visits tocustomers.
lower than the prior year and included a one-off All three divisions have implemented gain of 5million relating to the release of a bad customer service programmes to engage debt provision.
The trading margin was held at their employees in achieving this objective: 1.5 per cent 2009: 1.5 per cent.
Client plus, for the plumbing and heating Rseau Pro performed in line with the division.
Le client Roi customer is king marketwith some improvement in its trading and100 per cent client for the building performance.
TheImport and Wood Solutions materials division.
business benefited from commodity price Each of the programmes focuses on simple ination, higher gross margins and productivity behaviours, for example, the time it takes to improvements.
The Brossette plumbing and greet a customer or reducing the waiting time heating business continues to marginally at the counter.
All employees commit to underperform the market although the trend has these and, in some cases sign a pledge improved throughout the year.
Thenew which is displayed in each branch location.
management team has focused on further reductions in the cost base, removing unnecessary management layers and improving customer service levels through training and better stock availability.
Consequently, following a poor first half performance the trend improved in the secondhalf.
Wolseley plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
