Other statutory information Share capital and voting rights Employee benefit Trusts As at 31 July 2010 there were 284,399,824 fully paid ordinary The Wolseley plc 2004 Overseas Employee benefit Trust, shares of 10 pence each in issue and listed on the London theWolseley plc 2004 Employee benefit Trust and the Stock Exchange.
In addition, there were 886,988,540 deferred Wolseley plc 2004 Directors benefit Trust were established 24 pence shares outstanding at the year end: such shares have inOctober 2004 in connection with the Wolseley Share no voting or dividend rights and are not able to be traded.
Option Plan 2003 and the Wolseley plc 2002 Long Term Incentive Scheme, details of which are set out in the The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Remuneration report.
The trustees of each of the Trusts have shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, waived their rights to receive dividends on any shares held are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies bythem.
At the date of this report, the Trust holds 1,948,919 of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
The Company also has a Level I American Depositary Receipt Authority to issue shares ADR programme in the US for which Deutsche Bank Trust At the Annual General Meeting held in 2009, authority was Company Americas acts as Depositary.
The American given to the Directors to allot new 10 pence ordinary shares Depositary Shares ADS which are evidenced by ADRs are up to a nominal value of 18,922,625.
The Directors intend to traded on the US over-the-counter market, where each ADS propose at the next Annual General Meeting to seek authority represents one-tenth of a Wolseley plc ordinary share.
to allot and grant rights to subscribe for or toconvert securities into shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of Substantial share interests 18,958,599, representing approximately two-thirds of the As at the date of this report, the Company had received Companys issued share capital as at 27September 2010, notication of the following material shareholdings pursuant ofwhich 94,792,996 shares representing approximately to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital Authority: may only be allotted pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
If approved, this authority will expireat the conclusion Number of Percentage of of the Annual General Meeting tobeheld in December 2011. shares held issued voting Name millions share capital Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, the Blackrock, Inc. 28,258,566 9.94% Directors will also recommend that they be empowered to allot equity securities for cash other than pro rata to existing Cevian Capital Limited 14,690,088 5.165% shareholders, until the Annual General Meeting to be held Fidelity, FMR Corp, Fidelity inDecember 2011.
This authority shall be limited to the International Ltd, Fidelity 14,070,947 4.957% allotment of equity securities for cash, in connection with Pensions Mgt Ltd anopen offer to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings up to an aggregate nominal amount of Axa S. A.
13,065,225 4.603% 1,422,037, being 5per cent of the ordinary share capital Legal & General Group Plc 11,234,843 3.958% issued at the date of this report.
The Directors currently have no intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant Silchester International tothe Companys employee share schemes and any share Investors Limited 8,632,769 3.040% dividend alternatives.
TheDirectors recommend that you votein favour of these resolutions to maintain the Companys CREST exibility in relation to future share issues, including any issues to finance business opportunities should appropriate The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement circumstances arise.
system for stocks and shares.
Authority to purchase shares Restrictions on transfer of shares In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares and a special Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in resolution will be proposed at the next Annual General the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company Meeting to renew the Directors limited authority, last granted carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
in 2009, to purchase the Companys ordinary shares in the The Company is not aware of any agreements between market.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the 28,440,742 ordinary shares being approximately 10 per cent transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Companys of the Companys issued share capital at the date of this Articles of Association may be amended by a special report and sets the minimum and maximum prices which resolution of the Companys shareholders.
The Directors will use this authority to purchase shares only after careful consideration, taking into account Share options market conditions, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position During the financial year ended 31 July 2010, options were ofthe Company.
The authority will enable the Directors exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes tocontinue to be able to respond promptly should resulting in the allotment of 560,458 ordinary 10 pence circumstances arise in which they consider that such shares.
A further 7,605 ordinary 10 pence shares have been apurchase would result in an increase in earnings per allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial shareand would be in the best interests of the Company.
year to the date of this report.
Details of shares issued during the year are set out in note 34 to the financial statements.
52 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
Each year, Regulations 2003 allow shares purchased by the Company to the Board has confirmed that it operates a policy of not be held as treasury shares that may be cancelled, sold for giving any cash contribution to any political party in the cash or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no intention The Company holds no shares in treasury but the Directors of changing that policy.
The Directors propose to seek, once currently intend that any shares which are purchased will be more, authority for the Group to make political donations held in treasury.
The authorities to be sought by each of the and or incur political expenditure for amounts not exceeding resolutions noted above are intended to apply equally to 125,000 in a total aggregate, which they might otherwise be shares to be held by the Company as treasury shares and to prohibited from making or incurring under the terms of the the sale of treasury shares.
The Directors consider it desirable Companies Act 2006 and which would not amount to for these general authorities to be available to provide exibility donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
This authority in the management of the Companys capital resources.
would last until the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
Auditors and audit information Employees  LLP are willing to continue as We believe that our employees are central to our future auditors of the Company and resolutions concerning their success.
The Group actively encourages employee reappointment and the determination of their remuneration involvement and places particular importance on keeping will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
employees regularly informed on the Companys activities and financial performance and on matters affecting them The Directors in ofce at the date of this report confirm that, individually and the business generally.
This can be through so far as they are each aware, in respect of the consolidated informal bulletins, in-house publications and briengs, as well financial statements for the financial year ended 31 July 2010, as via the Companys intranet sites.
The Group operates on a there is no relevant audit information of which largely decentralised basis with a rigorous control framework  LLP are unaware and each exercised by a small head ofce team.
This allows for greater Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken autonomy and accountability at a local level and provides as a Director to be aware, in respect of the consolidated encouragement for the development of entrepreneurial air.
financial statements for the financial year ended 31 July 2010, Local management is responsible for maintaining high of any relevant audit information and to establish that standards of health and safety and for ensuring that there  LLP are aware of that information.
isappropriate employee involvement in decision making.
A European Works Council EWC has been operating Change of control since 1996 to provide a forum for informing and consulting The Company does not have agreements with any Director employees in Europe on such matters as significant that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or developments in the Groups operations, managements employment resulting from a change of control following a plans and expectations, organisational changes within the takeover bid, except that provisions of the Companys share Group and also for employee representatives to consult schemes may cause options and awards granted under such Group management about concerns over any aspect of schemes to vest in those circumstances.
All of the theGroups operations.
At the date of this report, there Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a were24 EWC representatives of which 18 were employee change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would representatives and six were management representatives.
normally vest and become exercisable for a limited period Employee representatives are appointed from each European oftime upon a change of control following a takeover, country in which Wolseley operates, with more than one reconstruction or winding up of the Company not being employee representative appointed from the UK, France aninternal reorganisation, subject at that time to rules andDenmark.
concerning the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
All employees are offered a range of benets depending ontheir local environment.
They are also encouraged to build Creditor payment policy a stake in the Company through the ownership of shares, where possible, through participation in the Companys All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms employee share schemes.
and conditions of trading with their suppliers.
It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made within agreed terms and are, where applicable, consistent Employment policies with The Prompt Payment Code, which is sponsored by the Our employment policies aim to attract the very best people UK Department for Business Innovation & Skills BIS.
and we believe that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key Copies of this Code can be obtained from BIS.
At 31 July factor in being a successful business.
The Group remains 2010, the Company had no trade creditors 2009: nil.
committed to equality of opportunity in all of its employment Theamount of trade creditors for the Group as at practices.
It is the Groups policy that the selection of 31July2010 was equivalent to 67 days 2009: 65 days employees for appointment, career development and oftrade purchases.
promotion be determined solely on the skills and attributes which are relevant to the job and which are in accordance Donations with the laws of the country concerned, without having regard to an employees gender, race, religion, age or The Groups charitable donations in 2010 totalled 1,521,000 disability.
Ongoing training of employees and the continued 2009: 1,555,000. development of their skills is of prime importance to the At each of the Annual General Meetings held since 2002, Group.
These policies also cover the continuation of shareholders have passed a resolution, as a precaution, employment and appropriate retraining for employees toapprove donations to political organisations and to incur whobecome disabled during their employment.
political expenditure as such terms are now dened in Wolseley plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Other statutory information continued The Annual Report and Accounts are available to all UK pension schemes shareholders either in paper form or electronically and can be Wolseley currently has two pension schemes in respect accessed via the Companys website at www.
com ofUK employees: or via Shareview, an internet service offered by the Companys Registrars, as detailed in Shareholder information Dened benefit Scheme the Wolseley Group Retirement on page 142.
The Groups Half Year and Annual Final Results, Benets Plan and the William Wilson Group Pension Scheme as well as all announcements issued to the London Stock merged on 1 January 2010.
Both have been closed to new Exchange, are published on the Companys website, entrants since 31 May 2009.
The merged plan is known as www.
During the year, the Company issued the Wolseley Group Retirement Benets Plan and has three regular updates to the market and these, together with trustees consisting of an independent trustee, a membercopies of presentations to analysts and interviews with the nominated trustee and a corporate trustee.
The corporate Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer, are also trustee consists of nine trustee directors and, save for posted on the Companys website.
MrDavid Tucker, chairman of the trustees and Ian Percy, CBE, atrustee director, all of the other trustees and trustee directors are UK-based employees or former employees ofthe Group.
Annual General Meeting AGM Dened Contribution Scheme the Wolseley Group Dened The AGM will take place on 20 January 2011.
Contribution Plan is a trust-based dened contribution AGM procedure pension scheme with three Company-nominated trustees, one of whom is an independent trustee and two who are The Notice of the AGM is circulated to all shareholders UK-based employees of the Group.
In addition, there are atleast 20 working days before such meeting and it is potentially three member-nominated trustees.
In July 2009 Company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed only one member was nominated: a further selection process at general meetings.
All shareholders are invited to the was run in August 2010.
The chairman of the trustees is Companys AGM, at which they have the opportunity to put Wayne Phelan of PS Independent Trustees Limited.
questions to the Board and it is standard practice to have the Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees available Communication with shareholders whether in person or by video link to answer questions.
The Company places considerable importance on Some questions may not be answered at the meeting, communication with its shareholders, including its employee should they not be in the interests of the Company, involve shareholders.
Our investor relations policy reects our the disclosure of condential information or if it would not commitment to our shareholders.
It includes: beto the good order of the meeting.
The Chairman may also nominate a Company representative to answer a specic regular dialogue with institutional shareholders: question after the AGM or may refer to a response on the meetings with shareholder representatives: Companys website.
promotion of communication with private shareholders through their attendance at the Annual General Meeting: The proxy votes received for and against each resolution, close involvement in investor relations by the Group Chief aswell as abstentions which may be recorded on the proxy Executive and Chief Financial officer: form accompanying the Notice of Meeting, are counted ensuring that the views of our major shareholders are before the AGM and the results are made available shortly reported to the Board by the Chief Financial officer and after the meeting.
The results are also announced to the bythe Chairman and are discussed at its meetings: and London Stock Exchange via Regulatory News Service and the maintenance of contact, when appropriate, with are published on the Companys website.
shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans AGM resolutions andpolicies.
The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be held on The Chairman ensures that the Board as a whole maintains 20January 2011, together with explanatory notes, will be an appropriate dialogue with shareholders and, although the detailed in full in the Notice of Annual General Meeting Non Executive Directors are not formally asked, at present, issuedto each shareholder in advance of the meeting.
tomeet the Companys shareholders, their attendance at Thisdocument will be available on the Companys website presentations of the Annual Final and Half Year Results is atwww.
A senior executive has day-to-day responsibility for all investor relations matters and for contact with The location of the AGM and the details of some of the institutional shareholders, as well as with financial analysts, resolutions to be put to the meeting may change if the brokers and the media.
Investor relations are controlled by Companys proposals to change its corporate holding written guidelines to ensure the protection and appropriate structure are approved.
The Company, and if the proposals disclosure of sensitive information which could affect the are approved, the new holding company for the Group, Companys share price and which has not already been willkeep shareholders informed.
made generally available to the Companys shareholders.
On behalf of the Board Richard Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel 27 September 2010 54 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
