Group contribution Central and Eastern Europe Revenue Central and Eastern Europe 6% 6 189 2,400 Business Branches Employees units Business prole Five year performance m Revenue The most profitable business in Central and Trading profit Eastern Europe is in Switzerland, where Tobleristhe leading distributor of heating 2010 10 860 andairconditioning and sanitaryware.
Historically it has delivered high trading margins 2009 0 965 and generated strong cash ows.
During the 2008 0 908 year Tobler rationalised its distribution network by centralising five regional distribution centres 2007 32 846 into one national distribution centre.
Increased 2006 31 735 market share will be achieved by continued investment in ebusiness and extending thegeographical coverage of the current branchnetwork.
Quarterly like-for-like revenue The main brand in Austria is AG, which distributes a diversied product range heating, 0% sanitaryware and pipes, valves and ttings 2.5% PVF to a range of customer segments local plumbing and heating contractors represent 5% about a third, industrial anotherthird.
7.5% The main brand in the Netherlands is Wasco- 10% Kopex, a distributor of heating, plumbing and Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 ventilation equipment.
Boilers and spares account for about half of its revenue, and the 2009 2010 customer base is weighted to larger regional and national contractors.
Business unit contribution Manzardo in Italy distributes plumbing, heating, % of total revenue sanitary and air conditioning products into a highly fragmented market.
Other 7% During the year the underperforming plumbing Italy 14% and heating businesses in Belgium, the Czech Austria Republic and Slovakia were disposed of.
29% Netherlands Switzerland 24% 26% Market position Austria 2 Switzerland 1 Netherlands 3 Italy 3 24 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Performance In Central and Eastern Europe revenue was 13per cent lower than last year on a constant currency basis, the decline arising from the exit of a number of underperforming businesses, Tobler drives efficiencies along with deteriorating market conditions.
Thegross margin was well aheadof last year To improve efficiency and to reduce the and trading profit improved to10million levelof inventory required, Tobler, our Swiss 2009:nil, 4 million of which wasthe impact plumbing and heating business, recently of the disposal of the Belgian, Czech and rationalised its distribution network by Slovakian plumbing and heating businesses.
centralising five regional distribution centres The remainder was the result of restructuring into one national distribution centre in actions in the prior year.
In Italy, we have closed seven loss-making Owing to Toblers success and continued branches since the end of the year and further growth overthe last few years, thebusiness restructuring will be undertaken to bring the logistics capabilities had reached their limit.
The new distribution centre will ensure that the entire Tobler range of products can be The Swiss plumbing and heating business made reliably supplied to customers or to their good progress in the period.
building site within 24hours of receipt of theorder.
As well as reducing operating costs and working capital, Tobler has the opportunity toexpand its product ranges and, more importantly, improve service to its customers.
Wolseley plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
