Strategy Strategy Operational Value creation 3 Strategy Strategy performance Resour Reso Resour Resour Resou sour ource ce ce ce ce e e Business unit B B Bu Busin B B Bu usin usine usin siness in ne ness ess ess ss ss s unit u unit allocation allocati locatio on on on strat strat strate strategies trategies bu Resource Business unit Within Cross allocation strategies buisiness unit buisiness unit Pr Pro otable table See page gr g 5 rowth owth for Value Creation model We believe that a combination of targeted future capitalallocation to those businesses capable of generating the highest return on investment and a greater emphasis on improved operational performance at the business unit level will underpin theGroups drive for long-term value creation.
Resource allocation As part of the resource allocation Growth engine review, the Groups business units Invest to create profitable growth were evaluated according to the Business units which currently generate following four criteria: orhave the potential to generate the greatest return on investment over the medium to longer term.
Typically they 3 Market characteristics arelarge businesses with a strong financial performance and a leading market position An assessment of the size and with clear growth potential.
attractiveness of the market in which a Our strategy willbe to continue to drive business unit operates was made, as well operational improvements in these as an evaluation of the potential for future businesses while prioritising investment ingrowth through predominantly organic growth in that market.
This included expansion and, where appropriate, examining the potential profit pool bolt-on acquisitions.
available to constituent companies and the degree ofcyclicality of the market.
3 Strategic position Synergy driver The market share of each business unit Take advantage of growth engine was evaluated and an assessment of the synergies potential growth opportunity was made, These business units play an important as well as the scale of the business.
rolein supporting and complementing thegrowth engine businesses through 3 Performance significant economic synergies.
A review of the track record of each Our strategy will be to continue to drive operational improvements in these business units performance over the last businesses while maximising the synergy four years was undertaken, including an benets with the growth engine businesses.
assessment of the performance of the management team, against key financial and operational performance metrics including return on capital employed, gross margin, cash performance and strength ofcustomer relationships.
3 Synergies Performance builder Drive performance, then reclassify or exit An assessment was made of the These business units are currently synergies that exist with each underperforming and or have insufficient businessunit and others in the scale with no clear economic synergies with Group, egdistribution and cross the growth engine businesses.
Our strategy will be to drive operational improvements across these businesses with limited investment in expansionary capital in the near term.
Some of these businesses These four factors were then will have the potential to be reclassied as synergy drivers or growth engines over time.
compared to obtain a clear However, if a satisfactory level of return is classication for each business not achieved wewill exit these businesses.
unit in the Group as follows: 06 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business unit strategies Classication of business units In addition to top down resource allocation, we have also given a high degree of focus Performance builders Synergy drivers to bottom up detailed business unit Growth engines strategies and three year plans to ensure that we invest in the right projects and plans to deliver profitable growth.
5% 46% 27% 19% 12% Our objective is to deliver the best 83% operational performance from each 11% business unit and we strongly believe that 12% 70% all of the business units currently in the 61% Group have the opportunity to improve 27% their operating performance.
A detailed monthly performance review process has been established to ensure that every business unit is accountable.
27% As part of the detailed performance review process, targets in areas such as financial performance, training and development Number of Capital Sales Trading business units profit ofpeople, vendor management and operational efficiency are identied.
Actionsare agreed and business unit management are held accountable for theirdelivery.
In addition, the performance review process facilitates the sharing of Business unit landscape best practice across the Group which we Q Performance builders believe, executed properly, is a source of Q Synergy drivers Q Growth engines competitive advantage for Wolseley.
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 Relative market share Wolseley plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Return on capital invested ROCI %
