What we think The US and traditional media bite back a brand or conversely bring great benefit.
PR can influence first place.
In such circumstances, differentiation becomes them in a way paid-for advertising cannot.
critically important and differentiation is what our business PR will never replace traditional advertising but in the is about.
new electronic media, it is a measurable way of building Historically, maintaining technical or product differences a brand.
Chinese and Indian manufacturers will need its was easier.
Today, keeping a technological lead is difficult.
services to bring their products to the West, as they go Product life cycles are being shortened and brand cycles beyond being makers of cheap generic goods to creators of lengthened.
Here is another example from the car industry.
Equally, burgeoning global powers will Less than a decade ago it took, perhaps, five years to design, need PR to smooth their ways to places of influence in the produce and market a car.
Today, it can be done in 18 world.
And the financial institutions blamed for the credit months.
Facing faster and more aggressive Japanese, South crunch will need to buff up their tarnished reputations.
In all Korean and German manufacturers, the Americans have these cases, PR will help, as we have seen over the past five been obliged to play catch-up.
In future, Chinese and Indian years with the continued growth of our Public Relations & manufacturers will stimulate further response.
So intangible differentiation is becoming more important.
Psychological, lifestyle and emotional differences are significant.
The suit or dress you wear, the car you drive, The world still produces too much the holidays you take, how you spend your leisure time all say a lot about your personality and preferences.
Most sectors are facing problems similar to those in the Some say such intangible appeal is unsavoury.
Preying on car and truck industry, where companies can still make peoples vulnerabilities, it is argued, is unethical.
80 million units and consumers buy 60 million.
This We believe that fulfilling peoples desires or dreams is happens even after recent rationalisation among the Big almost always justifiable and satisfying for the consumer Three in Detroit.
Amazingly, it seems that to be successful and it is a key role for the advertising and marketing in capitalist America, you have to take government money services industry.
and go into Chapter 11 bankruptcy, emerging shorn of pension and healthcare liabilities!
The contraction in supply in the US has been balanced by expansion in China, India and South Korea.
Geely buys Volvo, Tata buys Land Rover and Jaguar, Hyundai becomes the new automobile Samsung.
It is difficult to find many cases where overcapacity is not a big, long-term issue.
Tequila, perhaps, where it takes seven US sales of new vehicles 1980-2010 units, m years to grow the herb.
Or high fashion companies like Rolex 12 and Hermes, where historically supply is limited although Total car 10 conspicuous consumption is less acceptable after the fiscal Total light truck crisis.
It is also true that commodity-based industries such 8 as oil and steel faced undercapacity issues for some time, 6 being overwhelmed by Indian and Chinese demand.
4 Overcapacity issues are particularly difficult to deal with in  industries like automobiles.
Governments 2 80 83 86 89 92 95 98 01 04 07 10 are not enthusiastic about shutting down capacity and increasing unemployment.
They also like to increase capacity Source: Wards AutoInfoBank by offering inducements to locate new production facilities in development regions.
Thus the best thing for the European car industry would probably have been for GM to absorb Fiats Average age of disposed vehicles, US production capability.
But Silvio Berlusconi, Italys Prime 9 Minister, could not countenance more unemployment in the Car Mezzogiorno.
The same issue faced the British government Truck 6 with Rover, resulting in it subsidising workers to stay in work Industry during the 2005 election campaign and it faced the Obama 3 administration with GM and Chrysler.
The critical issue in the 19th and 20th centuries was 0 how to produce goods and services, and to make sure they 2006 07 08 09 2010 Q3 reached the consumer.
In the 21st century, it is convincing the consumer to purchase products, services or brands in the Source: NVCS WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 95
