What we think The US and traditional media bite back Advertising categories Jan-Sept 2010 vs. to dispose of Chrysler what did Cerberus do on branding?
Jan-Sept 2009 $bn and the strategies of General Motors and Ford to cut capacity.
Interestingly, Japanese and Korean manufacturers, and Growth Auto some German ones too, have tended to resist excessive 23% discounting, offering only $1,000 or $2,000.
Instead, they Financial concentrate on design, new products and branding to build 13% a price premium, although even they have problems now.
If you focus on price, you build commodities.
If you Leisure 14% focus on innovation and differentiation, you earn a price premium and create brands.
This seems to be the approach Comms & IT 3% of Alan Mulally at Ford, as he brings a laser-like focus on the Blue Oval and has disposed of peripheral brands.
Retail 9% Conclusive evidence of the inadvisability of discounting came when General Motors had to lower its earnings Personal care 21% forecast for 2008 by 80%.
Recent comments and actions by GM do indicate a slight difference in approach and a Food 7% shift to more focus on product although, even after having taken government money, GM and Chrysler entered and Beverage 20% exited Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
Of the Big Three, only Ford, 0 10 20 30 40 50 2009 2010 which resisted the siren calls of government aid, looked Source: GroupM Kantar Media strong.
More competition from the Chinese and Indians, particularly Tata, will ram the point home.
Price promotion just does not work.
A similarly unfortunate trend is occurring in the food industry.
Packaged goods companies continue to try to build Bribing customers: a recipe for ruin share by discounting and price competition, particularly as distribution concentrates.
They pay higher trade discounts In a low-inflation, overcapacity market with little or no and slotting allowances and fund increased promotional pricing power, many manufacturers have turned to price activity.
Just like the media owners, the food manufacturers promotion and discounting.
The best example is the car and truck industry.
General Motors still seemed to believe until recently that it had a balance sheet advantage over its If you focus on price, you build competitors, particularly in Detroit.
Why else would it commodities.
If you focus on innovation introduce heavily price-based competition such as five-year and differentiation, you earn a price zero-coupon financing or discounts of $4,000 to $5,000 a unit?
Probably, the most extreme case was Hyundai in Korea premium and create brands offering negative interest rates on financing a form of cash giveback.
One dealer in America offered a buy one, get-onefree deal on sports utility vehicles SUVs.
Luckily, it was are being squeezed by two factors the other is obesity.
Even Toyota, with its current recall and branding Diabetes is a pandemic and a huge area of public concern.
difficulties, has resorted to discounting to maintain Increasingly, commodity-like food companies find themselves dealership loyalties and clear excess inventory.
in a weak position, in contrast to the health-based or If you give cars away it is only to be expected that wellbeing segments of the packaged goods industry, which consumers will buy them.
No surprise, then, that the do not suffer from the same phenomenon.
Here, companies American auto market stood at 16 or 17 million units before are more focused on product innovation, research and the credit crisis, or that housing markets and house prices development or science, along with branding, to build showed similar buoyancy, when fixed-term money was being stronger market shares.
As a result, brands and margins are given away at such low interest rates, despite the shudders more robust and volumes greater.
Recent accounting changes in the US forced companies The problem is that consumers grow used to such to show gross and net sales, at least temporarily.
As a result, discounting and wait for new car or truck introductions and more data is available on the balance between advertising the discounting that goes with them.
Auto manufacturers and promotional spending.
According to Kantar Retail, the face profitless prosperity and break-even economics at full average consumer packaged goods company spends 16.4% of capacity.
Hence the decision by Dieter Zetsche at Daimler sales on trade promotion price cuts basically and only 9.0% 96 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010
