How were doing Advertising agency networks Ogilvy Group which positions the company right at the heart of logistics, seamlessly meshing lead generation with image building.
Ogilvy & Mather The SmarterPlanet program for IBM is a massive publishing venture, much more than an advertising one, Report by Miles Young below where traditional definitions of who does what have simply Chief executive officer disappeared, and where public affairs and advertising speak the same language.
Branded entertainment assumes a new centricity in this model: our strategic partnership with content market leader MIPTV puts us at the center of the debate: and through the year Ogilvy Entertainment has exponentially increased its production of content and programming.
Content and thought leadership are inextricably linked.
OgilvyEarth was recognized as the top sustainability agency, by Verdantix, an independent consultant firm, after just one year of operation.
We launched Ogilvy Noor, the first Islamic branding consultancy, which attracted huge interest as it sought to highlight the impact of the worlds 1.8 billion Muslim consumers.
What we are seeing is the arrival of a new agency model, where we move from being the generator of messages This is one of the most exciting periods in marketing and to the producer of content communications I can remember.
We can now discern the real impact of digitalization on our world, re-shaping what we do and even why we do it.
We can see it not as a mere 2010 was a year of creative success.
We won 57 Lions at channel but as a central platform, not just a messaging tactic Cannes, a big increase from last year.
Our performance at the but the means for creating ecosystems of rich content.
other major international shows was also consistently doubleOur own digital strategy is the very opposite of the digit: 31 London International Advertising awards: 17 Clios: so-called pure plays.
We believe that everything has to 17 DMA Echos: and 14 One Show Pencils.
Particularly to be be seen as digital: it cannot be separated into a silo.
Digital noted has been the exceptional performance of the Latina influence, digital POS, paid-for digital, social selling, digital region, which dominated the El Ojo fide Iberoamrica Awards CRM, e-commerce are all embedded in the fabric of our 360 and was named Best Creative Network of the Year.
Around the world we now have over 4,000 The work is what wins assignments: and we had an staff who might be called digital natives, whose work is exceptionally strong year in new business.
Global clients highly specialist, but who are completely integrated into the gained included Bayer, Coke Zero, the global business strategic process.
of Kimberly-Clark for Huggies, Kotex and Depends, We were joined at the end of last year by our new chief InterContinental Hotels Group, Unilevers corporate digital officer, Brandon Berger.
One of Brandons roles is business, Brand Mexico and Expedia.
This robust partnerships with Google, Twitter, Groupon, Facebook performance was mirrored by local offices, and meant that and Apple.
With them, we are exploring both the we ended the year financially well above our budget targets.
opportunity for innovation but also better ways of adding As a result of these successes, many of our offices were strategic and practical value beyond so much that is merely recognized as Agency of the Year in their markets, including: theoretical or tactical to our clients businesses.
Integration Argentina, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dubai, Germany, is the key here: and our unique structure with disciplines Guatemala, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Mexico, Poland, genuinely under one roof and operating as one gives us Singapore, South Africa, Tunisia, Ukraine, the UK and the a compelling offer.
Three offices deserve special recognition for defending In essence, what we are seeing is the arrival of a new their best-in-region titles: Ogilvy Africa retained its crown as agency model, where we move from being the generator of AdFocus African Advertising Agency Network of the Year: messages to the producer of content.
Our new work for UPS, Ogilvy Paris was once again named European Agency of for instance, is premised on digitally-enabled content the Year at Eurobest 2010: and Ogilvy Mumbai was named 32 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010
