What we think The US and traditional media bite back on brand-building advertising.
Many CEOs know what they trends subject to client confidentiality.
Kantar Retails spend on advertising, but not on trade promotion.
Often the analysts and experts in channel management supplement latter exceeds the former, even in heavy-spending above-theand consolidate our knowledge of global retailing.
In addition, OgilvyAction gives WPP an even broader It may well be that manufacturers will seek to cut trade distribution offer with its focus on product categories that spending and boost brand-building advertising, particularly have been denied access to traditional media.
Our recent at a time when the trade is consolidating at such a rapid rate.
investment, Smollan, has around 20,000 people focused on Bribing customers for distribution is a recipe for ruin.
Again, retail brand management in South Africa, China, India and, it is branding and product differentiation that must come to next, Brazil.
Recent comments by Walmart, for example, the fore.
seem to indicate an even greater focus on global purchasing discounts and co-ordination with manufacturers, spelling more price pressure and referred pain for suppliers.
At the Branding and Big Retail same time, Procter & Gamble has taken a minority stake in Ocado, the UKs leading online home shopping, direct One of WPPs media partners sells 10% of its cover sales delivery food network, to move closer to the customer.
To the media owner, this is life or death.
To Walmart it is a rounding error and the province of the third or fourth level of procurement, making the publishers The paradox of talent in an age of overcapacity life a misery.
More people visit Walmart in the US in a week than go to church on a Sunday, leading some to suggest that Attracting, recruiting, developing, training, motivating, the supermarket chain is the new religion.
Walmart, with incentivising and retaining human capital remains crucial.
$419 billion of sales, is the seventh largest country by retail While there is certainly too much production and capacity sales.
It accounts for 10% of US retail sales, while Tesco in general, one resource is in ever shorter supply in the 21st takes 14% of UK retail sales.
Both enjoy 30% of grocery century talent.
Every statistic points to a reduction.
The sales in their domestic markets.
At a recent Microsoft CEO slowing birth rate, declining marriage rates, more working conference, Lee Scott, then boss of Walmart, targeted a women, higher divorce rates, more single-parent families, doubling of its US market share to almost 20% of retail sales.
smaller families, ageing populations all these factors are Some 16%, or $12 billion, of Procter & Gambles reducing the supply of talent.
worldwide sales already go through Walmart.
If this was a Even countries with strong, younger demographics, business unit on its own, it would rank among the worlds such as Mexico, will face similar situations by 2020.
Other examples include Kellogg governments are trying to stimulate the birth rate.
The at 21%, Kraft at 14% and PepsiCo at 12%.
Chinese government is said to be reviewing the one-baby Influence over, and control of, distribution is not a new policy and Russia is worried about its ageing 143 million issue.
After all, advertising was developed in the 19th century population.
Western Europe and Japan face significant by manufacturers to appeal over the heads of wholesalers or longer-term economic growth issues as a result of the retailers direct to consumers.
Increasing retail concentration declining proportion of young people and an overall not only in the US but also in Europe and Latin America population decline.
The elected and then rejected Prime will emphasise the importance of focusing on product Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan wanted to stimulate the innovation and branding, along with better understanding Japanese birth rate, as one way of strengthening the of point-of-purchase consumer behaviour and emphasis on economic growth rate.
That is one reason why the rapid packaging, display and retail design.
As a senior Asia Pacific inclusion of Turkey into the EU is so important: another Procter & Gamble executive has said, depending on which source of population growth as well as immigrants to P&G brand you are talking about, something between 30% stimulate economic growth and provide access to the and 80% of purchasing decisions are made at the point of Muslim world.
Procter calls it the first moment of truth.
In a less differentiated world, it will become more and PepsiCo chief executive Indra Nooyi calls for more important for companies to stand out through the concentration on retail theatre, rather than lavish, costly quality and responsiveness of their people.
Other FMCG leaders call for agencies to that your people buy into your strategy and structure will start with the shelf and not a 60-second TV commercial.
Living the brand operationally WPP believes an understanding of distribution and retail is will be critical.
essential and it is one of our core practice development areas.
The Store, our global retail practice, links more than 900 professionals working on retail business and issues around the world, updating them on the latest developments and WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 97
