What we think The US and traditional media bite back A fragmenting media of CNBC or Bloomberg.
More downloading of newspapers and books on my Kindle and now the iPad.
I am less willing There is another reason for the growth of marketing services to wait for detailed analysis in weeklies or fortnightlies.
The old media have become more I want news, together with commentary, now.
Why should sophisticated and the new media have proliferated.
I wait 10 days for in-depth analysis of a merger announced Technology has improved the effectiveness and development on Thursday night?
By contrast, though, women seem to be of cable and satellite television, newspapers and periodicals, increasing their magazine readership and The Economist radio and outdoor, while spawning new media in direct, powers ahead, having gone well past a one million interactive and the internet.
Many of these new media are circulation with increasing advertising revenues, even more measurable and more targeted.
Media consumption habits change with every generation.
Even small children know their way round the internet.
Decision-makers in media owners and agencies tend to be Paid-for content: essential for survival in their fifties and sixties: their children and grandchildren are shifting in ever greater numbers to multi-tasking on the Web activity, broadly defined, currently accounts for well web, personal video recorders PVRs, video-on-demand, over $4 billion of WPPs revenues, or 29%.
It is growing smart phones, iPods, video iPods, iPhones, iPads, Kindles, rapidly and will continue to challenge us and our clients.
mobiles, podcasts and multi-player internet games.
There are a number of reasons for this.
Declining newspaper readership, particularly among One is disintermediation, an ugly but useful word.
younger people and the resultant collapse of established Lets take an example from our own business.
More than titles are alarming trends.
$4 billion of WPPs revenues post-TNS comes from market Among the many new technologies, one of the most research.
Traditionally, research has been done on the phone interesting is the PVR.
This device enables viewers to and through the post.
The process was long and download television programs on to a hard disk, creating cumbersome.
A questionnaire had to be designed, distributed their own television channel, recording programs for and filled in by consumers or interviewers.
Then data were screening when they want to see them, and building a collected, analysed and conclusions developed.
That could library, as an iPod does with music.
A PVR also allows you take three to six months.
Many CEOs despaired that by the to time-shift programs as you watch, stopping for breaks time the solution had been identified, the problem had when you wish.
It cannot be long before they are standard changed.
Using the internet, however, the research process equipment in television sets.
can be transformed and responses obtained almost instantly.
What has made observers particularly excited or WPPs Lightspeed panel interrogates more than 17 million worried about the PVR is its ability to fast-forward or consumers globally and can deliver answers inside 24 hours.
Market research in the US indicates that You may also be disintermediated by lower-cost business consumers like to fast-forward advertisements although models.
The gambling industry, for instance, has been they stop at beer commercials for fun and car commercials shaken by the emergence of peer-to-peer sports betting sites, for information.
We could do most of this previously with cutting out the traditional bookmaker.
The key question remains the Despite the relatively recent vicious compression in amount of time viewers will continue to devote to television.
valuations and consequent losses, the financiers of new media In some PVRs, the skip button has been omitted and fastand technology companies still focus on sales, sales growth forward speeds limited.
In others, little boxes on the PVR and market share, rather than on operating profits, margins, screen will contain details of the ads being fast-forwarded.
earnings per share and return on capital employed.
The hour However they develop, such devices will exert more pressure of reckoning, however, could be coming for some Web 2.0 on network television and on agencies to create stronger companies.
All, or virtually all, depend on advertising programming and sponsorship opportunities, along with revenues for their growth and survival.
There will be losers even more creative advertising ideas.
The same will be true in the battle to capture those revenues and we may have of video-on-demand, another new and fast-developing already reached a point in the investment cycle where technology.
The premium on creativity can only grow.
revenues, operating profits and cash flow become paramount.
Many executives are in denial.
They believe or hope Financing institutions and strategic investors may no longer that radical change will not happen on their watch.
Yet continue to support excessive valuations by re-financing I know my consumption habits have altered over the past cash burn, particularly after a financial crisis.
Even venture few years more daily newspapers like The Wall Street capital companies will be more picky about matching or Journal and the Financial Times, fewer periodicals.
More raising pricing in the next round of financings and may cut cable and satellite television, less network.
More web off funding altogether and admit their mistake.
In 2010, surfing and BlackBerry e-mail.
More continuous streaming AOL sold Bebo, the social network site it bought in 2008 90 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010
