How were doing Media Investment Management MediaCom Report by Stephen Allan right Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer After the global economic crisis of 2009, 2010 began with some degree of uncertainty.
Our clients generally remained cautious about their spending, and client procurement and finance functions placed more emphasis on cost management.
What was certain were the continued global shifts in economic, political and social power.
These shifts are impacting upon our own business globally and we are adapting swiftly and successfully to manage and to capitalise on this trend.
In terms of new business, we had a particularly satisfying year, with some encouraging client wins and many fantastic client retentions such as Electronic Arts in Europe where we also added new markets, GlaxoSmithKline and COI in the UK and the renewal of our global contract for VW Group, our largest client.
Significant new client wins included Revlon and The Travelers Company in the US, Peek & Cloppenburg in Germany, AB-Inbev and Swatch Group in China, IAG and Yum!
Brands in Australia, and Bayer AG and Fast Retailing in Russia.
These accounts alone contributed nearly half of over $1 billion of new business that we won during the year.
With regard to client retention, our business record in pitch following significant changes and restructuring under 2010 was generally good.
However, we faced major the new leadership of CEO Toby Jenner and COO Marc disappointment at the end of the year with the loss of our Pejic.
The agency was recently named Agency of the Year, GSK assignment in the US.
Despite many other achievements along with our offices in Korea, the Philippines, Scotland and successes throughout the year, it illustrated the fierce and Sweden, which also gained Agency of the Year accolades.
competitiveness of our industry at a time when advertisers While it is nice to put trophies in the cabinet, more remain cautious about spending.
importantly it proves that we have delivered strong business Building on our development in 2009, we continued to results for our clients.
progress as a network by adding new hires to our talented Measuring the agency as a whole, 2010 saw us move up team at global, regional and local levels.
Key appointments a further two places to No.
3 in RECMAs OverallActivity have included our CEO of the APAC region, Alex Crowther, BillingsReport: a clear sign that we are progressing as an and local CEOs Gerardo Marias in Spain, Ian Manning in agency and are moving closer to our stated ambition of South Africa and Jamie Edwards in Canada, and senior hires becoming the global No.
Additionally, we have maintained to our network team including Dominic Guba as global head our position as the No.
1 global agency for integrated of Trading.
Our global best practice goes from strength to strength.
We have set ourselves high targets for 2011, meaning The summer saw the launch of GSIP Gold Standard growth in all areas.
In a time of a constantly changing media Implementation Planning to ensure that we continue to landscape, we will be challenging ourselves and our clients provide the same consistently high service for our clients to be bolder, braver and to do new things, in new ways.
anywhere in the world success that has been recognised and This behaviour will be borne out of company strength and is reflected by our incredible 237 industry accolades in 2010. built from within, and as our People First mantra suggests, Alongside 104 award wins from 24 different countries, at MediaCom we value personal development very highly.
we were delighted to receive two more Global Agency Inside the agency, 2011 will see a continued investment in Network of the Year awards.
The first came at the and focus on the learning and development of our staff Festival of Media Awards in April, followed by a second at all levels.
consecutive year of success at the M&M Awards in London Looking forward, I believe that 2011 will be exceptionally in September.
exciting and full of opportunities for us as a business.
As last There have been some notable performances by many years awards successes prove, we are capable of producing of our local operations.
In particular, MediaCom Australia world-class work, right across our network.
This fills me with enjoyed an amazing turnaround year, winning pitch after enormous optimism about our prospects for the year ahead.
