How were doing Media Investment Management Maxus Real integration Report by Kelly Clark below right Many agencies have silos of narrow specialists in areas like Chief executive officer search and social media, all working independently.
As an agency born in the digital age, weve eliminated the false As we look back over the past few years and the difficult boundaries between digital and traditional media.
We have environment weve faced, weve learned some important specialists but they are fully integrated in our client teams.
And importantly, our clients have reminded us We pioneered this approach with BT in the UK, bringing of what matters most.
our media planning and implementation teams together Creativity and innovation As an agency born in the digital If the work isnt great, it just wont break through.
Maxus age, weve eliminated the false India has been leading the way for us in this area, winning boundaries between digital and a record number of industry awards for their work with clients including Nokia and Vodafone.
Our agencies in traditional media Poland, Russia, the UK and the US have also performed particularly well over the last year.
We will place an even greater emphasis on innovation in 2011 and weve launched with experts in search, digital display, social, data analytics, our new internal awards program, the Maxus Magnets, mobile and direct response.
Well adopt this approach which will reward the best work from our network.
Experience they can count on everywhere Effective partnerships Our clients need us to deliver effective solutions for them Clients want their different agency partners to work better everyday around the world.
In 2010, we launched new together.
Collaboration is part of our DNA.
In 2010, we Maxus agencies in Ireland, Hungary and Mexico.
We formed started working more intensely on shared client projects a partnership in the Middle East with WPP agency BPG.
with WPP companies including Ogilvy, ZAAZ, Geppetto We launched our third China office in Guangzhou, our fifth and Kantar Media.
We work just as well with many exciting India office in Kerala, and our third US office in St Louis.
Clients have told us this is a Our network now spans more than 60 offices in 50 countries.
We expanded client relationships to new markets, including As I write this report, most economies around the world Chrysler, Fiat, LOral and UPS.
And we won new global seem to be recovering well from the economic difficulties of clients like Bausch & Lomb and Shangri-la Hotels & Resorts.
RECMA, the independent organisation that measures media agencies, has again named Maxus the Accountability and measurement fastest-growing global media network in 2010.
Our client relationships are strong and our people have performed Helping clients quantify the impact of marketing investments brilliantly.
Because of them, Im more optimistic than ever.
is at the heart of our Relationship Media proposition.
Weve made major investments in people and tools.
We hired Martin Lawson from digital agency i-level as our global director of data and insights.
We developed a proprietary approach to tracking and optimising the journeys that consumers make online, and well be rolling this out globally in 2011.
Better value from their media budgets We choose not to compete for business when price is the only criterion.
But delivering improved media value is an important part of our offer, and in 2010 we built a strong global trading structure led by Alan Hodge.
Alan was previously GroupMs European trading director and was recently recognized by Campaign magazine as one of the industrys top 10 media buyers.
He and his team make sure our clients get the best from GroupMs unmatched scale, trading expertise and technology leadership.
