How were doing Letter to share owners Dear share owner Total share owner return increased sharply, with your share price rising 180p, or 30%, to 789.5p from 609.5p during the year.
Since the year end, your share price has fallen to 723.0p at the time of writing, reflecting concern about the potential 010, our twenty-fifth year, was a negative impact of political events in North Africa, the Middle East and the human catastrophe in Japan.
Dividends year of significant recovery and a were increased by 15% to 17.79p, a record level.
record year in almost all respects, Billings were up over 12% to 42.7 billion.
Revenues 2as clients re-focused on top-line were up over 7% to 9.3 billion.
Including 100% of associates, revenue is estimated to total over 11.6 billion.
sales growth and expansion, particularly Our revenues exceeded all our competitors for the third in faster-growth geographic markets, as consecutive year, by an increasing amount.
Headline PBIT well as continued cost containment in the was up almost 21% to 1.229 billion against 1.017 billion in 2009.
Headline PBIT margin was 13.2% in 2010 against slower-growth markets of the US and 11.7% last year.
The Group achieved a headline PBIT margin Western Europe.
Following a brutal 2009, of 15.8% in the second half of the year, 0.4 margin points when the post-Lehman financial world did above the margin achieved in the second half of both 2009 and 2008, including TNS on a pro-forma basis.
In the second not come to an end, as some had feared, half of the year the business returned to pre-Lehman prothe recovery has been remarkable.
forma levels of revenue and profitability, with higher Our business is being transformed by productivity.
On gross margin, the headline PBIT margin was 14.4%, up 1.7 margin points on 2009.
This is probably new markets, new media and consumer a more accurate basis for competitive comparisons.
Reported insights which provide major opportunities profit before interest and tax rose over 25% to 1.028 billion, to enhance our future growth and over 1 billion for the first time, from 819 million.
Headline EBITDA which is a key metric that private profitability.
We believe these factors and, equity firms, for example, use for valuing companies more importantly, how we respond to them, increased by almost 16% to 1.439 billion, above 1 billion will significantly enhance the value of your for the fifth consecutive year.
Headline profit before tax was up over 27% to 1.034 billion, above 1 billion also for Company in the future.
Reported profit before tax was up over 28% to 851 million.
Diluted headline earnings per share were up almost 28% to 56.7p an all-time high and diluted reported earnings per share up 30% to 45.9p.
Free cash flow strengthened to 902 million in the year.
Net debt averaged 3.1 billion in 2010, down 0.3 billion at 2010 exchange rates, and net debt at 31 December 2010 was 1.9 billion, or 0.7 billion lower than 2009, reflecting significant improvement in profitability and improved cash flows, despite a continued client emphasis on improved liquidity, as well as effectiveness and efficiency.
Equity analysts appear comfortable with the level of the Groups average net debt, which was around 2.1 times headline EBITDA in 2010.
Headline interest cover in 2010 was 6.3 times.
So far, in the first three months of 2011, average net debt was down approximately 0.6 billion at 2.2 billion against 2.8 billion for the same period in 2010, at 2011 exchange rates, again reflecting strong cash flows.
With a current equity market capitalisation of approximately 9.1 billion, the total enterprise value of your Company is approximately 11.7 billion, 8.4 times headline EBITDA.
This letter to share owners should be read in conjunction with and as part of the management report set out in the section headed Directors report on pages 111 to 124.
18 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Letter to share owners Revenue growth in the fourth quarter was the Congressional elections, especially following the United States highest in a decade Supreme Court decision permitting freer lobbying.
Third, there was significant excess traditional media inventory, which Our reported revenue growth for the year of over 7% reduced prices and made traditional media relatively more reflected the comparative weakness of sterling against most attractive, perhaps also stimulated by a feeling that new media currencies, other than the euro.
On a constant currency were more about price and deal, and traditional media more basis, which excludes the impact of currency movements, about brand building and brand equity.
Finally, and most importantly, post-Lehman and the On a like-for-like basis, excluding the impact of several corporate crises, we have seen a concern, or even fear, acquisitions and currency, revenues were up 5.3%, reflecting amongst chairmen and CEOs and in the boardroom about sequential quarterly improvement throughout the year.
making mistakes and a consequent emphasis on cost Revenue grew by 8.5% in the final quarter, the fastest rate containment and unwillingness to add to fixed expenses or of like-for-like quarterly growth since the fourth quarter of capacity.
Western-based multinationals are said to have over 2000.
The month of December saw the first monthly double- $2 trillion in cash on their balance sheets, but unemployment digit growth rate since January 2001. remains at stubbornly high levels, with only increases in Throughout 2010 we have seen continued sequential temporary employment and limited expansion of fixed improvement in our like-for-like quarterly revenue growth, capacity in Western markets.
Hence, a willingness to invest with the final two quarters of the year at 7.5% and 8.5% in the brand and maintain or increase market share, rather respectively.
This followed zero like-for-like growth in the than increasing capacity and fixed expenses.
first quarter and 4.7% in quarter two.
This significant In the third quarter constant currency revenues in the US turnaround was directionally in line with our earlier forecasts were up 9.9%, which continued into the final quarter, with we anticipated like-for-like growth in the second quarter of growth of 9.8%.
2010 as early as the third quarter trading update of 2009, but Together with this improved top-line growth, the Group was considerably more violent than anticipated.
In 2009, our has benefited from the cost actions taken, particularly budgets were optimistic, anticipating like-for-like growth of towards the end of 2009, to adjust headcount and staff 2% an oxymoron.
As a result, headline PBIT margins have improved by the other hand, we proved too pessimistic, budgeting like-for- 3.0 margin points before incentives and by 1.5 margin points like growth of zero another oxymoron and coming in at over after incentives.
As mentioned earlier, headline PBIT margins 5%.
Lets hope we have it more correct in 2011 third time in the second half of 2010 were above both the second half lucky, where we are budgeting revenue growth of 5%.
of 2009 and the second half of 2008, adjusted for the impact of TNS.
Bonus pools have been refilled and, as a percentage of headline profit before bonuses and income from associates, The US behaved like a fast-growing market are close to maximum levels.
On a like-for-like basis, average headcount has fallen The most surprising feature of 2010 was the relatively strong by over 4%, compared with 2009, although given the performance of mature geographical markets, such as the substantial increase in like-for-like revenues of 8.0% in the US and Germany and traditional media, like free-to-air second half of the year, our operating companies have begun television.
The headline was The US and traditional media to invest in more talent.
Revenue conversion post-incentives, bite back.
Indeed, the US behaved more like a fast-growing that is incremental profit as a proportion of incremental market, or as some others insist on calling them, an emerging revenue, was very strong at 33%, as our operating companies market despite the fact that many of them, like China, the benefited from the actions to reduce both staff costs and worlds second largest economy, have emerged, growing at other operating costs in 2009 and during 2010.
7%, against GDP growth of around 3%.
Geographically, revenue growth continued to strengthen There seem to be a number of possible reasons for this.
in the final quarter, particularly in the UK, Central and First, there was an element of dead-cat bounce, as advertising Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Latin America, Africa as a proportion of US GDP probably reached a low not seen and Australia, with the US and Asia excluding Australia since the mid-1970s in 2009 and massive government and and New Zealand maintaining the strong growth seen in central bank-driven fiscal and monetary stimuli kicked in and the third quarter.
Western Continental Europe remained stimulated activity from the heavily-depressed levels of 2009. difficult, with growth in the final quarter of just over 3%, Second, there was a significant increase in activity in sectors with France, Spain, Greece, Ireland and Belgium still under that had been heavily cut, such as automobiles, financial pressure.
The US continued the strong growth seen in the services and retail and a number of new marketing wars third quarter, up 9.8%.
The UK showed its strongest growth such as automobiles and telecommunications, further of the year at 9.7%.
Latin America was up 6.5% in the stimulated by heavy political spending around the mid-term fourth quarter in constant currency, but on a like-for-like WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 19 How were doing Letter to share owners basis was up almost 15%, reflecting the disposal of a call Revenue growth was encouraging across centre business in Argentina in September.
Asia, excluding all sectors Australia and New Zealand, grew at 13.6%, which was the same as the third quarter.
Mainland China and India The Groups Advertising and Media Investment Management continued their strong growth with revenue up over 18% and businesses continued their strong growth, with constant almost 15% respectively in the final quarter.
Other major currency revenues up 11.6% in the fourth quarter, the markets in Asia also showed strong growth, including South strongest quarterly growth in the year, with Media Investment Korea, Singapore, Indonesia and more surprisingly Japan, Management up over 17% and Advertising up well over 7%.
driven by Ogilvy, GroupM and Kantar.
The Groups Public Relations & Public Affairs businesses Markets outside North America now account for 65% also had their strongest quarter, with revenues up 5.6%, of our revenues, up from 61% five years ago.
The influence compared with 5.1% in the third quarter and 3.2% in the of the faster-growing markets outside North America is first half.
Consumer Insight also had a good quarter, with increasing rapidly.
revenues up 5.3%, compared with 6.9% in the third quarter and 2.7% in the first half.
The Groups Branding & Identity, 1 Constant currency revenue growth by geography % Healthcare and Specialist Communications businesses including direct, digital and interactive grew by 7.3% on a 10 7.7 North America constant currency basis, down slightly on the strong growth 09 -0.7 of 8.1% in the third quarter, but well ahead of the first half 10 5.7 UK growth of 2.1%.
However, on a like-for-like basis, revenues 09 7.8 were up 7.2% in the fourth quarter compared with 7.1% in 10 2.7 Western Continental Europe the third quarter, adjusting for the disposal of the call centre 09 12.8 business mentioned earlier.
10 5.6 Asia Pacic, Latin America, This continuing improvement was driven largely by our Africa & Middle East and 09 4.3 uniquely global direct, digital and interactive businesses, Central & Eastern Europe amongst others comprising OgilvyOne, with global revenues of over $800 million, VML, with revenues over $100 million 2 Headline PBIT margins by geography % and Wunderman, with global revenues over $900 million.
OgilvyInteractive, VML and Wunderman are three of the 10 14.7 North America seven worldwide digital leaders, according to the leading 09 13.2 independent digital research firm, Forrester Research.
No 10 13.6 UK other competitive group has more than one digital leader.
09 12.8 The Group has also recently announced the launch of 10 9.5 Western Continental Europe Possible Worldwide, a global interactive marketing agency, 09 8.3 formed through the combination of award-winning WPP 10 14.3 Asia Pacic, Latin America, Digital agencies Schematic, Bridge Worldwide, BLUE and 09 12.7 Africa & Middle East and Quasar, with revenue of over $100 million, with 18 offices Central & Eastern Europe and 1,000 staff worldwide, and with operations in the US, Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
Revenue by geography m 10,000 North America Margins also improved across all sectors 8,000 UK Western Continental Europe In constant currencies, Advertising and Media Investment 6,000 Asia Pacic, Latin America Management revenues grew by 7.0%, with like-for-like 4,000 Africa & Middle East and revenues up similarly at 7.1%.
All of the Groups four largest Central & Eastern Europe 2,000 advertising networks finished the year strongly, with growth in our Media Investment Management business over 13% in 0 06 07 08 09 10 the year.
Advertising showed sequential quarterly like-forlike growth in the last three quarters of 2010, following six 1 See definition on page 186.
2 The calculation of headline PBIT is set out in note 31 of the financial statements.
This strong revenue growth in 2010, together with the cost actions taken in 2009, resulted in the combined reported operating margin of this sector improving by approximately 1.5 margin points to 15.3%.
In 2010, Ogilvy & Mather, JWT, Y&R, Grey and United Network generated estimated net new billings of over 20 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Letter to share owners 1 Constant currency revenue growth by sector % The Groups Public Relations & Public Affairs businesses had a strong end to the year, with constant currency revenue 10 7.0 Advertising and Media growth of 5.6% in quarter four, the highest quarter of the 09 -8.6 Investment Management year.
Operating margins rose by 0.5 margin points to 10 4.4 Consumer Insight 15.8%.
Particularly strong performances were recorded 09 62.9 by Burson-Marsteller and the Groups specialist public 10 4.3 Public Relations relations businesses.
09 -6.5 & Public Affairs The Groups Branding & Identity, Healthcare and 10 5.0 Branding & Identity, Specialist Communications including direct, digital and 09 -4.5 Healthcare and interactive constant currency revenues grew by 5.0% in Specialist Communications the year and 7.3% in the final quarter.
The Groups global direct, digital and interactive agencies grew strongly, as did 2 Headline PBIT margins by sector % Branding & Identity with revenue up almost 11% in the final quarter.
This service sector showed a strong recovery in 10 15.3 Advertising and Media reported operating margins, up 2.0 margin points to 12.4%.
09 13.8 Investment Management Marketing services comprised 60% of our revenues in 10 9.7 Consumer Insight 2010, a similar proportion to 2009.
It is no longer accurate to 09 8.6 call us an advertising agency, we are really a communications 10 15.8 Public Relations services company.
09 15.3 & Public Affairs 10 12.4 Branding & Identity, Healthcare 09 10.4 and Specialist Communications As margins recovered we invested in talent Headline PBIT margins recovered to 13.2% against 11.7% in Revenue by sector m 2009, but were still lower than the 15.0% achieved in 2008 or 14.3% if TNS were included for the whole of 2008.
10,000 Advertising and Media However, as mentioned above, the Group achieved a margin Investment Management 8,000 of 15.8% in the second half of the year, 0.4 margin points Consumer Insight higher than the corresponding period in both 2009 and 2008 6,000 Public Relations including TNS on a pro-forma basis.
& Public Affairs 4,000 On a like-for-like basis the average number of people in Branding & Identity, 2,000 Healthcare and the Group decreased by 4.2% in 2010.
On the same basis, Specialist Communications 0 the number of people in the Group at 31 December 2010 06 07 08 09 10 was 4.5% higher than at the end of 2009.
This increase partly counter-balanced the more than 12% fall in point-to- 1 See definition on page 186.
point headcount during 2009 and represented an increased investment in talent, as revenue growth picked up.
Reported staff costs, excluding incentives, were up 3.2%.
0.8 billion $1.2 billion and GroupM, the Groups Media Incentive payments totalled 342 million 178 million in Investment Management company, which includes 2009, which represented over 22% almost 16% in 2009 of Mindshare, MEC, MediaCom and Maxus, generated headline operating profit before incentives and income from estimated net new billings of 1.5 billion $2.4 billion.
Cash-based incentives totalled 272 million or tenthavenue has been created as a separate engagement almost 18% of headline operating profit as defined above, network, focused on out-of-home media, including Group against 123 million or almost 11% in 2009.
The balance companies Kinetic, Quisma and Spafax.
of 70 million in 2010 represents share-based incentives Consumer Insight revenues grew by 4.4% in constant granted in 2010 and previous years.
Our objective remains currencies, with like-for-like revenues up similarly at 3.9%.
to pay out approximately 20% of operating profit before Reported operating margins improved by 1.1 margin points bonus and taxes at maximum and 15% at target and, to 9.7% as benefits resulting from the integration of TNS in some cases, 25% at super-maximum.
custom research and Research International and the other Before these incentive payments, headline PBIT margins operations of both TNS and Kantar, in media, healthcare, rose by 3.0 margin points to 16.8%.
On a reported basis, retail and their related panel activities, were realised.
despite the almost doubling of incentive payments, the Groups Reported gross margin margins headline PBIT as a staff cost-to-revenue ratio fell to 58.3% compared with proportion of gross margin rather than revenue improved 58.9% in 2009.
Before incentive and severance costs, 1.5 margin points to 13.2%.
headline PBIT margins rose by 2.4 margin points to 17.6%.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 21 How were doing Letter to share owners Part of the Groups strategy is to continue to ensure that Indonesia, Iran ?
Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, the variable staff costs incentives, freelance and consultants Philippines, South Korea, Turkey, Vietnam or CIVETS costs are a significant proportion of total staff costs and Colombia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt still included, revenue, as this provides flexibility to deal with volatility in Turkey, South Africa, along with new media personal revenues and recessions or slow-downs.
In 2010, the ratio of computer-driven, mobile, video content, social networks.
variable staff costs to total staff costs increased significantly Second, The Championship, the US, because of its size, to 13.4%, compared with 9.7% in 2009 and 11.4% in 2008. immigrant, entrepreneurial culture and human and natural As a proportion of revenue, variable staff costs were 7.8% in resources, along with an economically well-run and high 2010 compared with 5.7% in 2009 and 6.6% in 2008.
These value-added manufacturing export-led Germany and free-torepresent the highest ratios in the last 10 years.
The business is, air television.
Third, League One, Western Europe, primarily therefore, even better protected against economic downturns.
the UK, France, Italy and Spain, along with newspapers As a result of all this, headline PBIT rose almost 21% and magazines.
Last, League Two, sadly, particularly given to 1.229 billion from 1.017 billion, up almost 17% in the recent terrible events Japan, which has been stagnant constant currencies.
Reported PBIT rose over 25% to for almost 20 years.
Perhaps the UK, with its Coalition 1.028 billion from 819 million, over 20% in constant Governments emphasis on deficit reduction and long-term currencies, reflecting a lower charge for goodwill impairment growth will gain promotion to The Championship?
and amortisation of intangibles, partly offset by higher In any event, the Groups strategic focus on new markets, investment write-downs.
new media and consumer insight reflects these differing Net finance costs excluding the revaluation of financial market dynamics and account respectively for 27%, 29% instruments were 195 million, down from 205 million last and 26% of the Groups revenues of over $14 billion.
year, reflecting lower average net debt, partly offset by higher 2011 like-for-like revenue growth looks as though it funding costs.
Headline profit before tax increased by more should be similar to how 2010 actually turned out, as long as than 27% to 1.034 billion and reported profit before tax we have our budgets right.
The final budget figures indicate was up over 28% to 851 million.
continued growth of 5% over last years actual numbers.
The Groups tax rate on headline profit before tax was Budget optimism in 2009 was replaced by pessimism in 22.0%, a reduction of 1.8 percentage points from 2009, as 2010.
Perhaps the 2011 budgets will finally reflect realism.
a result of continuing tax planning initiatives and deferred However, the pattern of revenue growth looks as though it tax credits.
will be slightly different, with the balance of growth shifting Diluted headline earnings per share rose over 27% to from the West to the East to China and India, to the South to 56.7p and diluted reported earnings per share increased 30% Brazil and Latin America and to the South-East to Africa and, to 45.9p.
Prudently, no severance or integration expenses functionally, to media investment management, digital media have been excluded in arriving at headline earnings.
This is and data analytics and the application of technology.
The not competitive practice, which is odd.
shift to the East applies even in Europe itself, as the strong man of Europe, Germany, forms a strong axis with Poland, relatively untouched by the recession, and Russia, blessed Integration of TNS with vast, increasingly valuable energy resources as long as they invest the proceeds wisely.
Following the acquisition of TNS in October 2008, the Clients seem to be increasingly focused on expansion in custom business of TNS has been combined with Research the faster-growing markets and cost containment and caution International and its other operations merged with several in the West.
So far this strategy has paid off, with corporate of the Kantar businesses to form Kantar Media, Kantar profitability at record highs.
Worries remain around euroWorldpanel, Kantar Retail and Kantar Health.
The integration contagion and the lack of willingness, at least in front of a US has gone well and, as a result of actions taken since Presidential election in 2012, to tackle US deficit reduction.
acquisition, as at 31 December 2010, the Group achieved the Additional concerns have also developed in recent months over revised merger benefits target of an annualised 60 million, events in Tunisia, Egypt, Bahrain, Libya and Yemen and the as opposed to the original commitment of 52 million.
implications for other countries, such as Jordan or Saudi Arabia, and the shocking human catastrophes in Japan surrounding the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis.
The outlook for 2011 We have to admire the phlegmatic, stoical and disciplined response of the Japanese people to these bitterly unfair events.
The world continues to move at very different speeds, both As we write there is news of another significant earthquake in geographically and functionally.
By means of explanation, Japan of over 7 on the Richter scale.
As a point of reference, perhaps an English football analogy is helpful.
First, the the Middle East accounts for about 1.7% or $300 million of Premier League which consists of the BRICs Brazil, Russia, our approximately $16 billion of revenues forecast by analysts India and China and the Next 11 Bangladesh, Egypt, and Japan about 1.5% or $200 million.
However, despite 22 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Letter to share owners these concerns and commodity price inflation and high levels Globalisation, overcapacity of production in most sectors of unemployment, particularly amongst the youth, forecasts and the shortage of human capital, the developments in for global GDP growth in 2011 remain around 4% and media new technologies and media, the growth in importance growth forecasts, including by our own GroupM, around the of internal communications, the need to influence retail same level or even greater, as advertising and marketing distribution, brand emphasis on health and wellness, spending picks up from depressed levels in mature markets the growth in government spending and the new focus and grows aggressively in relatively under-advertised, fasteron corporate responsibility issues such as climate change, growth markets almost a double-whammy.
underpin the need for our clients to continue to differentiate Incentive plans for 2011 will place increased emphasis their products and services both tangibly and intangibly.
on revenue growth and improvement in operating margins Moreover, the continuing growth of the BRICs, Next 11 in conjunction with operating profit growth, although and other faster-growing geographical markets, will add objectives will continue to include qualitative Group significant opportunities in Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa objectives, including co-ordination and co-operation, talent and the Middle East and Central and Eastern Europe along management and succession planning.
with the growth of new-BRICs such as Vietnam, Pakistan, At the time of writing, we have revenue and profit data Indonesia, Bangladesh, Colombia and Mexico.
Advertising for the first two months of 2011.
The strong finish to 2010 and marketing services expenditure as a proportion of GDP has continued into 2011, with like-for-like revenue and gross has started to resume its growth, although in these relatively margin for the first two months of the year both up over 7%.
low inflationary times, where our clients have limited pricing Geographically, we are seeing stronger growth in both Asia power, we are committed to working with our clients and their and Latin America and the US remaining strong.
By sector, procurement departments, to improve the effectiveness and Advertising and Media Investment Management also remain efficiency of their spending and investments.
strong with our direct, digital and interactive businesses also Given these short-term and long-term trends, your well up and Consumer Insight up too.
These trends are Company believes it has the correct strategic priorities broadly in line with our budgets, which also indicate a new markets, new media and consumer insight and a stronger first half, understandable given easier 2010 first-half focus on not only strategic planning, creative execution and comparatives and our usual quarter four conservative distribution, but also on both the application of technology budget.
Operating profits were in line with budget and well and analysis of data, to the benefit of our clients and people.
Including associates, the Group had over 146,000 Prospects for 2012 also feel good, particularly as the US full-time people in almost 2,400 offices in 107 countries Presidential election, the well-organised London Olympics at the year end.
It services 336 of the Fortune Global 500 and the UEFA European Football Championships should add companies, 29 of the Dow Jones 30, 61 of the Nasdaq 100, 1-2% to global advertising and marketing growth rates, as 35 of the Fortune e-50, and 708 national or multinational usual in a maxi-quadrennial year.
The problems may well clients in three or more disciplines.
More than 460 clients are come, however, in 2013 or late 2012, as the newly re-elected served in four disciplines and these clients account for over or elected American President wrestles with a ballooning 57% of Group revenues.
The Group also works with over deficit unless the bond markets lose patience before then.
340 clients in six or more countries.
At least one major US institution has lost patience already.
These statistics reflect the increasing opportunities for developing client relationships between activities nationally, internationally and by function.
We estimate that over 35% Margin objectives of new assignments in the year were generated through the joint development of opportunities by two or more Group Operating margins for 2011 are targeted to rise by 0.5 margin companies.
New integration mechanisms, sensitive to global points to 13.7%, in line with our revised targets of 13.7% and local opportunities, including WPP Global Client for 2011 and 14.2% for 2012, with a long-term objective Leaders for our top 30 clients which account for around of 18.3%, equivalent to 19.0% pre-TNS.
This is challenging, a third or $5 billion of revenues and Country Managers, of course, but not as outrageous as some believe, given that continue to be developed.
There is an increasing number our best-performing companies in each services sector have of major client creative and integration opportunities at a already demonstrated they can perform at a combined Group Group level.
The Group continues to be extremely successful margin of 17%.
in most, if not all, of the integrated marketing competitions that clients are increasingly initiating.
These opportunities range from the creation of teams across the Group to the The longer term integration of various operating units and to the creation of individually tailored agencies to meet clients needs.
The In the long term, the outlook for the advertising and Groups integration record continues to lead its competitors marketing services industry appears favourable.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 23 How were doing Letter to share owners Our key priorities First, to continue to raise operating margins to the levels of the best-performing competition.
We Our reason for being, the justification for WPPs existence, achieved 15% for two consecutive years, in 2007 and continues to be to add value to our clients businesses and 2008.
We continue to believe a margin of 18.3% is a our peoples careers.
Our goal remains to be the worlds tough, but realistic objective.
BBDO, Dentsu and McCann most successful provider of communications services to have achieved this in the past, although the pressure became multinational and local companies, not just the largest.
too great in some instances.
It may well be that gross margin To that end, we have three key strategic priorities.
margin is a more accurate competitive comparison.
First, our immediate priority is to continue to emerge 1 from the financial crisis of 2008 a stronger company.
Headline operating margins vs peers % 1O ur 2010 results are an encouraging sign that we will 20 or even have.
Compared with the last downturn, our people WPP IPG are stronger: they are better resourced, better motivated and 15 Omnicom incentivised than when we exited the last recessions in the Publicis 10 early 1990s and 2000s.
The Company is also more profitable, Havas more liquid and better structured.
In this economic cycle, 5 WPP including margins have peaked at 15.0% and bottomed at 11.7%, associates 0 as opposed to 10.5% and 5.6% in the early 1990s.
WPP gross 2 margin margin 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Second, in the medium term, to build upon the 1 successful base we have established whilst integrating Based on headline operating profit as defined on page 186, excluding share of results of associates, and sourced from relevant public filings, adjusted to a comparable basis to WPP.
2o ur most recent acquisitions effectively.
At TNS the 2 Gross margin margin is defined as headline PBIT as a proportion of gross margin.
integration has gone well and the focus has to now be on revenue growth, capturing greater market share.
Second, to continue to increase flexibility in the cost structure.
Great strides have been made in Our third priority, in the long term or over the next recent years.
In 2010, variable staff costs made up 3fi five to 10 years, is to: 7.8% of revenues, the highest ratio for 10 years.
Increase the combined geographic share of revenues from This compares with 6.6% in 2008 and 5.7% in 2009, and the faster-growing markets of Asia Pacific, Latin America, illustrates the value of this flexibility in protecting margins Africa and the Middle East, and Central and Eastern Europe, in the event of an economic downturn.
Increase the share of revenues of new media from 29% Change in variable costs % to 35-40%.
15 9.2 11.4 9.7 13.4 5.3 6.6 5.7 7.8 Maintain the share of more measurable marketing 2010 12 services such as Consumer Insight and direct, 2009 digital and interactive at 50% of revenues.
2008 9 2002 6 Our six specific objectives 3 Here are six objectives which represent our key performance 0 indicators KPIs.
For an assessment of how we performed Variable staff costs Variable staff costs as a % of staff costs as a % of Revenue against them in 2010, read on.
Continue to raise operating margins to the levels Third, to improve total share owner return by ofthe best-performing competition.
maximising the return on investment on the Continue to increase flexibility in the cost structure.
Companys substantial free cash flow of over 900 million or around $1.4 billion.
There are broadly Improve total share owner return and return three alternative uses of funds: oncapital.
Capital expenditure, which usually approximates the depreciation cost.
Pressure here has eased as technology Continue to enhance the value added by pricing has fallen, although we are increasing investment in theparentcompany.
our digital and technology-based service offering, in line with our strategic goals.
In 2009, we also invested significantly Continue to place greater emphasis on more in real estate following lease renewals, particularly revenuegrowth.
in New York, to secure greater efficiencies.
Improve still further the quality of our creativeoutput.
Mergers and acquisitions, which have historically taken the lions share of free cash flow.
Here we have raised the 24 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Letter to share owners hurdle rate on capital employed so that our return on capital Share buy-backs in 2010 cost 46 million, representing may be increased.
Valuations remain reasonable, particularly 0.5% of share capital, again well within the target set at the outside the US, although some speculative froth does seem time of the TNS acquisition.
It is likely that we will continue to have developed, especially in digital and interactive in the to ensure that share buy-backs at least equal the dilutive US and in some faster-growing markets, like Brazil, as our effect of option and restricted stock issuance.
competitors try to play catch-up.
1 Our acquisition focus in 2010 was again on the triplet Distributions to share owners m opportunities of faster-growing geographic markets, new 600 4.8% 6.6% 4.7% 3.4% 3.0% technologies and consumer insights, totally consistent Buy-backs with our strategic priorities in the areas of geography, Dividends paid 450 new communication services and measurability.
300 The cost of the acquisition of TNS in 2008 was funded principally by debt.
At the time of the transaction, we 150 announced that, for the following two years, acquisitions would be limited to no more than 100 million per annum, 3.0% 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 the Groups share buy-back program would be targeted up to 1% per annum and dividend growth at up to 15% per 1 annum, with the objective of using surplus cash generated Sum of share buy-backs and dividends paid divided by average shares in issue for the relevant period, as a % of the average share price for the relevant period.
to reduce debt, whilst average net debt to headline EBITDA remained well above 2 times.
For 2010, this ratio improved to 2.1 times so this objective has been largely achieved one Fourth, we will continue to enhance the value added year ahead of schedule.
by the parent company and build unique integrated In 2010, the Group spent 97 million on initial marketing approaches for clients.
WPP is not just a acquisition payments, net of cash acquired and disposal holding company focused on planning, budgeting, proceeds, so within the target set.
It is likely we will continue reporting and financial issues, but a parent company that can to focus on small and medium-sized acquisitions in 2011 add value to our clients and our people in the areas of human but at a slightly greater level, around 150-200 million.
resources, property, procurement, information technology Dividends or share buy-backs.
We continue to focus on and practice development.
We will continue to do this through examining the relative merits of dividends and share buybacks.
a limited group of 350 or so people at the centre in Dublin, Following the strong first half results in 2010, we reLondon, New York, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Shanghai and instituted an increase in dividend with a 15% increase in the So Paulo.
This does not mean that we seek to diminish the first interim dividend, the upper limit committed to at the time strength of our operating brands, but rather to learn from one of the TNS acquisition.
Following the continued improvement another.
Our objective is to maximise the added value for our in profitability during the second half of 2010, the Board has clients with their businesses and our people with their careers.
also recommended an increase in the second interim dividend Many of our initiatives are possible because of the scale of 15%.
This makes a total for the year of 17.79p per share, on which we now operate.
In the optimum use of property, an all-time high for your Company.
Dividends paid in 2010 in information technology and in procurement generally, were 3.6 times covered by headline earnings.
we are able to achieve efficiencies that would be beyond the Subject to share owner approval at the Companys Annual reach of any individual operating company.
General Meeting in June 2011, the Board also proposes to But it is also clear that there is an increasing put in place a scrip dividend program which will enable share requirement for the centre to complement the operating owners to elect to receive new fully paid ordinary shares in companies in professional development and client cothe Company instead of cash dividends, commencing with the ordination.
It is a relatively recent development for certain second interim dividend for 2010.
Details of the scrip dividend multinational marketing companies, when looking to satisfy program will be sent to share owners together with the their global communications needs, to make their initial Notice of the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Board approach not to operating companies, but directly to holding has also undertaken a review of its dividend pay-out policy or parent companies.
and consulted institutional share owners and analysts.
It seems Such assignments present major, and increasingly clear from this analysis that in current stock market conditions, frequent, opportunities for the few groups of our size.
It is many share owners favour consistent dividend growth and absolutely essential that we have the professional resources better dividend yields over share re-purchases.
Given these and the practice development capability to serve such clients views, the Board plans to increase the dividend payout ratio comprehensively, actively and creatively.
Initiatives involving as a proportion of post-tax profits from the current level of some of the worlds largest marketers continue to gain approximately 30% to approximately 40% over the medium momentum.
The worlds largest advertiser is itself integrating term, reducing dividend cover from approximately 3 times its efforts around brands, in the areas of advertising, media headline earnings to approximately 2.5 times.
investment management, market research, packaging WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 25 How were doing Letter to share owners design and public relations.
Our largest client is seeking and social media channels and in print: our monthly public a seamless model, effectively a one-client agency within online news bulletin, e. wire: our consistently-awarded global our Group.
newspaper and eBook, TheWIRE: our annual Atticus All our clients, whether global, multinational or local, Journal of original marketing thinking: the WPP Reading continue to focus on the quality of our thinking, coRoom, an extensive online library of think pieces both ordination of communications and price.
In response, public and original from WPP professionals worldwide: we focus on talent, structure and incentives.
our online FactFiles profiling Group resources companies products: regular communication on Group initiatives such as the WPP Worldwide Partnership Program and the WPP Managing talent Marketing Fellowship Program: our annual Corporate Responsibility Report and this consistently award-winning Talent and its management therefore remain the lynchpin of Annual Report, both in print and online.
our reason for existence: that is what our clients pay us for.
Development of our people and the way we manage that talent is a critical determinant of performance and on that Property management critical dimension, we continue to make significant progress.
In the creation of highly-competitive incentives with In 2010 we were able to reduce our property portfolio by extremely attractive working environments, we increasingly almost 4% to 22.8 million sq ft as a result of shedding excess differentiate ourselves from our competitors and improve the space created by the integration of the custom business of TNS attractiveness of WPP companies as destinations for talent.
with Research International and, sadly, as a result of the Our quarterly reviews with the operating companies have been severance program that saw our staff numbers decline by restructured, consequently, to give more time and attention over 12% in 2009. to talent and to clients.
Our recruiting efforts throughout The combination of revenue growth and reduction in 2010 were especially fruitful as we successfully targeted and portfolio enabled us to reduce the establishment cost-torecruited top talent within and beyond our industry, often revenue ratio from 8.0% in 2009 to 7.0% in 2010, equal to competing with investment banking, management consulting our medium-term goal.
Average square foot per head fell and private equity offers.
The war for talent is fierce and will slightly to 229 sq ft from 230 sq ft in 2009, although our intensify further, and there is more to be done.
target is to achieve 220 sq ft in 2011.
The blueprint for our executive development curriculum Our key property task is to maintain the 7% establishment has been completed, and our flagship client leadership cost-to-revenue ratio as we continue to grow the business, training program, Maestro, is being continuously developed.
by focusing on the key metrics of space per head and cost The parent company and each of our operating companies per square foot on all our lease renewals.
installed its own approach to performance assessment and succession planning, aimed at developing the careers of their people, improving the quality of feedback, coaching and Procurement mentoring they receive and providing for orderly succession.
We have launched a senior management mentoring and In procurement, we continue to set ourselves the goal of development program specifically for women, run by being the undisputed leader of procurement practice in the Charlotte Beers and called The X Factor.
global advertising and marketing services industry.
We continued to scrutinise and modify our compensation We aim to benchmark ourselves regularly against our practices, both to offer competitive and appropriately-based competitors and our clients.
Through intensified investment rewards to our people and to attract outstanding talent from in procurement people, processes and technology, our goal is elsewhere.
This is a key strategic priority for us.
Our to maintain the ratio of bought-in costs to revenue at around competition is, sometimes, not so rigorous in evaluating and 15%, by leveraging Group scale across all of our major rewarding performance for example, taking advantage of markets, and focusing on those expenditure categories most sharp falls in share prices to re-price or issue options or giving favourable for global, regional and local supply contracts, limited disclosure to investors of compensation plan details.
such as in IT, telecoms, travel, professional services, facilities and production.
Communications Information technology A communications services company must be a model of excellent external and internal communications.
To that end, In IT we continue to consolidate our core technology we accelerate understanding of the Groups vast resources infrastructure with the objectives of reducing cost and with a raft of regular communications through our websites improving quality.
This enables our operating companies to 26 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Letter to share owners concentrate their efforts on client-related developments and was strong, but also for some of our major competitors.
In all other internal business-focused applications.
years, however, our margin performance was at the top end The convergence of mobile, voice and data communications of the pack.
has allowed us to take advantage of new offerings in the Estimated net new billings of 3.0 billion $4.8 billion telecommunications sector to increase efficiencies and to in 2010, a similar level to 2009, reflected a consistently high provide enhanced support to our increasingly mobile workforce.
level of wins throughout the year.
The Group was ranked first in all the new business league table surveys in 2010.
Practice development Organic revenue growth vs peers % Finally, in practice development we continue to develop WPP 10 horizontal initiatives in a focused set of high-potential areas IPG 5 across our vertical operating brands: in media, healthcare, Omnicom 0 new technologies, new faster-growing markets, internal Publicis -5 communications, retail, entertainment and media, financial Havas -10 services, hi-tech and telecommunications and corporate responsibility.
Specifically, we continue to invest in sharing -15 2008 Q109 Q209 Q309 Q409 Q110 Q210 Q310 Q410 insights and developing initiatives through WPP Digital in digital marketing and media and The Store in distribution and retail.
Our practice development activities are also aimed at In key geographic markets we are increasingly helping us position our portfolio in the faster-growing coordinating our activities through WPP Country Managers.
During 2010, acquisitions We continue to believe that increasing co-ordination is and increased equity stakes were focused on Advertising and required between our brands at the country and global levels, Media Investment Management in Canada, the UK, France, as the arguments for investment in regional management Germany, Poland, Israel, Brazil, Colombia, Hong Kong, become weaker.
As experience has demonstrated, however, India and South Korea: on Consumer Insight in Poland, the activities of Country Managers must be closely aligned Hungary, Cyprus, Chile and Guatemala: on Public Relations and monitored.
In addition, we have increased the number of & Public Affairs in the UK, Germany, Poland and Turkey: WPP Global Client Leaders to co-ordinate our efforts on on direct, digital and interactive in the US, the UK, Germany, behalf of clients and to ensure they get maximum benefit from Brazil, China and Singapore: and on Healthcare their relationships with WPP operating brands.
We are focused Communications in the US, the UK and the Czech Republic.
currently on our top 30 global clients accounting for around So far in 2011, the Group has made acquisitions or a third of total revenues and where our revenues grew by 7.0% increased equity interests in Advertising and Media in 2010, a higher rate than the overall increase of 5.3%.
Investment Management in South Africa and South Korea: Furthermore, we continue to encourage internal strategic in Consumer Insight in Ireland, Germany, Lithuania and alliances and promote co-operation.
Practice development Africa: and in direct, digital and interactive in the US.
These initiatives have therefore been reinforced in such areas as acquisitions continue to move us forward to our previously healthcare, retail, internal communications and media described strategic priorities: expanding the share of revenues and entertainment.
This has been especially important in of our businesses in Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and developing our portfolio of direct investments in new media the Middle East and Central and Eastern Europe to 35-40%: under WPP Digital and where our investments are working in new media to 35-40%: and in consumer insight, direct, with our agencies and people to bring new technology digital and interactive, at one-half.
capabilities and understanding to our clients.
All these We intend to expand our strong networks Ogilvy & initiatives are designed to ensure that we, the parent company, Mather, JWT, Y&R, Grey, United Network, Bates 141, really do as well as being perceived to inspire, motivate, Mindshare, MEC, MediaCom, Maxus, TNS, Millward coach, encourage, support and incentivise our operating Brown, Kantar Media, Kantar Health, Kantar Retail, Kantar companies to achieve their strategic and operational goals.
Worldpanel, Hill & Knowlton, Ogilvy Public Relations Fifth, to continue to place greater emphasis on Worldwide, Burson-Marsteller, Cohn & Wolfe, OgilvyOne, revenue growth.
One legitimate criticism of our Wunderman, OgilvyAction, G2, Possible Worldwide, 24 7 performance against the best-performing competition Real Media, Ogilvy CommonHealth, Sudler & Hennessey, is our comparative level of organic revenue growth, ghg, The Brand Union, Landor and FITCH in high-growth although the methods used to calculate rates of organic markets or where their market share is insufficient.
growth vary to say the least.
In 2008, revenue growth trailed We will also enhance our leadership position in a little behind our major competitors and, in 2009, the decline Consumer Insight by further development of our key brands in our revenue was less worse than most.
In 2010, our growth with particular emphasis on North America, Asia Pacific, WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 27 15 How were doing Letter to share owners Latin America and Continental and Eastern Europe.
We will In pursuing these aims, the Group is led by John continue our growth of research panels and have established OKeeffe, WPPs worldwide creative director.
Under Johns a Kantar-wide operational capability, which will be guidance, gratifying and discernible progress continues.
consolidated with the same function at TNS.
We will 2010 saw the fourth annual WPPED Cream awards, reinforce our growing position in media research through our internal award program for outstanding work across Kantar Media, which includes our investments in television the Group.
Your Company also amassed the second largest audience research through the former TNS Media points tally at the 2010 advertising and marketing services Intelligence and TNS Media Research, and IBOPE and festival in Cannes for the second year in a row and narrowed Marktest, which, combined, is the market leader outside the gap to first place please refer to our website, www.
com, for detailed, accurate calculations.
Our objective is to In addition, we intend to reinforce our worldwide achieve first place.
Our performance in the GunnReport, strength in direct and interactive marketing and research even on an accurately calculated weighted basis, is as strong.
through our traditional channels such as OgilvyOne, At the same time we are committed to achieving all these Wunderman, G2, Blanc & Otus and Lightspeed.
Although objectives as a significantly responsible corporate citizen of the the early 2000-2001 compressions in financial valuations world at large and in the communities in which we operate.
following the internet bust initially offered significant As a parent company, we continue to develop practical opportunities, we will now also invest directly in the new principles and policies for our companies charitable giving channels through start-ups, particularly as US and French and services to the environment, education, the arts and valuations in search, for example, are still prohibitive, despite healthcare based on best practice guidelines.
We conservatively the financial crisis.
Other opportunities will be sought to calculate that the WPP organisation contributed an estimated enhance our online capabilities.
14.3 million worth of time, skills, materials and money to Lastly, we will continue to develop our specialist expertise social and community causes in 2010, as well as free media in areas such as healthcare, retail and interactive and to space worth 20.2 million negotiated by WPP media agencies identify new high-growth areas.
on behalf of pro bono clients, making a total of 34.5 million.
A summary of the Groups approach to corporate responsibility can be found on pages 125 to 133.
Doing good Creativity remains paramount is not altruism or charity, it is good business, when like us you are focused on long-term total share owner return.
Sixth, to improve still further the quality of creative Please also see our annual Corporate Responsibility work throughout the Group.
Despite the growing Report on the work our clients and our people do in these importance of co-ordinated communications and increasingly important areas.
price effectiveness, the quality of the work remains and will remain paramount.
If you drew a graph plotting creative awards as a proxy for creativity against Future challenges margins for any group of agencies, there would be a very strong correlation.
The more awards, the stronger the A colossal amount remains to be done challenging our margins.
The clients procurement department fades into the clients, and therefore us.
It seems certain that once these background when the work is strong.
Of the three things we objectives are achieved, they will be replaced by new ones.
do strategic thinking, creative execution and co-ordination As companies grow in size, most chairmen and CEOs creative execution is undoubtedly the most important, become concerned that their organisations may become and that means creativity in its broadest sense.
flabby, slow to respond, bureaucratic and sclerotic.
Any Clients look for creative thinking and output not just from sensible business leader aggressively resists this phenomenon: advertising agencies, public relations and design companies, but we all seek the benefits of size and scale without sacrificing also from our media companies and our research companies.
the suppleness and energy of a smaller firm.
And, for the first Millward Brown remains arguably one of our most creative time, new technologies now make this possible on a global brands.
Witness the BrandZ Top 100 Most Powerful Brands platform.
WPP wants the scale and resources of the largest Study published annually with the FinancialTimesand its firm together with the heart and mind of a small one.
study of the BrandZ Top 50 Most Valuable Chinese Brands.
We intend to achieve this objective by stepping up our training and development programs: by recruiting the finest And finally... external talent: by celebrating and rewarding outstanding creative success tangibly and intangibly: by acquiring strong We entered 2010 with fingers crossed.
There were few creative companies: and by encouraging, monitoring and certainties.
Little could be taken for granted.
promoting our companies achievements in winning But in one under-recognised sense, the advertising and creative awards.
marketing services industry is relatively well-placed to 28 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Letter to share owners survive and prosper in uncertain times.
Not because its Forward-looking statements recession-proof far from it but because of its very nature.
In connection with the provisions of the Every WPP company works in a fiercely competitive Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of sector.
Clients have an enviable range of specialist advisers 1995 the Reform Act, the Company may from whom to choose.
Client retention demands eternal include forward-thinking statements as vigilance and innovation.
No agency can expect yesterdays defined in the Reform Act in oral or written contribution, however valuable, to guarantee security for public statements issued by or on behalf ofthe Company.
To remain successful in marketing services, statements may include, among other agencies need to be alert to change indeed, to instigate things, plans, objectives, projections and change and be among the first to take advantage of it.
They anticipated future economic performance need professionals with open and inventive minds always based on assumptions and the like that ready to challenge the status quo and work out ways of doing aresubject to risks and uncertainties.
Assuch, actual results or outcomes may things better.
differ materially from those discussed in These are all qualities that our companies need even in the theforward-looking statements.
So they are, in a real sense, better rehearsed factors which may cause actual results than most when turbulence strikes.
Looking back now at todiffer include but are not limited to: the 2010, its clear that our companies employed those inherent unanticipated loss of a material client or key personnel, delays or reductions in client skills to remarkable effect: not only to survive and prosper but advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates even to achieve market share gains against almost all criteria.
of compensation, government compliance So its entirely proper that we should close this report costs or litigation, natural disasters or acts with a note of recognition and deep gratitude to our ofterrorism, the Companys exposure to companies and all their people.
It is thanks to their creativity changes in the values of other major currencies because a substantial portion of in all its many senses that the numbers we are able to its revenues are derived and costs incurred report for 2010 are as gratifying and record-breaking as they outside of the UK and the overall level of are.
We thank and salute them all.
economic activity in the Companys major markets which varies depending on, among other things, regional, national andinternational political and economic Philip Lader conditions and government regulations Chairman inthe worlds advertising markets.
In addition, you should consider the risks described under the caption Principal risks Sir Martin Sorrell and uncertainties on pages 120 and 122, which could also cause actual results to Group chief executive differ from forward-looking information.
Inlight of these and other uncertainties, theforward-looking statements included in Paul Richardson this document should not be regarded as Group finance director arepresentation by the Company that the Companys plans and objectives will be This letter to share owners should be read in conjunction with and as part of the achieved.
The Company undertakes no management report set out in the section headed Directors report on pages 111 to 124. obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements, whether as aresult of new information, future events orotherwise.
