Why we exist Our mission : toapplythattalent, throughouttheworld, : todosoinpartnership: todosowithprofit.
etween them, WPP companies have tens of Second, the parent company encourages and enables thousands of individual clients.
They range from operating companies of different disciplines to work together Fortune 500 global giants through single-nation for the benefit of clients.
Such collaborations have the start-ups to the smallest of specialist charities.
additional benefit of enhancing the job satisfaction of our Diverse as they are, they have one thing in common: in people.
The parent company also plays an across-the-Group pursuing their objectives, they face formidable competition.
role in the following functions: the management of talent, Growing affluence in many parts of the world combined including recruitment and training: in property management: with overcapacity and over-supply in almost every significant in procurement and IT: in knowledge sharing and consumer market has put more and more power into the practice development.
hands of consumers, accelerated by technology.
And finally, WPP itself can function as the 21st-century As always, if they are to succeed or even to survive with equivalent of the full-service agency.
For some clients, profit every competitive company needs an intrinsically predominantly those with a vast geographical spread and a appealing product or service.
But that, though it remains need for marketing services ranging from advertising through the most fundamental of requirements, is no longer enough.
design and website construction to research and internal Just as competitive costermongers arrange their apples in communications, WPP can act as a portal to provide a single appealing displays and polish them lovingly to catch their point of contact and accountability.
customers eyes, so all companies need to display their No two clients are structured in precisely the same way.
Within WPPs operating companies, teams can be tailor-made They need access to high-quality information, strategic to match any and all.
advice and specialist communications skills.
And its in the nature of specialist and creative talent that it is unlikely to flourish within the confines of a manufacturing or service company.
People with specialist talents work best and contribute more when recruited, trained and inspired by specialist companies.
Within the WPP Group, our clients have access to companies with all the necessary marketing and communications skills: companies with strong and distinctive cultures of their own: famous names, many of them.
WPP, the parent company, complements these companies in three distinct ways.
First, it relieves them of much administrative work.
Financial matters such as planning, budgeting, reporting, control, treasury, tax, mergers, acquisitions, investor relations, legal affairs and internal audit are co-ordinated centrally.
For the operating companies, every administrative hour saved is an extra hour to be devoted to the pursuit of professional excellence.
