What we think The US and traditional media bite back price of around $680 million.
And then it overcame its lack Yahoo!
in any way has brought greater balance to the of success with video by buying YouTube for $1.65 billion, markets.
Our clients and our agencies favour a duopoly despite little or no revenues and a bunch of copyright rather than a monopoly.
Googles poor handling of Chinese lawsuits, part of which were solved by making three music government relations and withdrawal from the Chinese companies momentarily YouTube share owners and $50 market and issues in the EU with business practices, million richer on the morning of the sale.
Finally, it gave specifically in France, Italy and Germany, do not help, along Warren Hellman and Hellman & Friedman a return of with Federal Trade Commission issues over the AdMob 800-900% over two years on DoubleClick, paying over acquisition in the US.
The latter reflects the emerging battle $3 billion 10 times revenues and 30 times EBITDA.
Entry between Google and Apple, highlighted in recent press to the first round of the auction was 13-14 times EBITDA, articles that cover the increasingly fractious relationship which we could not reach.
Through DoubleClick, Google between the companies that are both collaborators and may control more than 80% of targeted and contextual competitors another example where Google has become internet advertising, along with much valuable client and a frienemy.
Perhaps, one of the biggest threats to Google is from This last transaction awoke the dragon.
As Warren Buffett once pointed out, if Google initiated a heavy response, not only on regulatory fronts, was worth $250 billion then more than his own Berkshire but from transactions, too.
2007s rumours were confirmed, Hathaway and in the top three US companies by market as Microsoft bid for Yahoo!
and then partnered with it in capitalisation after only 10 years, it would have to be search, aQuantive and others.
has paid worth $350-400 billion in two or three years to justify an infinite EBITDA multiple for Right Media.
After that comment, Googles market moves or irrational exuberance?
capitalisation fell, although it has now recovered significantly.
All in all, Google has opened up an attack on many It may be the frustrations of an 80-year-old and friend fronts.
Perhaps too many, particularly when you consider the of Bill Gates fuming that it took him 40 years to build a other theatres it is fighting in, such as book publishing and company to a value of $200 billion rather than 10 years.
One gets the impression it was throwing Whats more, Sergey Brin and Larry Page were worth a lot of mud against the wall to see if any sticks maybe $14 billion each and only in their mid-30s.
confining itself to search and mobile search would be best, In any event, recent data on click-through rates makes as it now seems to be doing.
It also needs to deal with the even Google look mortal and volatility of market value on threat from Facebook which now surpasses Google in usage this scale threatens internal motivation and loyalty.
Bright if not, most importantly, in revenue.
has a different young computer engineers may be tempted to try venture approach, working through its agency partners and believing capital opportunities in Silicon Valley, rather than continue in the power of people, rather than Googles greater focus on to hold vulnerable equity.
The answer to the question technology.
Certainly, the combination of Microsoft and whether Google is a frienemy or froe, is probably both.
Short-term friend, long-term foe although, more recently, Google has become a friendlier frienemy to us while making more frienemies on the way.
Finally, the regulatory threat is growing with decisions and reviews on both sides of the Atlantic indicating governmental concerns with monopolylike market shares and privacy concerns.
The persuasive way to build a brand Good editorial cannot be bought, only influenced, making one marketing discipline increasingly important Public Relations & Public Affairs.
The growth of the internet and the growing sophistication of polling techniques play to the traditional strengths of Public Relations & Public Affairs, where relationships need to be built with opinion formers.
That does not mean just newspapers.
Blogs, social networks and customer websites are a new form of editorial, as important if not more important than The New York Times.
Because they are fast and have a more intimate relationship with their readers, blogs can cause disproportionate harm to 94 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010
