How were doing Advertising agency networks Bates 141 During 2010 we continued to invest in thought leadership to provide substance and content to our Change Agency Report by Tim Isaacs bottom right positioning.
Key initiatives included 2010Changesfrom Chairman, Bates Ogilvy Group Asia Pacific theStreetsofAsia,  Generation a paper on Chinas youth and ReverseFilial 2010 was a year of changes in organization, strong Piety a paper on the Hong Kong silver market.
Our financial results and deepening commitment to our regional planning director for Asia, Dheeraj Sinha, published Change Agency promise.
a book on the changing Indian consumer, ConsumerIndia.
In 2010, Bates 141 focused its resources on the growth Once again, our Change dictionary was well received markets of Asia Pacific: specifically on the two BRIC and underscored our positioning in a populist way.
We will markets, China and India, and on the Next 11 markets continue to marshal our philosophy and operations around of Southeast Asia especially Vietnam, Indonesia and the understanding, harnessing and creating Change for our Philippines.
Our management organization was centered clients across Asia in 2011. on these three clusters of offices.
We put emphasis on getting In closing, a final word on Change for Good in the the leadership working closer to the market opportunities.
communities in which we work.
In 2009 we launched 2010 was also the year in which collaboration with ChangeRally as a Bates 141 activation tool to create positive Ogilvy & Mather on back-end support and financial change in society.
In 2010 our most notable programs were management moved ahead with greater purpose and vigor.
Vote for Change on behalf of the 100,000 street children of Following the example best set by Bates 141 Jakarta, Manila: the Sunrise home for children film project in Cambodia: those offices where the collaboration has been closest have and the Room to Read program in Singapore to promote benefited most in being able to concentrate their resources on literacy and gender equality in developing countries.
productive front office services to clients.
Client satisfaction and profitability have both been enhanced.
Largely due to these developments, the years advance in commercial performance was sustained with results coming in well ahead of the prior year and our own budget for the year.
We continued to invest in thought leadership to provide substance and content to our Change Agency positioning We continued to develop and promote our Change Agency promise.
We had one of our best years in terms of delivering on that promise with work for HSBC, Hagen Dazs, Sampoerna, Heineken, MTV and Virgin Mobile.
Our work was recognized at Cannes, where we won a Bronze Lion for Virgin Mobile India: at Asia Pacific Spikes for our Vote for Change campaign from the Philippines: and at the Effies for our work for F&N Dairies Malaysia.
We were also named Creative Agency of the Year at the ROI awards Festival for Greater China, and in Taiwan we came top of the CampaignBrief rankings.
We achieved some notable new business success during the year: Four Seasons Hotels & Resorts in China: Proton cars in Indonesia: Johnnie Walker and Vietnam Post in Vietnam: Colgate and MTV in India: LG mobile in Taiwan: and Fuji Xerox in Hong Kong.
