What we think The US and traditional media bite back build a worldwide brand you must establish a big presence managers become no more than glorified financial directors.
in the worlds largest market the US.
At WPP, 21 of our top The average advertising agency regional director in Europe, 50 clients are headquartered in Europe, three in Asia Pacific for example, may have to cover 100 offices in a 250-day and 26 in the US.
Almost all of the latter are located in the working year.
It would be difficult to add significant value northeast quadrant created by Chicago, Detroit, New York while spending an average of one to two days in each office and Washington.
a year, even if he or she travelled constantly.
That American strength is based on three factors.
At WPP, we are experimenting with two new First, the size and power of the American market: more organisational responses.
First, Global Client Leaders to than 300 million people in a relatively homogeneous market.
manage at least the 30 biggest clients across WPP which The European Union at 500 million is over one and a half account for over 30% of revenues on a worldwide basis.
times that size, but much more heterogeneous.
Second, the Second, WPP Country Managers focusing on three key power and size of US capital markets.
Recent difficulties issues people, local clients and acquisitions.
aside, America is still the cheapest place to raise debt Both responses cause angst to our operating company or or equity capital, although more detailed disclosure tribal leaders, who continue to have primary organisational requirements are discouraging some.
Both cut across traditional organisational structures.
its strength in technology, it is hard to think of many areas Both demand new ways of working together, denying turf, where it does not lead.
Third-generation mobile phones are territory and ego.
Both raise questions about motives, one, but, given the prices European companies paid for the methods and values.
But both are necessary, responding to privilege, the distinction is dubious.
Organisations are becoming more and more networked, less and less pyramidic.
It also seems to be a nonsense to have a similar country manager Local vs global: getting the balance right structure for China and India, as with Singapore and Portugal.
Maybe the BRICs, at least, should be split off from The worlds multinational companies must develop new their regions and report in directly to the centre, opening up thinking to deal with the issues described above.
As USfor them to be split up further regionally.
centric corporations, for example, seek to develop their Furthermore, as the balance of economic power shifts, businesses and extend their reach into more heterogeneous there will have to be similar shifts in power within markets, the balance of organisations will shift.
Salary increases, benefits, STIPs, LTIPs, share mean that everything changes.
There will continue to be a options, restricted stock allocations and capital expenditure, focus on global, max or core brands, with sales of more than for example, will have to be allocated more fairly, as growth $1 billion, to counterbalance the power of global retailers favours these faster-growing markets.
This will mean that and allow companies to become less dependent on the US Anglo-American or American-Western European markets.
For instance, Coca-Colas geographic coverage of management cliques will have to open up, as, for example, around a third in North America, a third in Asia and Latin Unilever has done, with over 400 Indian managers already America and a third in Europe, Middle East and Africa will exported around the world in senior positions.
There will become more the norm, rather than Pepsi-Colas 53% in the be more.
At the same time, more sensitive local organisations that can respond more readily to national opportunities and challenges will be required.
Why marketing services grew and grew The past 10 to 15 years have seen, probably quite rightly, a diminution of the power of country managers, Advertising and Media Investment Management which as companies sought to reduce needless duplication and historically has concentrated on areas such as television, stimulate the sharing of knowledge.
Eradicating geographic radio, newspapers, magazines, outdoor and cinema has silos and fiefdoms made sense.
But as country-based thrived in recent times, but its overall share has declined.
organisations have become more complex and sizeable, there In its place, supposedly less sophisticated, less global may be a need to develop more focus at a local level.
Several and less-developed marketing services have gained as a clients have started to re-build country organisations and proportion of our total business.
These areas are Consumer re-appoint country managers or ambassadors, particularly Insight, Public Relations & Public Affairs, Branding & as they need to cultivate governmental or academic influence Identity, Healthcare and Specialist Communications or be more locally sensitive.
particularly direct, interactive and internet communications.
As a result, regional management has come under scrutiny.
Marketing services have grown more quickly for two With the development of technology and communications, reasons.
First, network television pricing has risen faster organisational span-breakers may not be so necessary.
In than inflation in past years, to the disquiet of big advertisers.
addition, given the complexity of regional tasks, regional Procter & Gamble, the worlds biggest advertiser, Unilever, WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 87
