What we think The US and traditional media bite back Internal unity makes for a powerful army Rates of growth in US government spending were back to where they were 35 years ago at the height of the Vietnam Probably the biggest block to progress for our clients and War.
In 2005, the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina, and the indeed ourselves is internal politics.
Turf, territory and ego continuing demands of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq prevent productive change.
If the chairmen or CEOs of our fuelled the government spending spree.
It is no accident that clients saw what we saw, they would be horrified.
If they and governments in many countries are the largest advertising we devoted half the time that they or we spent on internal spenders: ministries use marketing to reinforce their politics on the consumer, client or competition, they and policies and build electoral popularity.
Perhaps for political we would be considerably more successful.
reasons, former President Bush failed to deal with the twin You could argue that most of the communication we fiscal and trade deficits.
He chose not to raise taxes and co-ordinate is aimed at internal audiences rather than Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke did not hike external ones.
Some people, such as David Ogilvy and interest rates even further.
Allan Leighton when long ago he was at retailer Asda All this was thrown into sharp relief by the sub-prime, have maintained that ensuring your internal constituencies insurance monoline, private equity and house price crises are on side is often more important than external ones.
that started to hit hard in the third quarter of 2007.
Only when internal communications are working can your Everyone but Goldman Sachs seemed caught unawares company talk positively to customers, potential customers, and, for a short time, even the masters of the universe were.
suppliers, potential employees, journalists, analysts, Economic policy is in sharp reverse, with massive injections investors, government and NGOs.
of liquidity and significant lowering of interest rates being Building such virtuous circles in a uni-branded company the cornerstones of the new economics, as banks continued is one thing.
Inside a multi-branded company such as WPP, to refuse to lend to one another and third parties.
which has grown by acquisition, our tribes operate Given the massive Keynesian fiscal stimulus of around independently to deal with dis-economies of scale and client $13 trillion and counting being pumped into the worlds conflict.
Things are far more complicated.
Trying to ensure economy through government spending and guarantees, 100,000 people face in the same direction at the same time there was little doubt that the post-Lehman difficulties is not easy.
On the other hand, once achieved, internal would be overcome in the short term.
After all, the US and unison and common focus make a very powerful army.
UK have even resorted to quantitative easing or printing It may not be fashionable to talk about charismatic or strong money, not only once, but several times.
But what happens CEO leadership: the focus is more on the CEO as coach, in the long term?
There seem to be two possible routes.
But our experience is that the most First, the hair shirt route of reducing government deficits by successful companies with which we work have CEOs who cutting state spending and increasing taxes, thus increasing understand the importance of the brand, have a strong vision unemployment and encouraging a higher propensity to save.
and implement that through a strong CMO.
All very painful stuff as we saw on a smaller scale in the After all, at long last, it is understood that all business 1970s and 1980s.
The three-day week and rubbish piling strategy is really marketing strategy, starting with the up in the streets is the nearest we have been to the current consumer and working backwards from there.
Most of our crisis since the Great Depression.
The UK Coalition companies develop internal communications through Government has taken this route, not cutting spending, as Advertising, Media Investment Management, Consumer some suggest, but reducing the rate of increase, as Insight, Public Relations & Public Affairs, Branding & government spending will rise from 700 billion in 2010 to Identity, and Healthcare and Specialist Communications.
In inflation-adjusted terms spending However, no single operating entity exists within WPP to falls, but you do not run a business on that basis, do you?
execute internal communications on a worldwide basis.
With a fixed five-year political term to play with, the Still an opportunity for the future.
Coalition Government does have the room to deal with the deficit and build a comprehensive long-term economic plan based mainly on education, infrastructure and technology.
Two ways out of a deficit The other route, which is politically easier, is to inflate our way out long term.
It will be difficult for government or The speculative blowouts around the internet in 2001 and even central banks to know when to withdraw the current 2002, and sub-prime and insurance monoline crises starting support, particularly as President Obama suffered in the in October 2007 were perhaps inevitable and, given their mid-term elections in 2010 and faces a Presidential Election size, lengthy corrections were necessary.
The UKs ex-Prime Minister Brown suffered in seven or so years have had their share of pain.
the polls in May 2010 and Germanys Chancellor Merkel The US economy was in a political cycle in 2004, as the suffered a crucial state election defeat in the same way.
government used fiscal spending to stimulate the economy.
It would be very unpopular politically to wear the hair shirt 98 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010
