Who runs WPP Non-executive chairman Board of Directors Philip Lader Chairman of the Nomination Committee Philip Lader Non-executive chairman Age 65 Member of the Compensation Committee Philip Lader was appointed chairman in 2001.
The US Executive directors Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess from 1997 to 2001, he previously served in several senior executive roles in the Sir Martin Sorrell US Government, including as a Member of the Presidents Chief executive Cabinet and as White House Deputy Chief of Staff.
Before Paul Richardson entering government service, he was executive vice president Finance director of the company managing the late Sir James Goldsmiths US Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee holdings and president of both a prominent American real Mark Read estate company and universities in the US and Australia.
Strategy director A lawyer, he is also a Senior Advisor to Morgan Stanley, Chief executive, WPP Digital a director of Marathon Oil, AES and Rusal Corporations, a trustee of the Smithsonian Museum of American History Non-executive directors and the Atlantic Council and a member of the Council on Colin Day Foreign Relations.
Member of the Audit Committee and Compensation Committee Esther Dyson Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 66 Member of the Compensation Committee and Nomination Committee Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, Orit Gadiesh becoming Group chief executive in the same year.
He is a Member of the Nomination Committee non-executive director of Formula One msorrell@wpp.
com Ruigang Li Paul Richardson Finance director Age 53 Stanley Bud Morten Senior independent director until April 2010 Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP in Koichiro Naganuma 1996 after four years with the Company as director of treasury.
Lubna Olayan He is responsible for the Groups worldwide functions in Member of the Nomination Committee finance, information technology, procurement, property, John Quelch treasury, taxation, internal audit and corporate responsibility.
Jeffrey Rosen He is a chartered accountant and fellow of the Association Chairman of the Compensation Committee of Corporate Treasurers.
He is a non-executive director of Member of the Audit Committee CEVA Group plc, Chime Communications PLC and STW Senior independent director from April 2010 Communications Group Limited in Australia, the last two being Timothy Shriver companies associated with the Group prichardson@wpp.
com Member of the Compensation Committee Paul Spencer Mark Read Strategy director and CEO, WPP Digital Age 44 Chairman of the Audit Committee Sol Trujillo Mark Read was appointed a director in March 2005.
He has Member of the Audit Committee been WPPs director of strategy since 2002 and is also chief executive of WPP Digital.
He is a member of the Supervisory Board of HighCo and a director of CHI & Partners.
He Members of the Advisory Board worked at WPP between 1989 and 1995 in both parent Jeremy Bullmore company and operating company roles.
Prior to rejoining John Jackson WPP in 2002, he was a principal at the consultancy firm of Booz-Allen & Hamilton and founded and developed Richard Rivers the company WebRewards in the UK mread@wpp.
com Company Secretary Marie Capes 106 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 Who runs WPP Colin Day Non-executive director Age 56 Ruigang Li Non-executive director Age 41 Colin Day was appointed a director in July 2005.
He is the Ruigang Li was appointed a director in October 2010.
He is chief executive of Filtrona plc and a non-executive director President of Shanghai Media Group SMG a multimedia of Amec.
He was the group finance director of Reckitt conglomerate based in Shanghai.
Since 2002, under Ruigangs Benckiser plc, until April 2011, having been appointed to its leadership, SMG has maintained the most complete portfolio of board in September 2000.
Prior to joining Reckitt Benckiser media and related businesses, including television, radio, print he was group finance director of Aegis Group plc and media, digital media, home shopping, content distribution, previously held a number of senior finance positions with performing arts, training, and has become the largest content ABB Group plc and fide La Rue Group plc.
He was a nonand service provider and distributor of Chinese language executive director of Vero Group plc until 1998, Bell Group programs in the Chinese Mainland.
Ruigang is also the plc until 2004, Imperial Tobacco plc until February 2007, Chairman of China Media Capital CMC, Chinas first and easyJet plc until 30 September 2005 and Cadbury plc until 2010. only sovereign private equity fund dedicated to the media sector both within China and abroad.
CMC recently announced a Esther Dyson Non-executive director Age 59 partnership with News Corporations Star China to develop their joint interests in developing growth opportunities in the Esther Dyson was appointed a director in 1999.
In 2004 she operational and investment platforms in China and overseas sold her company, EDventure Holdings, to CNET Networks, markets.
Prior to his current role, Ruigang was a visiting scholar the US-based interactive media company now owned by CBS.
at Columbia University in New York.
She left CNET at the end of 2006 and now operates as an independent investor and writer, again under the name of Stanley Bud Morten Non-executive director Age 67 EDventure.
She has been highly influential for the past 20 years on the basis of her insights into online information Bud Morten was appointed a director in 1991.
He is technology markets and their social impact worldwide, a consultant, private investor and one of the five public including the emerging markets of Central and Eastern members of the Investment Advisory Council of the State Europe and Asia.
From 2003 to 2009 he was the Independent An active investor as well as an analyst observer, she Consultant to Citigroup Smith Barney with responsibility participated in the sale of Flickr to Yahoo!
and of Medstory for its independent research requirements.
She sits on the boards of nonPreviously he was the chief operating officer of Punk, listed start-ups including Evernote US, 23andMe US, Ziegel & Co, a New York investment banking firm with Airship Ventures US, Eventful.
com US, Meetup Inc. a focus on the healthcare and technology industries.
Before US, NewspaperDirect Canada, Voxiva US and Yandex that he was the managing director of the equity division Russia.
She is also active in public affairs and was founding of Wertheim Schroder & Co, Inc. in New York.
He is a chairman of ICANN, the domain name policy agency, from former non-executive director of Register.
She currently sits on the board of the Sunlight was sold to a private equity firm in November 2005.
Foundation, which advocates transparency in government.
He is also a non-executive director of The Motley Fool, Inc. and of Darien Rowayton Bank, both of which are Orit Gadiesh Non-executive director Age 60 private companies.
Orit Gadiesh was appointed a director in April 2004.
She is Koichiro Naganuma Non-executive director Age 66 chairman of Bain & Company, Inc. and a world-renowned expert on management and corporate strategy.
She holds an Koichiro Naganuma was appointed a director in February MBA from Harvard Business School and was a Baker Scholar.
He is chairman of the Board of Asatsu-DK Inc. She is a member of the International Advisory Board at also known as ADK.
He is also vice chairman of Japan Haute Ecole Commerciale in France, as well as a member Advertising Association.
Joining the agency in 1981, of the Foundation Board for the World Economic Forum he was president and Group CEO from 1991-2010. and the Board of Directors of The Peres Institute for Peace.
ADK is Japans third largest advertising and She is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and communications company, and 10th largest in the world.
WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 107 Who runs WPP Lubna Olayan Non-executive director Age 55 Timothy Tim Shriver Non-executive director Age 51 Lubna Olayan was appointed a director in March 2005.
Tim Shriver was appointed a director in August 2007.
He is Ms Olayan is the deputy chairperson and chief executive Chairman and CEO of Special Olympics, serving over three officer of the Olayan Financing Company, a subsidiary and million Special Olympic athletes and their families in 180 the holding entity for the Olayan Groups operations in the countries.
In recent years, he has produced films for Disney, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the Middle East.
Dream Works and Fox Searchlight and Hallmark Hall of Fame.
Ms Olayan is a Board Member of two publicly listed He co-founded the Collaborative for Academic, Social companies, the Saudi Hollandi Bank and Schlumberger, and Emotional Learning CASEL and currently chairs the and on the International Advisory Board of Akbank, CASEL Board.
He is a member of the Council on Foreign Rolls-Royce and the National Bank of Kuwait.
She is on the Relations and is also a non-executive director of the Malaria Board of Trustees of Cornell University, INSEAD and No More, Neogenix Oncology, and he is the founder and KAUST King Abdullah University of Science and President of the Center for Interface Action on Global Poverty.
Technology and on the Board of DSCA Down Syndrome Charitable Association and Al Fanar, the first Arab venture Paul Spencer Non-executive director Age 61 philanthropy organisation in the Arab region.
Paul Spencer was appointed a director in April 2004.
John Quelch Non-executive director Age 59 He is a financier with 20 years experience in the financial management of a number of blue-chip companies, including John Quelch was appointed a director in 1988.
He is the Dean, British Leyland PLC, Rolls-Royce PLC, Hanson PLC and Vice President and Distinguished Professor of International Royal & Sun Alliance PLC.
Management at the China Europe International Business He has held a number of non-executive directorships School.
Between 2001 and 2011 he was the Lincoln Filene including until 2009 chairman of NS and I National Professor of Business Administration and Senior Associate Savings.
He is currently chairman of State Street Managed Dean at Harvard Business School.
Between 1998 and 2001 Pension Funds and chairs audit at TR Property Investment he was Dean of the London Business School.
He is the independent Trustee of the BAT, BT, and 2011 he served as chairman of the Massachusetts Port BA and Rolls-Royce Pension Funds.
In the 2010 Honours Authority, honorary counsel general of the Kingdom of he was awarded a CBE for services to the financial services Morocco in New England and as honorary chairman of industry.
He is a governor of the charity Motability.
the British American Business Council of New England.
Professor Quelchs writings focus on global business Sol Trujillo Non-executive director Age 59 practice in emerging as well as developed markets, international marketing and the role of the multinational Sol Trujillo was appointed a director in October 2010.
He is corporation and the nation state.
He is a non-executive a highly experienced international business executive, who director of Alere, Inc and a member of the Council on brings 30 years of international business experience to the Foreign Relations.
He served previously on the boards Board, having served as CEO on three continents in media of Blue Circle Industries plc, easyJet plc, Pentland Group plc, communications organisations: US West now Qwest, Pepsi Bottling Group and Reebok International Limited.
Orange now France Telecom and Telstra, the Australian communications company.
Recognised as a broadband and Jeffrey A. Rosen Non-executive director Age 63 wireless pioneer, he has a reputation as an innovator in the digital space, described by President Reagans science advisor Jeffrey Rosen was appointed a director in December 2004. as the nations first digital telecom CEO.
He has managed He is a deputy chairman and managing director of Lazard.
operations and remains active in business affairs in both He has over 30 years experience in international investment developed and fast-growing markets from China and banking and corporate finance.
He is a member of the Council South Asia to Europe, North America, Africa and the on Foreign Relations and is President of the Board of Trustees Middle East more than 20 countries around the world.
of the International Center of Photography in New York.
He is a member of corporate boards in the US, EU and China including in the US, Target and Promerica Bank: in Europe, Weather Investments S. p. A in Italy: and in Asia, Silk Road Technologies in China, where he is board chairman.
In the public sector, Mr Trujillo served as a trade policy advisor to the Clinton and Bush administrations and remains active on public policy issues related to immigration, trade, productivity and fiscal affairs.
