How were doing Specialist Communications Report by Andrew Scott below WPPs Specialist Communications division comprises Chief operating officer individual business units with separate and distinct International Specialist Communications marketing expertise by industry, audience segment or and medium.
Our clients benefit from their depth of knowledge Mary Ellen Howe see page 74 and strategic focus: the Group benefits through the flexibility Chief operating officer these companies offer as partners for affiliated WPP Specialist Communications, North America companies when serving clients integrated marketing needs.
Additionally, we are able to capitalize on evolving trends in terms of new areas of expertise.
Our role in managing this portfolio is to help these companies grow on their own terms and to support cooperation opportunities across the Group.
Direct, promotion, digital and interactive marketing MJM, a US-based leading corporate events company serving long-term clients such as Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Deloitte, continued to focus on creating innovative events that transform the performance of primarily internal audiences.
To better align with the strategic goals of clients, MJM developed processes that optimize investment in corporate meetings and sales training.
The process unifies creative and production strategy and empowers organizations.
New clients acquired include Sara Lee and Johnson & Johnson.
UK outsourcing agency EWA continued to focus on adding value to its clients direct communications through an innovative combination of strategy, insight and delivery techniques.
New client projects during the year included the set up of a dedicated guidance contact centre for Immigration New Zealand, a new insight-based direct sales channel for Merial Animal Health and the set up of an e-CRM system for adidas.
We will continue to develop our unique creative service offering including our digital capabilities anddeliver measurable, cost-effective results to clients Risk management specialists Mando worked on World Cup sales promotions for TomTom across Europe and Brazil, and with O in the UK.
Significant growth was seen in the 2 UK with Rachels Organics and Coca-Colas Coke Zone.
In Germany, clients included Kimberly-Clark, Henkel and Nescaf Dolce Gusto.
In Spain, work was won from Reckitt Benckiser, Danone, Grupo SOS and Lindt.
Activity with McDonalds continued to develop across Europe.
Headcount had a steady 2010 with continued field marketing activity being provided for Kraft, Warner Home Video and Whirlpool.
In addition, the partnership with BT was expanded to deliver door-to-door sales.
The agency 72 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Specialist Communications achieved a Silver award at the Field Marketing and Brand 2010 was a challenging year in the working environment Experience awards for the Department of Health Social Care design sector in which BDGworkfutures and BDG McColl Careers roadshow.
However, both brands have maintained a strong presence in their field.
For BDGworkfutures new commissions included Honeywell, PwC and the relocation Custom media of Mindshare London, whilst existing relationships with key clients including Barclaycard, BNYMellon and EDF In 2010, branded-content specialist Forward won a number Energy remained strong and active.
The companys of new contracts in traditional and digital sectors, and picked international reach continues to develop with projects across up several awards for its work.
In digital, Forward launched Europe for global companies such as Honeywell and Mentor a new London property portal, an iPhone app for homeless Graphics as well as local companies and its work for STS charity Streetsmart: extended its outbound e-zine campaign Media in Moscow was awarded Best Concept Office for Regus to Spain and China: won email and microsite work by Frame magazine.
for international recruitment firm Astbury Marsden and In Scotland, BDG McColl secured commissions from conducted e-consultancy work for McKinsey.
In the Royal London Group and Standard Life, whilst an traditional arena, Forward won two new print-based appointment from energy consultants Wood Mackenzie built projects: a wine mailing program for Tesco: and a monthly on the commission for its Edinburgh head office completed newspaper for B&Q, called B&QHome, which is being earlier in the year.
Other private sector clients included BP, distributed to approximately five million customers and Balfour Beatty, State Street Bank, and Quintiles.
Work for prospects each month.
Lastly, Forward picked up awards public sector clients included ongoing major projects for for its Tesco Baby Club work and its weekly e-zine work for University of Edinburgh and St Andrews University.
Transport for London at the 2010 International Customer Contract furniture business Dovetail saw an improved Publishing Awards.
year with ongoing relationships with Burberry, Unilever, The Forward Arts Foundation, established in 1992, BAT and Deloitte remaining the backbone of the business.
continued to raise the profile of contemporary poetry in the Significant new clients included Rolex, Fladgate Fielder and UK with the 19th Forward Poetry Prize.
Demographic and sector marketing Media and film production services The Food Groups digital operation continued to show strong Metro, a leading event production company, had a successful growth and launched a division called Feed Interactive to year in 2010.
It renewed its outsourced contract at Shell Centre pursue non-food beverage-focused digital business.
Also in and was awarded the contract to provide Shell Global 2010, The Food Group continued to work with the premier solutions an upgrade to its digital information system.
For the foodservice brands of Kraft Foods, Tabasco, Dawn Foods, Financial Services Authority, Metro assisted with the Event Dannon, Kozy Shack and the Florida Department of Citrus.
and Audio Visual support for both its event and roadshow The Food Group added to its roster the PERDUE activities, and it supported Tesco with its investor roadshow brand, which is the top premium fresh chicken in the eastern in Korea and China.
Metro further entrenched its relationships US.
PERDUE will be tapping into The Food Groups with Credit Suisse, Deloitte and Roche.
New client wins extensive culinary experience to provide their customers with over the year included Amateur Rowing Association, more flavorful menu offerings of poultry products.
The Food Diamond Trading and the New York Stock Exchange.
Group also expanded its retail marketing presence with retail In Edinburgh, Metro Ecosse maintained and developed campaigns for the Norwegian Seafood Export Council and relationships with Deloitte, Experian and NHS Health LALA Foods brands of Weight Watchers and la Crme.
It provided event support services for Royal Bank Geppetto, the youth marketing company, helped clients of Scotland and Prudential, and video production and post like PepsiCo, ConAgra Foods, Energizer Brands and the production projects were undertaken for some notable new NBA tap the potential of the youth mindset with programs clients including BAFTA Scotland and Scottish Power.
and products based on its expertise of that unique market.
The Farm Group enjoyed another highly successful Pace Advertising and its Green Advertising division year in 2010.
It maintained its dominant share of the evercontinued to build their Florida operation by focusing on competitive London post production market and again digital growth opportunities, including interactive corporate supplied full post production services on the high-rating videos, commercials, viral content and direct response and award-winning ITV primetime shows: TheXFactor, programs.
Greens direct marketing offering has been BritainsGotTalent and DowntonAbbey as well as key adapted with the integration of mobile marketing, including performers on the other main channels, including Dealor SMS, mobile apps and social marketing.
NoDeal, Shameless, Skins, LiveattheApollo, OneBorn WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 73 How were doing Specialist Communications In television, MRC established itself as a major independent cable television studio behind Lionsgate, Sony and Fox and as a major external supplier for HBO, which is currently airing the second season of Emmy-nominated The RickyGervaisShow, soon to be followed by the third season of TheLifeandTimesofTim.
MRC TV is now in advanced development of multiple series with top film and TV talent including David Fincher, Larry Charles Seinfeld and David Hornsby .
In the future We will continue to develop our unique creative service offering including our digital capabilities and deliver measurable, cost-effective results to clients.
Also, The Farm and its team were proud to win another Bafta in 2010 for TheXFactor.
In 2011 The Farm is exploring an entrance into the Los Angeles post production market.
In 2010, MRC solidified its reputation as one of the worlds leading independent film and television studios.
MRC Film entered into an output arrangement with Universal Studios, securing major studio distribution for 20 pictures over the next five years.
MRC completed principal photography on 30MinutesorLess, starring Academy Award nominee Jesse Eisenberg TheSocial Network and Danny McBride EastboundandDown and commenced production on Ted, the highly anticipated directorial debut of Seth McFarlane FamilyGuy starring Mark Wahlberg.
MRC partnered with Academy Awardnominated director Neill Blomkamp District9 on his eagerly-awaited follow-up film, Elysium, starring Matt Damon and Jodie Foster, and announced a two picture directing producing deal with him.
Upcoming MRC films include HouseofCards, a thriller executive-produced by David Fincher TheSocialNetwork and a comedy written and directed by Greg Daniels TheOffice.
