How were doing Advertising agency networks Young & Rubicam Brands We created an Annual Global Client Partner Summit, which puts our global client leadership together to exchange Report by Peter Stringham below knowledge and best practices.
Not unrelated, in 2010 we Global chief executive officer codified the 10 Things That Great Global Client Leaders Do.
This formal analysis of global leadership will help us at every turn, from nurturing the next generation of global leaders to making operational changes that will support these principles.
In 2011, we made headlines and bestseller lists again with John Gerzemas second book, SpendShift, an analysis of consumer values changed by the past few years of economic crisis.
Young & Rubicam Brands companies accounted for six WPP Atticus Award winners in 2010.
And we provided thought leadership on other fronts: with Mark Penns column in the WallStreetJournal and Landors Allen Adamsons column in Forbes.
com and forums like the highly prestigious TEDx with VML, and with GreenBrands, GlobalInsights, a collaborative perennial program that involves three of our companies and data from around the network.
Our Raymond Rubicam University, which provides our client leaders with cross-disciplinary, cross-geography experience with clients and prospects is proving so successful that we will conduct three more sessions in 2011 and Our Raymond Rubicam University [is] an extraordinarily important wayof both developing skills and Our goal at Young & Rubicam Brands is to be the leader promoting collaboration across of Innovation in Integration the group whose people are ourcompanies recognized as the most inventive in finding new ways to combine big ideas with truly creative execution across all customer touchpoints.
will graduate 90 more students of the program.
Its an It is, in fact, what many clients need to build their brands extraordinarily important way of both developing skills and businesses, whether the focus is on geographic diversity and promoting collaboration across our companies.
or on the need to unify multiple disciplines into the most We also made headlines this year with the acquisition effective program of communications.
of the renowned creative network, TAXI with offices in The Young & Rubicam philosophy has always been Canada, New York and Amsterdam, which adds another Best Alone.
It starts with the recognition exciting resource to create innovative integrated solutions, that our clients want the best-in-class for each discipline.
and offers TAXIs client roster the wide range of resources Young & Rubicam Brands meets that criterion with leading and talent across Young & Rubicam Brands.
In 2011, there was great Early in 2011, David Sable took over the reins at Y&R, progress on many fronts, as you will read in the agencys becoming the CEO, when Hamish McLennan decided to individual reports.
return to his native Australia for personal reasons.
David Our Global Client Partners, some 25 clients, account for not only began his career at Y&R in 1976, he has worked 40% of our total revenue.
Sixty percent of them use four or for three more Young & Rubicam Brands companies.
The focus on creating a structure that the past 10 years, he has served as the vice chairman and chief emphasizes both adaptability and accountability is clearly operating officer of Wunderman.
In addition to his two tours a key operational imperative.
of duty at Y&R, he has also worked at Cohn & Wolfe and Over the past few years, we have launched several Burson-Marsteller, where he served as counselor to the CEOs initiatives to make sure that we can support our mission with of some of the worlds most prestigious companies.
Davids the best talent, the most collaborative structure, the strongest experience as a digital pioneer and entrepreneur has made leadership, as well as the newest, sharpest thinking in our him a thought leader in the field.
His return to Y&R makes business.
In 2010, we continued to advance the cause.
an easy transition and he is a perfect choice for the future.
38 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Advertising agency networks Young & Rubicam drove the global win of three major brands from Boehringer Ingelheim.
Our investments in Eastern Europe and Russia, David Sable below including the opening of a new office in Azerbaijan in 2010, Global chief executive officer have given us double-digit growth in key markets there.
Indeed, our focus on fast-growing and emerging markets Y&R began seeding a creative transformation in 2008 with is helping our clients build their brands around the world.
the naming of Tony Granger as global chief creative officer.
Strong attention to Asia made 2010 transformative.
We made Since his arrival, Tony has created a true global creative significant hires around the region starting with Matthew community at Y&R, with new focus and new ways of Godfrey as president, Y&R Asia: Nils Andersson as CCO working together that let our clients benefit from the Y&R China: Charles Sampson as CEO of Y&R China: and immense talent we have all across our network.
Andrew Dowling, CEO of Y&R Jakarta.
In 2010, Y&Rs creative resurgence gained formidable With new regional creative leadership installed in 2009 traction.
Around the world, the industry began to recognize and new country creative leaders placed across much of the the great work coming out of all regions.
Y&R was named the region, we have gained traction creatively.
3 network at Cannes, and our New York agency was No.
1 world-first at Cannes, when Y&R Jakarta won Indonesias in the US and No.
The Art Directors Club, first and only Cannes Gold Lion, making Y&R the top the New York Festival, and the London International Awards creative agency in the country.
named Y&R Network of the Year, and the agency won more awards at D&AD and Epica than any other agency.
Of course, improved creative product reflects a broader, Our focus on fast-growing and deeper strengthening of the greater network.
We completed emerging markets is helping our the global team with the addition of Sandy Thompson as clients build their brands around global planning director.
In North America, under the leadership of Tom Sebok, we won the global Goldman Sachs theworld business: brought in Jane Barratt with both solid digital and large-agency experience to lead Y&R New York: revamped creative leadership in Chicago and, early this year, The vitality of the Asia network translated into some at our unified San Francisco Irvine operations.
A new CMO, iconic business wins, including Tiger Beer, where we bested Chris Hayes, joined at the end of the year, experienced across six other agencies: Republic of Singapore Navy, where we digital, social media and integrated assignments.
won against a 28-year incumbent: Gap China, where we Our EMEA region still faced difficult economic conditions, were entrusted with the important launch of their stores: but the trend is upwards.
In late 2010, we moved Jaime Prieto China Southern Airlines, Harbin Beer and Bacardi.
from Y&R Asia to run the region, and he is focused on driving Australia and New Zealand are also reawakening.
RKCR Y&R London is a tower of strength for us agency won four Cannes Lions in 2010, including Australias a creative powerhouse and, not surprisingly, a strong new only Design Lion and a Gold Lion in Media.
We are the only business performer.
Last year, the agency was named the No.
1 Australian agency in the GunnReport Global Top 50.
Y&R agency in the UK in the recently published 2010 GunnReport.
was the most awarded agency at both Melbournes and RKCR Y&R was also named Creative Agency of the Year at Brisbanes Art Directors Club.
And in early 2011, Melbourne the London International Awards, won 10 Lions at Cannes was named AdNews Australian and Victoria Agency of the last year and was the most awarded UK agency at the 2010 Year.
Here, too, new business was brisk.
Thirty new clients D&AD awards, to name just a few honors.
Y&R Frankfurt came on board, including Jenny Craig, Danone,  and V8 Supercars, to name a few, and the agency retained the prestigious Australian Defence Force in the required agency review.
Y&R also continued to take advantage of growth in Latin America, consolidating our position as the No.
Our agency in the massive Brazil market sustained its No.
1 ranking for the eighth consecutive year.
Creatively, Latin America once again delivered exceptional and effective work to clients.
Our agencies in Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Peru and Uruguay all won Agency of the Year honors.
1 creative agency in its market for the sixth year in a row.
Chile, Peru and Uruguay each earned Creative Director of the Year honors.
We brought in new creative leadership in Mexico and Colombia.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 39 How were doing Advertising agency networks And now, in the first quarter of 2011, Y&R Latin America VML soared to new heights in 2010 on virtually every has won the pan-regional assignment for FedEx.
It was a record-setting year in terms of new business Great work strengthened our relationships with key wins, growth of long-standing client partnerships, value and regional accounts and led to numerous new business wins: diversity of engagements, head count, new office openings, LAN, Direct TV Argentina, LG Argentina and Colombia, WPP partnership strength, creative recognition and ELO Credit Cards, IBGE and Ponto Frio Brazil, Hotels.
com reputation, and overall business growth.
and Sigma Foods Mexico, OESCHLE Peru.
VMLs long-time positioning of delivering creative In our industry and beyond, digital has redefined solutions at the intersection of marketing and technology everything we do.
Every one of our agencies must be digital drove our business momentum again in 2010.
Our output with a digital sensibility, environment, intelligence, culture.
has never been more balanced across industries, geography, With VML as our digital backbone, we are differentiating scale of engagement and business-to-business versus businessourselves both operationally and culturally in a way that no to-consumer work.
In early 2011, Matt Anthony VML CEO and one of its four initial principals passed the torch to VML president, Jon Cook.
In so doing, he renews his VML delivered digital and commitment to his role as Y&Rs chief global digital officer.
television content that attracted This rededication will ensure that our entire network has andengaged consumers on an VMLs unparalleled digital intelligence, creative and technology credentials, resources and tools integrated into unprecedented level each agency.
We have established this as a major priority for Y&R going forward.
In addition to our digital agenda, our plan for 2011 Weve initiated new client partnerships with many includes a recommitment to company-wide training, a formal respected brands, including Kellogg, Kashi, Emerson reintegration of channel planning into the agency, the Electric, Sallie Mae, T-Mobile, Abbott, Nature Made, establishment of regional operating boards with accountability House of Marley, San Diego Zoo, Texas Childrens Hospital to a new global executive committee, as well as a revamped and Quiznos.
For these and other client partners, VML and recharged global new business community.
We continue is providing the widest range of work imaginable.
our successful drive for creative excellence around our entire VMLs burgeoning partnership with Gatorade has network and are driving a global creative development model been transformational, pushing the boundaries of digital that allows us to use our best talent across borders.
Y&R is creativity and customer engagement.
VML activated in a great position to build on our heritage and strengths and Gatorades Mission Control, a social media monitoring we look forward to continually refining our model to deliver and campaign analytics hub.
We led digital strategy and great work to our clients today and in the future.
production for the launch of the G Series and G Series Pro product lines, utilizing the Super Bowl and marquee sporting events, leading the client to declare 2010 the most successful VML year in the brands digital history.
As a leader in branded content and broadcast production, Matt Anthony below right VML delivered digital and television content that attracted Global chairman and engaged consumers on an unprecedented level for client and partners such Dell, Hills Pet Nutrition, Southwest Airlines Jon Cook below left and Toms of Maine.
Chief executive officer and president VMLs expanded global presence led to one of the most exciting client engagements in recent years developing a comprehensive new online experience for the Premier League, one of the worlds most popular sports organizations.
With nearly 800 employees on four continents, VML launched operations in Italy, Switzerland, the Czech Republic, Australia and New Zealand.
New offices are planned for Asia and South America in the coming year.
Creative output for long-time client partners has never been stronger, including award-winning work and prominent campaigns for Colgate-Palmolive, Microsoft, SAP, Waste Management, Pioneer Hi-Bred, Carlson Hotels Worldwide, Xerox, Ford, Simon Property Group, DMC Copia eReader and Western Union.
40 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Advertising agency networks VML continues to be in the vanguard of industry thought Advertising Agency list.
1 in the leadership notably through a relationship with TED, the , based on the size organization that provides TEDTalks through its popular of digital resources.
As an official license holder for TEDx, 2010 revenues and profits were strong, surpassing nearly VML delivers free, thought-provoking programming yearevery pre-economic crisis financial milestone.
Asia and Latin round through live events and simulcast broadcasts.
America, in particular, were hotbeds of activity.
Partner VML continues to ride the momentum of our most companies like AGENDA, Blast Radius, Designkitchen and successful year in business.
The bar is set high, and thats right ZAAZ also excelled, validating our purposeful expansion where we want it.
Thanks to the dedication, hard work and and successful incorporation of their skills and resources.
creativity of each and every VMLer, the agency is poised to Asia is noteworthy because it is a microcosm of the make 2011 the most exhilarating year in the agencys history.
Its strong foundation is rooted in four key accounts Microsoft, Nokia, Ford and Colgate, which increasingly draw on the digital and analytics power of Wunderman the network from KBM Group and ZAAZ.
With the power of the network behind it, AGENDA won Disneyland, Gap Report by Daniel Morel below and Pepsi in local Asian markets.
Wunderman World Health, Chairman and chief executive officer a new global service group, captured early traction in Japan, South Korea and China, that led to significant new business from Baxter, Pfizer, Guthy Renker and Sanofi-aventis.
We also expanded by acquisition Comwerks Interactive and partnership with JWT in India.
A global view of talent gives us a nimbleness to serve clients global and local demands.
Furthermore, with 80% of our top leaders in place more than five years, we can better track, manage and move talent especially our most promising mid-level managers.
In 2010, 100 people advanced their careers and our business through international assignments.
In addition, our new Wunderman Zed Academy taps the worlds best design and digital marketing schools for the next generation of digital talent.
Analytics remains at our core, especially as our All Relationships Are Localmantra gains relevancy.
KBM Group, with a presence in 21 countries, significantly expanded.
Global clients like Microsoft and Nokia are leveraging its innovative Tagging Services Center, which creates and tracks tags across Never before has Wundermans mantra All Relationships bought, owned and earned media.
Acquisitions further Are Local been more relevant than in todays world of broadened its service offering: I-Behaviors predictive analytics digital connection.
Our strong performance over the past and SKU-level purchase transaction data optimize performance 12 months is evidence of that.
across all channels: and Marketing Direct Inc. deepens existing As testament to our power as a global network, healthcare expertise.
The results were recognized KBM AdvertisingAge ranked Wunderman the worlds largest Group was ranked a leader in TheForresterWave : U. S. marketing services agency.
Our presence grew to 142 offices , Q12011 with the in 59 countries, enabling us to execute everywhere and highest scores in both corporate and global strategy.
lending further credibility to this mantra.
We wish David Sable, our former COO, every success in AdvertisingAge also ranked Wunderman No.
2 on its his new role at Y&R, and look forward to working together 2010 A-List of Stand-Out agencies, citing new business with our sibling Y&R agency on opportunities to create new from AARP, CVS Caremark, Tommy Hilfiger, Best Buy, value for clients.
Lilly, Cisco and Kodak, ever-growing relationships with Our founder and industry legend, Lester Wunderman, is existing accounts Microsoft, Nokia, Burger King, Sears still active in the company and comes to the office every day.
and Citibank and digital prowess as reasons for our strong showing.
Senior creative talent was also recognized in Australia by CampaignAsia Best Digital Creative, in the UK by Campaign Top 10 Creative Director list and in Austria by Horizont, which ranked Wunderman in its top 10 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 41 How were doing Advertising agency networks have expanded our social media monitoring and advising capabilities.
More and more clients are realizing that social media is not just about fun, games and consumer products but can be critical in the big issue battles that shape our day.
We also extended our reach into the C-suite by expanding our Global Strategy Team, which brings together B-Ms most senior communications strategists to offer an unparalleled breadth of experience and insight to our clients most demanding needs.
Consisting of leaders like chief strategy officer Don Baer and global vice chair Karen Hughes, both with extensive bi-partisan White House experience, the team has helped win and service new Fortune 100 clients around the world.
We also witnessed a strong resurgence in demand for our grassroots capabilities led by our Direct Impact unit, which posted one of its best performances in several years.
During Burson-Marsteller 2010, we expanded our relationship with long-time client The Coca-Cola Company and grew our US-based work for Report by Mark Penn above Ford Motor Company to other markets globally.
Worldwide chief executive officer As the global market for PR communications grows, we continue to expand our footprint so that every clients global For Burson-Marsteller, 2010 was a year of growth and PR needs are met.
We completed the acquisition begun five achievement.
Coming off only modest setbacks of the 2009 years ago of Burson-Genesis India and they are becoming an financial crisis, the gains of 2010 catapulted us past the integral part of the Burson family.
Over the last four years, We continue to build and expand our client relationships through organic growth and improved resource through achieving top-quality results for our clients.
In management, we have more than doubled our bottom line.
Latin America, we doubled our Sony Electronics business.
We believe our continued growth is the result of our In EMEA, we expanded Lufthansa to 28 markets.
In the UK, DIGS strategy, which is focused on continually driving the we made history for the Royal British Legions Remembrance firm in four key areas: Digital, Integrated, Global and Sunday by getting the first non-musical video into the music Strategic.
These initiatives, which all start with the idea that video charts.
communications programs should be evidence-based, helped Our sector-based practices also showed strong upswing, us deliver what PR industry watcher TheHolmesReport from our bedrock crisis work to our Healthcare Practice called our best year for at least a decade.
Others in the that grew 25% in 2010.
This year we introduced several industry took note as well, including PRWeek in the UK, new specialty practices to address emerging trends we who named B-M the International Consultancy of the Year.
are focusing on Energy, Change Communications, Food & During 2010, we aggressively pursued new top talent.
Nutrition and Global Government work.
Notable additions include Bob Pickard, APAC CEO formerly Our goal for 2011 is to build upon the momentum we Edelman : Helene Ellison, global Healthcare Practice chair have established to deliver another year of B-M success.
formerly HealthStar : Jay Leveton, global EVP transferred from Penn Schoen Berland : Jim Goldman, US Technology Practice chair formerly CNBC Silicon Valley bureau chief : Margaret Key, Korea market leader formally Edelman : Chris Deri, China market leader formerly Edelman : Erica Swerdlow, Midwest market leader formerly Porter Novelli : Steve Bowen, APAC Consumer and Marketing lead formerly Edelman : Christine Jones, APAC Healthcare lead formerly Roche : Peter Johnston, Global CIO formerly Ogilvy : and Matt Carter, UK CEO formerly Tony Blairs General Secretary of the British Labour Party.
Our digital approach this year was strengthened by the integration of digital experts from Proof, our digital media group, into every step of the B-M process, ensuring cuttingedge online ideas are a part of every pitch and campaign.
The firm has over 120 digital experts worldwide and we 42 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Advertising agency networks Landor Associates global wins in primary care, specialty care, orphan drugs and oncology in both established as well as emerging markets.
Report by Charlie Wrench page 42, bottom right The Sudler global network is divided into three key Chief executive officer regions: The Americas, headed up by co-CEOs Louisa Holland and Rob Rogers, and the EMEA Europe, Middle Landor pushed past the worst of the recession in 2010, East and Africa and Asia Pacific regions, both headed up by strengthening its global performance across the breadth CEO Max Jackson.
Ellen Goldman is the global CFO COO.
of our corporate and consumer branding practices.
The Sudler global network continued to solidify its As ever, our global key client relationships form the core offices throughout the Americas, EMEA and Asia bedrock of our business.
In this regard, I can report that Pacific regions with new leadership in Canada, India, Landor enjoyed an excellent year with Procter & Gamble, Mexico and Australia and new medical education and our largest client, not only cementing our role as its digital offerings in the UK, Italy, Mexico, China and India.
appointed design partner across many of their most iconic In addition, we expanded our delivery in many of the brands, but also being invited to partner with P&G in its growth markets of the pharmerging world, including our high-profile sponsorship of the London 2012 Olympics.
In increased promotional educational activities in Russia, addition, our agency performance ratings were strengthened Brazil, South Africa, Korea and the MENA Middle East in every one of our audited geographies, making it a recordNorth Africa region.
breaking year in the long history of this relationship.
Three initiatives during 2010 highlighted the everOur partnership with Diageo has strengthened as well, as we worked with the client on a diverse range of new innovation and design projects.
And Kraft, with whom weve long enjoyed a solid relationship in Europe, has now become an important client across North America, China and Australia too.
We were also pleased to welcome many new clients to Landor in 2010.
General Electric, General Mills, Henkel, Marks & Spencer and SEAT have provided new challenges and sparked fresh thinking in our teams.
As the breadth of our client base grew this year, so too did our offerings in the areas of digital branding, innovation and brand purpose.
Across the Landor network, we are flexing and growing to respond to the needs of 21st century brands.
Our peer-leading performances in WPPs Atticus Awards and WPPed Cream Awards were, once again, points of pride for our network, attesting to our leadership within our category.
We were also honored to win prestigious internal awards from both P&G and Diageo, as well as earning recognition from some of our industrys leading independent juries, including D&AD, Pentawards and Graphis.
I feel Landor has weathered the storm of the last two years relatively well, and I am confident that we are well changing nature of our industry and the need for our agency positioned to see investment, growth, and renewed network to grow, adapt and evolve: momentum as the markets pick up.
The first was supporting the rapidly-evolving generics businesses where many of our clients are currently active.
Having developed a global network that includes many of Sudler & Hennessey these new emerging markets, Sudler was in the right place at the right time to assist our multinational clients as they Report by Jed Beitler right began to engage with additional audiences in a new Chairman and worldwide chief executive officer branded environment.
The second opportunity was to expand on our strength 2010 was another strong year for the Sudler global network.
in medical education writing in India and develop that office We finished the year on a very positive note, winning seven as an offshore hub for top quality medical writing to support out of our last eight pitches of the year, including four major many of our European and Asia Pacific offices.
global assignments from both USand European-based The final initiative, which continues in 2011, was to multinationals.
Our worldwide network proved itself with expand our internal digital capabilities under the banner WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 43 How were doing Advertising agency networks of Sudler Digital, as well as to extend our digital offerings Chevron, Nabisco, Pfizer Wyeth and Wrigley continue to to our clients.
That has been a two-fold process, involving be deep, solid, profitable and full of further potential.
By both new hires and new expanded internal capabilities as creating a culture of client centricity and bold performance, well as continuing our partnerships with other Y&R and Bravo is able to align itself to our clients priorities and WPP digital companies.
In Europe, we have hired new successfully deliver solutions that build their brands and digital strategists and analytics specialists.
In the US, their bottom line.
we have revamped Sudler Digital, bringing in new In 2010 Bravo also re-launched its commitment to strategic, creative and account talents as well as beginning superior insights and business discipline.
Key talent was the process of inculcating our digital teams within our added in the strategic planning area, and the agency made existing client groups.
In so doing, we are removing the a significant investment in the HispanicBrandAsset barriers between our online and offline deliveries for our Valuator, the most comprehensive brand study in the US clients and helping to provide a more seamless offering based on Hispanic consumers and attitudes about brands.
This investment has paid off handsomely with better counsel to clients and  creative campaigns.
The Bravo Group Cohn & Wolfe full report on page 63 Report by Eddie Gonzalez below Chairman and chief executive officer Report by Donna Imperato Chief executive officer 2010 was a fantastico year for Bravo, under the day-to-day leadership of Eric Hoyt, and continued to establish the 2010 was a transformative year for Cohn & Wolfe, marked agency as a premier player in the multicultural sector in by game-changing wins, a new global leadership team and the US.
C&W continued its focus on defining New business success was the leading storyline for the and strengthening the agency, and in turn laid a strong year.
In the highly-competitive new business arena Bravo foundation for long-term growth.
proved to be superlative: winning Hispanic agency-of-record status on Pfizer all pharmaceutical brands, CVS Pharmacies and Wendys restaurants.
Robinson Lerer & Montgomery Bravos promise to clients, to help them leverage and profit from the US Hispanic market, is being delivered.
Report by Linda Gosden Robinson The agencys ability to craft insightful strategic solutions, Chairman to create compelling ideas and to precisely deliver integrated programs is proving to be very effective.
Robinson Lerer & Montgomery, a New York-based strategic Equally compelling was Bravos continued success and communications firm, provides counsel and tactical services growth with key clients.
Our relationships with AT&T, to senior management and directors of companies in virtually every industry.
Its wide range of practice areas includes crisis management, regulatory and governance issues, litigation, M&A, bankruptcies, CEO transitions and long-term corporate positioning.
Through the outstanding client work by of all our colleagues at RLM, the firm again delivered excellent financial results in 2010.
Among its major successes last year, RLM executed a comprehensive corporate reputation campaign for a prominent global manufacturer.
The firm also continued to support several leading global financial institutions in their recovery from the financial crisis and worked with leading healthcare companies on a variety of internal and external communications campaigns.
Other high-visibility assignments included CEO transitions in the technology, pharmaceutical and financial services industries.
