How were doing WPP Digital Report by Mark Read below ad per day for every internet user.
And the Web Alliance Chief executive officer continued to strengthen, finishing the year ranked as the sixth largest advertising network by reach in the US.
We enjoyed positive growth across WPP Digital during 2010.
While the economic backdrop was challenging, we laid the Media Innovation Group foundation for the launch of Possible Worldwide in February 2011 and continued our investment in proprietary The Media Innovation Group MIG is WPPs digital technologies, both of which will provide a strong platform marketing technology hub, serving advertisers and agencies for further growth.
with the most complete multi-channel digital advertising solution currently in the market.
Based on a unified data management platform that is proprietary to WPP and its companies clients, the MIGs unique combination of technology and service better hones and analyses digital media campaigns across every digital consumer touchpoint to optimise the campaigns and generate long-term business value for clients.
In 2010, its second full year of operations, the MIG successfully grew to $750 million in billings globally across display, search, video, social and mobile.
The MIGs in-house technology development team, which counts a former top rocket scientist in the Russian space program among its many PhDs, continued to build its lead over competitors by innovating continuously along an aggressive product roadmap.
Examples include real-time auction-based media bidding technology and a state-of-the-art analytics product suite, designed to bridge the gap between the limited conventional online ad metrics based on clicks and impressions and the true ROI and brand lift measurement that marketers require.
Possible Worldwide The past year saw continued success for four of WPPs digital 24 7 Real Media agencies BLUE, Bridge Worldwide, Schematic and Quasar while they simultaneously prepared to merge in 2011.
David Moore right In 2010, for the second consecutive year, BLUE was Chairman named the top agency by Marketing magazine in Singapore, and was the only digital agency to make it to the top 10.
24 7 Real Media is at the centre of our strategy to invest in proprietary technologies where critical, and to partner with industry leaders when possible: the aim being to develop an integrated technology platform, which allows our clients to reach their customers more effectively.
During 2010, 24 7 Real Media continued to pursue this strategy with considerable success, both in its own business, where it operates in 12 countries through 18 offices and in partnership with other WPP companies.
24 7 Real Media significantly extended the reach of its proprietary technologies by expanding into key developing markets such as China and Brazil.
Its market-leading ad management platform, OpenAdStream, delivered 1.2 trillion ads across thousands of websites in 2010 equivalent to more than one WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 75 How were doing WPP Digital Under new leadership, the China business grew significantly of sustained growth from its domestic client base, and rapid and enjoyed a record year.
BLUE continued to build its client growth of its international production business.
At the roster, adding leading brands such as Nike, Johnnie Walker, Indian Digital Media Awards, it took home Best Corporate Barclays, Kimberly-Clark, LOreal, and Mastercard.
Site Gold for its work on Apollo Munich Health Insurance.
Investment in talent and training resulted in an expansion Quasars leading clients included Microsoft, Eureka Forbes, of skills and capabilities most notably mobile and tablet General Motors, Apollo Munich Health, and Skoda.
apps, user experience, analytics, social, and video.
In February 2011, BLUE, Quasar, Schematic and Bridge Bridge Worldwide, a leading US digital and relationship Worldwide announced that they had combined to form a marketing agency, continued its strong revenue growth.
new global agency network, Possible Worldwide.
With 18 Established client relationships at Procter & Gamble, Abbott offices in nine countries, including the US, China, India, Labs, and ConAgra Foods remained strong while new clients Singapore, the UK, Costa Rica, Kenya and UAE.
Possible Southern Comfort, Timberland, DirecTV, Hasbro and Worldwide has nearly 1,000 employees worldwide and is Hersheys were added.
The agencys creative department also expected to have more than $100 million of net revenue for made huge strides, winning over 40 digital creative awards.
The agency will continue to have digital at its core, Building off a Gold Cyber Lion in 2009, Bridges work on but will be focused on creating meaningful and measurable Procter & Gambles Pringles brand was recognized by the interactions with customers, from strategy through Webby Awards including the Peoples Choice Award, the execution.
The four agencies chose to come together not just CLIOs, the Sammys and the One Show.
The agencys book, because of complementary geographic reach, but because of a , ConnectwithYour shared philosophy: that the balance of marketing needs to go , formed the core beyond communications, which is focused on broadcasting of a seminar at the Cannes Lions International Advertising messages, and towards interactions, focused on delivering Festival that featured the CMOs of P&G, AT&T, Samsung value to customers.
In recognition of the agencys focus on its people Over the next few years, our strategy is to grow Possible and its culture, Bridge was named one of the Top 25 Best Worldwide even further, by winning new clients and Places to Work by the Great Place to Work Institute for extending relationships with existing clients around the a fifth consecutive year.
world, as well as by an aggressive acquisition plan.
Schematic had a successful 2010, with several prestigious new business wins, including Google, Mazda, Southern California Edison, The Bill and Melinda Gates Deliver Foundation, Ford, and the Hong Kong Jockey Club.
Schematic also continued to build on its strong existing In recognition of clients needs to produce quality digital client relationships with such brands as Dell, Comcast, work more cost-effectively, we took the decision to invest in Time Warner, and Orange.
high-quality, low-cost production with the establishment of Quasar strengthened its position as one of Indias leading Deliver in 2008.
In its second full year, Deliver continued to digital agencies.
2010 was a record year with a combination grow its production work with Nokia, its founding client, and expanded its work with AstraZeneca in both the US and internationally.
Deliver now serves a growing number of the Groups largest clients including Colgate, Ford, IBM and Nokia.
Deliver also launched DEPP2.0, its proprietary digital production system, with expanded capabilities in briefing templates and a new reporting engine.
DEPP now manages over 4,500 briefs each month with users in 60 countries.
Johannes Leonardo Based in New York, creative hotshop Johannes Leonardo continues to lead global brands by harnessing the power of creativity to play a liberating force in business challenges, wherever the solution may lie.
Its recent work for Google, Trevor Kaufman above left Jay Woffington above right DemoSlam, a platform developed to transform the standard Chief executive officer Global president tech demo into a crowd-sourced expression of creativity and Possible Worldwide Possible Worldwide imagination shows how it works, not as a strictly digital agency, but a creative community inspired by an increasingly 76 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing WPP Digital digital universe.
In 2010, it continued to build a venerable which will allow clients from across the Group to benefit roster with global assignments on brands such as Google, from increased efficiency and effectiveness in their digital Coca-Cola, Chanel and AB Inbev.
It was recognised by marketing activities.
AdvertisingAge and Creativity as an Agency to Watch for 2011.
Future outlook iconmobile The opportunities offered by digital marketing will accelerate over the next few years.
At the same time, the marketing iconmobile had continued success in 2010 with growth in landscape will fragment further and new channels will client demand in the US and Europe, particularly for mobile further complicate the task faced by our clients to reach their solutions in the automotive, finance, pharmaceutical and consumers.
Our task is to make this simpler for our clients.
packaged goods sectors, where clients are looking for more Our key priorities over the coming year are strengthening strategic implementations of mobile within their business.
our mobile capabilities for clients, increasingly helping our Microsoft continued as a major client, using iconmobile clients understand the opportunities and perils of social technology in 33 markets.
Carrier relationships with media, investing in greater ecommerce capabilities as well as Telefonica and France Telecom, now in the seventh year, have focusing even more on data, technology and analytics each evolved as they navigate new areas such as financial services.
of which will become increasingly important.
Our people are Handset manufacturers such as Samsung are working on passionate about digital marketing and the innovation and creating the devices of the future using iconmobiles strong pace of change in this industry.
It is this passion, as well as focus on design and technology.
An area where iconmobile their hard work, that has allowed our success to date and sees tremendous innovation is in the automotive sector, will position us well in the future.
where the in-car team is working on new navigation systems, dashboards, entertainment systems and ways to use the mobile device to bring new services into the automobile.
Shared clients with other WPP companies include ColgatePalmolive, Land Rover, Microsoft and X-Box, will develop further.
Syzygy In 2010, the Syzygy Group paved the way for further growth: with prestigious pitch wins including LOreal and the European AVIS social program, the formation of Mobile and Strategic Planning groups across all offices, the opening of Hi-ReS!
New York and the integration of the Polish digital studio Ars Thanea.
Syzygy is looking forward to a promising and exciting 2011.
Acquisitions and investments We strengthened our agency group through the acquisition of Blue State Digital in December 2010.
Blue State Digital is an online activation agency, most famous for its work on President Obamas election campaign.
We also continued our strategy of making investments in promising new technology companies that can bring unique capabilities to our agencies and clients through investments in eCommera, an ecommerce technology platform, Ace Metrix, a provider of real-time television advertising analytics, and Buddy Media, the leading Facebook page management platform.
Finally, we backed True Worldwide, a London-based hybrid agency, and Fabric Worldwide which is building a technology platform WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 77
