How we behave The Board of Directors The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the The fees payable to non-executive directors represent success of the Company by directing and supervising compensation in connection with Board and Board the Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to committee meetings and where appropriate for devoting share owners for the Groups financial and operational additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Group performance.
Responsibility for the development and in a wider capacity.
implementation of Group policy and strategy and for Details of directors remuneration and service contracts day-to-day management issues is delegated by the Board form part of the report of the Compensation Committee to the Group chief executive and the other executive directors.
For the year under review, Philip Lader continued as chairman of the Board, responsible for the leadership of the Board.
Sir Martin Sorrell, as the Group chief executive, Election of directors continued to be responsible for the development and implementation of policy and strategy and for the day-to-day In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all operations of the Group.
The biographies of the current of the directors will submit themselves for annual re-election Board members appear on pages 106 to 108. at each Annual General Meeting.
Directors may be appointed All directors are fully briefed on important developments by share owners by ordinary resolution or by the Board on in the various business activities which the Group carries the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and out worldwide and regularly receive extensive information must then stand for re-election at the next Annual General concerning the Groups operations, finances, risk factors and Meeting where they may be re-elected by ordinary resolution its people, enabling them to fulfil their duties and obligations of the share owners.
The directors are also frequently advised on The Board recommends that share owners vote in regulatory and best practice requirements which affect the favour of the resolutions to elect or re-elect all of the Groups businesses on a global basis.
directors of the Company and sets out their reasons for During 2010, the Board met six times formally and this recommendation in the Appendix to the Notice of the held 24 committee meetings throughout the year.
With the Annual General Meeting.
exception of Lubna Olayan, Tim Shriver, Esther Dyson and Orit Gadiesh each absent for one meeting, and Koichiro Naganuma who was only able to attend two meetings, Conflicts of interest there was full attendance at all formal meetings of the Board during 2010.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board The Board was composed of 16 directors in 2010 to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where following the appointment of Ruigang Li and Sol Trujillo on a director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly 12 October 2010.
Three members are executive directors and conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational 12, plus the chairman, are non-executive directors.
The Board has a formal system in place for considers that 10 of the 12 non-executive directors, in directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered addition to the chairman, are independent.
John Quelch for authorisation by those directors who have no interest in and Koichiro Naganuma are the only non-executive directors the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise the Board considers are not independent.
a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted directors must act The shareholdings of non-executive directors are set out honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests on page 147.
Non-executive directors do not participate in of the Company and they may impose limits or conditions the Companys pension, share option or other incentive plans, when giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think but may receive a part of their fees in ordinary shares of the this is appropriate.
Company and may participate in the Companys deferred Any Situational Conflicts considered, and any compensation program.
authorisations given, are recorded in the relevant minutes.
The Board considers that the non-executive directors The prescribed procedures have been followed in deciding remuneration conforms with the requirements of the whether, and on what terms, to authorise Situational Combined Code and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Conflicts and the Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts continue to operate effectively.
