Who runs WPP Non-executive chairman Board of Directors Philip Lader Chairman of the Nomination Committee Philip Lader Non-executive chairman Age 65 Member of the Compensation Committee Philip Lader was appointed chairman in 2001.
The US Executive directors Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess from 1997 to 2001, he previously served in several senior executive roles in the Sir Martin Sorrell US Government, including as a Member of the Presidents Chief executive Cabinet and as White House Deputy Chief of Staff.
Before Paul Richardson entering government service, he was executive vice president Finance director of the company managing the late Sir James Goldsmiths US Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee holdings and president of both a prominent American real Mark Read estate company and universities in the US and Australia.
Strategy director A lawyer, he is also a Senior Advisor to Morgan Stanley, Chief executive, WPP Digital a director of Marathon Oil, AES and Rusal Corporations, a trustee of the Smithsonian Museum of American History Non-executive directors and the Atlantic Council and a member of the Council on Colin Day Foreign Relations.
Member of the Audit Committee and Compensation Committee Esther Dyson Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 66 Member of the Compensation Committee and Nomination Committee Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, Orit Gadiesh becoming Group chief executive in the same year.
He is a Member of the Nomination Committee non-executive director of Formula One msorrell@wpp.
com Ruigang Li Paul Richardson Finance director Age 53 Stanley Bud Morten Senior independent director until April 2010 Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP in Koichiro Naganuma 1996 after four years with the Company as director of treasury.
Lubna Olayan He is responsible for the Groups worldwide functions in Member of the Nomination Committee finance, information technology, procurement, property, John Quelch treasury, taxation, internal audit and corporate responsibility.
Jeffrey Rosen He is a chartered accountant and fellow of the Association Chairman of the Compensation Committee of Corporate Treasurers.
He is a non-executive director of Member of the Audit Committee CEVA Group plc, Chime Communications PLC and STW Senior independent director from April 2010 Communications Group Limited in Australia, the last two being Timothy Shriver companies associated with the Group prichardson@wpp.
com Member of the Compensation Committee Paul Spencer Mark Read Strategy director and CEO, WPP Digital Age 44 Chairman of the Audit Committee Sol Trujillo Mark Read was appointed a director in March 2005.
He has Member of the Audit Committee been WPPs director of strategy since 2002 and is also chief executive of WPP Digital.
He is a member of the Supervisory Board of HighCo and a director of CHI & Partners.
He Members of the Advisory Board worked at WPP between 1989 and 1995 in both parent Jeremy Bullmore company and operating company roles.
Prior to rejoining John Jackson WPP in 2002, he was a principal at the consultancy firm of Booz-Allen & Hamilton and founded and developed Richard Rivers the company WebRewards in the UK mread@wpp.
com Company Secretary Marie Capes 106 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010
