How were doing Advertising agency networks Ogilvy Group which positions the company right at the heart of logistics, seamlessly meshing lead generation with image building.
Ogilvy & Mather The SmarterPlanet program for IBM is a massive publishing venture, much more than an advertising one, Report by Miles Young below where traditional definitions of who does what have simply Chief executive officer disappeared, and where public affairs and advertising speak the same language.
Branded entertainment assumes a new centricity in this model: our strategic partnership with content market leader MIPTV puts us at the center of the debate: and through the year Ogilvy Entertainment has exponentially increased its production of content and programming.
Content and thought leadership are inextricably linked.
OgilvyEarth was recognized as the top sustainability agency, by Verdantix, an independent consultant firm, after just one year of operation.
We launched Ogilvy Noor, the first Islamic branding consultancy, which attracted huge interest as it sought to highlight the impact of the worlds 1.8 billion Muslim consumers.
What we are seeing is the arrival of a new agency model, where we move from being the generator of messages This is one of the most exciting periods in marketing and to the producer of content communications I can remember.
We can now discern the real impact of digitalization on our world, re-shaping what we do and even why we do it.
We can see it not as a mere 2010 was a year of creative success.
We won 57 Lions at channel but as a central platform, not just a messaging tactic Cannes, a big increase from last year.
Our performance at the but the means for creating ecosystems of rich content.
other major international shows was also consistently doubleOur own digital strategy is the very opposite of the digit: 31 London International Advertising awards: 17 Clios: so-called pure plays.
We believe that everything has to 17 DMA Echos: and 14 One Show Pencils.
Particularly to be be seen as digital: it cannot be separated into a silo.
Digital noted has been the exceptional performance of the Latina influence, digital POS, paid-for digital, social selling, digital region, which dominated the El Ojo fide Iberoamrica Awards CRM, e-commerce are all embedded in the fabric of our 360 and was named Best Creative Network of the Year.
Around the world we now have over 4,000 The work is what wins assignments: and we had an staff who might be called digital natives, whose work is exceptionally strong year in new business.
Global clients highly specialist, but who are completely integrated into the gained included Bayer, Coke Zero, the global business strategic process.
of Kimberly-Clark for Huggies, Kotex and Depends, We were joined at the end of last year by our new chief InterContinental Hotels Group, Unilevers corporate digital officer, Brandon Berger.
One of Brandons roles is business, Brand Mexico and Expedia.
This robust partnerships with Google, Twitter, Groupon, Facebook performance was mirrored by local offices, and meant that and Apple.
With them, we are exploring both the we ended the year financially well above our budget targets.
opportunity for innovation but also better ways of adding As a result of these successes, many of our offices were strategic and practical value beyond so much that is merely recognized as Agency of the Year in their markets, including: theoretical or tactical to our clients businesses.
Integration Argentina, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dubai, Germany, is the key here: and our unique structure with disciplines Guatemala, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Mexico, Poland, genuinely under one roof and operating as one gives us Singapore, South Africa, Tunisia, Ukraine, the UK and the a compelling offer.
Three offices deserve special recognition for defending In essence, what we are seeing is the arrival of a new their best-in-region titles: Ogilvy Africa retained its crown as agency model, where we move from being the generator of AdFocus African Advertising Agency Network of the Year: messages to the producer of content.
Our new work for UPS, Ogilvy Paris was once again named European Agency of for instance, is premised on digitally-enabled content the Year at Eurobest 2010: and Ogilvy Mumbai was named 32 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Advertising agency networks Creative Agency of the Year for a second year running at and character of our employees.
It is a hugely uplifting and the Media Asia Awards.
privileged experience working with them, and it makes one One of our networks which is not called out separately understand how we are such a powerful brand.
My thanks in this report but which plays a significant role in this go to them.
RedWorks is our global production business, committed to helping Ogilvys clients find efficiencies in the delivery of their communications.
OgilvyOne Worldwide With 49 offices worldwide, it ensures global consistency, cost-effectiveness, and that every deliverable will be Report by Brian Fetherstonhaugh below crafted to the highest standards of Ogilvy.
Chairman and chief executive officer In 2010, we fully integrated Ogilvy Government Relations in Washington, formerly the Federalist Group, By any standard, 2010 was a terrific comeback year for into the Ogilvy network, giving us and our clients OgilvyOne Worldwide.
unmatched access to Capitol Hill.
Financially, we recovered from a very difficult 2009 and Our biggest structural initiative this year has been in accelerated past pre-recession levels.
Ogilvy & Mathers healthcare group merged market was the US, led by our flagship New York office.
with US-based CommonHealth, effectively doubling the Encouragingly, every region contributed to year-on-year size and reach of each organization.
The new entity, improvements in revenue and profit.
Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide, is now a true world Strategically, we sharpened our focus on driving leader in healthcare communications, led by chairman and customer value and on selling.
We had a CEO Matt Giegerich, who has just been named Industry banner year in new business wins, adding multi-million new Person of the Year by MedAdNews.
His detailed report assignments in hotels, logistics, insurance, telco and fastappears on page 69. moving consumer goods.
We continue to advance our effectiveness culture.
During 2010 we launched a Global Analytics hub in Bangalore, Beyond the BRICs, the Ogilvy offering world-class analytics services and extremely attractive economics to clients.
This fall we unveiled a brandcontinues to flourish in the comprehensive research initiative The Future of Selling and newmarkets of the world launched the 21st Century Selling Partnership to help clients get more from their marketing and sales resources.
Our global digital media arm, Neo@Ogilvy, continues In 2010, three new discipline leaders took their posts: to thrive growing to record levels in 2010.
Neos hottest Chris Graves for public relations, Steve Harding for offer is its performance marketing unit which helps clients activation, and Paul Heath for advertising.
Even as we bring acquire new customers faster and more efficiently by using our units closer together, we are not melting or diluting our real-time optimization.
We have found that the best practice is Our reputation among digital direct agencies remains to keep each discipline strong, to focus on being best-in-class excellent.
In its 2010 survey of over 7,000 digital agencies, in each discipline: while at the same time recognizing that the RECMAranks OgilvyOne No.
2 in the world in size of power of Ogilvy is when we tap their strength as part of digital resources.
In addition to Agency of the Year a fully integrated 360 offering.
Geographically, we continue to be a highly diverse operation.
Some 34% of our staff comes from the BRIC countries Brazil, Russia, India and China.
Our leadership position in the BRICs is a huge asset for us, and one which we intend to leverage and publicize more aggressively in 2011.
Beyond the BRICs, the Ogilvy brand continues to flourish in the new markets of the world.
In particular, in 2010 we entered into a joint venture with Scangroup to significantly push our business in sub-Saharan Africa and more recently amplified this investment in the region by becoming majority owner of our Ogilvy South Africa operations.
Finally, I want to reflect on our people, our most important asset.
As I travelled the world last year, in all four regions, I could not help but feel blessed by the quality WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 33 How were doing Advertising agency networks accolades in Hong Kong, Taiwan, Portugal and Germany, Explorer via Facebook something which had only ever been we were named Direct Agency of the Year in the UK by done at auto shows in the past.
Campaign magazine and Digital Agency of the Year in Asia Knowing that expertise in social media is now mandatory by CampaignAsia magazine.
for business, we established an Ogilvy Belt training To keep us and our clients ahead of the pack in digital program to give employees the skills to use digital resources innovation, we have five Ogilvy Digital Labs, located in to their full potential.
More than 500 employees in more Singapore, New York, London, Beijing and So Paulo.
The than 20 cities have participated in the tiered program.
labs put together new marketing technology solutions for our Hiring, retaining and training top talent remains a clients in areas such as mobile, gaming, social media, CRM priority.
In 2010 our aggressive moving of talent around and digital point-of-sale.
the world to spread best practices brought fresh ideas Creative awards are still an important driver of everywhere.
Top executives moved from San Francisco to OgilvyOnes new business success and momentum.
We take Hong Kong, Sydney to New York and Washington DC to them seriously.
This year, OgilvyOne won a total of 524 Brussels.
New outside hires include industry stalwart Stuart local and global awards for direct and digital marketing, up Smith as head of the global corporate practice and Brendan from 427 last year.
Key wins include 17 Direct Marketing Daly, former communications director of US Speaker of the Association Echo Awards and eight in the Cannes Direct, House, Nancy Pelosi, as executive vice president of Public Cyber and Promotion categories.
For 2010, the DirectoryBig Affairs in Washington.
In 2010 we deployed our talent in WonReport named OgilvyOne Frankfurt the No.
1 most many diverse projects and campaigns.
For example: awarded direct marketing office in the world.
Our Washington office was selected by The Agency for Looking ahead, OgilvyOne will aggressively pursue Healthcare Research and Quality, part of the US Department digital opportunities in Social Selling, Mobile, eCommerce, of Health and Human Services, to build a marketing Performance Marketing and Digital Innovation.
With our campaign around its comparative effectiveness research.
commitment to selling at the core of everything we do, we Our differentiated strength lies in deep expertise in social are poised to build on the momentum and reach even greater marketing: we leveraged linguistic framing and behavioral heights in 2011. economics to move populations toward healthier choices, such as with First Lady Michelle Obamas Lets Move initiative.
As part of our overall relationship with BP, Ogilvy PR Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide was called upon to create and run a social media strategy to support the companys response during the Gulf of Mexico Report by Christopher Graves below oil spill.
Global chief executive officer The Government of Mexico asked Ogilvy PR to help promote its reputation worldwide as a global business In 2010 we focused on building further our expertise in partner and an unrivaled tourist destination.
social media, in growing our talent base and helping our clients through challenging times.
Ogilvy PRs social media offering continued to grow, Our aggressive moving of talent doubling its business in 2010.
Working with a WPP multiaround theworld to spread best agency team, the 360 Degree Digital Influence group helped practices brought fresh ideas create such world firsts as the reveal of the all new Ford everywhere Integrated efforts with other Ogilvy & Mather disciplines resulted in wins for Unilever, UPS, CDW, TD Ameritrade and the American Bar Association.
PRWeek US editor-inchief Steve Barrett observed that our intention is to integrate advertising and PR services more closely than other networked agencies.
The results achieved in 2010, when we celebrated our 30th anniversary, give us confidence that our global, integrated approach to communications will prove invaluable as the world economic picture brightens in 2011.
34 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Advertising agency networks Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide full report on page 69 Report by Matt Giegerich Chairman and chief executive officer When CommonHealth, MedAdNews Agency of the Year 2010 and already one of the most formidable healthcare communications groups in the industry, merged its offerings with Ogilvy & Mathers healthcare group, the bold coupling became one of the most talked about agency mergers in years.
Though the groups had collaborated extensively over the past 15 years, the formal marriage of the two likeminded, similarly-cultured agencies effectively doubled the size and reach of each organization in the healthcare arena.
An entirely new entity, Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide ogilvychww.
com, was formed, creating what is arguably the largest, most highly resourced and creative agency in the world of healthcare communications.
OgilvyAction some impressive new business wins including Coca-Cola, Kimberly-Clark, Kraft, Kodak, BP, Barclays and Report by Steve Harding top right Intercontinental Hotels Group, as well as local wins with Global chief executive officer clients such as Diageo, Grazia and Heineken.
In 2011 we continue to have aggressive new business targets to further Following a challenging 2009, OgilvyAction entered 2010 cement our relationships with major global and local clients.
optimistic that the work done in transitioning and refocusing The global recession has resulted in many clients our business would provide a platform for a strong year reassessing their business models and giving greater strategic ahead.
This optimism proved well founded our new Global importance to activation disciplines.
In line with this growth, Leadership Team drove an aggressive agenda in exceeding we have extended our global footprint from 64 to 81 offices, our financial targets with stellar revenue and profit growth and our recent joint venture with the Malone Group in the across the network and exceptional turnarounds in North US has made OgilvyAction a top five activation agency in America and Asia Pacific as well as a solid performance in North America, further bolstering our Shopper and Trade Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
This financial performance was underpinned by a number So, 2010, whilst successful for us, represents only of strategic imperatives, delivered by a seamless collective the start of our ambition.
In 2011 we will focus on four effort from all parts of our network: We have: core elements: Aligned OgilvyAction as a more integrated and integral 1.
Growing our strategic and analytical capabilities.
Launched our new global proposition of Creating 3.
Delivering excellence in our core Shopper, Trade, Purchase Behaviour built around our promise that by Experiential and Promotional marketing disciplines.
understanding the behaviour of consumers, shoppers and 4.
retailers, were able to create the conditions that drive Central to all four is digital, which will increasingly brand purchase.
become a key part of OgilvyActions offering in every region.
Supported this launch with our new visual identity, Specifically, Digital Activation Instore, Social Shopping and website and global credentials.
Mobile will be areas that we accelerate: our ambition being Focused on strengthening our Shopper, Trade and to define the global agenda.
Experiential capabilities, and enhancing our analytics We believe that this focus, supported by the growth offering across all disciplines.
of activation as a fundamental and strategic part of the Underpinned this with a drive towards delivering Pervasive marketing mix, places OgilvyAction in a wonderful position Creativity for our clients, through remaining focused on the to ensure we are at the forefront of the global activation Twin Peaks strategy of Creativity and Effectiveness.
These achievements have paid swift dividends in terms of our penetration within Ogilvys global client roster, with WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 35
