What we think On the Incalculable Benefit of Not Going Backwards By Jeremy Bullmore ets invent a market: an In 1975 at a market research immediate action becomes more and established, low-tech, low-cost, conference, Stephen King delivered a more remote: from Seek information, repeat-purchase market.
Lets paper called Practical Progress from through Modify Attitudes until we call it the greeby market.
a Theory of Advertisements and in it reach the least immediate of them all Greebies are used in over 80% he challenged the common assumption which King calls Reinforce Attitudes.
of households and are bought, on that all advertising worked in a similar And its this last role for advertising average, every three weeks.
For example: one typical and that has always generated more than are five competing national greeby much-followed model was called its fair share of academic squabbling, brands, with market shares ranging AIDA and it held that all advertising, social unease, creative posturing and from 36% to 9%.
Most big retailers irrespective of purpose, must begin by financial directors bewilderment.
By attracting Attention before arousing It also possesses a couple of volume, the total greeby market has Interest which in turn creates the characteristics that make it unlike any been almost static for the last 10 years.
Desire that finally leads to Action.
other and to which we shall return.
Every year, the five companies It was Stephen Kings strong belief Most commonly employed by brand making greebies draw up their that no one model made universal leaders in repeat purchase categories, marketing plans and hold sales sense and that different advertising the purpose of advertising campaigns conferences.
Every one of those campaigns worked in markedly designed to Reinforce Attitudes is companies allocates significant different ways.
primarily one of brand protection.
marketing funds and sets its annual So he concentrated his attention not To quote King: This is one of the marketing objectives.
And every one of on advertising generally which is no most common and fundamental roles those objectives is set in terms of some more than an available channel of for advertising: yet because it is mainly measurable market gain: more sales, communication but on the many defensive and is dealing with the more share or more both.
In 2012, different roles that advertisements can stability and intensity of attitude, most of their conferences will be called play.
And he invented a simple way of it is always going to be very hard to Going for Gold!
distinguishing between them that he measure.
It is indeed infuriatingly Yet, if the last 10 years are anything called a Scale of Immediacy.
hard to measure: it makes the to go by, some of those companies are At the very top of this scale, the indisputable certainty of an online sale going to be disappointed.
Certainly, clear purpose of any advertisement is confirmed or a cheque received seem they cant all come first: they cant all to achieve immediate action.
As Henry do better than each other.
Theres not been called direct response.
It sets Higgins or indeed Lord Leverhulme enough room on that centre podium out to get people to pick up a phone, might have said: Why cant all for all five contestants.
to write out a cheque, to click on advertising be like that?
When concerned observers confirm: its about as immediate as it Advertising designed mainly to both inside and outside marketing gets.
No intervening stage or process confirm existing users in the wisdom companies think about the is required: ad leads directly to action.
of their existing choice suffers from purpose and value of marketing Transparently easy to understand and another huge disadvantage.
As an expenditures, it is this apparent futility marvellously easy to evaluate, this most objective, it doesnt sound very manly.
All that effort, immediate function of advertising Let us say you are the marketing all that time, all that money: but to is seldom contentious.
director of the brand of greebies that what end?
But as the Scale of Immediacy already enjoys a 36% share.
Your first progresses, the expectation of responsibility to your board will be to 104 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 What we think On the Incalculable Benefit of Not Going Backwards continue to reinvigorate that brands towards the rational: competitive Today, and particularly for this salience its fame, its relevance, its verbal claims often play a major part.
specific marketing need, marketing wantability and thus protect its When setting out to reinforce companies and their agencies are margins.
In other words, you will existing attitudes, however when faced with a range of choices both want your advertising to be at least as the aim is to raise a brands profile, exhilarating and deeply daunting.
positive an influence on profit as on differentiate through style rather than The traditional, paid-for sales volume.
You will also, with such function and inspire irrational affection advertising campaign is probably still a healthy brand share, be keen to repel in the hearts of millions then the standard-bearer: but it needs an raiders: to fight off challenger brands emotional factors should always be inspired creative approach.
Moreover, and deter any ambitious newcomer predominant.
Seventy years ago James its commercial logic may not be from invading your territory.
Webb Young called this function immediately apparent and almost These are all extremely respectable adding a value not in the product.
by definition it will be formidably indeed, commercially essential When putting a definitive rational difficult to pretest and prejustify.
If your R&D department argument for a brand, the conventional, But sponsorship the right continues to ensure that your particular paid-for advertisement faces little sponsorship can do this job as well: greebys functional performance competition from other forms of and so can branded content: and so can continues to be competitive, then the marketing communication.
But when product placement: and so can stunts right advertising backed by the right the goal is the bestowing of an almost and events: and so can thoughtfully amount of money will certainly help you indefinable personality onto an designed PR: and so can a precisely achieve them.
The trouble is, such wholly inanimate object, then todays marketing tailored presence on social media.
As admirable objectives may not go down a director has a vast and colourful box always, a brands choice of medium will storm at your national sales conference.
of toys from which to choose.
itself say something important about Marketings favourite word is aggressive.
Attitudes are affected more by that brands personality and its attitude All objectives have to be pursued simple association than by argument.
Setting out to reinforce Brand values are absorbed Reinforcing and reinvigorating existing attitudes with absolutely no unconsciously rather than noted attitudes, over a great many years, may mention of any incremental behaviour and remembered.
Its not so much provide a marketing companys most lacks a bit of bite.
profitable return on its communications By the end of this year, guys and Great packaging, almost certainly investment: but that return may never girls, thanks to your own quite under-rated as a contributor to brand be totally measurable.
And because of extraordinary efforts and after the equity, has always worked this way.
this harsh fact and because its not expenditure of a record-breaking overtly aggressive, because it deals marketing budget, I am utterly more with the emotions than with confident that we shall be able to report the reason, and because much of it that we havent gone backwards.
is designed to protect rather than All around you, your competitors conquer it is this category of brand are inspiring their workers into communication that provides the Going for Gold: and youre fiercest test of marketing talent.
In no attempting to whip your own team other aspect of marketing is personal into a frenzy of enthusiasm for going judgement both so critical and at the nowhere.
No wonder one of the most same time so exposed.
valuable roles for advertising goes relatively unhonoured.
Jeremy Bullmore is a member of the WPP Advisory Board But, however unhonoured, this role for advertising offers creative challenges, creative opportunities and creative rewards unlike any other: and they stem from its very nature.
Much Practical Progress from a Theory of Advertisements, advertising though not as much as Market Research Society Conference, 1975.
The resulting some have claimed very properly sets paper can be found in full, with an introduction by Simon Clemmow, in A Master Class in Brand Planning: out to convert: from non-user to user The Timeless Works of Stephen King, edited by Judie or from occasional user to regular Lannon and Merry Baskin, John Wiley, 2007. user.
And advertisements aiming for How to Become an Advertising Man, James Webb a conversion effect naturally tend Young, 1963.
