What we think The US and traditional media bite back WPP CEO Sir Martin Sorrell reports he recovery of 2010 did not turn out quite the way we expected.
Rather than L-U-V-shaped, the world economy was more L-V-Vor LuVVy-shaped.
The T expression LUV was originally coined to describe the way the worlds regional economies would pull out of recession, but it served equally as a reminder of where we were going.
It worked like this a flatter L or italic L for Western European growth, a speedier U for the US and a sharper, more rapid V for the BRICs nations and the Next 11 as identified by Goldman Sachs.
The letters do approximate the fragile recovery of 2009 very much a year of two halves but were also supposedly the shape of things to come.
By Stella Dawson of Thomson Reuters in July 2009.
78 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 What we think The US and traditional media bite back owever, 2010 was remarkable for the strength of the we have a substantial market-leading share and in Greater American recovery more a V than a U and China a market-leading share, making the latter WPPs H with it, the strength of traditional media.
fourth-largest market already after the US, the UK and First, there was a certain amount of dead-cat bounce, given Germany.
That can only grow as the global financial that advertising as a proportion of gross national product crisis fades.
GNP in the US probably fell to a low we had not seen since Other changes are remaking our world.
Seemingly, we have already forgotten the most important is the continuing expansion of those parts of depths we reached in the first half of 2009.
Second, our business that sit outside traditional advertising.
More of categories that had almost stopped advertising came back our work will be in marketing services, the so-called belowwith a vengeance, such as automobiles and trucks, financial the-line areas such as Consumer Insight, Public Relations & services, travel and retail.
Third, with so much surplus Public Affairs, Branding & Identity, Healthcare and traditional media inventory in 2009, prices or costs per Specialist Communications particularly direct, interactive thousand cpms had fallen significantly, making traditional and internet communications.
Public Relations & Public media look a bargain even against new media inventory.
Affairs, also, can expect a prosperous future as its traditional Lord Grade of Yarmouth was right when he said as he was skills building relationships and influencing opinionleaving ITV that TV prices in the UK were the lowest they formers are brought to bear on the new internet frontiers had been for 10 years.
Fourth, there may have been a feeling of blogging and social networking.
These shifts in the developing that new media were more about price and deal balance of our business are inevitable as audiences fragment, and old media more about brand and market share.
Finally, the costs of television airtime continue to fluctuate, gadgets post-Lehman, with over $2 trillion in cash on unleveraged like the iPad, smart phones or e-readers change media balance sheets, cautious chairmen, chief executives and consumption habits and most importantly as the boards were fearful of expanding capacity and investing in internets reach extends, promising more measurable, slow-growth Western markets, and preferred to maintain or predictable results.
increase share by investing in the brand.
So what will keep our clients awake at night in the 21st Over a quarter of a century, WPPs strength has been century?
Overcapacity in almost all areas of manufacturing our ability to identify trends and capitalise on them for our too many cars still chasing too few customers, for example clients and ourselves.
Its how we began with two people casts a cloud over prospects, forcing discounting and a in a room all those years ago.
It is how we have weathered profitless prosperity on key industries.
This was true before the recent crisis.
And it is how we will position WPP for the credit crunch: it is all the more so now.
sustained growth in the years ahead albeit with nearly Clients are equally troubled by the dominance of global 100,000 people directly with us, access to over 146,000 retailers and the consequent pressure on prices.
Some and rather more rooms than we started with.
companies rely on sales in Walmart or Tesco or Carrefour It is essential that we identify geographic, functional and stores for a large part of their turnover.
These sales may be technological changes and adapt our business to make the crucial to the company, but the numbers appear no more most of them.
For that reason, we expect the balance of our than a rounding error for retail giants like Walmart.
A deep work to move from the L shape of Western Europe and understanding of distribution and retail is crucial for survival.
other established, slower-growing economies towards the Internal alignment is another essential requirement as V of dynamic new markets.
They include China with its global companies react to new markets in the East and possibly 1.5 billion and rising population, along with India stagnant economies in the West: getting everyone in a and its even faster-growing population, and the other BRICs company facing the same way, working towards the same nations, Brazil and Russia not to mention the Next 11. vision, is key.
As the geography changes, so will oldThe process is unstoppable.
Cynics can no longer argue fashioned management structures.
Regional silos can expect that the inevitable power shift from West to East or South to a shake-up and local managers, sensitive and knowledgeable Latin America or South-East to Africa and the Middle East about their markets, may well come to the fore again.
is just about cheap labour and low-cost manufacturing.
Consolidation also presents a threat and an opportunity for Indeed, assuming that China and India will remain mere our clients and is changing our industry with the rebirth makers of cheap generic goods could prove life-threatening.
of super-agencies or full-service agencies and shifts in the Both countries are cultivating their own global brands and way we structure ourselves to meet companies needs.
service industries, and they will be as good as anything the Large clients are increasingly looking to parent or holding West can muster.
After all, we used to say the same thing companies that draw on the strength of their individual about Japan or Hong Kong.
subsidiaries to present integrated solutions for their marketing Fortunately, WPP has leadership or near-leadership needs.
We are winning such pitches.
All this dictates that positions in all these countries other than Iran, one of the hiring and retaining the right talent will remain crucial for Next 11, a position we will maintain.
In India, for instance, us and our clients.
It is almost as if 80 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010
