How we behave TheBoardofDirectors Issue Potential impact How it is managed Regulatory Legal  Governments,   .
Sarbanes-Oxley section 404 Responsibilities in respect of the preparation offinancial statements The provisions of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act require the Companys management to report on the The directors are responsible for preparing the financial effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting statements in accordance with applicable law and in its Annual Report on Form 20-F which is filed with regulations.
The directors have elected to prepare the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The 2009 financial statements for the Group in accordance with assessment and related report from the external auditors International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted confirmed that the Companys internal control over by the EU IFRSs and have also elected to prepare financial financial reporting was effective and included in the statements for the Company in accordance with UK Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year accounting standards.
Company law requires the directors ended 31 December 2009.
The 2010 assessment and related to prepare such financial statements in accordance with report will be included in the Companys Annual Report the Companies Jersey Law 1991. on Form 20-F due to be published in April 2011. International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial Going concern performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events The directors are required to consider whether it is and conditions in accordance with the definitions and appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and basis that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards As part of its normal business practice, the Group prepares Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation annual and longer-term plans and in reviewing this of Financial Statements.
information and in particular the 2011 three-year plan In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be and budget the directors believe that the Company and the achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors Group have adequate resources for the foreseeable future.
are also required to: Therefore the Company and the Group continue to adopt properly select and apply accounting policies: the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
present information, including accounting policies, Further details of the Groups financial position in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and borrowing facilities are described in note 10 of the and understandable information: financial statements.
