What we think The US and traditional media bite back A fragmenting media of CNBC or Bloomberg.
More downloading of newspapers and books on my Kindle and now the iPad.
I am less willing There is another reason for the growth of marketing services to wait for detailed analysis in weeklies or fortnightlies.
The old media have become more I want news, together with commentary, now.
Why should sophisticated and the new media have proliferated.
I wait 10 days for in-depth analysis of a merger announced Technology has improved the effectiveness and development on Thursday night?
By contrast, though, women seem to be of cable and satellite television, newspapers and periodicals, increasing their magazine readership and The Economist radio and outdoor, while spawning new media in direct, powers ahead, having gone well past a one million interactive and the internet.
Many of these new media are circulation with increasing advertising revenues, even more measurable and more targeted.
Media consumption habits change with every generation.
Even small children know their way round the internet.
Decision-makers in media owners and agencies tend to be Paid-for content: essential for survival in their fifties and sixties: their children and grandchildren are shifting in ever greater numbers to multi-tasking on the Web activity, broadly defined, currently accounts for well web, personal video recorders PVRs, video-on-demand, over $4 billion of WPPs revenues, or 29%.
It is growing smart phones, iPods, video iPods, iPhones, iPads, Kindles, rapidly and will continue to challenge us and our clients.
mobiles, podcasts and multi-player internet games.
There are a number of reasons for this.
Declining newspaper readership, particularly among One is disintermediation, an ugly but useful word.
younger people and the resultant collapse of established Lets take an example from our own business.
More than titles are alarming trends.
$4 billion of WPPs revenues post-TNS comes from market Among the many new technologies, one of the most research.
Traditionally, research has been done on the phone interesting is the PVR.
This device enables viewers to and through the post.
The process was long and download television programs on to a hard disk, creating cumbersome.
A questionnaire had to be designed, distributed their own television channel, recording programs for and filled in by consumers or interviewers.
Then data were screening when they want to see them, and building a collected, analysed and conclusions developed.
That could library, as an iPod does with music.
A PVR also allows you take three to six months.
Many CEOs despaired that by the to time-shift programs as you watch, stopping for breaks time the solution had been identified, the problem had when you wish.
It cannot be long before they are standard changed.
Using the internet, however, the research process equipment in television sets.
can be transformed and responses obtained almost instantly.
What has made observers particularly excited or WPPs Lightspeed panel interrogates more than 17 million worried about the PVR is its ability to fast-forward or consumers globally and can deliver answers inside 24 hours.
Market research in the US indicates that You may also be disintermediated by lower-cost business consumers like to fast-forward advertisements although models.
The gambling industry, for instance, has been they stop at beer commercials for fun and car commercials shaken by the emergence of peer-to-peer sports betting sites, for information.
We could do most of this previously with cutting out the traditional bookmaker.
The key question remains the Despite the relatively recent vicious compression in amount of time viewers will continue to devote to television.
valuations and consequent losses, the financiers of new media In some PVRs, the skip button has been omitted and fastand technology companies still focus on sales, sales growth forward speeds limited.
In others, little boxes on the PVR and market share, rather than on operating profits, margins, screen will contain details of the ads being fast-forwarded.
earnings per share and return on capital employed.
The hour However they develop, such devices will exert more pressure of reckoning, however, could be coming for some Web 2.0 on network television and on agencies to create stronger companies.
All, or virtually all, depend on advertising programming and sponsorship opportunities, along with revenues for their growth and survival.
There will be losers even more creative advertising ideas.
The same will be true in the battle to capture those revenues and we may have of video-on-demand, another new and fast-developing already reached a point in the investment cycle where technology.
The premium on creativity can only grow.
revenues, operating profits and cash flow become paramount.
Many executives are in denial.
They believe or hope Financing institutions and strategic investors may no longer that radical change will not happen on their watch.
Yet continue to support excessive valuations by re-financing I know my consumption habits have altered over the past cash burn, particularly after a financial crisis.
Even venture few years more daily newspapers like The Wall Street capital companies will be more picky about matching or Journal and the Financial Times, fewer periodicals.
More raising pricing in the next round of financings and may cut cable and satellite television, less network.
More web off funding altogether and admit their mistake.
In 2010, surfing and BlackBerry e-mail.
More continuous streaming AOL sold Bebo, the social network site it bought in 2008 90 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 What we think The US and traditional media bite back for $850 million, to Criterion Capital Partners for an content with Murdoch leading the way, Sulzberger and estimated $10 million.
others have finally realised the need.
Paying for content, These conundrums, however, are nothing compared further media consolidation and the possible subsidy of to those faced by traditional media owners, few of whom traditional content by government are all current trends that have managed to deal with new technologies.
Take Craigslist, will probably continue to develop.
The internet has resulted for example.
Established in 1995 by Craig Newmark, the in a permanent reduction in the revenues and profitability site provides largely free classified advertising to millions of traditional media owners, but if consumers value content of users across the globe.
The result a massive reduction they will pay for it.
in classified advertising revenues for the traditional players.
Clients are re-examining the relative levels of their It is estimated that Craigslist costs newspapers in the San advertising and marketing services investment.
The Francisco Bay area alone up to $65 million a year in lost econometric analysis of media investment is becoming employment advertising.
How much should we spend and The response from traditional classified advertisers is through which media, have become ever more critical to produce their own free classified sites.
The effect: a questions the Holy Grail of advertising, the answer to permanent reduction in classified advertising revenues, as which half of advertising is wasted.
established classified media owners justify their activities as necessary cannibalisation.
If they dont eat their own children, someone else will.
The internet is probably Increasingly, our business is about the most democratic phenomenon we have seen: free combining the full range of our information or nearly free information breaking the tyranny marketing and communications or monopoly of distance.
Few newspaper or periodical publishers have mastered the creativity, insights and skills with the connection with the new internet platforms.
Rupert Murdochs application of technology and the rapid purchase of internet assets such as MySpace was one mastery of data example, although it quickly lost its lead to Facebook.
Similar initiatives have come from network television: NBC owned by GE with iVillage, and ITV in the UK with Friends Reunited The application of technology and the data it provides since revoked.
Others such as The New York Times have are important components to succeed in the new technologymade similar moves, but none seem to have been able to based media.
We had already invested through WPP Digital, replace the lost revenues by new ones.
For several years in our GroupM, Kantar and our direct and interactive businesses, Annual Report we have questioned whether NBC would still such as Wunderman, OgilvyOne and G2, before purchasing be a part of GE in a few years.
Would it be sold or spun-off?
This was more than the acquisition of Would it merge with Yahoo!
a digital agency such as the acquisition of jewels like In 2009, we found out the answer a sale to Comcast.
Will AGENDA, Aqua, Blast Radius, Bridge, BLUE or Schematic.
even The New York Times survive or face the fate of some This was about the development of search technology, US newspapers?
The Chicago Tribune filed for bankruptcy advertiser and publisher websites, the application of protection in 2008.
The San Francisco Chronicle, whose technology in general and media sales, and followed, on owners have warned of a sale or closure, claims to have a much smaller and less lavish scale, Googles acquisition improved its finances with a new business model, while the of DoubleClick and Microsofts purchase of aQuantive, Seattle P-I has gone wholly online.
Hence the recent shift although all had the same proportional impact on WPP, from Rupert Murdoch to New York Times publisher Google and Microsoft.
Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, Jr for subscription-based models.
With enough investment, we can reproduce any of the It is no longer enough just to be in the newspaper or media planning and buying technology developed and have network television business: you have to be in the already accessed search revenues effectively.
This idea is not dissimilar to media owners, we are not investing in a single technology Professor Theodore Levitts analysis of the horse and buggy or making technological bets.
We are purveyors of any and in the context of the transportation industry.
Rupert all media investment alternatives and, as long as we are not Murdoch is one of the few who seems to understand this.
excluded from any single, powerful technology and have Perhaps the mistake was not to charge for newspaper content the talent to analyse and optimize these alternatives for our on the web in the first place.
It is easier to take the consumer clients, we will remain not only relevant but increasingly down in price, rather than up.
If you cant charge for content valuable to them.
In contrast, media owners, unless they as strong as Cond Nasts Vogue or The Wall Street Journal, cover the media waterfront, are exposed to one technology for example, when can you?
Now media owners seem to or another.
Increasingly, our business is about combining the have shifted gears, deciding finally to charge for online full range of our marketing and communications creativity, WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 91
