How were doing Advertising agency networks Grey Group Grey received important recognition of the multi-platform creative excellence we are achieving.
Grey worldwide and Grey New York were named to Advertising Grey Advertising Ages prestigious A-List, comprising the best agencies in the business.
FastCompany, the respected magazine devoted Report by Jim Heekin below to the business of innovation, named Grey New York in its Chairman and chief executive officer, Grey Group 50 Most Innovative Companies in the World issue in both andGrey 2010 and 2011, the only advertising agency so honored.
Creativity magazine, part of AdvertisingAge, chose Tor Myhren of Grey New York as one of its Creative 50, those influential and inspiring leaders who have made the biggest impact across all areas of creative culture.
And Metropolis magazine called Greys new headquarters in New York the model of a 21st century ad agency.
New executive creative directors were appointed in more than a dozen countries, underscoring the priority weplace on superlative creativity Grey also delivered one of its best new business performances ever.
We expanded our client roster with high-profile new business wins of Panadol worldwide: Red Lobster, DirecTV, Bausch & Lomb, UPMC, The Tuna Council, CB Richard Ellis, Ortega Foods and Cryovac in the US: Sony, Brother, Lucozade, Findus, Schweppes, Schlecker, Santander Bank, InBev and Pfitzer Foods in Europe, Middle East and Africa: Reliance Communications, Chang Yu, Hutchinson Wampoa, Telekom Indonesia and JoEun Sangjo Korea in Asia Pacific: and Hasbro, Mead Johnson, Heineken and SENAC Brazil in Latin America.
In 2010, the revitalization of Grey hit its stride, producing The bedrock of Grey is its long-standing dynamic one of the best years in our history thanks to a dynamic partnerships with global clients.
Many of our top clients creative product, new business success, growth from current grew in agency revenue, some by double digits, and we were clients and an ongoing infusion of world-class talent.
awarded significant new brand assignments from Procter & Adweek captured our momentum with the cover story Gamble, GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly, Boehringer Ingelheim, entitled Red Hot Grey.
Playtex, Allergan, AXA, Pfizer and Coca-Cola.
Our mantra: Grey Famously Effective Since 1917 Greys flagship agency in New York accelerated its became a powerful competitive advantage across the globe.
Tor Myhren, our award-winning chief It leverages our 94-year track record of effectively building creative officer, was promoted to president, the first time many of the worlds great brands coupled with our growing a creative executive has held this post.
Highly-acclaimed reputation for famous work that permeates popular culture.
integrated campaigns for CoverGirl, Pantene, Febreze, Grey made significant strides in elevating our creative DirecTV and Canon gained broad recognition and success.
performance and award recognition through the work of Once again, the famous E TRADE Talking Baby our Worldwide Creative Council, headed by Tim Mellors, campaign set new records for popularity and effectiveness vice chairman of Grey Group and worldwide chief creative in the Super Bowl as did our work for the NFL.
We earned 20 Cannes Lions in 10 categories from they dominated social media, generating millions of dollars 14 countries of our global network.
This was our best in free publicity and media buzz.
showing ever, ranking us among the top 10 winning agencies.
New executive creative directors were appointed in more than a dozen countries, underscoring the priority we place on superlative creativity.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 45 How were doing Advertising agency networks Four Grey New York print efforts were named the most G2 Worldwide Activation Marketing effective magazine ad campaigns of 2010 in their categories: Latisse, Pantene and CoverGirl twice, ranking first on the Report by Joe Celia below AffinityVista index of ad recall, brand association and actions Chairman and chief executive officer, G2 Worldwide taken.
We also produced the single most memorable print ad Vice chairman, Grey Group of 2010, according to Starch, the measurement service, CoverGirl featuring Ellen DeGeneres, with 91% recall.
G2 Worldwide had a very successful year in 2010, Grey EMEA, under the leadership of David Patton, highlighted by positive growth and continued evolution compiled a strong new business record fueled by a resurgent across the entire organisation.
Our accomplishments were creative product.
Grey London received the highest score driven by G2s focused and energetic worldwide staff, who of all Group agencies from Campaign.
Both Marketing contributed to the expansion of our relationships with key magazine and Campaign short-listed it for Agency of the clients, as well as the addition of important new clients Year thanks to world-class campaigns for Honda, Toshiba and assignments to our growing portfolio of businesses.
and the British Heart Foundation.
Once again, Greys EyeonAsia proprietary trends study opened a window into consumer psyche and provided G2 has been devoted to helping valuable insights to marketers across the region.
This ourclients progress beyond traditional ongoing effort, spearheaded by Nirvik Singh, chairman forms of marketing communications to and CEO of Grey Group Asia Pacific, continues to showcase Greys thought leadership in the worlds media.
more measurable forms that are better Our Worldwide Planning Council, under the leadership targeted and interactive of Suresh Nair, director of global strategic planning, continued to build Greys pre-eminence in consumer insight.
We will soon launch a next-generation communications Since our inception as the first specialised agency planning platform that combines strategic planning with network to launch globally with a dedicated focus on channel and digital planning.
brand activation, G2 has been devoted to helping our Grey remains ranked among the top tier of global clients progress beyond traditional forms of marketing advertising agencies because of the reach and resources of communications to more measurable forms that are better our network in 96 countries.
Our blue-chip client roster targeted and interactive.
More than ever before, the counts one-fourth of all Fortune 500 companies and our marketplace recognises the critical need and value of capabilities to launch and sustain leading brands are branding beyond advertising.
And today, G2 is firmly expanding to meet the needs of the new media landscape.
Today we are producing leading-edge creative work across platforms, breaking new ground in brand experience and building relationships.
com to see our successful case histories across countries, cultures and the media spectrum.
Grey enhanced its ability to harness the social power of the internet to reach todays consumers as the democratization of technology continues at warp speed.
Our mandate is to place digital at the core of our business.
We recruited renowned digital leaders such as Josh Golden, our first chief digital officer at Grey New York: expanded our digital centers of excellence in all regions, building them through investment and acquisition and strengthened our synergy with G2 Worldwide.
We are delivering a seamless, integrated offering that unites the creative expertise of Grey with the activation expertise of G2, resulting in dozens of joint projects and new business wins across the globe.
As we enter 2011, Grey is an agency on the rise.
Our talented, passionate, committed employees have wholeheartedly embraced the goal of becoming a truly great agency and our winning strategy has put industry leadership well within our grasp.
46 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Advertising agency networks established as a top global player in this increasingly Around the world, G2 agencies garnered award recognition important space.
for our creativity and innovation, including a Gold POPAI G2s top 20 clients accounted for the lions share of OMA Award and the P&G Beauty and Grooming Best our total global revenue, and the strength of our client Digital Innovation Award Mobile Innovations for relationships is a testament to the intelligence and CoverGirl: a Gold REGGIE for Heinekens Dos Equis brand: commitment of G2s worldwide staff.
a Gold Effie for Campbell Soup Company: a Gold at the In 2010, we continued to build upon our partnerships Promotion Marketing Awards of Asia for Shell from G2 with our stable of key multi-market clients: Malaysia: and a Gold Award from New York Festivals for We expanded our global relationships with the Diesel Rockin Dots transit campaign from G2 Japan.
GlaxoSmithKlines Panadol brand in Asia Pacific, EMEA We had a good showing at Cannes in 2010, with G2 and the US.
Argentina winning three Lions Awards for Playboy, while G2 From a strong base in the US for Heineken, we won Japan was shortlisted twice in the Outdoor Lions Category.
new assignments in the UK and Russia, as well as expanded A key priority in 2010 was continuing to build our senior our engagements with Heineken in the Caribbean and management ranks, and we strengthened our worldwide Central America.
leadership teams in virtually all regions across the globe.
In the EMEA region, we won new business assignments There were major additions and elevations in EMEA: from Commerzbank AG and Paradores Spain, and expanded Pietro Leone, who served as COO for G2 EMEA since 2009, our client portfolio within the automotive and financial was elevated with the added responsibilities as CEO of the services sector.
Building on the strength of G2 EMEAs UK presence, In the US, we won the agency-of-record business for Tim Hipperson joined as CEO, G2 UK.
Stefan Kniess was Aetna B2B, expanding our already strong partnership with elevated to the new role of CEO, G2 Germany, unifying G2 the premium insurance brand.
as an independent entity, co-existing with Grey under the Across the globe, we gained incremental assignments Grey G2 Group in Germany.
from P&G and BAT for a range of brands.
In line with our dynamic growth strategy, we reinforced In addition to strong ties with existing clients, G2 also our total communications offering and expanded our global added a number of new clients brands to our roster: capabilities through the acquisition of Greater Chinas In Asia Pacific, G2 Japan won creative duties for Nippon leading shopper marketing consultancy, DPI, which has Becton Dickinson, in addition to several other high been renamed G2 DPI.
profile assignments from new and existing clients throughout We continued to expand our digital capabilities in the region.
South America with a strategic partnership between In the US, we experienced noteworthy business G2 Grey Argentina and 451, a leading interactive shop development successes, with wins including the digital in Latin America, consolidating digital operations of the agency-of-record assignment for Hertz: the promotional two companies.
experiential assignment for Southwest Airlines: and For the third year in a row, G2 devoted its global direct mail and digital duties for Capital One US Credit pro bono efforts to Save the Children.
G2 partnered with the charity to build a school in Mali, And we welcomed new multimarket relationships with Africa and establish a community well to provide clean LG and Vodafone.
In 2010, G2 sponsored 10 children around Our reputation within the industry continues to grow, the world, launching a Facebook campaign to drive especially as a strategic partner to clients and agency awareness and donations.
collaborators, thanks in no small measure to our newly Looking ahead, we will continue to bolster our launched positioning, Maximizing Brand Commitment, communications planning offer, led by Jim Taylor, our global along with a suite of tools and processes.
Our new communications planning director based in the G2 EMEA proprietary planning process, G2 Pathfinder, maps headquarters.
Additionally, Jonathan Dodd, global chief consumers purchase decision journeys onto which we strategy officer, continues to drive greater prominence for overlay compelling creative ideas, synthesising them into our shopper marketing capabilities around the world.
innovative, powerful and focused communications plans Maximizing Brand Commitment for our clients has long that determine when, where and how to communicate been at the heart of what G2 does.
In 2010, we put into place most effectively.
the right tools and the right people to ensure that the next We were ranked No.
5 in the 2010 Promo100, and decade of our history will be as fruitful and productive as ranked No.
2 in the Retail Specialty area of the same list.
We were ranked in TheHubs annual Top 12 agency report for Shopper Marketing excellence.
And we were once again named to B2BMagazines Top Agencies list.
