What we think The US and traditional media bite back by increasing unemployment.
Much easier to inflate our way out of it, reducing the real value of debt and increasing long-term interest rates.
It is doubtful, however, that the redistributive and healthcare policies of the US president will be effective to deal with the debt burden and, in any event, may have harmful effects on entrepreneurial motivation and corporate activity or eventually be rejected at the ballot box.
US deficit reduction looks like it will be left until after 2012, unless there is a strike in the bond market and Pimcos refusal to buy US Treasuries spreads.
If this scenario plays out, the high-saving countries Brazil, Russia getting its act together again as oil prices rise, India, China and even, perhaps, Japan will benefit and pull further away from the West.
Inflation, of course, as long as it is controlled, is not bad for our clients or us.
By giving our clients pricing power, branding and innovation become even more important, as long as private label does not become too dominant.
Another consequence of massive government stimulus, effectively state directed capitalism akin to the Chinese model is government as a client.
Country branding, foreign direct investment, tourism, export stimulation, reinforcement of government policy are all examples of marketing needs at government level witness GroupMs win of the COIs media buying in the UK.
The British government was the countrys largest media spender but not for long, although there will be recovery.
Consolidation among media owners also continues Consolidation and the law of big numbers unabated.
NewsCorp takes and disposes of DirecTV and bids for BSkyB, Comcast tried to take Disney and takes The credit crisis may have slowed activity, but mergers NBC.
Legislation has favoured more consolidation in the continue apace.
NewsCorp took Dow Jones, Google took US and the UK, although recent events and changes in DoubleClick, Microsoft snapped up aQuantive, Yahoo!
took administrations may alter that.
Even in Brazil, which has Right Media, Microsoft took Yahoo!, Pfizer took Wyeth, been fiercely protectionist, you can buy 30% of Globo or Merck took Schering-Plough, InBev took Anheuser-Busch, Editora Abril.
And in Australia, recently introduced Vodafone went for Hutchison Essar, Danone took Royal legislation relaxing media ownership rules triggered a media Numico, Bank of America took Merrill Lynch, Carphone asset bidding frenzy.
Germany allows foreign ownership of Warehouse linked with Best Buy, Thomson Corp merged TV: Italy concentrates further through the Gasparri Bill.
In with Reuters, Kraft ate Cadbury.
Spain, the government allows a 25% share of the free-to-air market and the Polanco family sells a television stake to Berlusconis Mediaset, and Antenna 3 and La Sexta have had on-and-off merger discussions.
Clients and media owners are not alone: retail consolidates, too.
Morrison takes Safeway: Announced global M&A activity Boots and Alliance merge and go private shortly thereafter.
In Latin America, Walmart enters the north east of Brazil Deal 1.9 1.2 1.4 2.1 2.8 4.0 4.9 3.0 2.1 2.5 by acquiring part of Aholds interests, Lider consumes 50 value $tn Carrefours Chilean interests, and Jumbo buys Disco in 40 Deal Argentina.
Rumours surround Walmart and Carrefour volume 000 30 and Home Depot and Kingfisher.
20 In line with the laws of big numbers, the challenge to 10 Walmart, Tesco and Home Depot will be how they can 0 successfully manage expansion outside their home markets.
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Tesco already has over half its square footage outside Britain Source: Thomson Financial as of March 2011 but much less of its profits and has sent its UK managing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 99
