What we think The US and traditional media bite back marketing clients still appreciate that great advertising ideas considerable time in the future.
Responsible consumption and copy deliver outstanding results.
Reducing marketing will become more important, rather than conspicuous costs indiscriminately, particularly in industries with heavy consumption.
Consuming less in a more socially responsible fixed production costs, will only result in having to spread way will be crucial in relation to society, the environment those costs over fewer unit sales.
Thus social responsibility will be more The procurement process seems to be based on the idea significant to the consumer, our clients, governments, that what we provide is low value-added and that, because NGOs and all constituencies.
we are dependent on significant revenues from large clients, we can be squeezed.
This thinking may be flawed.
First, what we do is critical.
There is a limit to how far costs can Conclusion be reduced: but there is almost no limit apart from 100% market share to how far you can grow revenues.
Second, 2010 saw a faster recovery than we thought possible.
As in an increasingly undifferentiated world, what we do predicted, growth returned in the second quarter, mainly due differentiate products and services, tangibly and intangibly to easy comparatives, but accelerated faster than anticipated is becoming more and more important, particularly in the for the rest of the year and into 2011.
Overall, 2011 should slower-growth markets of the US and Western Europe, where grow at a similar rate at around 5% like-for-like, as clients overcapacity, commoditisation and retail concentration are seek top-line growth in the faster-growing markets and the more pressing issues.
2012 should be good too, boosted by the maxi-quadrennial events of the Summer Olympics in London, the European Football Championships in Poland Corporate responsibility: an essential and Ukraine, and the US presidential election, which should ingredientin brand-building see political spending of at least $4 billion.
2013, however, may a tougher year, as the newly re-elected or elected US Many companies have made an increasingly important virtue president finally wrestles with the deficit.
As we see in and value of positioning their brand, goods or services as the differences between US and UK economic policies, corporately responsible.
If you are in the business of building governments are now faced with a dilemma, a choice brands, products, services or corporate brands in the long between the pain of higher taxes combined with government term, this is surely a given.
If you want to build long-term cuts to reduce the deficit or inflating our way out of trouble.
profitability, you cannot dismiss the environment, society, We can make it easier in the long term by wearing the hair government, NGOs or the press.
Indeed, you would only shirt now, slashing state spending and raising taxes, with ignore these constituencies if you were in business for a the resulting loss of jobs.
Or we can make it easier in the quick buck or short-term profit.
We already know from our short term by stoking inflation, with long-term interest rates market research agencies that consumers and people inside rising.
But it is worth pausing to consider this paradox: companies value socially-responsible companies more highly.
we are being asked to spend and lend our way out of this HSBC in banking, and Walmart and M&S in retail are recession.
That, surely, is what got us into crisis in the good examples of corporate responsibility.
relatively recent events have heightened the importance Whatever the conclusion, WPPs strategy remains and significance of CR, or Global Corporate Citizenship, appropriate.
New geographical markets, new media and and made them very fashionable.
First, the deal between consumer insights will become more important.
Furthermore, Warren Buffett and Bill Gates, involving an exchange of globalisation, overcapacity and the shortage of human capital, Microsoft and Berkshire Hathaway stocks, to enable the the web, internal communications, concentrating distribution, Gates Foundation to do even greater charitable work.
corporate responsibility, the government as a client, and a Second, the decision by Sir Richard Branson, at the second balance between global and local organisational structures, Clinton Global Initiative in New York, to donate up to will continue to drive branding and differentiation, and $3 billion in profits from his Virgin companies to good advertising and marketing services.
And finally, the decision by James Murdoch at BSkyB and his father Rupert Murdoch at NewsCorp to espouse carbon neutrality.
All of these events have made it fashionable for chairmen and CEOs to embrace corporate responsibility and embarrassing for them if they do not.
People will not consume luxury in the way they did until recently, particularly in Western markets, at least for some 102 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 What we think The US and traditional media bite back WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 103
