How were doing Healthcare Communications Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide OCHWW boasts experience in every marketing discipline, in every therapeutic category.
The agency Report by Matt Giegerich below provides its clients with global marketing services including: Chairman and chief executive officer advertising and promotion, brand identity and development, global integration, direct-to-consumer, direct-to-patient, relationship marketing, digital interactive services, payer marketing, medical education, media planning and buying, scientific communications and publications, clinical trial recruitment, market research and analytics, strategic consulting and public affairs and relations.
The network maintains numerous hubs in the North America, EMEA, Asia Pacific and Latin America regions and in an increasing number of markets, OCHWW houses the individual Ogilvy CommonHealth and Ogilvy Healthworld sub-brand identities.
The collective group is run by a global executive team comprised of agency principals from both the original Ogilvy and CommonHealth groups.
The formation of OCHWW was abold yet sophisticated solution totheongoing challenges of the healthcare industry When CommonHealth, MedAdNews Agency of the Year 2010 and already one of the most formidable healthcare Since the merger, clients have responded with resounding communications groups in the industry, merged its offerings and enthusiastic support: the organization now boasts a total with Ogilvy & Mathers healthcare group, the bold coupling of more than 200 client partnerships on its global roster, became one of the most talked about agency mergers in with significant new opportunities streaming steadily in years.
Though the groups had collaborated extensively over each week.
the past 15 years, the formal marriage of the two likeCulturally, OCHWW has shown a surprisingly strong minded, similarly-cultured agencies effectively doubled the sense of self for a newly-formed agency.
From the moment size and reach of each organization in the healthcare arena.
the merger was conceived, OCHWW agency leaders saw the The result?
An entirely new entity, Ogilvy CommonHealth remarkable similarities in the CommonHealth and Ogilvy Worldwide OCHWW, was formed, creating what is cultures.
It proved a natural and easy transition as the agency arguably the largest, most highly resourced and creative fully embraced the rich history of the Ogilvy brand, taking agency in the world of healthcare communications.
Executives at OCHWW transformed the The formation of OCHWW was a bold yet sophisticated groups corporate headquarters to better reflect their new solution to the ongoing challenges of the healthcare industry.
identity modeling the look, feel, attitude and standards With the marketplace evolving at an increasingly high level of the Ogilvy brand in all areas.
and pace, the principals at both CommonHealth and Ogilvy Moving forward, the executive team at OCHWW knew a dramatic change was necessary for them to continue anticipates clients will begin to place greater emphasis on to compete in an ever-changing world.
Now, with the emerging markets, developing more targeted, specialtybenefits of expanded creative skills and services, planning oriented therapies while diversifying into other, health-related tools, digital technologies, data and analytics, and rich categories and OCHWW is prepared to meet whatever learnings from other, non-health related client categories, client needs arise.
With the merger now firmly established, OCHWW clients have an automatic marketplace advantage.
OCHWWs future focus remains solidly on growing its The creation of OCHWW has positioned the agency for the clients brands, building upon the organizations current future of healthcare communications, aligning the group offerings through an ever-evolving array of specialized and its services against what has become pharmas new services, and growing its client base around the globe.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 69 How were doing Healthcare Communications ghg Expanded European business with important wins in Europe from Allergan, Boehringer Ingelheim, Glaxo Amgen, Report by Lynn OConnor Vos below Johnson & Johnson and Novo Nordisk.
President and chief executive Grew significantly in Australia with wins and new assignments from Abbott, Allergan, Baxter, Bayer Animal Health and Shire winning a Clio for the Bayer campaign Because Pets Arent As Tough As They Think They Are.
Achieved double-digit growth with ghgs medical education companies Phase Five, IMsci, Darwin Grey and Osprey.
Expanded client roster and developed cutting-edge digital medical education programs in the US, Australia and Europe.
A major achievement was the acquisition of Geoff Howe Marketing Communications, Inc. a leader in animal health.
The acquisition resulted in an expanded global footprint and established the largest global agency dedicated to animal health.
The agency gained an Eastern European hub in Prague and doubled the size of its London office.
It also established a Midwest base in Kansas City, Missouri the global corridor for animal health.
The acquisition [of Geoff Howe] resulted in an expanded global footprint and established the largestglobal agency dedicated toanimal health This year ghg created ground-breaking multi-channel health engagement campaigns.
Text4baby, a mobile health initiative launched with Voxiva, ghg, National Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies In 2010, ghg had a very successful year, achieving doubleCoalition HMHB, and Johnson & Johnson received digit growth through important new business wins, global numerous accolades: but none bigger than acknowledgment expansion of medical education, a significant acquisition in from Aneesh Chopra, US chief technology officer, at the animal health and strengthening of the digital offering in the White House, who said: This marks an important US and Europe.
ghg is well positioned as one of the most achievement for the public private partnership model innovative communications leaders in human and animal especially for the pioneering founders of text4baby.
It is health, committed to creating high impact, engaging both low-cost and effective in helping to close an important campaigns designed to improve health outcomes while information gap for pregnant women and new mothers.
delivering solid business results for clients.
Think About Your Eyes, a national award-winning Our highlights of 2010: campaign increased awareness of the importance of eye Won consumer advertising for the Novo Nordisk health and motivated thousands of consumers to visit their insulin portfolio.
eye care professional for an annual eye exam.
Chosen by AstraZeneca to be a key global ghg is a communications partner that gets brands deeply branding partner.
engaged in all the conversations that matter because we Secured significant new professional, consumer, and speak the language of every healthcare influencer fluently digital assignments in the US from Bayer, Essilor, Forest, from the in-depth scientific lingo of key opinion leaders to Johnson & Johnson, Novartis, Novartis Vaccines, Strativa the plainspoken opinion of the blogger we are proven and Transitions Optical.
experts in the anticipation and application of digital technologies, and tellers of compelling brand stories, so that health brands connect in more meaningful ways to generate trial, grow sales and improve lives.
70 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Healthcare Communications GCI Health Sudler & Hennessey Full report on page 43 Report by Wendy Lund Chief executive officer 2010 was another strong year for the Sudler global network.
It finished the year on a very positive note, winning seven GCI Healths 2010 goal of driving growth exceeded out of its last eight pitches of the year, including four major expectations in new business ventures, organic growth global assignments from both USand European-based of existing accounts and the addition of several seasoned multinationals.
Sudlers worldwide network proved itself communications experts to the agency.
with global wins in primary care, specialty care, orphan As one of the worlds largest specialty healthcare PR drugs and oncology in both established as well as agencies, the primary focus at GCI Health is the patient, emerging markets.
and we are constantly exploring ways to reach them through new and unique channels.
This year we launched our Synchronicity practice, which is centered around patient and physician education with a focus on improving the health outcomes of patients.
Due to the changing and growing needs of the marketplace and the ongoing evolution of digital channels and platforms, GCI Health invested in expanding our digital health services.
Our digital health practice offers breakthrough solutions to influence healthcare opinion and behavior, build better, more direct communications and ultimately, drive brand visibility and uptake.
Our client roster ranges from large multinational companies, to specialized pharmaceutical companies, to high-science biotechnology firms, to small start-ups with promising investigational therapies.
To all of these clients GCI Health brings a deep understanding of the industry and a relentless passion for helping to shape and define it.
GCI Health continues to offer clients a commitment to beating expectations and an obsession with anticipating the challenges of an increasingly complex and transforming healthcare communications environment.
With great momentum going into 2011, our goal is to become the best specialty healthcare PR agency in the industry.
