How were doing Consumer Insight Kantar Report by Eric Salama right Chairman and chief executive officer In 2010 we held our annual management meeting in Boston.
There were many good reasons for our location not least that a number of our most entrepreneurial businesses are based there, employing a disproportionate number of sector gurus, PhDs and young digerati connected, futurefocused, smart, creative, entrepreneurial in sum, what we aspire to be across the whole of the Kantar world.
As a bonus we visited the JFK Presidential Library and were reminded of the power of storytelling.
Fifty years on from JFKs inauguration, the world is crowded by greater complexity and information than ever before.
Political events in the Arab world, volcanic eruptions, floods and earthquakes and the explosion of data and views facilitated by companies such as Google, Facebook and Twitter make the need for interpretation, for painting pictures of our times and our futures, for stories which tell the truth of human attitudes and behaviour ever more important, but ever harder.
In uncertain times, our goal remains to use insights into people as citizens, customers, consumers, influencers to inspire our clients to make better decisions for the future.
Our destinations are clear and it is against these destinations that we measure our progress in 2010.
A house of brands with deeply-connected experts andthought leaders growth, share of wallet, share of consumer decisions, share of solutions and share of engagement.
Clients want deep expertise: people want to work in In operations, our teams from Kantar Operations and environments in which what they do is central to the Lightspeed have responded superbly to the seriousness business.
Uniquely amongst our competitive set we are with which we take data quality by passing ISO standards structured in a way which facilitates that and in 2010 and developing InTouch as a way of improving engagement we began to see the value and impact of this expertise in taking surveys, carrying out  and thought leadership.
usability studies on questionnaires and developing relationships across the industry with competitors such as GfK and Market Tools to set industry standards.
As James... our goal remains to use insights Sallows of Lightspeed said at a recent industry conference, Your data is ultimately the victim of a survey that does not into people as citizens, customers, engage respondents.
consumers, influencers to inspire In understanding the way that the recession has changed ourclients to make better decisions consumer attitudes and behaviours, The Futures Company has worked with clients to incorporate those learnings into forthe future the way they position their products and services.
And across issues as diverse as the use of neuroscience In an area such as retail and shopper, Giles Quick and in advertising testing, the role of social media in forecasting Paul Murphy of Kantar Worldpanel have been educating sales of new products, and the way in which segmentation clients that 80% of all incremental grocery sales for a brand can drive effective product development and engagement come from new users and that changing usage occasions has strategies expert teams from across Millward Brown, a bigger impact on long-term sales than any promotions: and TNS and Added Value have made much progress this year.
Bryan Gildenberg and colleagues from Kantar Retail have We had many pieces of work which had extensive press developed 5shares an innovative way of looking at what coverage, none more so than a groundbreaking global advertisers need to do to succeed by increasing share of 46-country study of consumers digital behaviour by TNS: WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 57 How were doing Consumer Insight Above, left to right: David Geiger, CEO, Center Partners, Sharon Potter, CEO, KantarOperations, JosepMontserrat, CEO, Kantar Worldpanel, ThomasPuliyel, CEO president, IMRB, Janine Hawkins, CEO, Added Value, David Day, CEO, Lightspeed Research a study carried out by Millward Brown for WPP on the across our companies to tackle individual client questions, strongest brands in China: a study on the new Muslim resolve brand issues, or develop growth strategies based consumer conducted by TNS across a number of markets around existing expertise and knowledge all without in conjunction with Ogilvy: and a study of teens in the collecting or commissioning any new research.
It is an Middle East carried out by IMRB.
approach we have taken on numerous occasions in 2010, And we were recognised for the quality of our work and to great effect.
thought leadership in numerous forums around the world Connecting tools which we are already providing to with Millward Brown winning special recognition and a host clients, e. g. incorporating TNS Needscope segmentation into of Ogilvy effectiveness awards from ARF, Kantar Worldpanel Millward Brown Link copy testing so that clients who use and TNS winning Agency of the Year in Mexico and India both can get the benefits of their segmentation approach in respectively, and TNS South Africa scooping all of the prizes the way they evaluate and develop advertising, or the Kantar for best papers in South Africa.
Media MARS study which linked sufferers offline and online behaviour and segmented the population by disease and stage Connecting the insights of condition.
Connecting our data with our own, client or third-party Central to our strategy going forward is the desire and ability data to help provide a more holistic and dynamic view to connect insights and data, not just collect them.
We know of the marketplace.
Good examples are overlaying our that clients are frustrated with too much of their data sitting second-by-second TV audience behaviour with purchase in silos and we share that frustration.
It is inefficient, costly data from JDPower: linking our attitudinal segmentation and militates against an holistic understanding of the with MTSs customer records to provide a more marketplace and of the link between cause and effect.
actionable brand strategy for Eastern Europes largest We are passionate about our desire to connect insights mobile telecoms provider: linking Dynamic Logics online and are open to working with competitor, client and advertising effectiveness data with social media insights third-party data to maximise our impact.
To do so from Cymfony: putting our Compete software onto Kantar successfully requires an attitude of mind, technology and an Worldpanel in the UK, France, Spain and linking online infrastructure which facilitates connecting and people with and TV viewing data with frequent shopper card data in the appropriate skills.
During 2010 we made notable our Kantar Retail ShopComm practice so that clients can progress in connecting, in each case adding value to clients.
understand the impact which different types of media Our efforts have been concentrated in four areas: behaviour have on consumption, or the sales effectiveness Connecting expertise Under a program we dubbed of different ads: linking TGI media consumption with Catalyst we bring together smart, young experts from Worldpanel purchase data.
58 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Consumer Insight Connecting digital content 2010 saw us launching talent pool.
net KTags as an industry-wide solution, allowing clients to tag to see what we have in mind.
all of their digital content and link it to our various databases so as to allow an understanding of who consumes what A reputation for innovation content and where.
Our ability to connect is unprecedented and the impact A running theme through much of what has been discussed we can have on clients equally so.
above is that of innovation.
As the world speeds up, as the media world fragments and as the ability Greater usability of our work, with insights used to drive to capture human attitudes and behaviours becomes more better decisions complex we have to innovate at an increasing pace to be able to serve our clients needs and to retain their respect We all want our work to have impact, to be used by our and our relevance.
clients to make better decisions.
To achieve this consistently The ways we are connecting data and insights, the and as a matter of routine requires two things: developing investments we are making to innovate and roll out crossgenuine insights with a clear sense of the implications for media measurement techniques, the development of new clients and an ability to communicate those insights tools such as Added Values CharacterLab to understand implications in an inspiring way.
brand character and Millward Brown Firefly to scale qualitative research and develop talent, the development by Center Partners of at-home agents to deal with customer As 2010 developed we relationships, the use of mobile phone text services to collect data in Africa, and the successful setting up of a fully becameincreasingly focused on electronic 40,000 person Kantar Worldpanel in China are twofactors, real-time insights and all examples of our commitment to innovation.
data visualisation We measure our success in innovating by directly asking our clients and quantifying our progress.
But we can also measure progress by the company we keep.
We are proud As 2010 developed we became increasingly focused of all of our clients but when clients such as Ford and Levi on two factors, real-time insights and data visualisation: Strauss work with Added Value around innovation issues: Real-time insights We recognise that some data and when Google and Microsoft have become large Kantar insights are of value only if they are provided in real-time Media clients working to understand online behaviour and and that for some types of insights, being 80% correct now is the impact it has on offline purchase: when Walmart works more important than being 100% correct in six months time.
with Millward Brown on issues relating to store-level Clients who are launching new products or new marketing customer satisfaction, when PayPal and RIM work with TNS campaigns want to be able to adapt and correct them as they in understanding how to segment their customer groups: and happen.
So, with clients as diverse as BAT and Procter & when a host of leading retailers and manufacturers adopt Gamble, our cross-Kantar teams have developed ways of Red Dot Square as their virtual reality shopping technology monitoring the impact of launches through analysis of social of choice, we know we are on the right track.
media, brand tracking data, purchase data and, crucially, of synthesising that analysis and providing it to the client and A culture which is more clientand talent-centric its agencies in a way which allows them to adapt its media and creative campaigns early enough to make a difference.
Our client and talent agendas are inseparable.
We cannot Data visualisation Our ability to inspire and succeed with as ambitious a client and business agenda as communicate depends on the way we visualise our insights.
we have without having engaged, talented people.
And it is Many insights come alive this way.
in the area of talent that we have made some of our biggest Across our group, we are making good progress in this progress during 2010. regard.
Millward Brown and Added Value have teamed up Our infrastructure has improved.
We are in the with outside creative agencies and with internal operational process of setting up and rolling out a web-based human and IT teams to redesign the way in which key outputs will resources information system which will enable us to track be delivered to clients: TNSs DigitalLife allows users to and develop compensation, talent interactions and needs interact with the data in novel ways: Kantar Worldpanel and and free up the time of our talent professionals.
We have Kantar Media are delivering monthly data and video through significantly upgraded the quality of our talent HR iPad iPhone applications.
And just weeks ago we announced professionals with new people coming in as chief talent a three-year tie-up with David McCandless, the recognised officers at Kantar HQ, TNS, Added Value and Kantar guru of data visualisation, designed to bring in thinking from Media as well as in senior regional roles in Millward Brown around the world and help us team up with an extended and elsewhere.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 59 How were doing Consumer Insight Above, left to right: Wayne Levings, CEO, Kantar Retail, Lynnette Cooke, CEO, Kantar Health, Masanori Miyajima, CEO, Kantar Japan, Eileen Campbell, CEO, Millward Brown, Jean-Michel Portier, CEO, Kantar Media, Will Galgey, CEO, TheFutures Company, PedroRos, CEO, TNS Most importantly, our management teams have reacted Worldpanel we have had an exceptional year carrying out to the disappointing feedback we received from employees high quality work such as the British Crime Survey and in 2009 and have focused on putting in place consistent and winning assignments such as the Out Of Employment forward-looking HR practices and ways of stretching and Survey in Canada, the primary study of social behaviour developing our people.
The result has been a significant in Germany, work for the Ministry of Human Resources improvement in employee satisfaction scores during 2010 in India on the reasons behind the number of out-of-school across many of our businesses and markets and a base on children and a world first for the French Government, which to build.
tracking the carbon footprint of packaged goods purchased in France on a continuous basis.
Passionate about diversity and our impact on society Above-market growth, leading industry margins, We are part of the communities in which we work and live more revenue from emerging markets, digital and and our work is all about understanding their attitudes and syndicated work behaviours.
As such it is important that we have a talent pool which is representative of our communities and draws on the Our results are laid out elsewhere in this report.
We are talent which is available.
We have good representation across pleased with the progress we made on margins and in the business but we are not yet sufficiently diverse at the most integrating the TNS businesses with resulting efficiencies.
senior levels and are determined to be so e. g. the majority Virtually all of our businesses made their budgets in 2010 of our employees are women but only 30% of our top and we captured the synergy efficiencies we had promised management are women.
More broadly we strive to have a positive impact on our Some, notably Millward Brown, Center Partners, IMRB, society.
Partly this comes through our charitable activity Kantar Worldpanel and Kantar Japan, had strong marketwhich has increased this year with the expansion of our share-gaining revenue growth whilst others had new business  UNICEF activity to cover projects wins in 2010 that bode well for future years.
In the case of in Bolivia, Malawi and Bangladesh and with local activity Kantar Media, special mention must be made of the foursuch as Millward Browns Habitat for Humanity program.
year EU news monitoring contract, the largest ever awarded Partly it comes through pro bono work that the likes of in Europe, and of TV audience measurement wins in the Added Value carried out for The MTN Foundation to United Arab Emirates, Turkey and Romania.
Overall, we help it develop a strategy for the introduction of a topical had too many places where our revenue growth was not what solution to reduce the risk of HIV infection.
it should have been and we are not satisfied with our overall But even more importantly it comes from the fact that level of revenue growth, which was lower than that of some we have a large stream of business where our clients are of our competitors.
governments and NGOs and where the issues we are The shape of our revenues changed in the way we wanted addressing are ones of societal change and behaviour.
Our specialist digital companies such as Dynamic Through businesses such as TNS, IMRB and Kantar Logic, Compete and Cymfony grew strongly and extended 60 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Consumer Insight their reach into European and Asian markets.
We had some And finally regions such as Latin America which grew fast organically and consistently ahead of peers.
As Bostons most famous son said, Change is the law of We made some good acquisitions such as Spring to life.
Im proud of the way Kantar people have adapted to enhance our digital measurement capabilities, and Nigeriaenormous change and are shaping our future.
Two years on based RMS with a footprint across Africa, which has been from the transformational acquisition of TNS we have a clear integrated into TNS.
Millward Brown opened in Peru, sense of ambition.
We have a framework against which to Ghana and Vietnam and The Futures Company set up in judge our progress in creating a more clientand talentLatin America.
centric culture, in connecting our insights and our expertise We extended our syndicated studies in areas such as and in outperforming our competitors in financial terms.
Unlike other parts of the marketing services industry, our work is rarely made public and it is hard to publicly [As a result of our work] we see demonstrate the impact we are having.
But privately, we see the growing number of media plans and creative executions media plans and creative executions which have been changed as a result of our work, of products changed, products and services and services which have been created, developed or created, developed or repositioned, repositioned, of retail layouts assortments and pricing plans which have been modified in-store, of government campaigns retail layouts and pricing plans which seek to change certain behaviours, of employee and modified in-store, government customer engagement programs which address issues we have campaigns to change behaviours, identified.
Our success will be in continuing to change but above employee and customer engagement all, in explaining to our clients the opportunities that programs which address issues we change brings for them and helping them benefit from it.
have identified Last year I described myself as pleased but not satisfied with our progress.
This year I am even more pleased and even less satisfied.
oncology, health outcomes, media intelligence and futures, into many more markets in Asia and Latin America.
To that end we also laid the groundwork for extending our key platforms media, purchase, digital, internet access into key markets around the world so that clients will be able to benefit from Kantar Media Compete and Kantar Media Cymfony services in the UK and France, and from Kantar Worldpanel insights in Indonesia in 2011.
