How were doing Media Investment Management tenthavenue Quisma Report by Rupert Day In performance marketing, advertisers and marketers only Chief executive officer pay for successful transactions as defined by a consumer taking a pre-defined action, such as a purchase, a subscription tenthavenue is one of WPPs newest entities, with a focus on or lead.
In this area in 2010, Quisma reinforced its dominant delivering tailored solutions, be they specific audiences or position as the leading EMEA performance network, serving outcomes.
The new groups goal is to deliver relevant content, billions of impressions monthly in Germany, Switzerland, in environments which reflect the consumers immediate Austria, Poland and the Netherlands.
Services in Spain, Italy, lifestyle, across multiple devices whether they are placeFrance, the UK and the US are planned for 2011. based or mobile screens and with the ability to optimize Quisma is now the leading pan-European provider of and measure across them.
performance-oriented related solutions in search, display 2010 was as much a year of planning this ambition for and affiliate for major brands across the world such as the three WPP companies in the group Kinetic, Quisma and Expedia, Hotels.
com, Dell, Citibank, Ford and other Spafax, as achieving their own 2010 goals.
launched in March 2011 but the three companies worked together as a team in the second half of 2010 to develop tenthavenues offering to both WPP and third-party agencies Kinetic and clients.
In 2010, there was a dual strategy of consolidating Kinetics position as the leading global out of home OOH company Spafax in all traditional and digital channels, and building a higher-value strategic lifestyle and environment company The entertainment and custom content businesses performed to ensure that clients receive maximum benefit from the strongly, developing new services with existing clients such changing OOH environment.
as Air Canada, British Airways and Etihad, and new client To this end, a dedicated shopper retail initiative, S2B, wins with Singapore Airlines and Thai International.
The was developed in the US, with an EMEA roll-out planned in year saw robust media sales in the North American market 2011.
As well as launching a mobile Demand Side Platform and improving performances in the Gulf and in Chile.
with GroupM, mobile marketing agency Joule consolidated its Outside the companys heritage of in-flight entertainment, offering as a full service mobile agency in both the US and UK but in line with tenthavenues objectives, the company with roll-outs planned in other major European markets and continues to invest in new services in digital, content and China in 2011.
This offers end-to-end mobile solutions, from technical services: achieving MPAA Motion Picture media planning buying to couponing.
In addition, a business Association of America approval for the facility in and commercial analytics group, Meta, was developed in the California: and cross-platform digital products websites, US, the UK, the Netherlands and Germany, with clients such as e-zines and apps for clients in new categories such as Madison Square Garden in the US and Swiftcover in the UK.
Fairmont Hotels, Mercedes and Bombardier.
This focus allowed us to deepen the relationship with the core client base from GroupM companies as well as Below, left to right: develop additional third-party agency business and new Ronald Paul, CEO, Quisma, Steve Ridley, CEO, Kinetic, direct clients.
Rupert Day, CEO, tenthavenue, Niall McBain, CEO, Spafax 56 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010
