What we think The US and traditional media bite back That was all the more gratifying, given that 2009 had none Colombia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt, Turkey, South of the maxi-quadrennial stimulative events of 2008.
WPP has leadership or near-leadership positions year was a record in terms of billings, revenues and profits, in nearly all these countries.
bolstered by a Summer Olympics, a European football Latin America, Africa, and Central and Eastern Europe, championship and an American presidential election.
while impacted by the global downturn, remained among Surprisingly, by the end of 2010, business was back to our strongest-performing regions.
Pakistan, with a pre-Lehman levels, faster than many had anticipated.
This population of 187 million, Vietnam with 90 million and was a relatively quick recovery and certainly faster than we Indonesia with more than 245 million of which 210 million could have possibly anticipated following that momentous are Muslim also remained faster-growing markets and weekend in September 2008. became even more influential in 2010.
Extrapolate WPPs Overall, in 2010, spending on worldwide communications current revenues in the BRICs countries or BRICI including services advertising and marketing services rose by 6.5% Indonesia at the rates of GDP growth predicted in recent to $798 billion from an actual spend of $757 billion in 2009.
Goldman Sachs research and assume moderate rises in WPPs market share stood at around 10%.
The result is that Asia Pacific, uncertainties, the industry will probably grow by 4-5% Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Central and in the current year.
GroupM forecasts a 5.8% rise in Eastern Europe will take a growing share of our business: advertising, which now accounts for approximately 40% probably 34% by 2015, excluding acquisitions.
Thats why of our business.
GroupM also predicts a 4.4% increase in we have upped our revenue share target for these markets marketing services, which affects the other 60%.
conservative budgeted revenue increase of 5% probably Currently, China and India are home to more than means increased market share.
one-third of the worlds population.
Asia Pacific represents As a proportion of worldwide GDP, communications half.
By 2014, Asia Pacific will account for more than services probably stayed constant in 2008, falling in the two-thirds.
WPP already has a strong position in the region.
sharp recession of 2009, but rising again in 2010.
2011 Greater China is WPPs fourth-largest market, in which we and 2012 should see further increases, particularly in the have a significant advantage over our competitors.
In India, V-shaped economies of the BRICs and Next 11 and in our market share is very strong, with a similarly significant the US, although in the L-shaped economies of Western market share in South Korea.
In Japan, it is almost 10%, Europe, it is likely to remain a slog, but we believe WPP is behind both the dominating, although challenged, Dentsu well placed to make the most of it.
On the following pages, and Hakuhodo DY Group.
There is no doubt the marketing world is becoming two-paced or even three-paced, geographically and functionally.
Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and The shifting centre of gravity the Middle East, and Central and Eastern Europe are outpacing the US and Spain post-Franco Spain was a Nothing is constant.
The way the world and our industry standout market in Western Europe, although the current does business is changing as its economic centre of gravity financial crisis has laid it low.
In turn, the US and Spain moves.
The US has hitherto accounted for about half of historically, and now Germany, have been outpacing the worldwide advertising and marketing services spending, rest of Western Europe.
with the most prominent non-American markets being Such shifts are not new.
At other times in history, Japan, Germany, the UK, France, Italy and Spain.
Now Asia when a country or empire seemed to have total political, Pacific, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Central social or economic hegemony, as the US has, things changed and Eastern Europe are becoming more and more significant.
and the vacuum was filled by another power.
China and This will continue as multinational corporations build their India will take that role, in the context of the growth of businesses where populations are large and growing faster Asia Pacific.
They are already enjoying their new stature.
seeking to drive top-line like-for-like sales growth, a Over the past few years at the World Economic Forum in primary driver of total shareholder return.
Even Cuba, with Davos, the Chinese and Indians have exhibited a greater its population of 11 million, may become an opportunity.
degree of self-reliance and independence perhaps even And also, if political differences are overcome, perhaps Iran over-confidence.
Both are now quick to blame the US for with its population of more than 70 million.
Both no longer seem to rely on handouts Goldman Sachs, which first identified the BRICs nations or support.
Both have reached or are reaching a size and rate Brazil, Russia, India and China now focuses on the Next of growth that may be self-sustaining and certainly more 11 Vietnam, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Iran, Mexico, Nigeria, independent of US influence.
Both now believe they have Pakistan, the Philippines, Turkey, South Korea and Egypt.
little to learn from the nations that got us into the recent The Economist adds a new dimension the CIVETS economic mess in the first place.
