How were doing Branding & Identity B to D Group the year as a top winner at Diageos Brilliance Innovation Awards, and was awarded Best Innovation Agency for its Report by Craig Branigan below brand identity work on Shanghai White vodka.
Chairman and chief executive officer As we negotiate 2011 and the challenges and opportunity it brings our companies, our focus will be on continuing 2010 was a stronger year for the Branding to Design B to D to leverage the combined strengths and shared resources of Group overall.
Coming off a challenging 2009, most of our our companies to our great advantage.
As a group we are companies were able to achieve an increase in revenue, confident that our strong client relationships, award-winning coupled with a significant profit improvement.
creative work and overall business strategy will contribute More so than ever, our key client relationships continued to another year of progress.
to play a big role as the growth engine for our group.
Top 20 Please see below for an overview of Addison, FITCH, client revenue experienced double-digit growth for the year, Lambie-Nairn, PeclersParis, The Brand Union, The Partners and these relationships were drivers for much of our and VBAT, together with Landor Associates, which is also geographic expansion in 2010. a Y&R Brands company.
There were a number of highlights to the year.
LambieNairn successfully executed its expansion into Latin America, laying the foundation for a B to D Group strategic Addison footprint in South America.
FITCH completed the restructuring that began last year and saw dramatic 2010 was a year of continued expansion for Addison.
Under improvement to its bottom line in 2010.
Similarly, the leadership of Tom Robinson, the company continued to PeclersParis, who began reporting to B to D in late 2009, deliver a strong performance with a number of significant achieved a turnaround after several challenging years.
new business wins for the year across Europe, including Addison and VBAT both continued to expand their offerings, BASF, Sulzer and BG Group.
The companys reputation for with Addison establishing themselves in the area of digital delivering leading edge consultancy and design in corporate communications and VBAT further building their communications has seen a growth in revenues outside of its international profile.
New and existing clients alike Our companies once again distinguished themselves are seeking Addisons skills to help manage and develop their as industry leaders, winning several high profile awards.
identities, position them in the key area of sustainability, Notably, The Partners retained its No.
1 position in Design both internally and externally, and deliver these across the Weeks Creative League Table and was also named by growing list of digital platforms.
Marketing magazine as Branding Agency of the Year in the Addisons position as Europes leading corporate reporting UK.
The Brand Union won a Bronze Lion at Cannes for its agency was reinforced through another good performance work on House of Barbie in Shanghai and was also awarded across the UK, the Netherlands and Switzerland, as well EconomicTimes Agency of the Year in India.
Landor finished as further success in France and Germany.
Recognition of the companys leading position in this area included the prestigious Henri Sijthoff prize for its work on TNTs 2009 Annual Report and, for the third time, the AccountancyAge FTSE Report of the Year for WPPs 2009 Annual Report.
FITCH full report on page 68 2010 was a much better year for FITCH.
Under the leadership of Lois Jacobs, the company completed the restructuring that began in 2009, enabling it to focus on its core offer of translating brand into consumer experience.
In 2010 the company grew its worldwide revenues and saw a dramatic improvement to its bottom line despite ending its involvement in conference and event production.
FITCHs Middle East offering in Kuwait, Doha and Dubai was combined under one leader, Oliver Auroy, and the US offices were combined under Victoria Leavitt.
Growth was seen in almost all 10 offices: of particular note were London and Doha which both experienced strong double-digit growth.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 65 How were doing Branding & Identity Lambie-Nairn awards won worldwide.
It was also named by Marketing magazine in the UK as 2010 Branding Agency of the Year.
Led by CEO Christian Schroeder, Lambie-Nairn had strong This is the first time in history both awards were won by the growth through 2010 and opened four new offices in Madrid, same company in one year.
Buenos Aires, Mexico City and Bogota.
Much of this growth Under the leadership of CEO Jim Prior, The Partners was driven by the companys role as Global Brand Guardians continued its move onto more of the global stage.
It was for the Telefonica Group, working on the Telefonica, appointed as Global Brand Guardian for Vodafone in 2010, Movistar and O brands.
a significant new business win for the company.
The agency 2 Lambie-Nairn continued to grow in Germany with the has also continued to develop its strong relationships with rebranding of global aerospace and defence company, EADS, key clients Deloitte, Aviva, eBay and AstraZeneca.
The being the highlight of 2010.
The company also grew their New York office, which opened in 2008, continues to gather business in the Middle East with some great successes, strong momentum with clients such as Chevron, Carnegie notably developing the brand for the winning Qatar 2022 Hall and the government of the island of Aruba.
bid for the FIFA World Cup.
VBAT PeclersParis For Netherlands-based VBAT, 2010 proved to be a 2010 was a strong year of growth for PeclersParis, in Europe, challenging year, characterized by a distinct difference China and the US, both in consulting and trend publications.
between the first half and second half of the year.
Where At a time when consumer needs are more difficult to predict the first six months proved to be disappointing, still heavily than ever, many of the worlds leading brands turned to affected by the economic turmoil, the last six months showed PeclersParis to help fuel their product development a significant recovery.
innovation projects with creative and style direction.
Despite the economic situation, VBATs long-term Under the leadership of CEO Eric Duchamp, the company relationships with key clients such as Campina, Heineken continued to build its relationships with key clients including and Intergamma continued to grow in 2010.
Its continued Carrefour, Samsung, and BASF.
Always at the forefront of focus on its retail expertise was rewarded with added trend research, PeclersParis helped its clients to develop opportunities with existing clients like SNS Reaal and Jumbo ownable signature styles for their brands, build an emotional Supermarkets, and also attracted the attention of many new link with consumers and drive sales.
The companys creative effort in 2010 was recognized with a Graphis Gold for SNS Reaal.
VBAT continued to build its international profile with The Brand Union full report on page 67 successful launches for Cuauhtmoc Moctezuma, Carta Blanca Mexico, Tri Medvedya and Oxota Russia.
Led by Led by Simon Bolton, The Brand Union had a good year, chairman CEO Eugene Bay, who reassumed leadership of the gathering pace in business performance throughout the year company in October, VBAT has a positive outlook on the and showing strong top-line and bottom-line growth.
This coming year and is determined to deliver significant growth was in spite of the challenging macroeconomy and most clients in 2011. continuing to be cautious in their activity planning.
Growth was principally fuelled by the outstanding performance of the companys enlarged New York team, Landor Associates full report on page 42 improvement across its Asia Pacific network and sustained growth from its multinational business.
Landor pushed past the worst of the recession in 2010, strengthening its global performance across the breadth of our corporate and consumer branding practices.
The Partners In particular, the company enjoyed an excellent year with Procter & Gamble, its largest client.
Landor not only The Partners once again delivered a strong performance in cemented its role as P&Gs appointed design partner across 2010, accomplishing its fifth consecutive year of revenue, many of their most iconic brands, but was also invited to profit and margin growth.
Driven by its focus on creative partner with P&G in its high-profile sponsorship of the solutions and thought leadership, the company continues London 2012 Olympics.
In addition, Landors performance to be one of the most creatively recognized agencies in the ratings were strengthened in every one of its audited world.
Notably, The Partners retained its No.
1 position in geographies, making it a record-breaking year in the long DesignWeeks Creative League Table based on major design history of this relationship.
66 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Branding & Identity The Brand Union 16 countries over the African continent.
In India too, our Bangalore office helped GSK restage the giant Report by Simon Bolton below Horlicks brand.
Worldwide chief executive officer In the fourth quarter, we were awarded major corporate branding assignments for Sony led from London, Sorouh We had a good year, gathering pace in our business Abu Dhabi and Prudential Hong Kong.
throughout the year and showing strong top-line and bottom-line growth.
This was in spite of the challenging Network development macroeconomy and most companies continuing to be cautious in their activity planning.
We continue to look for geographic opportunities to build Our growth was principally fuelled by the outstanding our business with key clients.
In February we opened an performance of our enlarged New York team, improvement office in Moscow.
The team has quickly added value for across our Asia Pacific network and sustained growth from key clients such as Henkel, JTI and the St Petersburg-based our multinational business.
At time of going to press, we announced that we will Building with our key clients launch The Brand Union in Bangkok, taking over an energetic team led by Khun Dzovinar Basill, formerly with Three years ago we launched the Key Client Partnership Ogilvy.
They have a venerable client base that includes CP initiative around a number of our forward-looking clients, Foods, Boon Rawd Singha Beer Brewery and Thorensen.
investing in existing and new service offerings around the We continue to explore opportunities to expand our world to underpin our mutual growth.
Increased business footprint in the Middle East, Africa and Latin America.
from this collaborative way of working flowed in 2010 from key clients: Bank of America, Ericsson, Henkel, Mars, JTI, Leadership in motion Pernod Ricard, Reckitt Benckiser and Vattenfall.
Key Client Partnerships now account for half of our We believe that one of the tenets to our successful year has revenues, emphasising a conscious shift in our business been the transfer of key talent around our network.
Toby from project to relationship mentality.
Southgate has transferred from our New York office to head up our London business, having previously run our Abu New client wins Dhabi operation.
Alan Couldrey has moved from Bangkok to Hong Kong to become CEO of our Asia Pacific network New business wins are the partnerships of tomorrow and and Ismael Ibnoulouafi will shortly move from Moscow to we had a strong year pitching and winning new clients.
London where he will take up the new role of international We helped Time Warner Cable re-launch its brand in North client service director.
America, and also helped Bharti Airtel re-launch its brand Additionally, we saw the transfer of talent from Dublin across the Indian sub-continent and its extension across to London, and from Dubai to Singapore and New York.
These are great examples of our people broadening their international experience for the benefit of themselves, the network and especially our clients.
Awards and recognition We had another successful year, winning in the major creative shows: Graphis, Red Dot, Clio and DBA.
We were the only international branding design agency to win a Lion in the Design category at Cannes.
Our Bangalore office was once again named Agency of the Year by TheEconomic TimesofIndia.
Having earned that accolade from Marketing magazine in 2009, London came in joint runner-up and our Singapore office was strongly commended in CampaignBrief.
From this compelling platform, we look forward to building The Brand Union story in 2011.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 67 How were doing Branding & Identity FITCH Russia remains a strong market for FITCH.
In 2009 we created Sberbanks new brand identity and in 2010 we were Report by Lois Jacobs below pleased to design the banks 19 pilot branches.
This latest Chief executive officer work is a clear example of our ability to combine both our graphic and environmental design skills in one integrated As we had hoped, 2010 was a much better year for FITCH.
Further new clients in Russia included We completed the restructuring that began in 2009, enabling consumer electronics retailer Eldorado, and telecoms us to focus on our core offer of translating brand into company, Beeline.
We gained many new clients in other regions in 2010 In 2010 we grew our worldwide revenues and saw a including Target, The Sports Authority and Fixtures Living dramatic improvement to our bottom line despite ending in the US: Land Securities and UBS in Europe: Jumeirah in our involvement in conference and event production.
We the Middle East: L&T, Infosys and Bajaj Auto in India: rationalised our Middle East offering in Kuwait, Doha and Philips in Singapore: and Sundan in China.
Indeed our work Dubai under one leader, Olivier Auroy, and combined our US in China, with both new and existing clients like Dell and offices under Victoria Leavitt.
We saw growth in almost all Nokia, prompted us to open our newest FITCH office in our 10 offices: of particular note were London and Doha Beijing at the end of the year.
which both experienced strong double-digit growth.
We saw growth in almost all our 10offices: of particular note were London and Doha Early in 2011 we will be opening in Delhi to complement our Mumbai office.
As a global design consultancy its important for us to look forward as we create consumer experiences that will be both compelling and engaging.
Shopping options are changing dramatically and there is an ever-increasing need to provide people with reasons to visit the store.
At FITCH we spend a lot of time examining consumer trends as evidenced in our latest white paper, FutureRetail.
We see an atavistic yearning for community spirit, cooperation and collaboration.
The meaning of value is being redefined and retailers are responding with concepts such as Freetail and Tryvertising.
Inline retail embraces new technologies which increase engagement as the digital and physical worlds converge.
Future Retail formats are being defined by flexibility, convenience, speed of reaction, local relevance and clarity of choice while powerful storytelling, delivered in seconds, gives brands a way to cut through the noise.
There has never been a more exciting time for retail and for retail designers.
