What we think The US and traditional media bite back director to the West Coast to manage its US expansion as in marketing services.
Instead of concentrating solely on Fresh & Easy.
It will not be simple: the demands are different amounts spent outside the organisation, closer examination and the model will be significantly based on rehabilitating is being made of amounts spent inside the company.
blighted areas on the West Coast.
WPP has become involved recently in outsourcing projects It is no surprise that agencies are also consolidating.
Havas in the automotive and internet services industries.
In a and Aegis, IPG and Publicis, Dentsu selling its 15% stake in number of other areas, including advertising, direct Publicis in 2012 to buy a global network of its own effectively marketing and research, there is interest in what can be a rolling $1.2 billion equity put on Publicis by Dentsu, Ipsos, done in outsourcing costs.
Clearly this tends to make internal GfK and Nielsen being involved in significant consolidation marketing departments more defensive about their functions.
activity in market research are all current rumours.
Certainly We have seen much of this, for example, in the media in the one area where there are big economies of scale media buying area.
To negotiate with a Rupert Murdoch, Sumner Redstone, Mel Karmazin, Bob Iger or Brian Roberts, larger scale is essential.
Media buying, or Integrated, global and at a good price what we call Media Investment Management, is one of WPPs fastest-growing businesses, driven by clients looking for mediaFormed initially in response to the pressures of buying efficiencies rather than reductions in agencies consolidation and to house conflicting accounts, the supercommissions.
Like-for-like revenue growth in the last four agencies or what we at WPP prefer to call the parent years has consistently been well above WPPs overall like-forcompanies really represent the full-service agencies of like growth.
Often client savings on gross media budgets of the 21st century.
Long before the phrase integrated 5-10% are achievable.
communications came into common use, integrated Media savings are driving client centralisations and are communications were exactly what such full service a quick kill in demonstrating efficiencies, as Nestl and agencies provided.
Over time and as a result of two Unilever have shown.
The traditional media owners are pressures these departments became unbundled.
Clients not only having to fend off disintermediation by new sought to reduce costs, and the media and craft specialists technologies, but the pricing pressure from significant within agencies, feeling under-recognised as members of a consolidation of media budgets.
But even on the creative side, mother agencys department, looked for greater recognition voracious procurement departments and ill-judged price and reward in free-standing, specialist companies of their competition by agencies themselves are driving consolidation own.
Importantly, this involved a split between the the $100 million pitch win headline in Advertising Age or creative agency and the media agency, reducing costs from Campaign is more satisfying than real revenue.
We have seen approximately 15% of gross media costs to about 12%.
two of our competitors desperately write cheques or subsidise Good media people left and started independents such account pitches to the tune of $20 to $30 million to retain as Carat, Media Planning Group, CIA and Western accounts globally or in the UK one of which decisions has International, which grew organically and by acquisition.
been reversed in 18 months in our favour.
Competitors seem to ignore the exponential risks of going short in markets that may be becoming increasing long, by giving undeliverable Clients still require, first and media pricing guarantees and failing to book consequent foremost, creativity and great creative balance sheet liabilities.
Second, but increasingly, they want better co-ordination.
Finally, they Outsourcing an opportunity want it at the lowest possible price Growing consolidation in our industry is reducing the available resources for clients.
It is ever more difficult to find The same pattern was seen among packaging, market co-ordinated resources that can deliver what clients require, research, merchandising, PR and other specialist skills.
particularly if they are an international, multinational or Many such companies have now been re-absorbed into the global company.
Smaller, countryor city-based operations super-agencies, but in an inter-dependent or autonomous cannot offer the depth of coverage or breadth of resources.
Strong media or marketing services specialists do One interesting recent development is the growing not like, understandably, to be subsumed under advertising interest in outsourcing parts or all of the marketing function.
professionals, particularly when they have enjoyed a Clearly this is an opportunity for us and is being driven by taste of freedom.
CEOs focus on costs and their analysis of their investment 100 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010
