How were rewarded Compensation Committee report onbehalfofthe Board Dear share owner What changed in 2010?
ollowing a very challenging 2009, the performance of Details of all elements of compensation and any changes the Group improved considerably in 2010.
The design made to them are set out in the following pages.
To summarise, F of compensation policy at WPP ensures that there is a the key decisions and changes to compensation during the clear and direct link between the performance of the Group year were as follows: and executive compensation throughout the Group.
In 2010, the fees of the chairman and the non-executive directors, the strong performance of the Group therefore resulted in both all of which have been in place since 1 January 2007, were increased incentive levels for management and strong returns increased with effect from January 2011: for share owners.
The use of performance-driven compensation bonuses for 2010 performance were larger than those in ensures the continued alignment of share owner and executive 2009, reflecting the strong Group performance over the year.
interests and is essential to enable the Company to attract, In accordance with the Companys policy, a substantial retain and motivate the most gifted talent in the industry.
proportion of the 2010 bonus was paid in the form of deferred shares that vest two years after grant: changes to the compensation packages for the executive 2010 highlights directors were considered and increases in base salary for both Paul Richardson and Mark Read were agreed and The committees work during 2010 included: implemented, with effect from January 2011: and a review of the total compensation packages of the executive a review of the Group chief executives overall incentive directors relative to the marketplace to ensure competitiveness: structure commenced and is continuing.
The committee the approval of all stock plan awards used to attract, intends to consult share owners on this subject before the retain, reward and motivate employees: proposals are finalised.
The final changes agreed will be a review of the fees of the chairman and the non-executive disclosed in the 2011 Compensation Committee report.
directors: As always, I would like to thank my fellow committee the approval of all incentive payments, payable in cash members, Philip Lader, Esther Dyson, Tim Shriver and or in shares, for senior executives throughout the Group Colin Day, as well as Bud Morten, the former chairman of and setting appropriate performance targets for the Group the committee, for their continued support.
The committees chief executive and the other executive directors: thanks also go to Marie Capes the Company Secretary, approving the deferral and further deferral of significant Mark Linaugh the chief talent officer and Derek Steptoe share incentive awards by the Group chief executive: and the worldwide compensation & benefits director.
implementation of clawback provisions in the Companys senior management share incentive plans.
Jeffrey Rosen Chairman of the Compensation Committee 18 April 2011 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 135 How were rewarded  Composition of the Compensation Committee For this reason, the design of all executive compensation at WPP is governed by three guiding principles: During 2010, the Compensation Committee comprised competitiveness: the following: performance-driven reward: and Jeffrey Rosen chairman of the committee : alignment with share owner interests.
Esther Dyson: These three principles are themselves derived from both Philip Lader: our mission statement see page 12 and our six business Tim Shriver from 29 June 2010 : and objectives see pages 24 to 29.
The Compensation Committee regularly reviews fixed No member of the committee has any personal financial and variable compensation against appropriate benchmarks interest other than as a share owner as disclosed on page 147 both internal and external.
When making decisions on in the matters to be decided by the committee, potential executive compensation, the committee is briefed on the conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships or remuneration levels within the Group.
This includes, for day-to-day involvement in running the Groups businesses.
example, the consideration of actual and budgeted salary The terms of reference for the Compensation Committee increases across the organisation when determining executive are available on the Companys website and will be on salary increases.
In addition, the committee approves the display at the AGM, as set out in the Notice of AGM.
design of incentive plans and reviews all the awards made under those incentive plans.
The chart below shows the proportion of total Advisors to the Compensation Committee compensation for executive directors which is variable due to the linkage to performance compared to fixed compensation.
The Compensation Committee regularly consults with Group executives, particularly the Group chief executive who is not Split between xed and variable compensation % present when matters relating to his own compensation or contracts are discussed and decided, the chief talent officer Sir Martin Sorrell and the worldwide director of compensation & benefits.
The latter two individuals provide a perspective on Paul Richardson information reviewed by the committee and are a conduit for requests for information and analysis from the Companys Mark Read external advisors.
Towers Watson are the committees appointed compensation advisors: they did not provide any Fixed Variable 0 20 40 60 80 100 other material services to the Group.
Squire Sanders Hammonds advises the committee on legal and tax issues relating to compensation and benefits, and provides legal advice on a range of matters to the Group.
WPP is committed to aligning executive performance and The Compensation Committee receives external advice reward with share owner interests.
From a compensation on all matters pertaining to the determination of fair and perspective, this is encouraged in a number of ways: appropriate compensation packages for the executive Total Shareholder Return TSR has been chosen as the directors.
This advice covers competitive practice in performance measure for the LEAP plans as it represents comparator companies, tax and regulatory changes the best objective measure of the success of the Company and governance issues related to the role of the as far as share owners are concerned: Compensation Committee.
share ownership is encouraged for the WPP Leaders approximately the top 200 executives, all of whom have stretching ownership goals: The link between compensation and all eligible employees are given a share ownership business objectives opportunity through participation in the Worldwide Ownership Plan: and WPP competes on the basis of its intellectual capital.
This the majority of the compensation package of executive intellectual capital is created entirely by its people, and the directors is paid in the form of shares comprised of deferred committee endeavours to strike the right balance of fairness share bonus and long-term incentive awards under the between employees and share owners.
136 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 How were rewarded  Split between cash and share-based compensation % Relative TSR Rebased to 31 December 2005 200 Sir Martin Sorrell WPP FTSE 100 150 Paul Richardson Omnicom 100 Interpublic Mark Read Publicis 50 Cash Shares 0 20 40 60 80 100 0 31.12.05 31.12.06 31.12.07 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.10 .
The role of the Compensation Committee in improving risk management Key elements of shortand long-term The Compensation Committee is always sensitive to the remuneration requirement that the decisions that it makes and the compensation programs the Group has in place serve to The principal elements of WPP executive remuneration improve the management of risk in the Group.
In particular: currently comprise the following: the incentive plans take into account performance across base salaries and fees fixed : a broad range of financial and non-financial measures: short-term incentives paid both in cash payable Compensation Committee meetings are generally held at immediately and shares which vest in the medium-term, the time of Board meetings, at which the committee members usually after two years variable : and are usually given a comprehensive briefing on issues and long-term incentives paid in shares variable, subject risks facing each of the business units as well as the Group to performance conditions, and in the case of LEAP, as a whole: co-investment conditions.
one of the single biggest challenges for WPP is attracting Pension contributions, life assurance, healthcare and and retaining key talent.
Incentive plans are designed to be other benefits are also provided.
attractive in the marketplace and provide as much retention Compensation packages for the most senior people at value as possible, such as the use of deferred share bonuses WPP are normally reviewed every 24 months.
These reviews that normally vest after two years, and the use of restricted are undertaken within the context of: stock awards that vest after three years: and the mix of fixed and variable compensation: the clawback provisions that have been added into key the performance of the relevant business unit: share incentive plans i. e. those other than the all-employee pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the plans give the Compensation Committee the right to cancel Group: and or reduce unvested share awards should this be justified by general market conditions.
In determining suitable benchmarks, the Compensation Committee looks at the compensation of executives holding similar roles in competitor organisations and, if appropriate, TSR performance general industry data for organisations of comparable size and complexity.
The Companys TSR for the period from 31 December 2005 to April 2011 is shown on the graph above right.
The FTSE Base salary and fees 100 is the index the Board considers most relevant for the Current salary and fees Effective date purpose of comparison as WPP is a mid-ranking FTSE 100 SirMartinSorrell 1,000,000 1Jan2007 company.
WPP considers its key competitors to be Omnicom, PaulRichardson $925,000and100,000 1Jan2011 Interpublic and Publicis and it is the performance of these MarkRead 425,000 1Jan2011 companies with which the Companys own performance is As reported in previous years, fees of 100,000 are paid most commonly compared.
For that reason, values for those to each of the executive directors in respect of their three companies are also displayed.
directorships of WPP plc and are included in the numbers above.
Sir Martin Sorrells base salary was last increased on 1 January 2007.
It was due to be reviewed in November 2008 with any change to be implemented from January WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 137 How were rewarded  2009: however, Sir Martin informed the Compensation In a similar way, the Compensation Committee sets Committee that an increase would not be appropriate in objectives for Sir Martin Sorrell and the other executive light of business conditions.
His salary and directors fees directors.
The extent to which these objectives are met will therefore remained unchanged throughout 2008, 2009 determine the size of both annual cash bonuses under the and 2010.
As part of the extensive review of the executive STIP and Executive Share Awards ESAs, the portion of the directors compensation at the end of 2010, the committee annual bonus paid in shares which normally vest a further considers that an increase in base salary and adjustments to two years after grant.
Consideration of No changes were made in 2010 to the levels of short-term these issues has continued during 2011 and the committee incentive payouts that would be payable for achieving either intends to consult share owners before the proposals are target or maximum performance.
The target and maximum finalised.
The final changes agreed will be disclosed in the cash bonus and ESA awards for each of the three executive 2011 Compensation Committee report.
directors in 2010 were as follows shown as a percentage As a result of the review, and being mindful of the time of salary : that has elapsed since the last salary increases, the committee Cash ESA decided to increase the base salary of the other two executive Target % Max % Target % Max % directors.
Paul Richardsons base salary was increased from SirMartinSorrell 100 200 67 100 $830,000 plus 100,000 fees to $925,000 plus 100,000 PaulRichardson 80 120 100 133 fees.
The committee believed that Mark Reads package of MarkRead 50 75 67 100 base salary and fees at 325,000 was uncompetitive and, Consistent with previous years, for 2010 the performance given the increased importance of digital strategy to the of each executive director was measured in the three areas Group and Mr Reads continuing personal development, an shown below: increase to his remuneration was in order.
As a result, Mark Group financial objectives: Examples of measures include Reads package of base salary and fees was increased to margin improvement and operating profit growth.
These increases were the first increases since July Individual strategic objectives: Examples of measures 2008 and January 2009 respectively, and both increases were include relative financial performance, advancing CSR implemented with effect from 1 January 2011. strategy, improving back office synergies and integrating digital assets.
Retirement benefits Key business achievements: Examples of measures include improving creative reputation and developing digital strategy.
All pension benefits for the Companys executive directors Each of these three elements is equally weighted for bonus are currently on a defined contribution basis.
Only the purposes i. e. one-third of the bonus is payable for the aggregate of base salary and director fees is pensionable.
Except for the Group Details of pension contributions for executive directors for financial objectives, the exact measures differ for each the period under review are set out on page 142. individual executive director.
After considering each of these areas and the respective Short-term incentives measures for each executive director, the committee assessed the following levels of performance: Each year WPP sets stretching performance targets for each operating company.
Performance against these targets 2010 achievement as % of target 2009 2008 determines the size, if any, of the incentive pool for that unit.
Total % Total % In aggregate, incentive payments in 2010 were higher than Cash Financial Strategic Business Total of target of target in 2009 due to improved performance.
This trend was also SirMartinSorrell 200 170 200 190 41 125 reflected in the bonuses paid to executive directors.
PaulRichardson 150 105 150 135 58 100 Individual targets both financial and strategic for the MarkRead 150 105 150 135 72 125 operating company CEOs are set by WPP and in turn, these CEOs set similar targets for employees who report directly 2010 achievement as % of target 2009 2008 to them.
Payment is in the form of both cash bonuses and Total % Total % ESA Financial Strategic Business Total of target of target deferred shares, being Performance Share Awards PSAs, SirMartinSorrell 150 127 150 142 82 112 which vest a further two years after grant.
The grant of PaulRichardson 133 93 133 120 62 100 PSAs typically occurs three months after the end of the MarkRead 150 104 150 135 72 125 financial year.
138 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 How were rewarded  These achievement levels resulted in the following Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan III bonus payments: In 2010, awards under LEAP III were made to 18 of the Cash bonus ESA bonus Groups key executives.
Details of the awards made to the Actual % Actual Actual % Actual of target 000 of target 000 executive directors can be found on page 144.
SirMartinSorrell 190 1,900 142 950 Participants have to commit and retain investments PaulRichardson 135 682 120 757 in WPP in order to receive awards under LEAP III.
Such MarkRead 135 219 135 293 investments are in the form of WPP shares investment shares and, at the invitation of the Compensation The executive directors are eligible, but decided not, to Committee, also in the form of options over WPP shares participate in a cash bonus deferral plan whereby they can purchased from an independent third party investment defer receipt of part of their bonus for four years, and receive options.
LEAP III awards provide participants with the a 25% match in the form of WPP shares subject to opportunity to earn additional WPP shares to match their continuous employment.
The number of matching In conjunction with the committees review of total shares that a participant can receive at the end of the compensation for the executive directors, the committee investment and performance period depends on the decided to adjust the levels of short-term incentive awards Companys TSR performance measured over five years and available for executive directors.
The target and maximum compared with a peer group weighted by market capitalisation.
levels for both Paul Richardson and Mark Read have been Following the end of a performance period, the adjusted for 2011 in order to better balance the cash and Compensation Committee is required to perform a fairness share incentive elements of their remuneration, and to reflect review on the basis of which it may, in exceptional market practice, and are shown below as a percentage circumstances, decide to vary the number of matching shares of salary : that will vest.
This is because relative TSR may not always reflect the true performance of the Company.
Factors the Cash ESA Target % Max % Target % Max % committee considers in its fairness review of any award PaulRichardson 100 150 100 150 include, amongst others, multiple measures of the Groups MarkRead 67 100 67 100 financial performance such as growth in revenue and in earnings per share, and any evidence of distortions in the As mentioned in the Base salary and fees section, a share price of either WPP or the peer group such as bid decision regarding adjustments to Sir Martin Sorrells price premiums.
incentive opportunities is pending the outcome of share owner consultation.
Vesting of the 2005 and 2006 LEAP awards Long-term incentives As previously reported in the 2009 Compensation Committee report, the 2005 award vested in March 2010 During the latter part of 2010, the Compensation Committee with a match of 2.50. reviewed the long-term incentive plans to assess whether they As described above, the Compensation Committee is continued to meet the strategic objectives of the Company required to perform a fairness review before any awards particularly given the increased competitive pressures that can vest.
When performing this fairness review in the context have been fuelled by the general economic recovery and of determining the level of vesting of the 2006 award, the competitors behaviour.
The committee reviewed grant levels, committee reviewed a broad range of factors in its performance criteria and vesting schedules.
The conclusion consideration of whether the relative TSR achievement was of the review was that the grant levels and vesting schedules a fair reflection of the performance of the Group over the remained appropriate and well suited to the nature of the five-year performance period or whether there were factors business.
While the committee believes that the relative TSR that required the result to be adjusted.
For the vesting of the measure that has been used for a number of years continues 2006 award, the committee considered the following factors: to be the most appropriate performance measure, the the constituents of the peer group and whether there committee periodically reviews whether the plans would be were any events that had an undue impact on their TSR strengthened by the addition of one or two further nonperformance in either a positive or negative way: market measures in order to balance TSR.
the impact of changes in exchange rates on the TSR Other than stock options, all awards will be satisfied out of calculation: and WPP shares held in treasury or one of the Companys employee the financial performance of the Company, relative to share ownership plans ESOPs.
The proceeds from any of the its peers, covering a wide range of measures including EPS, cash or share-based equity plans are not pensionable.
PBIT, margin, revenue and several other factors.
WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 139 How were rewarded  Following the fairness review, the committee concluded that the relative TSR result fairly reflected the performance of the Company over the five-year investment period, and that no adjustment was deemed necessary.
The relative TSR performance of the Company resulted in a match of 4.14 for each investment share committed to the program despite the fact that on a local currency basis the match was 4.80.
Restricted Stock Plan Other than to satisfy awards under the short-term incentive plans ESAs and PSAs, the principal use of the Restricted Stock Plan is for awards under the WPP Leaders and Partners program.
This program is used to reward, retain and align the interests of about 1,250 of our key executives with the interests of share owners.
In the program, awards are made to participants that vest three years after grant, provided the participant is still employed within the Group.
Executive directors are ineligible to participate in this plan.
Executive Stock Option Plan In order to attract or retain key talent it is sometimes necessary to make special grants of options.
No awards were granted in 2010 to any employee or executive director 1 award was granted to an employee in 2009.
However, the Compensation Committee is conscious that stock options remain a powerful motivator and, in certain circumstances, it might be necessary to make awards to a broader population under the Executive Stock Option Plan.
Worldwide Ownership Plan The Worldwide Ownership Plan is an all-employee plan that makes annual grants of stock options to employees with two years of service who work in wholly-owned subsidiaries.
During 2010, awards were made to over 45,000 employees.
By 31 December 2010, options under this plan had been granted to approximately 97,700 employees over 43.4 million shares since March 1997.
Executives who participate in one of the other share plans described above are ineligible to participate in this plan.
Share incentive dilution for 2000 to 2010 The share incentive dilution level, measured on a 10-year rolling basis, has declined to 4.4% at 31 December 2010 4.6% 2009.
It is intended that awards under all plans, with the exception of the Worldwide Ownership Plan, will all be satisfied with purchased shares held either in the ESOPs or in treasury.
140 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 How were rewarded  Key elements of shortand long-term remuneration Performance Objective Participation period Conditions Change of control Short-term Basesalary Tomaintain Allemployees.
n a Salarylevelsare n a package determinedbytaking competitiveness anumberofrelevant atalllevels factorsintoaccount, withintheGroup.
includingindividual andbusinessunit performance, level ofexperience, scope ofresponsibilityand thecompetitiveness oftotalremuneration.
Cashbonus Toincentivise Approximately10% 1year Achievement  deliveryof ofemployeesare ofchallenging .
financialand non-financial at theindividualand businessunitlevel.
shareawards deliveryofvalue company challenging andtoalign executives.
awards deliveryofvalue executivesand  andtoalign executivedirectors.
Long-term LEAPIIIand Toincentivise Participationoffered 5years RelativeTSR Onachangeofcontrol, theinvestmentperiod RenewedLEAP long-term onlytothosekey performanceagainst , thenumber performanceby executives currently agroupofkey  comparingWPPs nomorethan20 communication  andanyother TSRagainsttheTSR people whose servicescomparator rightscease.
 ofkeycomparators contributions companies,  whichare transcendtheir weightedbymarket provisionsapplying.
TheCompensation weightedbymarket day-to-dayrole, capitalisationinthe  capitalisationinthe includingexecutive caseofLEAPIII, .
subjecttoafairness andtomaximise reviewbythe alignmentwith Compensation shareowner Committee.
RestrictedStock Toencouragea Directorsand n a Typicallythree-year  Plan shareownership seniorexecutives retentionperiod.
 cultureand oftheoperating  long-termretention companiesand  aswellas seniorheadoffice  supporting executives.
ExecutiveStock Toprovideatoolto Occasionaluseonly 3years Conditions, ifany, are  OptionPlan promoteretention todealwithspecial determinedatthetime  andrecruitment.
Worldwide Todevelopa Employeeswith n a Three-yearvesting  OwnershipPlan strongerownership atleasttwoyears period.
