What we think The US and traditional media bite back As the new specialist media investment management The only issue preventing this from being a trend is whether agencies have grown in power, new media technologies have clients can be convinced of the benefits.
developed and the media agencies have developed strong Our business is polarising between big and small.
The creative agencies have become middle of the road is becoming an increasingly difficult place increasingly discomforted and called for re-integration.
to be, with traffic coming from both directions.
Agencies This is not possible in our view: the toothpaste is out of excluded from the super-agency pitches because they lack the tube.
Media agencies have declared UDI and won their the scale and resources must be feeling uncomfortable.
They will not report again to account, planning or creative management.
Similarly, media agencies should not develop traditional creative capabilities, even Procurement and creativity under the guise of digital.
If clients want better co-ordination between creative and media agency which in some cases The days of 15% gross commissions 17.65% on cost are needs to be improved the best way to do it is by housing long gone.
Commission levels have receded to around 12% the media planners in the creative agency, but with them gross for full service, including media planning and buying, remaining employed by the media agency.
The creative or, as we put it, Media Investment Management.
Production agencies have paid a heavy price for ignoring the importance commissions have largely been reduced or eliminated, of media.
The medium is increasingly becoming more although there are interesting procurement opportunities important or as important as the message.
for agencies themselves in television production.
While commissions persist, fees are becoming more popular with clients, although that momentum seems to The medium is increasingly have slowed recently.
They now represent at least 75% of our business.
Usually time-based, with incentives, they are becoming more important or as used almost exclusively in our marketing services business, important as the message which accounts for 59% of our revenues.
In advertising, they account for well over half of our business.
Today, the new super-agencies have a big opportunity.
Fees have a number of advantages and, on balance, Clients still require, first and foremost, creativity and great we prefer them.
They are not seasonal, in a business where creative ideas.
Second, but increasingly, they want better spending tends to be concentrated in the second and fourth co-ordination.
Finally, they want it at the lowest possible quarters.
January, however, has generally become a more price.
The challenge is therefore to provide the best ideas in rewarding month.
If clients cut or do not spend or the best co-ordinated or integrated way at the lowest cost.
continually re-brief us, we still get paid.
Until recently, this might have been seen as a fad, but now Finally, when fee-driven, we tend to plan our annual the concept may be taking root.
Four major multinational business better.
Fees have also tended to dampen volatility clients three of them with origins or significant parts of in our operating margins.
their business in Asia invited four or five of the largest I cannot remember a time, in the 36 or so years I have holding or parent companies to present for their global been in the industry, when clients have been so focused on advertising and marketing services business.
Given overcapacity, low inflation and lack of pricing the presentations included advertising and media power and high management turnover and, most investment management, and direct and, in one case, importantly, the shadow of the economic crisis and the near research.
All these clients were looking for an integrated Armageddon or Apocalypse Now of the Lehman weekend, global solution to their needs and for groups that can that is perhaps understandable.
However, the question offer alternative solutions potentially a weakness of the remains whether the procurement process can successfully single network.
purchase creative services in the way door handles or widgets In all four pitches, a group or parent company solution are bought.
The emphasis on procurement seemed to start was selected.
WPP tribes were successful in two of them.
in the pharmaceutical industry and then moved elsewhere.
In the third and fourth, we were constrained by significant It may work in media buying, where there are clearly conflict issues.
The CEO of one eliminated parent company economies of scale, but not necessarily in media planning in the first round of the first pitch declared that this was not or other creative areas.
After at least four similar pitches, he has changed It is true we must improve our processes and eliminate his mind and is pursuing a holding company approach.
waste, but can you buy ideas or our peoples creativity in In addition, many other group pitches have taken place such a mechanical way?
Increasingly, pressure on price will particularly in pharmaceuticals, and Public Relations & drive our best creative resources to clients and categories Public Affairs that have been under the trade papers radar.
where their services are rewarded appropriately.
