How were doing Media Investment Management GroupM Report by Irwin Gotlieb right Chief executive officer By the end of 2010, GroupM once again found itself the undisputed worldwide market leader among all global media agency networks.
RECMA, the independent organization that measures media agency sector operations, reported that GroupM held almost a 29% share of the total measured volume among all its competitors with $73.3 billion in worldwide billings.
In its report, RECMA said: GroupM is leading the race by a considerable margin almost 30% on its closest challenger.
The primary goal of GroupM is to provide support for each of our operating companies Maxus, MEC, MediaCom and Mindshare as both a parent company and collaborator.
We focus on activities that benefit our clients, such as trading, content creation, digital communications, new business, finance, proprietary tool development and other critical capabilities.
Like all companies, GroupM felt the impact of the global economic recession that began in 2008 and lasted into 2010, but at the same time we began to see signs of improvement as the year progressed and the economy improved.
Our agencies experienced significant new business wins around the globe and also benefitted from varying degrees of organic growth from existing clients.
The account wins, along with industry awards, are outlined in the individual agency accounts found in the following pages of this report.
These platforms also rely on robust data Throughout 2010, GroupM also continued to focus on capabilities, which we have developed in conjunction with our partners at 24 7 Real Media.
GroupM showed progress in several other areas GroupM continued to focus on throughout 2010.
For example, in the spring we launched a new division dedicated to corporate trading.
Dubbed the developing new initiatives designed Midas Exchange, the unit is dedicated to helping our clients to... maintain our global reputation secure media credits in exchange for underperforming assets.
asapioneering influence throughout The Midas Exchange was formed at the request of clients who asked that WPP, in cooperation with GroupM, enter our industry the corporate trading arena to complement current services, seamlessly deliver a media plan consistent with objectives developing new initiatives designed to keep our company and be fully accountable for the total media product.
at the forefront of the media services business and maintain GroupM also took an important step in 2010 to address our global reputation as a pioneering influence throughout the issue of diversity in the advertising and media industries.
This was especially true in the digital In the fall, we formed a new partnership with the City communications arena.
College of New York designed to identify and cultivate We have been at the forefront in the development and college students for careers in the advertising industry.
deployment of advanced DSP Demand Side Platform and The program, called the GroupM Professional Development RTB Real-Time Bidding platforms.
These technologies have Initiative, is available to students in CCNYs Advertising been developed in partnership with the MIG, our Media Public Relations Program with an emphasis on Innovations Group, along with our WPP technology partner, undergraduates with ethnically-diverse backgrounds.
These developments will become In other areas, GroupM continues to be a leading increasingly important during 2011 and beyond as more of prognosticator of worldwide advertising spending in both our clients investments shift to digital media and the focus traditional and digital media, issuing several ThisYear, of the investment shifts to identifying and acquiring highlyNextYear forecast reports throughout 2010.
Last year we 50 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010
