How were doing Media Investment Management Mindshare As the global media markets recovered we were able to invest back into other areas of the business.
For example, Report by Dominic Proctor below we made a lot of significant hires in Business Planning, a Chief executive officer discipline which our clients are encouraging us to expand.
As the world becomes more fragmented and chaotic we need 2010 was a remarkable year for Mindshare.
to provide simple and clear advice on how to optimise Through the hard work and dedication of our teams marketing expenditure.
around the world we managed to win many new clients, There was also a big focus on digital media, our fastestincluding LOreal, Boehringer Ingelheim, CVS, Abbott, growing activity.
Bringing digital talent into the agency is a Radio Shack, Air Asia and Mexico Tourism.
Winning new big priority for us and our clients.
During 2010 we developed accounts and keeping old ones is still the clearest sign of very successful digital initiatives for LG, Unilever, Ford, Nike success and momentum in the agency business.
By this and American Express, amongst others.
measure we had a very strong performance in every region in the world.
The most successful regional performance was from The development and management North America.
Under a new management team, the business of original content for clients is grew considerably in 2010, its best ever performance.
increasingly important for cutting Highlights included the winning of Unilevers business in Canada, to add to the US business.
Indeed, the conclusion of through the communications clutter the global Unilever review was a real highlight for Mindshare as we won or retained the account in most world markets after a fiercely competitive pitch.
The third broad area of focus in 2010 was our Content Clearly during the last two years media pricing has been business.
The development and management of original an even bigger focus than usual.
We are fortunate that as content for clients is increasingly important for cutting part of GroupM we are part of the worlds biggest buying through the communications clutter.
We won many group, so we have always been extremely competitive on awards for this work, including a Gold Lion at Cannes that front.
It will be important to continue to develop this practice.
Talking of awards we also won Agency of the Year in many countries including Belgium, Turkey, Netherlands, China, Hong Kong, India and Singapore.
This is a real testament to the dedication of our staff as well the support of our clients and friends.
2011 is shaping up to be another very good year!
