How were doing Advertising agency networks JWT We also won dedicated digital accounts for Rimmel Coty and Simponi.
Retail reigned strong: we added mammoth Report by Bob Jeffrey below retail chain Pernambucanas in Brazil and Levis unique Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer second brand dENiZEN in Hong Kong.
We successfully launched Bing, Microsofts decision engine, in North America and the UK and further expanded our relationship with Microsoft into Brazil and China, focusing on their Genuine Windows product.
We also saw growth on Mazda, by taking on its North America communication business.
Over the past year we have taken significant steps to ensure that digital is an organic and integral part of what everyone does at JWT Kraft, an 87-year-old client, became even bigger with the purchase of Cadbury a client for 35 years.
The combined company includes some of the worlds most famous brands, including Philadelphia, Jacobs and Trident.
Meanwhile, we continued to successfully nurture and revitalize enduring relationships with Bayer, Kelloggs, Rolex, Royal Caribbean JWT creates ideas that people want to spend time with.
And more so than ever, time is the currency defining which Increasing fragmentation in the advertising industry is brands are successful in todays complex, multi-channel, making it more difficult for clients to keep their focus on the always-on world.
long-term, strategic building of their brands.
One key to our In a fragile global economic environment with 2010 success is the push by David Eastman, JWTs worldwide being a year of transition out of recession our singledigital director, to put interactivity and multi-channel minded focus on creating ideas that people want to spend thinking at the heart of the network.
In early 2010, David time with drove our growth.
was appointed CEO of JWT North America, marking the Last year also garnered industry honors.
We had our first time a large agency placed a digital native in Davids best-ever performance at the Cannes Lions International case, one with nearly 15 years experience at interactive Advertising Festival 42 Lions with awards earned for companies in a key leadership role.
many key global clients, reflecting the breadth of creative Underlying our strategy to multiply our digital dexterity talent across the network.
Among our Lions: work for is the concept of Hire, Acquire, Educate, and over the past Kimberly-Clark and HSBC via London : Nestl Kit Kat via year we have taken significant steps to ensure that digital is New Zealand : Heineken via Milan : Ford via Argentina : an organic and integral part of what everyone does at JWT.
and a coveted Titanium Lion for Microsoft via New York.
The digital talent we have attracted runs from creative We also saw stellar results at the Effie Awards for technologists and user-experience design experts to branded effective marketing recognition for delivering campaigns entertainment and analytics.
And these individuals are that get results.
JWT scored a Grand Effie for Nestl work baking digital in at the idea-conception stage.
out of Australia, as well as a slew of Gold Effies: two for We also acquired Digitaria, a 100-person, award-winning Ford out of Team Detroit: two for JWT New York for digital shop in San Diego, with a strong media work on Schick Quattro and HSBC: as well as awards for telecommunications client base including DreamWorks, the U. S. Marines via Atlanta : Johnson & Johnson Listerine ESPN, FOX Corp. the National Football League and via Budapest : and Nestl via Peru.
Additional acquisitions in Brazil underscore In 2010, we added new clients to our roster, representing our commitment to high-growth markets and recognize the a broad range of industries including the technology and significant skills that exist there: the full-service digital shop media sectors Bloomberg in the US and Comcel in Midia Digital and SEO specialists i-Cherry bolster our digital Colombia and telecommunications, with Airtel in India.
36 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Advertising agency networks Were seeing the fruits of our labor with more creative And to ensure that we never rest on our past performance, work that captures peoples attention and greatly extends we monitor our client relationships via a unique agency their time spent with our clients brands.
From expanding appraisal system, ensuring client feedback reaches critical use of social media platforms such as Facebook and Zynga stakeholders to protect and nurture our client base.
to engage consumers with Unilever Lux, to developing Looking ahead to 2011, as consumers spend time with innovative new ways to efficiently connect the next two an increasing number of channels and media, JWT will be in billion mobile users across markets for Nokia, our all of those areas with outstanding creative, engaging commitment to create ideas that engage consumers content, pure entertainment, and ideas people want to spend anywhere and everywhere was evident.
Some additional highlights of our work in 2010: It will be a year to get things done.
Im not talking Developed a spectacularly innovative multi-channel about activation weve already achieved that but rather campaign for Diageo, the Smirnoff Nightlife Exchange bringing to life all of our great ideas, plans, discussions and Project.
Incubated and executed in a collaborative global concepts.
Now is the time to DO, and as JWT nears its think tank, the campaign joined and physically swapped 150th year in the business, Im thrilled about leading the the nightlife experiences of 14 countries in an evening of entire JWT family in these exciting times.
unique entertainment, propelling our relationship with Diageo into new territory.
Rolled out Shells new global campaign, Lets Go, across channels into a truly multi-discipline communications platform, with extremely positive results across the globe.
Launched Energizer Schicks Hydro Razor in the US in April, with sales results in this competitive category exceeding expectations: the European and Asian launches in Q4 saw similarly impressive results.
Extended our Yes, Virginia campaign in its second year for Macys department store into branded merchandise, DVD sales, window display installations and a balloon in the Macys Thanksgiving Day Parade.
Were also pioneering digital in the retail environment with an industry first: delivering consumer-oriented video content via mobile phones using QR codes in-store at Macys.
Were seeing the fruits of our laborwith more creative work that captures peoples attention and greatly extends their time spent with our clients brands In an important move to fully leverage a global footprint, were using innovative technology to break down barriers, enabling us to crowdsource talent within our own network of nearly 10,000 employees, and work faster and leaner through virtual environments.
Collaboration and communication are the core objectives of these efforts, making it more efficient, for example, to get an SEO expert from Brazil to work with a digital creative team in Europe, on a blue-chip global client.
That is the true power of a global network spanning 200-plus offices in more than 90 countries, among them the emerging BRIC markets and up-and-coming Next 11, where we have had thriving presences for decades.
