56 Governance Directors Report continued At the AGM held in 2009, the Company by the trustee, Capita IRG Trustees Limited, Statement of directors responsibilities was granted authority by shareholders to as directed by the participants.
Details The directors are responsible for preparing purchase up to 10,011,000 ordinary shares, of share-based payments, including the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report representing approximately 10% of the information regarding the shares held by and the Financial Statements in accordance Companys ordinary share capital as at the EBTs can be found in note 32 to the with applicable law and regulations.
No ordinary shares were Financial Statements page 117. purchased pursuant to this authority during Company law requires the directors to the year ended 31 March 2010 or to the The Company is not aware of any prepare financial statements for each date of this Annual Report.
This authority agreements between shareholders that financial year.
The directors have prepared will expire at the forthcoming AGM and, might result in the restriction of transfer the Group and Company Financial in accordance with current best practice, or voting rights in relation to the shares Statements in accordance with applicable the Company will seek to renew it.
law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the 4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5p, Change of control European Union.
Under company law the representing approximately 4.2% of the All of the Companys employee share directors must not approve the Financial Companys issued share capital, were held schemes contain provisions relating to a Statements unless they are satisfied that in treasury throughout the year following change of control of the Company following they give a true and fair view of the state a share buy-back programme.
Under these provisions, a change of affairs of the Company and the Group of control of the Company would normally and of the profit or loss of the Group for The rights and obligations attaching to the be a vesting event, facilitating the exercise of that period.
Companys ordinary shares are contained in options or transfer of allocations, subject to the Companys articles of association, a copy any relevant performance conditions being In preparing the Financial Statements, the of which is available on the Groups website satisfied.
The Company is not a party to directors are required to: www.
com or can be obtained any other significant agreements that take on request from the company secretary.
The effect, alter or terminate upon a change of s select suitable accounting policies and then articles of association can only be changed control following a takeover bid other than apply them consistently by a special resolution passed in a general its bank facility agreement, which provides s make judgements and accounting meeting of shareholders.
that on a change of control the Company is estimates that are reasonable and prudent unable to draw down any further amounts s state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted Each ordinary share other than treasury under the facility.
Further, it is not party by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed shares, which have no voting rights carries to any agreement with the directors or the right to one vote on a poll at a general employees providing for compensation and explained in the Financial Statements s prepare the Financial Statements on the meeting of the Company.
There are no for loss of ofce or employment whether restrictions on transfer or limitations on the through resignation, purported redundancy going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group holding of the Companys ordinary shares or otherwise that occurs as a result of a and no requirements for prior approval of takeover bid.
and the Company will continue in business.
Under the Companys articles of association, the directors have the power Substantial shareholders to suspend voting rights and the right to As at the date of this report, the Company receive dividends in respect of shares in had been notied of the following holdings circumstances where the holder of those of 3% or more of the total voting rights shares fails to comply with a notice issued attaching to its issued share capital: under section 793 of the Act.
Shares acquired through Atkins employee Number of Percentage of share schemes rank equally with all other 1 1 Name of holder voting rights total voting rights ordinary shares in issue and have no special Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5,129,917 5.12% rights.
The trustees of the Companys Aviva plc 3,015,076 3.01% Employee benefit Trusts EBTs have waived BlackRock Inc. 9,939,227 9.52% their rights to dividends on shares held by Legal & General Group plc 3,910,332 3.90% the EBTs, with one EBT fully waiving this Lloyds TSB Group plc 3,154,015 3.04% right and another waiving the right to Newton Investment Management Limited 6,025,203 6.02% dividends in excess of 0.01p per share.
Norges Bank 3,024,392 3.02% In addition none of the EBTs exercises Schroders plc 10,143,360 9.99% its right to vote in respect of such shares.
Veritas Asset Management UK Ltd 5,028,960 5.02% Shares held in trust on behalf of participants in the Atkins Share Incentive Plan are voted 1.
Number and percentage of voting rights per last notication received by the Company.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
