54 Governance Directors Report The directors present their annual subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
The Board considers that the performance management report on the affairs of If approved, this will mean a total dividend of the directors proposed for election and the Company and the Group, together of 27.5p per ordinary share will have re-election continues to be effective and with the Financial Statements and the been paid for the year to 31 March 2010 that they demonstrate a strong commitment independent auditors report, for the year 2009: 26.0p when added to the interim to their role.
These will be laid dividend of 9.25p per ordinary share paid before shareholders at the Annual General on 29 January 2010.
Further details regarding Directors and ofcers of the Company and Meeting AGM to be held at 1630 hours dividend payments can be found in Investor its subsidiaries benefit from directors and on Thursday 9 September 2010.
Details of Information page 126. ofcers liability insurance cover in respect the business to be considered at the AGM, of legal actions brought against them.
together with an explanation of each of Directors In addition, directors of the Company are the resolutions, are set out in the separate The names and biographical details of indemnified in accordance with article 143 Notice of Meeting.
those persons serving as directors of the of the Companys articles of association Company as at the date of this report are to the maximum extent permitted by Principal activities and business review set out in this Annual Report pages 52 law.
Prior to the adoption of new articles WS Atkins plc is the ultimate holding and 53.
Robert MacLeod, former Group of association by shareholders on company of a group of companies.
finance director, and James Morley, former 3 September 2008, all directors in Detailed information on the Groups senior independent director, resigned from appointment on that date had separate principal activities, its performance during the Board on 19 June and 30 June 2009 deeds of indemnity.
These indemnities, the past year and its prospects for future respectively.
Allan Cook and Heath Drewett which still remain in force, are available development are reported in the Chairmans were appointed to the Board during the for inspection by shareholders at the Statement pages 06 to 07, the Chief year to 31 March 2010.
Companys registered ofce during normal business hours and will be available for Executives Statement pages 08 to 09, the Business Review pages 16 to 35, the Under the Companys articles of association inspection at the AGM.
Human Resources Review pages 36 to 41 all directors must retire at the first AGM and the Corporate Responsibility Review following their appointment by the Board Neither the insurance nor the indemnities provide cover where the relevant director or pages 42 to 50.
The statements and and may offer themselves for election by reviews are incorporated into this report shareholders.
They must subsequently officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
by reference, together with the list of the retire from the Board at least every third year principal subsidiary undertakings and the and, being eligible, may offer themselves The Board of directors may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to countries in which they operate note 39 for re-election.
Additionally, one-third of to the Financial Statements on page 121. directors must retire at each AGM and the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys memorandum and articles they may offer themselves for re-election.
Acquisitions and disposals made by the of association and any directions given by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Group during the year are described in Heath Drewett, following his appointment notes 15 and 9 to the Financial Statements by the Board as a director on 15 June 2009, Specic powers are detailed in the Companys articles of association, including pages 99 and 96. was elected by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
Allan Cook, who was appointed the power to issue and buy back shares, along with the rules for the appointment Results and dividends as a director on 10 September 2009, will The Group profit after tax for the year of retire at the next AGM in September 2010 and removal of directors.
77.3m 2009: 84.2m is shown in the and, being eligible, offer himself for Consolidated Income Statement page 74. election.
Fiona Clutterbuck, Alun Grifths Directors interests in the Company and the Group are described in the and Sir Peter Williams will retire by rotation The directors recommend a final dividend of at the AGM and, being eligible, will offer Remuneration Report in Table 5 page 70.
18.25p per ordinary share in respect of the themselves for re-election.
Each will be year ended 31 March 2010, to be paid on subject to retirement by rotation at future 24 September 2010 to ordinary shareholders AGMs in accordance with the Companys on the register on 20 August 2010.
This is articles of association.
See pages 52 and 53 for Directors biographies WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
