52 Governance Board of Directors Allan Cook CBE Keith Clarke Alun Grifths Chairman Chief executive Group HR director Allan Cook was appointed a non-executive Keith Clarke was appointed a director in Alun Grifths was appointed a director director in September 2009, taking up October 2003.
He has a background in the post of chairman on 1 February 2010.
He joined the Group from Skanska AB management consultancy and has led He is a chartered engineer with more where he was executive vice president a wide range of projects in the areas of than 30 years international experience responsible for the companys activities in restructuring, organisational development in the automotive, aerospace and the UK, Poland, Czech Republic, India and and privatisation in the UK and defence industries.
He has over 30 years experience internationally.
He is an economics executive of Cobham PLC until the end in construction and engineering, having graduate and a fellow of the Chartered of December 2009.
Prior to this he held previously worked for the City of New Institute of Personnel and Development.
senior roles at GEC-Marconi, BAE Systems York, Olympia & York, Trafalgar House He was appointed Group HR director in and Hughes Aircraft.
He is a non-executive and Kvaerner.
He is an advisory board February 2003.
Alun chairs the Industry director of Marshall of Cambridge Holdings member of the Built Environment Board of the UK Resource Centre for Limited and a member of the operating Innovation Centre at Imperial College, Women in Science, Engineering and executive board of J. F. Lehman & Company.
London, Patron of the Environmental Technology UKRC, an organisation He is also chairman of the Sector Skills Industries Commission and an honorary charged with progressing the UK Council for Science, Engineering and fellow of the Institution of Structural governments strategy for increasing Manufacturing Technologies SEMTA, past Engineers.
He is currently deputy chairman the participation of women in science president of the Aerospace and Defence of the UK Construction Industry Council and engineering.
Industries Association of Europe ASD, CIC, having served as chairman from past president of the Society of British 2008 to 2010 and previously chairing its Admiral the Lord Boyce Aerospace and Defence Companies Health and Safety Committee.
He is a Non-executive director SBAC, director of the Industry Forum, member of the Nomination Committee.
Lord Boyce was appointed a non-executive director of the Apprentice Ambassador director in May 2004.
He had a Network and a committee member Heath Drewett distinguished career in the Royal Navy of the UK Ministerial Advisory Group Group finance director and the Ministry of Defence MoD that for Manufacturing.
He was awarded a Heath Drewett was appointed a director culminated in his becoming First Sea Lord, CBE in the Queens New Years Honours with effect from 15 June 2009, and professional head of the Royal Navy, in list in 2008. took over as Group finance director on 1998 and then Chief of Defence Staff, 19 June 2009.
A graduate in mathematics professional head of the Armed Forces, from Peterhouse, Cambridge, he started from 2001 to 2003.
He was elevated to the his career at  peerage in 2003 and was appointed Lord where he qualied as a chartered Warden and Admiral of the Cinque Ports accountant.
Prior to joining the Group and Constable of Dover Castle in 2004.
He he held a variety of senior finance and is a non-executive director of VT Group plc.
corporate development roles at British He is senior independent director and a Airways plc and The Morgan Crucible member of the Remuneration and Company plc.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Governance 53 Fiona Clutterbuck Dr Raj Rajagopal Sir Peter Williams Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Fiona Clutterbuck was appointed a Raj Rajagopal was appointed a Sir Peter Williams was appointed non-executive director in March 2007. non-executive director in June 2008. a non-executive director in May 2004.
She has substantial experience in all areas He held several positions at BOC Edwards He graduated from Cambridge University of corporate finance, including a particular before being appointed chief executive, with an MA and PhD in physics and focus on the financial institutions sector, a position he held until November 2006. initially pursued an academic career at gained during 15 years at Hill Samuel and He was an executive director of the BOC Cambridge and subsequently at Imperial HSBC and latterly seven years at ABN AMRO.
Group plc until November 2006 and is College, London.
After a period with She has advised on a wide range of a non-executive director of Bodycote plc VG Instruments Limited he joined Oxford transactions in many countries, including and Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
He is also Instruments plc in 1982.
He became its mergers and takeovers, public company chairman of HHV Pumps Private Ltd and chief executive in 1985 and was chairman acquisitions and fundraisings, and public non-executive chairman of The University from 1991 until his retirement in 1999. and private company sales and otations.
of Manchester Intellectual Property Limited.
He is chairman of the National Physical She has an LLB Hons from the University He is a fellow of the Royal Academy of Laboratory and was elected as fifth of London and qualied as a barrister in Engineering, a fellow of the Institution chancellor of the University of Leicester 1980.
She is a director within the corporate of Engineering and Technology IET, on 21 October 2005.
He is chairman of the ofce at Phoenix Group Holdings.
She is a fellow of the Institution of Mechanical Remuneration Committee and a member a member of the Audit, Nomination and Engineers, a fellow of the Chartered of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Institute of Management and a fellow of the Institute of Directors.
He is also an Audit Commissioner and a member of Joanne Curin the Advisory Board of the Centre for Non-executive director Business Research of Cambridge University.
Joanne Curin was appointed a He was awarded an honorary doctor of non-executive director in February 2009. science degree by Craneld University She is a chartered accountant and has in 2004 and the IETs IEE Eric Mensforth a broad range of international experience International Gold Medal for outstanding gained during her career as a senior finance contribution to manufacturing technology executive for large-scale organisations and management in 2003.
He is a in the property and construction, oil member of the Remuneration and and gas, pulp and paper, shipping and Nomination Committees.
She has worked in the UK, New Zealand and Australia and more recently held finance director roles for both Lend Lease Corporation and P&O.
She is currently a director of Intelligent Engineering Holdings, which has developed and is commercialising a composite material technology for use in heavy engineering structures.
She is chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
