Results We have successfully navigated turbulent markets by improving our business, reducing costs and exing our resources to meet demand.
We are well positioned for when growth returns.
Resilience The future for the built environment will bring more complex engineering challenges as clients put greater emphasis on planning and design disciplines to achieve maximum value from their infrastructure programmes.
This is what Atkins does well.
Growth We are investing in technical excellence and people.
We are also investing to improve our business, address growth markets and take advantage of market opportunities.
Investor information can also You can help us to reduce be viewed on your mobile our environmental impact by phone at opting to receive shareholder www.
mobi communications online at www.
com investors WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Introduction Introduction Reviews Reviews Introduction 01 Our Year p04 Introduction 04 Introduction Introduction 05 Our Year 02 Group at a Glance 04 Our Year 06 Chairmans Statement Results -7% 1.2pp -13% 6% -5% We have successfully navigated -4% turbulent markets by improving our 08 Chief Executives Statement business, reducing costs and exing our resources to meet demand.
10 Our Strategy Approximate percentages of total Group revenue Resilience The future for the built environment The Groups exposure to a variety of end markets provides resilience.
We are a strong Group in several areas: will feature more complex engineering challenges as clients put greater s Scale the ability to deploy staff emphasis on planning and design s Breadth a wide range of technical skills s Cash resources important in uncertain times disciplines to achieve maximum value s Higher end activity not commodity engineering from their infrastructure programmes.
s Adjacencies skill transfer applying skills in related areas.
Growth s We are continuing to develop our staff and making We are investing in technical Strategy Priorities Imperatives selective investment across the Group.
We are also s We are addressing very attractive markets including areas s Multi-skill, multi-local s High-performing business s Technical excellence investing to improve our business, such as renewables, nuclear and mass transit.
s Addressing attractive sectors s Carbon critical design address growth markets and take s Market opportunities.
s Health, safety, diversity s We prioritise organic growth in the core businesses and advantage of market opportunities.
look to acquire additional skills in new or existing markets s Flexing resources where they make sense.
s We will grow as a consequence of quality.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Reviews 16 Business Review 26 China and Europe Our Strategy p10 16 Overview of the business 28 Management and 10 Introduction Introduction 11 and performance in the year Project Services Our Strategy Overview 18 Segmental performance 30 Asset Management 18 Design and Engineering Solutions 32 Financial performance Strategy What we do s A multi-skill, multi-local strategy of Identity Excellence 20 Highways and Transportation 34 Principal risks and uncertainties Plan Design Enable s To operate an engineering and design consultancy in a number of local markets addressing priority sectors with high-performing businesses.
From cost and risk planning, Atkins designs intellectual capital Our clients entrust us with the feasibility studies and logistics to such as management systems management of projects, people Priorities impact assessments and stakeholder and business processes.
We also and issues ensuring that deadlines engagement activity, we plan every design physical structures such are met, costs are controlled and 22 Rail 36 Human Resources Review aspect of our clients projects.
as ofce towers, schools, bridges success is delivered.
High-performing businesses To have a portfolio of high-performing businesses and highways.
Each business to continue to improve the quality of its skills in its local markets, developing capabilities and driving efficiencies forging deep client relationships.
Addressing attractive sectors To have the breadth and depth of skills to address increasingly complex projects, increasing revenue in priority sectors Vision 24 Middle East 42 Corporate Responsibility Review Maintaining or acquiring strong technical skills in robust markets and focusing resources from across the whole Group on exploiting opportunities in sectors such as mass transit, Worlds Best Infrastructure Consultancy nuclear and renewables.
Market opportunities To have several home markets where the business is a market leader We will target chosen We will seek to consistently Buildings, transport, utilities, Our primary business model Organic investment and acquisitions to strengthen our market position in our existing geographies, and develop anticipate and address our government and industry will be selling expertise.
and their social and geographic markets and elsewhere.
Imperatives Technical excellence We constantly strive for excellence and harness the range of skills that the Group possesses to answer our clients questions better.
Objective Carbon critical design We are aiming to embed low-carbon design in all our work as a fundamental design parameter.
Health, safety, diversity We set our own challenging targets for health and safety.
Innovation is important for success.
Our ability to look at new ideas requires us to approach issues from several points of view, so diversity among our teams is essential.
Our primary objective is to create long-term shareholder value Flexing resources Having a exible resource base means the ability not only to react quickly when market Governance measured by growth in normalised diluted earnings per share.
conditions change but also to move work to where the Group resources can most effectively deliver it.
Business improvement Improving every aspect of our operations remains an ongoing priority.
people, projects, cost 52 Board of Directors WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 54 Directors Report 58 Corporate Governance Report 65 Remuneration Report Human Resources Review p36 72 Independent Auditors Report 36 Reviews Reviews 37 Human Resources Review Our people Overview Headcount The level of staff reductions was signicantly As a professional services organisation, Headcount reduced in-year from 18,017 lower in the fourth quarter and we remain Our success depends on our ability to attract remaining an employer of choice is a on 1 April 2009 to 15,601 by the year-end, confident that overall headcount has now and retain the most talented professionals prerequisite for our success.
Of this, approximately stabilised and will begin to increase from this depends on our ability to attract 600 people were already under notice the half-year onwards.
in their respective elds and to provide an and retain the most talented professionals at the start of the year, giving an in-year in their respective elds and to provide reduction of 1,816 staff from an adjusted We recognise that many colleagues an environment in which they are able opening headcount of approximately have been affected by these reductions environment in which they are able to apply to apply their skills and experience in 17,400, a reduction of 10% see Figure 1. and we have worked to alleviate addressing our clients varied needs.
Most their skills and experience in addressing our The overall reduction in headcount masked importantly we have endeavoured to Our people performance is evaluated strong performance in several businesses, redeploy those affected to vacancies clients varied needs.
alongside other aspects of performance notably in the Energy business which saw elsewhere in the Group.
Where this has financial, technical, safety and client growth driven by our continued successes not been possible, due to a mismatch engagement during monthly, quarterly in the nuclear, oil and gas and renewable of either skills or geography, we have and annual business reviews.
This markets, but was affected in particular by: provided those leaving the Group with evaluation involves tracking a range of outplacement support.
Nevertheless, metrics for headcount growth, retention, s continuing uncertainty in the Middle East the impact has been significant for many stability and employee engagement s the impact of an unusually large fall in former colleagues and it is sadly the case alongside reviews of the skills and workload in our UK water business that career opportunities in the wider capabilities of our people against an during the AMP bidding cycle market remain very limited for those assessment of the future needs of s a general reduction in headcount in most in certain professions.
We also take note of the other parts of the business as we sought results of internal and external surveys.
Whilst vacancy levels across the Group remained substantially below those seen in Whilst 2009 10 was a very difficult year recent years, our recruitment performance Financial Statements for many of our staff, with significant was good with 1,228 new staff joining headcount reduction particularly in the during the year: 1,129 via open recruitment first half of the year, we have worked hard and 99 via TUPE transfer.
both to maintain a positive employment environment and to continue to develop the skills of individuals and the capabilities of the organisation as a whole.
Our 74 Consolidated Income Statement 78 Consolidated and Parent Company performance is summarised in the sections below.
Figure 1: Headcount 2009 10 75 Consolidated and Parent Statements of Changes in Equity Company Statements of 79 Notes to the Financial Statements WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Comprehensive Income 122 Five-year Summary 76 Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets Corporate Responsibility Review p42 77 Consolidated and Parent Company 42 Reviews Reviews 43 See page 14 for our strategic Corporate Responsibility Review imperatives Statements of Cash Flows We are committed to acting responsibly Safety leadership leadership course.
The Rail business We are committed to acting responsibly towards all our stakeholders and to Atkins remains committed to health and developed the Safe by Choice behavioural taking a leadership position within our safety improvement beyond that required programme, and has seen a reduction towards all our stakeholders and to taking sector.
We publish additional information by law.
Our chief executive was the chair of in serious accidents.
This programme about our performance on our website the Construction Industry Council CIC has received positive feedback from the www.
We also and during the year we continued to work attendees of the Network Rail supplier a leadership position within our sector.
summarise this years activities on this with industry through national forums such conference, and has now also been site.
Our Corporate Responsibility Review as the Strategic Health and Safety Forum, implemented in our Highways and is structured this year in accordance with the CIC Safety Committee, and the Transportation business.
Investor Information Our corporate responsibility beliefs and our policies on safety leadership, carbon Consultants Health and Safety Forum.
reduction, respect for the environment, Atkins safety, health and environment performance align to our strategic excellence in delivery and working with Last year we reported that our Highways SHE culture survey was extended to our community.
Information relating to and Transportation business had set an our non-UK businesses.
Some 8,500 staff our people can be found in the Human industry standard for designing out risks responded to the survey, including the UK imperatives and are in accordance with Resources Review on pages 36 to 41 and in projects.
This standard has now also version, last year.
The results showed that information on corporate responsibility been adopted by the UK Governments a positive safety and environment culture our policies on: safety leadership, carbon governance and business conduct can Environment Agency and continues to exists within Atkins but that there remains 126 Company secretary and registered ofce be found in the Corporate Governance be promoted across the industry.
some variation between the businesses.
reduction, respect for the environment, Report on pages 60 to 63.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at We continue to improve safety leadership excellence in delivery and working with the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Our newly appointed Whilst only advisory, this resolution will chairman and Group finance director enable us to obtain feedback from both undertook the Construction Skills our community.
shareholders on our performance in Certication Scheme CSCS Managerial 126 Financial calendar this area.
com cr Corporate Governance Report WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 02 Introduction Group at a Glance Atkins is the UKs largest engineering and design consultancy and one of the worlds largest design rms.
We plan, design and enable our clients capital programmes.
We have the breadth and depth of expertise to respond to the most technically challenging and time-critical infrastructure projects and to facilitate the urgent transition to a low-carbon economy.
Our business Design and Highways and Rail segments Engineering Solutions Transportation We deliver engineering Our principal activities are We provide specialist and technically integrated transport planning, advising design services across a range design to a wide range of UK Government and highway of engineering disciplines, largely UK clients in the public, authorities on transport policy including signalling, civils, regulated and private sectors.
and investment appraisals: the electrication and specialist Our areas of operation include design of road improvements: services in strategic planning, water, environment, nuclear, applying intelligent transport safety and systems integration power, education, aerospace, systems to enhance network principally for heavy rail, rolling defence, oil and gas and performance: and delivering stock and metro markets.
integrated road network management and highway maintenance services.
Relative size of segment Relative size of segment Relative size of segment by revenue by revenue by revenue 390m 300m 186m Revenue Revenue Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Introduction 03 Areas of operation United Kingdom Other Europe 10, 620 Asia Pacic 870 employees employees Middle East North America 1, 1 7 0 employees 2,345 595 employees employees 1.
Full-time equivalent staff at 31 March 2010 including agency staff.
Middle East China and Europe Management and Asset Project Services Management In the Middle East, we In China we provide Faithful Gould provides We provide independent provide a full range of design, engineering, planning, urban project and cost management property asset management engineering and project design, architectural services services to a wide range services to a number of private management services for and rail design to both the of clients across the public sector clients and to public buildings, transportation mainland market and Hong and private sectors in the sector organisations within and other infrastructure Kong.
Our European business UK, USA and Asia Pacic.
central government, law programmes from our nine comprises operations in Our Management Consultants and order, education, health centres across the region.
Denmark, Ireland, Poland, business offers strategy, design and defence.
and programme management for technology-enabled business change.
Relative size of segment Relative size of segment Relative size of segment Relative size of segment by revenue by revenue by revenue by revenue 137m 134m 203m 56m Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 04 Introduction Our Year Revenue m Normalised Profit before Taxation m Results -7% -4% We have successfully navigated turbulent markets by improving our business, reducing costs and exing our resources to meet demand.
06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Resilience The Groups exposure to a variety of end markets provides The future for the built environment resilience.
We are a strong Group in several areas: will feature more complex engineering s Scale the ability to deploy staff challenges as clients put greater s Breadth a wide range of technical skills emphasis on planning and design s Cash resources important in uncertain times disciplines to achieve maximum value s Higher end activity not commodity engineering from their infrastructure programmes.
Growth s We are continuing to develop our staff and making We are investing in technical selective investment across the Group.
We are also s We are addressing very attractive markets including areas investing to improve our business, such as renewables, nuclear and mass transit.
address growth markets and take s We prioritise organic growth in the core businesses and look to acquire additional skills in new or existing markets advantage of market opportunities.
Revenue excludes the Groups share of revenue from Joint Ventures.
Operating margin and normalised profit before taxation are before exceptional items and any profits or losses from disposals, and related to continuing operations.
This is considered to be more representative of underlying trading.
Normalised diluted earnings per share EPS is based on normalised profit after tax and allows for the dilutive effect of share options.
Headcount is shown on a full-time equivalent basis at the year-end, including agency staff.
5. Dividend relating to the year, comprising the interim dividend paid in the year and the proposed final dividend.
2006 07 and 2007 08 gures are for continuing operations only.
Operating Margin % Normalised Diluted EPS Headcount Dividend Pence Pence 1.2pp -13% 6% -5% 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Approximate percentages of total Group revenue UK defence 6% 1% UK education 1% 2 % UK roads 7% 1 1 % 3% UK rail 3% 10% 2% UK power 3% 2% 2% 1% 2% 1% UK water UK facilities management 1% 1 % 2% UK other 2% 1% 1% 7% Middle East 1% 1 % 9% Public sector: national government Europe ex UK 3% 1% 2% Public sector: local government 1% 4% USA Regulated China 3% 3% Private sector Strategy Priorities Imperatives s Multi-skill, multi-local s High-performing business s Technical excellence s Identity Excellence.
s Addressing attractive sectors s Carbon critical design s Market opportunities.
s Health, safety, diversity s Flexing resources s Business improvement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 6.0 6.1 6.6 6.9 8.1 50.1 56.5 66.7 82.3 77.8 14,907 15, 8 68 17,278 18,017 15,601 16 20 24 26 27.5 06 Introduction Chairmans Statement Against a tough economic background, we have demonstrated the resilience of our strategy and our ability to produce strong results, and we are well positioned for when growth returns.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Introduction 07 Results Our diversied exposure to end markets Board of directors In this, my first year-end as chairman, gives us added resilience to market I would like to thank my predecessor I am pleased to report that Atkins has uctuations.
However, the uncertainty Ed Wallis who retired as chairman in had another good year.
The Groups of the impact of UK public spending cuts January 2010 after more than five years diversied exposure to end markets continues and we are prepared for a period of dedicated service.
Ed provided strong provided resilience in a challenging of tighter Government spending.
The leadership and direction for the Board environment.
Group operating profit future for the built environment will bring and we wish him every success for the increased 9.6% to 113.0m and more complex engineering challenges future.
I would also like to extend my the Groups operating margin improved as our clients put greater emphasis on thanks to James Morley, who had to 8.1% from 6.9%.
In the year ended planning and design disciplines to achieve served as a non-executive director since 31 March 2010 the Groups revenue maximum value from their infrastructure January 2001 and more recently as the reduced by 6.7% to 1,387.9m, on programmes.
senior independent director, and stood average staff numbers down some 8.7%.
Within the year People there has also been a smooth transition Since joining the Board in September 2009 The business relies fully on the ability to Heath Drewett, who joined as Group I have visited many of our ofces within the of our employees to satisfy our clients finance director in June 2009, following business and I have been hugely impressed requirements.
In responding to market the departure of Robert MacLeod.
with the professionalism, talent and demand we have reduced our staff commitment of our staff who are delivering numbers by approximately 13% to 15,601 Dividend simple, but very effective, solutions to our at the year-end.
We have successfully The Board is recommending a final clients complex infrastructure challenges.
redeployed more than 500 people into dividend of 18.25p, making the total This is particularly impressive when, different roles across the Group and dividend for the year 27.5p 2009: 26.0p, in the same period of operation, we continue to recruit to ll specialist vacancies an increase of 5.8%.
If approved, the have reduced headcount in response in the growth areas of our business.
dividend will be paid on 24 September 2010 to market conditions.
We continue to invest in the training to ordinary shareholders on the register and development of our people and, in on 20 August 2010.
The Groups liquidity remains strong, driven particular, in the development of a suite of by a good cash performance in the second carbon calculation tools to help our staff Outlook half of the year, and we ended the year and clients deliver lower carbon projects.
The Group has demonstrated its resilience with net funds of 302.5m.
in difficult economic conditions and with I would like to thank all our employees good levels of work in hand and a strong throughout the Group for their balance sheet we are well positioned for commitment and efforts during when growth returns.
Allan Cook CBE Chairman 16 June 2010 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 08 Introduction Chief Executives Statement Our strategy and business model remain robust and relevant to the challenges and demands of our markets.
As clients put greater emphasis on planning and design disciplines to respond to the increasing complexity of their infrastructure programmes, we can look forward to the future with confidence.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Introduction 09 Watch a video of Keith Clarke at www.
com video prelims2010 Business position There will continue to be a demand Our focus for 2010 11 revolves The world has been operating in an for services where quality is a major around actions to deliver our three extended recessionary period.
This determinant: at the same time the drive strategic priorities: recession affects most of our markets towards a low-carbon economy, allied and our public and private sector clients to the need for greater capacity, reliability s developing our high-performing throughout the world.
Atkins has been and predictability from existing assets, businesses successfully navigating these conditions by will play to the Groups strengths.
s addressing attractive sectors improving its business, reducing its costs s taking advantage of market opportunities.
and exing its resources to meet demand.
In the Middle East we are seeing At the same time, we continue to invest confidence slowly return and many markets We are confident that our business model and to develop our people.
We are now and sectors are active.
This remains an area is right and that, with the culture and skills well positioned for future growth.
that is attractive to Atkins increasingly in within the Group, we are well placed to the area of essential infrastructure as the continue to progress in the years ahead.
Uncertainties remain, particularly in light Group builds on decades of experience in of the UK Government debt position, the region.
Keith Clarke which will undoubtedly put pressure on the Chief executive Governments nances in the near future.
Our European businesses, principally in 16 June 2010 Scandinavia, remain busy.
The US workload The Group remains well placed with a broad continues to be steady, driven by a variety range of sector exposure and end-client of clients.
China remains a longer term activities, which lend a degree of resilience prospect for the Group, underpinned by to the business.
With long-standing medium-term infrastructure demands.
relationships with several public and private sector clients and activity at the specialist, Priorities non-commodity end of the services We are investing in technical excellence spectrum, we are well positioned to respond and in people.
We have continued to to the potential variability in the level of train and develop our staff through public sector spending going forward.
these difficult times to ensure that our performance remains strong and that we will be well positioned for a world moving out of recession.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 10 Introduction Our Strategy Overview What we do Plan Design Enable From cost and risk planning, Atkins designs intellectual capital Our clients entrust us with the feasibility studies and logistics to such as management systems management of projects, people impact assessments and stakeholder and business processes.
We also and issues ensuring that deadlines engagement activity, we plan every design physical structures such are met, costs are controlled and aspect of our clients projects.
Vision Worlds Best Infrastructure Consultancy We will target chosen We will seek to consistently Buildings, transport, utilities, Our primary business model geographies, and develop anticipate and address our government and industry will be selling expertise.
and their social and environmental context.
Objective Our primary objective is to create long-term shareholder value measured by growth in normalised diluted earnings per share.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Introduction 11 Strategy s A multi-skill, multi-local strategy of Identity Excellence s To operate as an engineering and design consultancy in a number of local markets addressing priority sectors with high-performing businesses.
Priorities High-performing businesses To have a portfolio of high-performing businesses Each business to continue to improve the quality of its skills in its local markets, developing capabilities and driving efficiencies forging deep client relationships.
Addressing attractive sectors To have the breadth and depth of skills to address increasingly complex projects, increasing revenue in priority sectors Maintaining or acquiring strong technical skills in robust markets and focusing resources from across the whole Group on exploiting opportunities in sectors such as mass transit, nuclear and renewables.
Market opportunities To have several home markets where the business is a market leader Organic investment and acquisitions to strengthen our market position in our existing geographic markets and elsewhere.
Carbon critical design We are aiming to embed low-carbon design in all our work as a fundamental design parameter.
Flexing resources Having a exible resource base means the ability not only to react quickly when market conditions change but also to move work to where the Group resources can most effectively deliver it.
Business improvement Improving every aspect of our operations remains an ongoing imperative.
people, projects, cost WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 12 Introduction Our Strategy continued Our vision is to be the worlds best infrastructure consultancy and we have a clear strategy to achieve this.
What we do Vision Our skills lie in the expansive area of Plan, Design, Enable is the simplest Our vision is to be the worlds best infrastructure the wiring of society articulation of what Atkins does for infrastructure consultancy.
encompassing buildings, transport and its clients.
utilities including power and water, Worlds means that we will develop as well as work for national and local Plan The challenges facing our clients deep local expertise in certain targeted governments and other industrial clients.
are multidimensional, often because of the geographies.
We aim to be recognised The social and environmental framework, increasingly complex modern environment.
as the best infrastructure consultancy in combined with our social policy planning From cost and risk planning, feasibility our chosen geographies because of the skills, is also important: it is essential that studies and logistics to impact assessments projects and service we deliver.
We will we view all of our projects in the context and stakeholder engagement activity, we not be global, with ofces everywhere, of the communities in which they will plan every aspect of our clients projects.
although our multi-national reach will be undertaken.
Design Atkins designs intellectual Consultancy means that we capital such as management systems Best means that we will be close to will operate a business based on and business processes.
We also design our clients, anticipating their needs, selling advice and expertise.
We are not physical structures such as ofce towers, developing long-term relationships and a developer, construction company or schools, bridges and highways.
We aim to help generalist outsourcer.
We do, however, we design, we always apply passion answer questions our clients dont know have the financial status and commercial and creativity combined with rigorous they need to ask.
We will help them to skills to successfully engage in the wide quality standards.
Our values will variety of contract forms that clients govern the way we carry out our work increasingly demand.
Enable Our clients choose Atkins with integrity and respect, always striving because they want to focus on their core for excellence.
We will not necessarily be operations.
They trust us to look after the the biggest or broadest although this management of projects, people and issues may be one consequence of our success.
ensuring that deadlines are met, costs are controlled and success is delivered.
For more information about what we do visit www.
com showcase WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Introduction 13 Objective Our businesses drive competitive Market position Our primary objective is to create advantage at a local level, where deep The majority of our business is in the UK, long-term shareholder value measured by local relationships are forged.
which remains the core market for our growth in normalised diluted earnings per activities.
Our existing businesses outside share.
We need to maximise the return we Each business will continue to improve the UK present attractive opportunities for generate for shareholders by successfully the quality of its skills in its home further growth.
The huge potential outside operating in appropriate markets with markets, developing capabilities and the UK includes areas where we are well the resources available to us.
At business unit established such as the Middle East, which level the strategy remains to ensure we despite recent liquidity issues, represents We remain confident that our core maintain a deep understanding of the a significant growth opportunity.
activity, that of professional design skills demanded and offered Identity consultant serving the built environment, and to deliver these to a degree of quality We have strong technical skills in a number will enable us to continue to be a successful which keeps us competitive Excellence.
of robust markets where quality is a company.
We believe our objective can be We refer to this as Identity Excellence.
significant determinant for selection: best achieved by continuing to develop the current business model of predominantly Addressing attractive sectors s In the UK we have niche positions in professional consulting Plan Design Applying the multi-skill approach in several numerous markets and have a material Enable with the enable part generally home markets means that resources and market share in our chosen sectors.
We limited to activities such as management skills from across the whole Group can be will continue to invest in management and of road maintenance and rail signalling focused on exploiting opportunities.
We will continue where our technical expertise gives us a to position parts of the Group for growth, competitive advantage.
Areas such as energy and mass transit whilst in other areas undertaking demand investment and collaboration controlled reduction or exit of businesses, Strategy across businesses.
We will utilise or structuring ourselves appropriately We will achieve our vision through Group resources to address these areas.
for any downturns in activity.
our multi-skill, multi-local strategy s In the Middle East we will continue of Identity Excellence.
The strategy Market opportunities to add niche skills and prepare for entails operating as an engineering and The multi-local approach means having the economic upturn.
design consultancy in a number of local several home markets where our business s In Asia Pacic we will continue to markets, serving priority sectors with is a market leader.
invest in China to take advantage of high-performing businesses.
opportunities as the market opens Geographic markets outside the UK up, recognising that it could be several The three principal priorities of the present attractive opportunities for years before material growth is achieved.
Acquisitions and organic In Hong Kong we will broaden our investment will be considered to spread of activity beyond a principally High-performing businesses strengthen our market position in our transport-biased platform.
Our decentralised organisation, which existing geographic markets and to s In Europe we will continue to develop our empowers local management, allows establish Atkins elsewhere.
The Group local businesses, focusing particularly on businesses to be largely autonomous has the resources to undertake material opportunities in Scandinavia which build whilst also having the capability to leverage acquisitions if the skill-set and cultural on our rail expertise.
resources from across the Group.
s In the USA, Faithful Gould and our oil and gas businesses provide the organic growth focus.
s Other geographic areas will continue to be reviewed.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 14 Introduction Our Strategy continued Imperatives Carbon critical design Innovation is important for success.
We have identied a number of As all major world economies struggle with Our ability to look at new ideas requires imperatives within the strategy.
the transition to low-carbon operation, a us to approach issues from several points number of challenges and opportunities of view and therefore diversity among Technical excellence arise for rms at the forefront of our teams is essential to drive the rate Atkins has a huge range of technical infrastructure design.
It is also essential that we skills, evidenced by the vast array of attract, retain and develop talented services that the Group offers.
Our drive Our carbon critical design programme is individuals who reect the diverse nature for improvement and growth has been producing new ideas and ways of working.
of the areas in which we work.
Success in organic, although supplemented by We are aiming to embed low-carbon this regard is critical for us in order to build targeted bolt-on acquisitions.
We have design in all our work as a fundamental a balanced workforce to meet our clients continued to make good progress in design parameter.
needs, to broaden our skills base and to acquiring new skills and extending our address a growing skills deficit in the capabilities in recent years.
Health, safety, diversity science and engineering disciplines.
We set our own challenging targets for Our ability to mobilise multidisciplinary health and safety and our performance Flexing resources teams and deep expertise from remains better than industry performance Having a exible resource base means around the Group for local projects as compiled by the Health and Safety the ability not only to react quickly when is a demonstrated capability that we Executive HSE in its Labour Force Survey.
market conditions change but also to have continued to successfully develop.
We are keen to continue to improve, move work to where the Group can most by expanding our safety leadership effectively deliver it.
The Group is agile We constantly strive for excellence programme and reducing our tally and exible enough to continue to hire and harness the range of skills that the of manual handling accidents, which as necessary and shrink where required to Group possesses to answer our clients account for 40% of serious accidents in maintain levels of performance.
We also actively encourage management teams are also able to draw the reporting of incidents and near-misses upon the Groups wide range of skills and as a positive step towards accident resources to leverage capability from one prevention.
All our operations are covered region to another collaborating and by OHSAS 18001 and we have achieved sharing knowledge across the Group.
certication to the revised standard OHSAS 18001:2007.
We achieved a Group-level Business improvement RoSPA Gold award for the first time.
In Improving every aspect of our operations addition, our Highways and Transportation remains an ongoing imperative.
We business received a Gold award for the fifth constantly aim to become more efficient in consecutive year and Asset Management everything we do to deliver cost-effective achieved an Order of Distinction for the solutions for our clients.
We draw on 23rd year running.
the talent of our people and enhance their capabilities, driving efficient project management in our principal activities.
See pages 36 to 41 for our Human Resources Review See pages 42 to 50 for our Corporate Responsibility Review WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Reviews Reviews Reviews 16 Business Review 16 Overview of the business and performance in the year 18 Segmental performance 18 Design and Engineering Solutions 20 Highways and Transportation 22 Rail 24 Middle East 26 China and Europe 28 Management and Project Services 30 Asset Management 32 Financial performance 34 Principal risks and uncertainties 36 Human Resources Review 42 Corporate Responsibility Review 16 Reviews Business Review Overview of the business and performance in the year We plan, design and enable our clients capital programmes.
Our business cash ow indicate the volume of work In addition, there was a profit from Our core business is helping our clients to we have done, its profitability and the discontinued operations of 25m relating plan, design and enable capital programmes efficiency with which we have turned to the release of a provision following the that resolve complex challenges in the operating profits into cash: work in hand expiry of a letter of credit in respect of the built and natural environment.
We are measures our secured workload as a Metronet enterprise.
able to plan all aspects of our clients percentage of the budgeted revenue for projects, conducting feasibility studies the next year: staff numbers and staff Normalised diluted EPS reduced by 4.5p and impact analyses covering technical, turnover are measures of capacity and per share to 77.8p, a decrease of 5.5%, logistical, legal, environmental and show us how effective we have been in reecting the decrease in normalised profit financial considerations.
We design recruiting and retaining our key resource.
systems, infrastructures, processes, KPIs for 2010 are shown on page 17, buildings and civil structures.
We along with prior year comparatives.
Operating cash ow in the year was enable our clients complex programmes 126.5m, representing 112% of operating by optimising procurement methods and Review of the year profit.
The Groups liquidity remains strong, managing supply chains on their behalf We are pleased to report that Atkins has driven by good cash performance in the to reduce timescales, cost and risk.
Group operating second half of the year, and we ended profit from continuing operations increased the year with net funds of 302.5m.
We report our activities in seven business by 9.6% to 113.0m and the Groups segments as this reects how we manage operating margins grew to 8.1% from At 31 March 2010 we had secured 54% of the business via different markets and 6.9%.
In the year ended 31 March 2010 budgeted revenue for 2010 11, in line with geographies.
Details of activities and the Groups revenue from continuing this time last year.
results by business segment are shown operations reduced by 6.7% to 1,387.9m, in the segmental performance section on average staff numbers down some Staff numbers were reduced by 2,416 which follows.
Translated at constant exchange 13.4% to 15,601 at the year-end.
Of this rates, revenue reduced by 8.8% and reduction, approximately 600 people were Key performance indicators operating profit grew by 5.7%.
already under notice at the start of the year, The Group uses a range of performance giving an in-year reduction of 1,816 staff measures to monitor and manage the Despite a strong operating profit from an adjusted opening headcount of business.
Those that are particularly performance, the Groups signicantly approximately 17,400. important in monitoring our progress in increased pension costs and lower returns generating shareholder value are considered on its cash and other financial assets Segmental analysis of revenue, operating key performance indicators KPIs.
Our KPIs resulted in a reduction in profit before tax.
profit, work in hand and staff numbers measure past performance and also provide follows, while staff turnover is discussed information and context to anticipate the profit before tax was 96.6m and included further in the Human Resources Review.
future and, in conjunction with our detailed 0.1m of profit on disposal of a Joint knowledge and experience of the segments Venture.
This gives a normalised profit in which we operate, allow us to act early before tax of 96.5m 2009: 100.2m.
and manage the business into the future.
There was also a pension curtailment gain Revenue, operating profit and margin, of 2.6m reported in the first half which, earnings per share EPS and operating if excluded, gives a more comparable profit before tax of 93.9m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Reviews Reviews 17 Key performance indicators Continuing operations Note 2010 2009 change Financial metrics Revenue 1 1,387.9m 1,487.2m -6.7% Operating profit 113.0m 103.1m 9.6% Operating margin 8.1% 6.9% 1.2pp Normalised profit before tax 2 96.5m 100.2m -3.7% Operating cash ow 126.5m 125.5m 0.8% Normalised diluted EPS 2 77.8p 82.3p -5.5% Work in hand 3 54% 54% -0pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 4, 5 15,601 18,017 -13.4% Average staff numbers for the year 4 16,421 17,988 -8.7% Staff turnover 6 8.6% 11.4% -2.8pp Notes: 1.
Normalised diluted EPS is based on normalised profit after tax less exceptional items and any profit or losses from disposals and allows for the dilutive effect of share options.
Work in hand is the value of contracted and committed work as at 31 March that is scheduled for the following year, expressed as a percentage of budgeted revenue for the year.
Staff numbers are shown on a full-time equivalent basis, including agency staff.
Staff numbers at 31 March 2009 included approximately 600 staff under notice of redundancy.
Staff turnover is the number of voluntary staff resignations in the year, expressed as a percentage of average staff numbers.
Revenue by client type Revenue by market Revenue by geography Public sector: local government 25% Roads 25% Urban development UK 72% 4% Public sector: national government 22% Rail 22% Middle East 11% Education 4% Regulated 17% Commercial Europe 6% buildings 5% Environment 3% Private sector 36% Asia Pacific 6% Defence 5% Aerospace 2% North America 5% Oil and gas 5% Other 20% Water 5% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 18 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance Design and Engineering Solutions Key performance indicators 2010 2009 change Financial metrics Revenue 390.3m 435.0m -10.3% Operating profit 31.3m 31.6m -0.9% Operating margin 8.0% 7.3% 0.7pp Work in hand 45% 43% 2pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 4,400 5,167 -14.8% Average staff numbers 4,664 5,133 -9.1% 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers Revenue by market Revenue by client type Defence 19% Nuclear 7% Public sector: local government 11% Water 13% Education 6% Public sector: national government 30% Environment 10% Energy 5% Regulated 23% Oil and gas 9% Telecommunications Private sector 36% 4% Aerospace 8% Rail 4% Urban development 8% Other 7% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 269.5 321.2 373.6 435.0 390.3 22.5 27.0 30.1 31.6 31.3 3,384 3,980 4,722 5,133 4,664 Reviews Reviews 19 Ofcial engineering design services provider for the London 2012 Olympic Games For more information visit www.
com london2012 Overall, the Design and Engineering Our businesses focusing on high-technology multidisciplinary approach combining our Solutions segment performed well industries such as defence, aerospace and experience in offshore structures, power despite difficult market conditions for communications have delivered solid transmission and distribution makes us some of our businesses.
We continue to support UK well placed for this expanding market.
Government departments and industry on Our oil and gas activity expanded during We improved margins to 8.0% key strategic programmes, which we expect a year that has seen significant oil price 2009: 7.3% on reduced revenue to continue in the future.
Our core skills in high of 390.3m 2009: 435.0m, with business we remain a key supplier to Airbus technology are well suited to meet the operating profit broadly at at 31.3m and have expanded our footprint in Europe industrys requirements to extend the life 2009: 31.6m.
with key wins in Germany on the A350 of ageing assets and to move increasingly and A380 programmes.
Further success into areas of deepwater operation.
This segment contains a mix of has also been achieved in the UK with key businesses that are at different stages roles on the A320 Sharklet programme We continue to win projects internationally, of the economic cycle.
and expansion into landing gear systems.
with masterplanning studies in countries Communications and security continue such as Saudi Arabia and Azerbaijan and Our water business was restructured in to be strong market segments in which internationally funded water resource the early part of the year in anticipation our skills and capabilities remain in projects in Europe and Africa.
Asset Management Programme AMP Outlook cycle in the water sector delayed the Our energy business has performed well, The overall outlook for Design and release of work to the market and the assisted by the imperative to decarbonise Engineering Solutions is good and with usual hiatus experienced with this cycle the UKs generation capacity via nuclear work in hand of 45% of budgeted revenue was longer and deeper than in previous and offshore wind.
Our work on existing for 2010 11 2009: 43% we are in a transitions.
Our work on ood mitigation nuclear generation and decommissioning slightly stronger position than at the same for the Environment Agency continued, has been augmented by a number of time last year.
with wins on the South West Coastal commissions in the nuclear new-build Strategy Packages delivering three large arena for utilities and for the Department Following restructuring, our water and UK ood risk management and habitat of Energy and Climate Change.
Additionally, building design businesses are now well creation strategies covering Poole Harbour, we have recently announced success placed with a good order book.
In our water the Exe Estuary and the Taw and Torridge in winning a major contract on the business, we have successfully secured a Estuaries.
Our land remediation business International Thermonuclear Experimental stronger position on frameworks for the remains busy with the Olympic Park and Reactor ITER programme being built next regulatory period, which commenced an equal-sized site in South Wales for in the south of France.
Our infrastructure design St Modwen Properties plc.
step in a global research and development business has a healthy workload and is programme to harness nuclear fusion focusing on successful delivery of the Our UK building design business was also to generate electricity.
restructured in the early part of the year in contract was won by a multidisciplinary anticipation of reduced activity levels, but Atkins team, working in a Joint Venture Our defence and security business is then stabilised with wins in the education alongside three other companies.
As well positioned for enabling cost-effective and healthcare sectors, most notably the architect engineer the Joint Venture is change and procurement programmes, in New Campus Glasgow and NHS Tayside providing full multidisciplinary design an increasingly cost-conscious market.
We have limited services for the 3bn project.
aerospace, we are expanding our breadth exposure to the private developer market, of service and geographical footprint, which remains difficult.
Our experience in the offshore oil and gas which will provide a good platform for industry has allowed us to take a significant future growth.
We continued our successful relationship position in the marine renewables sector, with the Olympic Delivery Authority and which is a key component of the UK We continue to invest in resources to meet the London Organising Committee of the Governments low-carbon strategy.
We increasing demand for our services in the Olympic Games as the ofcial engineering have won major design assignments on energy sector, especially in nuclear but also design services provider for the London the Gabbard and Lincolnshire offshore in oil and gas and renewables.
We have built significant capability in this sector and our WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 20 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Highways and Transportation Key performance indicators 2010 2009 change Financial metrics Revenue 300.4m 308.2m -2.5% Operating profit 21.4m 19.9m 7.5% Operating margin 7.1% 6.5% 0.6pp Work in hand 69% 62% 7pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 2,931 3,075 -4.7% Average staff numbers 2,975 3,016 -1.4% 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers Revenue by market Revenue by client type Highway services 57% Public sector: local government 52% Design 23% Public sector: national government 35% Intelligent transport systems 10% Private sector 13% Planning 10% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 224.6 259.4 306.2 308.2 300.4 12.1 14.1 17.8 19.9 21.4 2,834 3,067 3,054 3,016 2,975 Reviews Reviews 21 Awarded 350m Oxfordshire County Council contract For more information visit www.
com win oxfordshire cc Our Highways and Transportation segment This contract builds on nearly 14 years of and traveller information systems which we performed well in the year, benefiting from continuous service to the county.
Our operate in the national trafc control rooms the UK Governments financial stimulus and contract with Gloucestershire County in Scotland and Wales.
Our contract with our M25 contract.
Council has been extended by three years Essex County Council, through which we to 2014 and we continue our work with develop and operate its ITS assets, is now Operating profit increased 7.5% to 21.4m Cambridgeshire County Council and for the in its tenth year.
2009: 19.9m and margins increased Highways Agency in the Area 6 Managing to 7.1% 2009: 6.5%, principally due to Our transport planning business provides Agent Contractor MAC contract.
the strong demand for our higher-margin a wide range of consultancy services, consultancy activities and the benets of Our transport solutions design business, including advice on strategy, policy, our continued drive for greater efficiencies.
which delivers technical consultancy and management and forecasting, as well as In an increasingly competitive market and R&D services as well as all aspects of business case and investment appraisals with average staff numbers marginally highway infrastructure design, performed for infrastructure investment.
Although lower than last year, revenue was down very well on a broad portfolio of projects there was a marked decrease in work 2.5% year on year.
from the private sector, work in the development planning and other markets We won over 1bn of work in the year Design work on the M74 project in remained solid with wins on public sector to 31 March 2010, including a five-year Scotland is now nearly complete.
On projects such as the Elephant and Castle contract with Somerset County Council the M25 contract, we are providing the Surface Interchange Feasibility Study, the from 1 April 2010, a three-year extension design expertise for the 40-mile widening Oxford Circus interchange and work on by Gloucestershire County Council from programme and work will be completed the UK Governments housing growth 1 April 2011 and our share of the turnover in time for the London 2012 Games.
A further key success in the year from the M25 widening DBFO contract that The related 30-year operation and was winning more than 20% of the reached financial close in May 2009. maintenance Joint Venture contract with studies in the Governments Delivering a Balfour Beatty 52.5% and Egis 15%, Sustainable Transport System programme, Our highway services business, which commenced successfully in September which will identify and provide evidence represents around 57% of this segments 2009.
Atkins 32.5% will provide services to support long-term strategic transport revenue, is engaged in maintaining and in network management, asset inspection, investment priorities.
improving highway networks on behalf trafc management, tunnel operations, of the UK Highways Agency and local incident management, and routine and Outlook authorities.
We have significant work in winter maintenance for the entire M25 We continue to win work at acceptable hand for the next few years with none of covering a distance of 250 miles.
rates in an increasingly competitive market.
our existing major contracts due to expire We are prepared for UK Government before mid 2013.
Our intelligent transport systems ITS and local authority spending cuts, having business has had another good year, addressed our cost base and secured In April 2010 we commenced delivery as growing to a business of 350 people significant future work.
Additionally, the highways maintenance, design and as the market for technology-based some local authority clients are actively construction provider for Oxfordshire solutions develops in response to trafc discussing extensions to our consultancy County Council.
This ten-year contract, management, capacity and sustainability commissions and Birmingham City Council worth around 350m, with potential challenges.
There was very strong demand has recently agreed to continue working extensions of up to ten years, involves from the Highways Agency for our services, with us until May 2012. policy and strategy advice and support, on projects such as managed motorway design services, network management, schemes to improve journey time reliability The uncertain market outlook is partially construction of improvement schemes and through hard shoulder running and offset by our recent contract wins, and cyclic, reactive and planned maintenance.
managing the technology delivery and work in hand at 31 March 2010 was upgrade programme on the A14 corridor 69% of budgeted revenue for 2010 11 Mobilisation during the second half trafc management scheme.
of the year for the new five-year Somerset to develop and implement technology network management contract went well.
infrastructure for the network management WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 22 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Rail Key performance indicators 2010 2009 change Financial metrics Revenue 185.7m 196.1m -5.3% Operating profit 16.8m 17.0m -1.2% Operating margin 9.0% 8.7% 0.3pp Work in hand 53% 61% -8pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,420 1,624 -12.6% Average staff numbers 1,483 1,635 -9.3% 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers Revenue by activity Revenue by client type Signalling 43% Public sector: local government 18% Design 28% Public sector: national government 1% Consultancy and other 24% Regulated 72% Communications 5% Private sector 9% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 154.6 215.1 208.2 196.1 185.7 1.7 5.2 11.9 17.0 16.8 1,587 1,648 1,703 1,635 1,483 Reviews Reviews 23 Design of Crossrails Custom House and Tottenham Court Road stations For more information visit www.
com win crossrail The Rail segment had a good performance Work is progressing well with our partner this year.
Arup on the design for 22 kilometres of twin-bored tunnel for Crossrail, one of This segment recorded an improved the largest and most important elements margin of 9.0%, benefiting from the of this significant project.
We are also phasing on a number of major projects, undertaking design work for Tottenham and an operating profit of 16.8m Court Road and Custom House stations.
Revenue was down 5.3% on last year, reecting delays in In Scotland we continue to work closely projects coming to market in the early with Network Rail on the Edinburgh to part of the year and the demobilisation Glasgow electrication and follow-on of our structures examination contract work packages.
Outlook Our signalling business remains busy and Our signalling business has a leading good progress was made in year with our market position and there is a large major re-signalling projects for Network programme of improvements needed to Rail, which account for more than 40% the rail network to meet medium-term of our revenue.
These are currently planned under the Ofce of the Rail We successfully completed the first phase Regulators rail budget for Control Period 4 of the Newport re-signalling programme 2009 to 2014, though this is likely to at the end of the calendar year and we come under some further scrutiny by the have made significant progress on the current Government.
installation for the next commissioning phase.
Work on the North London Line With reduced work in hand of 53% project, which forms part of the Olympic at 31 March 2010 2009: 61% the 2012 transport plan, is progressing well.
outlook for this segment is challenging.
These two projects have combined contract revenue of over 100m.
The other part of this business, which focuses on rail-related design and consultancy services, has also performed well.
Our multidisciplinary design work for Chiltern Railways enhancement project continues and we are now working on the signalling and detailed design for the main contractor.
The design for the complex Farringdon Station for Thameslink is nearly complete and we are well positioned for further Thameslink opportunities.
We also have ongoing work for Transport for London and London Underground.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 24 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Middle East Key performance indicators 2010 2009 change Financial metrics Revenue 136.6m 186.0m -26.6% Operating profit 14.0m 17.3m -19.1% Operating margin 10.2% 9.3% 0.9pp Work in hand 57% 53% 4pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,867 2,824 -33.9% Average staff numbers 2,154 2,823 -23.7% 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers Revenue by market Revenue by geography Commercial buildings Roads 9% Dubai 37% Oman 9% 31% Oil and gas 5% Abu Dhabi 22% Qatar 7% Rail 19% Hospitality 5% Other UAE 6% Other Middle East Urban development 8% Other 9% Bahrain 10% 13% India 1% Residential buildings 9% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 41.0 79.3 112.2 186.0 136.6 3.3 7.0 9.5 17.3 14.0 783 1,417 2,119 2,823 2,154 Reviews Reviews 25 Dubai Metro Red Line successfully opened as scheduled For more information visit www.
com Our Middle East business continues to We are investing in and securing successfully navigate a difficult economic work in defence, energy, planning and climate.
confidence and liquidity is management consultancy, while at beginning to return to the region with the the same time adding to our existing strongest opportunities relating to public infrastructure, building design, planning sector infrastructure.
and oil and gas businesses.
Compared to last year we have extended Our work on the Red Line of the Dubai our order book, which stood at 57% of Metro was fundamental to its high-prole budgeted revenue for 2010 11 at and successful opening on 9 September 2009.
During the The Dubai Metro is the worlds longest year, we reduced our headcount in the automated driverless metro system, with region in anticipation of lower activity more than 25 overground stations, four and we ended the year with 1,867 staff underground stations and over 47 2009: 2,824.
Our continued focus on kilometres of viaducts.
Our work on the margins is reected in the improvement Dubai Metro Green Line continues, along in the year to 10.2% 2009: 9.3%.
with other rail-related work such as the Makkah Metro project in Saudi Arabia, The prole of our debt in the Middle East, which is progressing well.
in common with the market as a whole, has continued to deteriorate.
We have Outlook maintained the Group policy of providing Market sentiment is improving and the for all debt greater than 180 days, or action taken to reduce headcount to sooner if there is a risk of non-recovery.
match forward workload and increase efficiency positions us well for future We have a well-established presence in growth, although the timing of work six primary locations in the region, centred starting on projects secured remains on Abu Dhabi and Dubai, and we continue a little unpredictable.
Our planning and to expand our footprint in the region consultancy business is seeing increasing both in terms of geographical location opportunities with clients seeking greater and the breadth of sectors we serve.
clarity and certainty about their business cases before investment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 26 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued China and Europe Key performance indicators 2010 2009 change This segment consists of our design and engineering consultancy businesses in Financial metrics Hong Kong and mainland China and five Revenue 134.1m 117.2m 14.4% countries across Europe: Denmark, Ireland, Operating profit 6.1m 4.9m 24.5% Poland, Portugal and Sweden.
Operating margin 4.5% 4.2% 0.3pp Work in hand 57% 54% 3pp The portfolio of businesses in China and People Europe has increased revenue by 14.4% Staff numbers at 31 March 1,774 1,741 1.9% and improved margins year on year, with Average staff numbers 1,780 1,675 6.3% average staff numbers up 6.3%.
06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers China Europe Revenue by market Revenue by geography Revenue by market Revenue by geography Rail 42% Hong Kong 67% Rail 59% Denmark 46% Urban development 13% Mainland China 32% Roads 17% Sweden 17% Roads 12% Other Asia Pacific 1% Environment 7% Ireland 14% Commercial buildings 12% Water 2% Portugal 11% Water 11% Energy 2% Poland 8% Residential buildings 4% Oil and gas 2% Other 4% Other 6% Other 11% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 64.8 69.6 79.4 117.2 134.1 1.4 0.5 1.9 4.9 6.1 1,359 1,470 1,541 1,675 1,780 Reviews Reviews 27 Awarded the detailed design of Hung Hom Awarded 15-year Danish European Rail Station for Hong Kongs Mass Transit Rail Trafc Management System design contract Corporations Shatin to Central Link For more information visit www.
com win ertms For more information visit www.
com win hung hom China Europe Key performance indicators 2010 2009 change Key performance indicators 2010 2009 change Financial metrics Financial metrics Revenue 64.0m 46.1m 38.8% Revenue 70.1m 71.1m -1.4% Operating profit 3.7m 2.7m 37.0% Operating profit 2.4m 2.2m 9.1% Operating margin 5.8% 5.9% -0.1pp Operating margin 3.4% 3.1% 0.3pp Work in hand 64% 71% -7pp Work in hand 51% 42% 9pp People People Staff numbers at 31 March 997 933 6.9% Staff numbers at 31 March 777 808 -3.8% Average staff numbers 995 890 11.8% Average staff numbers 785 785 0% Our China business continues to expand as a consequence of Our European portfolio performed in line with expectations, success in the buoyant Hong Kong rail infrastructure market.
maintaining revenue and improving margins by 0.3pp to 3.4% in difficult economic conditions.
We employed nearly 1,000 staff in the region at the year-end 2009: 933.
Revenue increased almost 40% to 64.0m As in prior years, performance has been mixed.
Our Scandinavian, with an increase in operating profit to 3.7m 2009: 2.7m Polish and Portuguese businesses performed well, while Ireland, and a slight decline in operating margin year on year.
which represents less than 15% of the portfolio, has yet to see signs of an upturn.
In Hong Kong we continue to support the expansion of the rail network through the delivery of a wide range of multidisciplinary Our Danish business, which employs 359 staff 2009: 335, services to the Mass Transit Rail Corporation on the preliminary continues to expand and secured a significant re-signalling design and detailed design of various sections of the West Island Line, contract extending over 15 years for the Danish European Rail Express Rail Link, South Island Line and Shatin to Central Link.
This is the first time an These design contracts include stations, tunnels and viaducts.
advanced system like this has been tted to an entire countrys The most recent assignment secured is for the detailed strategic rail network and it will set the standard for Europe.
design of the Shatin to Central Links Hung Hom Station We also continue to provide consultancy on the transportation and associated tunnels.
package for the Copenhagen Metro Circle Line.
Our urban planning and architectural business operates out of Our Swedish business is growing and had increased to 142 staff three primary locations in mainland China, in Beijing, Shanghai and by the year-end 2009: 130 staff.
This business is performing in line with our expectations in a very competitive but buoyant property market, and we have Our Polish business has extended its workload in the roads sector focused our effort over this last year on improving the quality of with its appointment as independent checking engineer and site our offering in this market.
supervisor for the A2 toll motorway, which extends over 100 kilometres with some 80 bridges.
Outlook The prospects for our business in China remain good with the difficult economic conditions in Ireland have resulted in projects Hong Kong Government committed to annual capital works being delayed and in increasingly competitive pricing.
We have expenditure in the next few years at double the rate of recent continued to reduce the size of our business to match demand, years.
We expect our Hong Kong business to remain busy, serving and had 101 staff members 2009: 155 staff members at the clients in the highways, geotechnical, water and rail sectors, and end of the year.
we will continue to expand our technical offering in other areas.
The property market in mainland China remains strong.
Outlook Europe has secured 51% of budgeted 2010 11 revenue Work in hand for the Chinese business is 64% of budgeted 2009: 42% and the outlook overall remains good, although 2010 11 revenue 2009: 71%.
we expect parts of our European business to continue to face challenging market conditions.
Our involvement on ERTMS positions us well for further ERTMS work across the UK and Europe over the coming years.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 28 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Management and Project Services Key performance indicators 2010 2009 change Financial metrics Revenue 202.8m 230.0m -11.8% Operating profit 15.9m 18.9m -15.9% Operating margin 7.8% 8.2% -0.4pp Work in hand 44% 44% People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,991 2,294 -13.2% Average staff numbers 2,094 2,405 -12.9% 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers Revenue by market Revenue by client type Education 14% Government buildings Public sector: local government 11% 5% Oil and gas 14% Public sector: national government 23% Water 4% Industry 8% Regulated 12% Energy 4% Financial services Private sector 54% 7% Health 3% Pharmaceutical Other 29% 7% Commercial buildings 5% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 171.9 193.6 213.2 230.0 202.8 13.9 12.8 13.6 18.9 15.9 2,049 2,203 2,394 2,405 2,094 Reviews Reviews 29 Appointed by Lloyds Banking Group to provide project management and quantity surveying services For more information visit www.
com Management and Project Services had a Governments Buying Solutions Project Our markets in the UK and internationally good year, despite revenue being down by Management and Design Services cover a diverse base of local government over 11% on the prior year as we adjusted framework, and in the USA where and public sector clients for whom we staff numbers in our Faithful Gould we secured a position on a five-year deliver efficiency improvements through business to take account of prospective General Services Administration national business change.
In the capital-intensive activity levels.
project management framework with private sector we deliver business change, the US Government.
feasibility studies, due diligence and project Despite the reduction in revenue our development plans and methodologies.
continuing focus on maintaining margins We continue to address the financial meant that these were close to last year services market with a recently secured Outlook at 7.8% 2009: 8.2% for the segment framework for Lloyds Banking Group We are pleased to have maintained our as a whole.
providing project management and work in hand for the coming year at 44% quantity surveying services, building on of budgeted revenue and to have extended Our Faithful Gould business, which existing contracts with RBS and Barclays.
our total future work with a number of accounts for the majority of the segments We also continue to work in education longer term contracts.
revenue, provides project management on the Building Schools for the Future and cost consultancy services in a broad programme and in the utilities market Overall, the outlook for this segment range of market sectors.
Our diverse for a number of water companies.
client base and geographic spread has provided resilience in a difficult and highly Elsewhere, our Asia Pacic business competitive market over the last year.
This continues to develop, underpinned by has adversely affected volumes in parts of work for global pharmaceutical companies our business and we took early action to investing in both new and existing facilities reduce headcount by approximately 300 in the region.
Our Management Consultants business, Faithful Gould has secured a number which had a very good year, continues to of significant projects in the last year, plan, design and deliver programmes that including public sector frameworks such create value through efficiency gains from as our appointment in the UK to the the implementation of ICT-enabled business change.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 30 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Asset Management Key performance indicators 2010 2009 change Financial metrics Revenue 56.0m 47.6m 17.6% Operating profit loss 5.0m 6.8 m 173.5% Operating margin 8.9% 14.3 % 23.2pp profit on disposal of Joint Venture 2.5m Work in hand 73% 99% -26pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 562 671 -16.2% Average staff numbers 613 682 -10.1% 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Revenue m Operating profit loss m Average staff numbers Revenue by market Revenue by client type Financial services 24% Public sector: local government 9% Health 20% Public sector: national government 4% Other buildings 19% Private sector 87% Residential buildings 17% Other 20% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 61.8 82.3 90.9 47.6 56.0 4.5 2.2 2.8 -6.8 5.0 889 669 674 682 613 Reviews Reviews 31 Results for the Asset Management segment Outlook for 2009 10 were favourably impacted by We remain well placed in both the public the exit from one of our long-term legacy and private sectors to continue to help PFI maintenance contracts.
clients lower their cost base.
Our work in hand at 31 March 2010 represented The segments operating margin increased 73% of budgeted revenue for 2010 11 to 8.9% 2009: -14.3% principally as a 2009: 99%.
The reduction reects the result of the release of residual provisions aforementioned contract termination.
held on the previously reported poor performing PFI maintenance contract and there was a consequential reduction in headcount following the termination of this contract.
The remainder of the contracts in our managing contractor business are performing in line with expectations.
In our managing agent business we concluded our contract for Barclays Bank during the year, although we continue to win work in the financial services sector.
In particular we have secured a five-year contract to deliver helpdesk and managing agent services to Lloyds Banking Group.
For more information about our Asset Management business visit www.
com am WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 32 Reviews Business Review Financial performance Net finance cost Pensions Cash Net finance cost was 14.6m 2009: net Funding Net funds at 31 March 2010 were 302.5m cost of 3.1m.
The year on year increase The latest actuarial valuation of the 2009: 234.2m made up as follows: was attributable to a 9.6m increase in dened benefit Atkins Pension Plan 2010 2009 the net finance cost on post-employment the Plan carried out as at 1 April 2007 m m benefit liabilities and a significant indicated that the Plan had an actuarial interest-rate driven reduction in the deficit of approximately 215m.
Accelerated Cash and cash equivalents 260.3 209.7 Loan notes receivable 21.2 12.9 interest receivable on short-term deposits.
contributions of 32m were made during The net finance cost is expected to stabilise the year and the Group has agreed Financial assets at fair value through profit in 2010 11 and remain similar to that to contribute a further 32m per year for reported in 2009 10. the next four years.
The next actuarial or loss 32.4 28.7 Borrowings due within valuation will take place as at 1 April 2010 Taxation and is likely to be completed in late 2010 one year 0.7 2.8 Borrowings due after The Groups income tax expense for the or early 2011. year is 19.3m 2009: 18.5m giving an one year 0.6 Finance leases 10.7 13.7 effective tax rate of 20.0% 2009: 18.0%.
Charges The Groups normalised effective tax rate The Group accounts for pension costs Net funds 302.5 234.2 is 19.8% 2009: 18.5%.
The rate is lower under IAS 19, Employee benets.
The total than the UK rate 28% due to continued charge to the income statement in respect Cash generated from continuing operations benets from research and development of dened benefit schemes reduced to was 126.5m 2009: 125.5m, representing tax credits and the proportion of overseas 13.9m 2009: 14.8m, comprising total 112% of operating profit, and can be profits earned in jurisdictions with a lower service cost of 5.5m 2009: 8.9m : net summarised as follows: tax rate.
The Group expects the effective finance cost of 15.1m 2009: 5.9m and tax rate to continue to benefit from similar curtailment and settlement gains of 2.6m 2010 2009 tax credits and territorial prole of profits and 2.3m net respectively.
relating to dened contribution schemes EBITDA 134.0 136.5 increased to 33.5m 2009: 28.2m.
Outow relating to pensions 36.3 40.6 Earnings per share EPS Movement in working capital 29.6 10.9 Basic EPS for continuing operations was IAS 19 valuation and accounting Movement in long-term 79.5p 2009: 86.1p.
Normalised diluted treatment payables 1.9 EPS, which we consider to be a more The Group assesses pension scheme Movement in provisions 5.9 9.2 representative measure of underlying funding with reference to actuarial Other non-cash items 3.2 9.5 trading and relates to continuing valuations, but for reporting purposes 126.5 125.5 operations, was 77.8p 2009: 82.3p, uses IAS 19.
Under IAS 19, the Group a decrease of 5.5%.
recognised a much-increased retirement Operating cash ow remained strong as benefit liability of 440.0m at 31 March we continued to optimise the cash position 2010 2009: 298.4m despite a strong on our contracts.
Proactive working capital performance of the scheme assets.
The management resulted in a net working actuarial loss recognised through the capital inow of 29.6m which was achieved Groups statement of comprehensive despite a lengthening of debtor days in the income amounted to 119.7m Middle East.
The movement in provisions is mainly due The assumptions used in the IAS 19 to the one-off release of residual provisions valuation are detailed in note 29 to within our Asset Management business.
Net tax paid amounted to 18.0m 2009: 12.8m which includes payments of 3.5m 2009: 0.4m to Metronet for consortium relief.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Reviews Reviews 33 Net capital expenditure in the year, arising from the nancing of the Groups issues that require judgement is achieved including the purchase of computer activities in the Public Private Partnership upon consolidation.
Any revisions to software licences, amounted to 10.8m PPP and Private Finance Initiative PFI estimates are recognised prospectively.
The reduction was due sectors.
The Groups exposures to and to less spending and better utilisation of management of each of these risks, The accounting policies and areas that assets already in use.
together with sensitivities and risk require the most significant estimates and concentrations, are described in detail judgements to be used in the preparation No shares were bought back during in note 2 to the Financial Statements.
of the Financial Statements are in relation the year in respect of the share buyback to contract accounting and dened benefit programme 2009: 12.3m.
The Group funds its ongoing activities pension schemes.
through cash generated from its operations Capital structure and, where necessary, bank borrowings Contract accounting As at 31 March 2010, the Group and finance leases.
The Groups banking profit is recognised on contracts on a had a shareholders deficit of 84.9m facilities are described in note 26 to the percentage completion basis, provided 2009: 43.5m and the Company Financial Statements: utilisation of the the outcome of the project can be had shareholders funds of 136.7m facilities mainly relates to letters of credit reasonably foreseen.
issued in respect of individual projects for estimated losses.
Where contracts span undertaken by the Groups operating more than two accounting periods profit The Company had 104.5m fully paid businesses.
As at 31 March 2010 the is not generally recognised until the project ordinary shares in issue at 31 March 2010 Group had 87.0m undrawn committed is 50% complete.
For further details refer borrowing facility available 2009: 75.0m.
to note 31 to the Financial Statements.
The projected outcome of any given There have been no significant changes contract is necessarily based on estimates Treasury policies and objectives to the Groups treasury policies during of revenues and costs to completion.
The Groups treasury function manages and the year.
Whilst the assumptions made are based monitors external funding and investment on professional judgements, subsequent requirements and financial risks in support Critical accounting policies events may mean that estimates calculated of the Groups corporate objectives.
The Groups principal accounting policies prove inaccurate, with a consequent effect The Board reviews and agrees policies are described in note 1 to the Financial on the reporting of results.
and authority levels for treasury activities.
The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 have been Dened benefit pension schemes The Groups financial instruments, prepared under International Financial Accounting for pensions involves other than derivatives, comprise Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted judgement about uncertain events in borrowings, cash and liquid resources and by the EU.
the future such as ination, salary levels various items, such as trade receivables at retirement, longevity rates, rates of and trade payables, which arise directly The preparation of Financial Statements in return on plan assets and discount rates.
The main purpose of conformity with generally accepted Assumptions in respect of pensions and these financial instruments is to finance the accounting principles requires the use of post-retirement benets are set after Groups activities.
The Group also enters estimates and assumptions that affect the consultation with independent qualied into derivative transactions, principally reported amounts of assets and liabilities actuaries.
Management believes the forward foreign currency contracts, in at the date of the Financial Statements assumptions are appropriate.
However, order to manage foreign exchange risk and the reported amounts of revenues a change in the assumptions used would on material commercial transactions and expenses during the reporting period.
impact the Groups results and net assets.
undertaken in currencies other than Although these estimates are based on Any differences between the assumptions the local functional currency.
The Group managements best knowledge of the and the actual outcome will affect results does not trade in financial instruments.
amount, event or actions, actual results in future years.
An estimate of the ultimately may differ from those estimates.
sensitivity is disclosed in note 29 to The main risks arising from the Groups Material estimates applied across the the Financial Statements.
financial instruments are market risk Groups businesses and Joint Ventures including foreign exchange risk, interest are reviewed to a common standard and rate risk and price risk, credit risk and adjusted where appropriate to ensure that liquidity risk, along with the risks consistent treatment of similar and related WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 34 Reviews Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties We have a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on our long-term performance.
To enable us to deliver value to all stakeholders we endeavour to mitigate these risks where possible.
Effective risk management is embedded into our governance framework, which is explained in the Corporate Governance Report.
Risk Mitigation Competition To ensure that the Group continues to win work, we work hard The Group faces competition in all of its markets.
Some of the to develop long-term relationships with our clients.
We have also markets in which we operate serve a limited number of clients and taken measures to reduce our cost base to ensure that we remain barriers to entry are high.
In other markets, such as architectural competitive.
In addition, our robust processes for monitoring bidding design and environment, there are numerous competitors and activity seek to ensure that Atkins bids reect the competitive barriers to entry are lower.
environment in which we are working and that the contracts deliver appropriate returns.
A measure of this success is our work in hand: this measures our secured workload over the coming year.
Our overall work in hand is 54%, representing over six months of 2010 11 revenue that is already contractually committed.
See pages 18 to 31 for our segmental performance Changes to the contracting environment We actively mitigate this risk via a range of internal review procedures The contracting environment in which we operate continues that enable contract terms to be subject to appropriate scrutiny and to evolve.
Clients increasingly seek to transfer risk to consultants: manageable risks to be reduced.
Our service delivery process, which contractors will also seek to share risks.
There is a possibility that, forms an important internal control within our governance in securing new work, the Group accepts risks that are insufficiently framework, is continually enhanced to address these issues.
understood or evaluated, with ensuing financial loss.
See page 60 for more information about our governance framework WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Reviews Reviews 35 Risk Mitigation Matching stafng levels to workload This risk is managed by working in a diverse portfolio of sectors The Group balances staff resources against workload to control and markets, and by the redeployment of staff from those parts the level of non-productive time.
In an economic downturn there of the business where the workload is reducing to other parts of is a risk that there is insufficient work to match current resources.
the business where the workload is strong.
Productivity is a key internal measure and is constantly monitored across the Group, with selective restructuring and headcount reduction undertaken as necessary.
This approach has been successfully implemented during the last year to maintain levels of productivity.
See pages 36 to 41 for our Human Resources Review Project management The Group mitigates these risks via the internal controls within our Managing clients and our own projects is core to our business.
governance framework, ongoing training, knowledge-sharing and Inadequate project management skills could lead to financial loss selective recruitment.
Pensions The Groups dened benefit pension funds are closed to new The Groups dened benefit pension funds have a material deficit.
Future accruals ceased in October 2007.
The Group The Group has previously agreed measures to reduce this deficit: actively monitors the funds position, taking professional actuarial however the deficit is exposed to the risk of changes in interest advice, assessing liabilities, and is implementing ination swaps to rates and asset values, as well as ination and the life expectancy reduce future volatility.
The next actuarial valuation is under way, of the members.
following which the Group will agree appropriate contributions into the fund to reduce the deficit over an agreed period of time.
See pages 107 to 114 for note 29 to the Financial Statements Market position and reputation We mitigate this risk by ensuring our governance framework includes Our reputation for delivering complex projects relies on the robust cost, project management and other internal controls.
These perception of our clients and how the Group is portrayed publicly.
are subject to regular independent audit against industry standards.
There is a risk that a major failure from poor design, poor project management or delivery could impact our ability to win future work.
See page 60 for more information about our governance framework Health, safety and the environment The Group takes these issues very seriously, and ensures all The Groups business is concerned with the built environment staff are adequately trained in health, safety and environmental and this entails significant health, safety and environmental issues: indeed we lead our sector on health and safety matters.
Should the Groups policy or practice in this area prove Procedures in this area are central to our governance framework inadequate, there is a consequent risk to employees, clients, and are continually reviewed and improved.
We also undertake contractors and third parties and also a risk of reputational regular independent audits against industry standards.
See pages 42 to 50 for our Corporate Responsibility Review Data security Data security is taken very seriously, and we have in place procedures There is a risk that Atkins might mishandle client, commercial or on how to handle clients and staff data, including the use of secure staff data.
Such an event could expose the Group nancially and networks and encryption.
Appropriate building security is in place have a significant impact on our reputation.
to protect condential data, and offsite storage of client data and use of cyber protection of both hardware and software applications have been implemented.
In addition, training our staff so that they understand their responsibilities is an important mitigating measure.
Recruitment and retention of sufficient high-calibre staff The Group expends a great deal of management effort and resource The recruitment and retention of the best people is crucial to our in this area, and further details of our staff controls are given in the future success.
Failure to do so would constrain the growth of the Human Resources Review and Corporate Governance Report.
business and prevent us from delivering our strategy.
See pages 36 to 41 for our Human Resources Review Crisis event The Groups business continuity strategy requires business continuity A crisis event at an Atkins site or one affecting staff could lead plans BCPs for all major global ofces.
Staff awareness and testing to loss of staff or interruption to service delivery.
of BCPs is a key mitigating measure, and the resilience of our back-up systems for IT infrastructure is regularly tested.
Global political, economic, legal and regulatory risks The Group mitigates these risks by monitoring economic indicators Atkins works in selected countries around the world, potentially and sentiments in the markets in which we operate, as well as exposing the Group to political, economic, legal and regulatory maintaining a strong balance sheet, working in a diverse portfolio risks.
Political instability could threaten our operations, an economic of business sectors and markets and by building exibility into future slowdown could have an adverse impact on workload for both plans.
We look to remain cash-positive on projects and negotiate our private and public sector clients, and the Group could fail to commercially favourable payment terms on contracts.
Our service adequately address legal and regulatory risks in unfamiliar jurisdictions.
delivery process seeks to identify legal and regulatory risks during bidding and through the lifecycle of projects.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 36 Reviews Human Resources Review Our people Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain the most talented professionals in their respective elds and to provide an environment in which they are able to apply their skills and experience in addressing our clients varied needs.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Reviews Reviews 37 Overview Headcount The level of staff reductions was signicantly As a professional services organisation, Headcount reduced in-year from 18,017 lower in the fourth quarter and we remain remaining an employer of choice is a on 1 April 2009 to 15,601 by the year-end, confident that overall headcount has now prerequisite for our success.
and retain the most talented professionals at the start of the year, giving an in-year in their respective elds and to provide reduction of 1,816 staff from an adjusted We recognise that many colleagues an environment in which they are able opening headcount of approximately have been affected by these reductions to apply their skills and experience in 17,400, a reduction of 10% see Figure 1. and we have worked to alleviate addressing our clients varied needs.
Most The overall reduction in headcount masked importantly we have endeavoured to Our people performance is evaluated strong performance in several businesses, redeploy those affected to vacancies alongside other aspects of performance notably in the energy business which saw elsewhere in the Group.
Nevertheless, metrics for headcount growth, retention, s headcount reduction in the Middle East the impact has been significant for many stability and employee engagement in anticipation of lower activity former colleagues and it is sadly the case alongside reviews of the skills and s restructuring in our water business that career opportunities in the wider capabilities of our people against an s a general reduction in headcount in most market remain very limited for those assessment of the future needs of other parts of the business as we sought in certain professions.
We also take note of the to improve efficiency.
results of internal and external surveys.
Whilst vacancy levels across the Group remained substantially below those seen in Whilst 2009 10 was a very difficult year recent years, our recruitment performance for many of our staff, with significant was good with 1,228 new staff joining headcount reduction particularly in the during the year: 1,129 via open recruitment first half of the year, we have worked hard and 99 via TUPE transfer.
Our performance is summarised in the sections below.
Figure 1: Headcount 2009 10 18,500 18,000 17, 500 17,000 16,500 16,000 15,500 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Period end Adjusted for under notice at year-end 2009 10 average WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 38 Reviews Human Resources Review Our people continued We maintained our commitment to Retention We also monitor the stability of our graduate development, albeit with Staff turnover was at a record low during workforce using a stability index the a substantially reduced intake of 105 the year.
Whilst to a large extent this number of staff with more than one trainees 2008 09: 150.
Our credentials reected wider market conditions, our years service at the end of the financial as a graduate recruiter in the UK were relative performance against our peers year as a percentage of the headcount underlined by an improved ranking to gives us confidence that it also reected at the beginning of the financial year.
37th place in the Times Top 100 Graduate our credentials as an employer of choice.
Employers up from 69th in 2008 and The stability index for the Group was our success in being named Most Popular Turnover by region was as follows: 80.6% 2009: 84.3%.
The indices Recruiter in the Construction and Civil for the individual regions were as follows: 2010 2009 Engineering category at the Target National UK 85.8% 2009: 82.7%, Middle East Business area Turnover Turnover Graduate Awards for the fifth year.
through an online campus survey of China 16.1% 17.9% USA 9.0% 10.2% 90,000 undergraduates over a four-month We continue to use a third-party consultant period ending in January each year.
Europe 6.2% 8.9% to receive and report independently on feedback from those employees who Atkins 8.6% 11.4% We were also pleased to be recognised voluntarily leave the Group.
It is encouraging at the UKs Recruiter Awards as Best to see that over 80% of those who As shown above, performance improved Recruitment Team.
completed the questionnaire said that they signicantly in the UK, Europe, USA and would both consider coming back to work China.
The only area where performance at Atkins and would recommend Atkins as a remained relatively unchanged was the place to work.
Compared to last year, fewer Middle East where for a period there was leavers have expressed dissatisfaction with a general loss of confidence in the region either their job or Atkins as the primary affecting all organisations.
We continue reason for leaving.
to monitor retention trends closely.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Reviews Reviews 39 Improved ranking to 37th place in the Most popular recruiter in the construction Times Top 100 Graduate Employers and civil engineering category at the Target up from 69th in 2008 National Graduate Awards for the fifth year For more information visit For more information visit www.
co. uk Employee engagement For the past seven years, we have Investment in people We continued to invest in internal conducted an annual survey across the We continue to place considerable communications during the year, mindful Group called Viewpoint to measure emphasis on developing the skills and that maintaining a proactive, two-way employee engagement.
During this capabilities of our people.
Whilst training exchange of information with staff time, we have used the survey to measure spend was down on previous years, there is critical to maintain staff support, our performance against a stable set has been an annual training investment understanding and motivation during of indicators, thus providing excellent of 16.7m during the year and through a period of economic uncertainty when data on both our absolute and relative careful prioritisation we have been able colleagues are saying goodbye to their performance as a Group and within and to maintain investment in those areas of friends and, in many areas of the Group, between businesses and regions.
The first half has proved invaluable in allowing us of the year saw an increased appetite for to highlight areas of good practice and Our suite of client relationship skills and the consumption of news and information areas where we may be falling short of project management courses has been about the Group, particularly through our high expectations.
However, towards as part of these improvements, the the year-end we experienced a slight dip The latest survey was conducted in knowledge and skills associated with in penetration gures for our internal April May 2010 and so provides an engaging with clients on carbon critical communications channels, which shows up-to-date assessment of our performance.
design have been added and embedded us we have to work harder to maintain The survey is open to all our staff into the content of the courses.
worldwide and can be completed in several different languages.
Overall 76% During the year a new Group-wide career Against this background and in addition of staff completed the survey with a development framework was successfully to internal communications activities which reduction in the Employee Engagement launched.
This framework brings greater focused on exchanging and broadcasting Index EEI from 75 to 73.
Whilst this clarity on how to navigate a career path information about our vision, values and only takes the EEI back to the same level in Atkins, and reinforces the fact that the strategy to colleagues, we stepped up our as 2008, it is disappointing and provides Company can provide interesting and programme of employee engagement to several useful pointers as to where we rewarding careers to individuals whether ensure that colleagues understand what need to do better.
their contribution has a technical, project actions are being taken to enable us to management or business management bias.
remain successful and the role they play Similarly, we were disappointed for the first in contributing to this.
time in six years to drop out of the Sunday Times Top 20 Best Big Companies to Work For ranking.
Having reviewed the results in detail, we have concluded that this was as a result of several factors, most particularly our failure to explain sufciently well the context within which we have had to take a number of hard decisions in relation to redundancies, pay awards and cost reduction.
We have recognised the need to engage staff at every level on these issues, not simply those in senior management roles.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 40 Reviews Human Resources Review Our people continued There has been a focus on engaging more In 2009 Atkins achieved accreditation for Reward with talent and talent management at all its employer-managed further learning As announced a year ago, we took a levels: management development centres, programme from the Joint Board of decision to defer the April pay review development dialogue and the senior Moderators.
The programme enables until October 2009, when a full review was management development programme bachelor-level graduates to gain the undertaken.
As a result, salaries increased are proving to be vital tools through which necessary training to achieve chartership, in the few market sectors experiencing we identify, engage and develop talent at and represents a valuable offering to upward pay movement but remained middle and senior levels 250 individuals our graduate recruits.
This programme broadly at for much of the Group.
We also continue is being formally launched during 2010. to invest in people management skills with The April 2010 pay review was conducted 1,300 managers attending our portfolio of Technical excellence is a strategic within the context of strong business courses dedicated to this.
imperative for Atkins and we continue performance in some of our businesses, to invest in the technical networks but continuing challenging market Improvements have been made to the established 18 months ago to join up skills conditions in others.
Overall pay levels systems, processes and resources dedicated embedded in our market-facing businesses.
rose by 2% across the Group, with to supporting learning and development.
The The networks perform an important increases appropriately targeted to respond combination of improvements to our learning governance function for our technical work to significant pay pressure in some areas management system and the establishment and provide a focus for improving our skills, without affecting competitiveness in those of a central learning and development centre design methodologies and tools.
Through sectors of the market where salaries at best of expertise will enable better visibility and the networks, we have effectively trained remain at.
As a result, 55% of staff access to our training courses, more robust staff to design using the new Eurocodes received an increase.
reporting, tighter management of training which were introduced from April 2010. costs and closer alignment of training activity The success of the first tranche of networks The executive bonus scheme, which covers with business needs.
has encouraged us to launch recently a approximately 850 senior staff, provides further three networks.
the opportunity to increase pay to the The priority for graduate development this upper quartile for the sector by meeting year has been to improve communication Strategic relationships with universities demanding financial and personal targets.
This was continue to enable us to access emerging In addition, many senior staff also receive an achieved through various means, including thinking and technologies of relevance annual share award, providing an incentive a redesign of our graduate intranet site, to our markets.
We continue to deliver to deliver sustained long-term performance.
regular intranet articles congratulating modules on undergraduate and those who have achieved chartered status postgraduate teaching programmes A discretionary bonus scheme covers the or professional qualications, and an and to mentor research projects, which wider Atkins population and pays a bonus increase in email updates and stakeholder enable us to build strong relationships to approximately 30% of staff in each presentations about the graduate with students and raise Atkins prole year, recognising individual contribution development programme.
as a desirable company to work for.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Reviews Reviews 41 More than 100 Atkins engineers act as ambassadors for STEMNET For more information visit www.
uk We continue to work closely with the Diversity Our work to encourage young people Trustees of the Groups dened benefit It is essential that we attract, retain and into engineering is supported by strong pension schemes to ensure that the develop talented individuals who reect links with schools and colleges, and by our schemes are appropriately funded and the diverse nature of the areas in which sponsorship of Insite magazine, which is that liabilities are managed effectively.
Success in this regard is critical distributed to schools and young engineers A change was implemented for the for us in order to build a balanced clubs.
We have more than 100 engineers members of the Atkins section of the workforce to meet our clients needs, to acting as ambassadors for STEMNET Rail Pension Scheme which has allowed broaden our skills base and to address a Science, Technology, Engineering and members who wish to do so to choose growing skills deficit in the science and Mathematics Network, promoting a lower-cost option in exchange for a engineering disciplines.
engineering in schools and attending cap on final pensionable salary.
after-school clubs to provide a snapshot In July 2009, Keith Clarke, as chairman of of life as an engineer.
We have sought to strengthen further the the Construction Industry Council CIC, Board of Trustees for the Atkins Pension delivered a diversity report that rallied HR modernisation Plan, the largest scheme within the Group, the industry to unite and increase We have made significant progress during to increase its investment expertise, and representation of women and ethnic the year with the implementation of our we have already commenced a dialogue groups.
We are now able to show that HR modernisation programme, one of with the Board regarding the 2010 over the past five years we have seen several business improvement initiatives triennial valuation.
an increase in the number of women for the Group.
The objective of this is to in both managerial and senior technical improve the accessibility of services for We were delighted to achieve the National and professional roles in Atkins.
our people whilst streamlining the HR Association of Pension Funds quality mark service for the organisation.
Via the for the dened contribution section of the Gender diversity is visible through our implementation of new technology and Atkins Pension Plan.
This confirms that the external work with organisations, industry transition to a new operating model, Plan is considered competitive with respect bodies and clients to promote greater we have been able to reduce the costs to Company contribution levels and is participation, particularly by women, in of HR by over 25% whilst increasing value managed and administered to a high the science, engineering and technology to the organisation.
A particular priority is standard of governance.
All business Board directors to increase the focus on resource planning have received formal training around to ensure that we plan, develop and retain diversity and discrimination awareness, the skills and resources necessary to meet which is being cascaded to their teams.
Employees can also access an online training module on practical steps they can take to promote equal opportunities.
Alun Grifths, Group HR director, continues to chair the Industry Board of the UK Resource Centre, the Governments lead organisation for the provision of advice, support and policy consultation regarding the under-representation of women in science, engineering, technology and the built environment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 42 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review We are committed to acting responsibly towards all our stakeholders and to taking a leadership position within our sector.
Our corporate responsibility beliefs and performance align to our strategic imperatives and are in accordance with our policies on safety leadership, carbon reduction, respect for the environment, excellence in delivery and working with our community.
For more information visit www.
com cr WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Reviews Reviews 43 See page 14 for our strategic imperatives We are committed to acting responsibly Safety leadership leadership course.
The Rail business towards all our stakeholders and to Atkins remains committed to health and developed the Safe by Choice behavioural taking a leadership position within our safety improvement beyond that required programme, and has seen a reduction sector.
We also and during the year we continued to work attendees of the Network Rail supplier summarise this years activities on this with industry through national forums such conference, and has now also been site.
our policies on safety leadership, carbon Consultants Health and Safety Forum.
reduction, respect for the environment, Atkins safety, health and environment excellence in delivery and working with Last year we reported that our Highways SHE culture survey was extended to our community.
Some 8,500 staff our people can be found in the Human industry standard for designing out risks responded to the survey, including the UK Resources Review on pages 36 to 41 and in projects.
The results showed that information on corporate responsibility been adopted by the UK Governments a positive safety and environment culture governance and business conduct can Environment Agency and continues to exists within Atkins but that there remains be found in the Corporate Governance be promoted across the industry.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at We continue to improve safety leadership the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Our newly appointed Whilst only advisory, this resolution will chairman and Group finance director enable us to obtain feedback from both undertook the Construction Skills shareholders on our performance in Certication Scheme CSCS Managerial this area.
HSE Labour Force Survey results are the three-year average results for different occupations: administrative Corporate Governance Report and secretarial for Ofce, science and technology for Engineering, and construction trades for Construction.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 44 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued Our safety performance Last year overall performance was All our operations are covered by Atkins reports accidents and incidents within Atkins AIR benchmarks with the OHSAS 18001 and we have achieved for staff, contractors and Joint Ventures, exception of contractors in the ofce certication to the revised standard and in situations where we are principal category, where one reportable accident OHSAS 18001:2007. contractor.
The accident incidence rate AIR was recorded.
For staff we are pleased is used to measure accident performance to report the AIR decreased across all We achieved a Group-level Royal Society for staff and contractors.
Atkins sets its own three categories, reecting the continued for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA challenging AIR benchmarks based on a effort to improve safety, including raising Gold award for the first time.
In addition, reduction from the previous year of 5% awareness of manual handling and display our Highways and Transportation business for ofce staff and 10% for engineering screen equipment through the launch received a Gold award for the fifth staff.
For construction the 2009 10 of specialist e-learning modules during consecutive year and our Asset target remained unchanged.
The AIR European Week of Safety, and the Management business achieved an Order benchmarks number of accidents per Group-wide safety leadership programme.
of Distinction for the 23rd year running.
100,000 staff or contractors for 2010 11 are 139 for ofce, 287 for engineering Our AIR performance continues to be Regulatory activity and 1,445 for construction activities.
better than industry performance as During the year, we recorded five visits by compiled by the Health and Safety enforcement authorities.
We have not been Executive in its Labour Force Survey prosecuted for any breaches of health and see Figure 1.
We have actively safety regulations.
encouraged the reporting of incidents and near misses as a positive step towards accident prevention.
This year 1,227 near misses were reported compared to 1,172 in 2009.
Our safety target Aim target Monitoring Indicator Baseline Measure Atkins SHE Culture Survey The use of four Nov 2008 safety culture dimensions of Jan 2010 surveys Atkins safety culture management commitment, staff engagement, training and competence, and communication Progress summary s Improvements were made to the SHE Culture Survey originally undertaken in the UK November 2008 s The revised SHE Culture Survey was piloted at a location within the Middle East business in May 2009 s The remainder of the non-UK businesses undertook the survey between December 2009 and January 2010, with over 2,100 staff responding s UK businesses are to undertake the revised survey in October 2010, as part of European Week of Safety.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Reviews Reviews 45 Achieved a Group-level RoSPA Gold award for occupational health and safety For more information visit www.
com Carbon reduction These tools are now being shared with objectives, approach and progress Carbon critical design industry to encourage greater collaboration on carbon critical design.
The review Atkins began its carbon critical design with governments, clients and professional recognised that our internal learning on awareness programme in 2008 with two institutions and to help stimulate carbon is the most comprehensive that has aims: to encourage senior managers to development and knowledge on the been encountered, with extensive training engage their teams in the role engineers carbon agenda.
undertaken and an impressive range and will have to play to deliver a low-carbon quality of tools developed around carbon economy, and to promote the transfer of Through our chief executives position critical design.
The review also stated that knowledge within the business.
Building as chair of the Construction Industry the level of client engagement was hugely on that activity we are now focusing on Council in 2009 10 we engaged closely encouraging whilst recognising that the improving levels of client engagement, and with the UK Government on how its Low future focus of the programme will need to this end have invested more than 1m in Carbon Transition Plan can be delivered to be weighted more towards outcomes the development of a suite of carbon tools, within the UK.
Atkins has also been central than processes.
which were launched towards the end of to the establishment and delivery of the 2009.
These tools are designed to help Construction Innovation and Growth Team Atkins has continued to engage with an organisations make decisions on how to CIGT which is focusing on the delivery ever-greater number of clients on carbon reduce embodied and operational carbon of a low-carbon construction industry critical design, resulting in more exemplar and thus to influence designs.
projects which can be viewed on our website www.
The tools, outlined below, fall into two Atkins engaged the consultancy Forum for categories: generic tools that can be used the Future, and specifically Jonathon Porritt, by any part of the organisation, and to provide an independent review of our market-specic tools.
Carbon tool Description Carbon Critical A next-generation carbon calculation and Knowledgebase reporting tool that can be used as both an accounting tool and an optioneering tool Carbon Critical A web-based tool to help express business Roadmap activities in terms of carbon Carbon Critical A tool that presents a graphical overview Relativity of the link between carbon determinants and the carbon they produce or save Carbon Critical A tool aimed at systematic identication Masterplanning and quantication of the carbon impacts of development masterplans Atkins Remote ArT is an innovative, web-based energy Technology ArT management system Carbon Critical Three tools related to carbon critical Buildings building design: C-rating, Tool for the Tools and Carbon Curves Carbon Critical Travel A collection of tools to help encourage Behaviours the use of low-carbon transport options Carbon Critical Trafc A tool which turns collected trafc Analysis data into estimates of carbon emissions WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Market specic Generic 46 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued Our carbon performance In October 2009 we launched our Our carbon emissions We achieved the Carbon Trust Standard for Raising Awareness Cutting Energy RACE We are now able to report on our energy our UK operations and believe we are the campaign to raise awareness and cut consumption for all of our operations in first organisation in the design engineering energy consumption in our property China, Europe, the Middle East, the UK consultancy sector to do so.
The standard portfolio by 12.5% by March 2011. and the USA.
We consume gas, electricity is awarded to organisations for measuring, The campaign is focused at an individual and diesel in our own operations.
Figures 2 managing and genuinely reducing their property level to encourage all employees and 3 show the average emissions per carbon emissions and committing to to play their part in reducing consumption employee and the total emissions for reducing them year on year.
Over a by establishing a positive energy culture.
three-year review period we reduced our More than 50 of our locations are emissions from energy use and company participating and more than 5,700 Worldwide, we emitted 19,774 tonnes vehicles by 11.5%.
We now plan to extend employees have completed the e-learning of CO from energy consumption.
Carbon 2 the scope of the standard to cover our training modules that we have created emissions from energy use in our Middle non-UK operations in 2011. on energy management.
East business have increased due to the inclusion of our Global Design Centre in In 2009 we were rated in the top ten of We have also pledged to HRH The Prince Bangalore and more accurate data on FTSE 350 companies for the performance of Wales May Day Network that we will diesel consumption in the Middle East.
element of the Carbon Disclosure Project publish our carbon footprint and we have CDP.
The performance section recognises committed to reducing our carbon In China our carbon emissions have companies that effectively manage and emissions by 10% in 2010 as part of the reduced by 168 tonnes due to lower share carbon data: make the most of climate 10:10 campaign.
As of April 2010 we are reported energy consumption in our change opportunities and create solutions to participating in the Carbon Reduction ofces.
Emissions in Europe have also manage risks: engage with climate change Energy efficiency Scheme in the UK.
reduced despite the inclusion of Poland policymakers and work towards reducing To facilitate these reductions remote for the first time.
Our overall energy metering was installed at nine new reporting score for the CDP also placed us locations during the year, meaning that 14 This is also the first time that we have been in the top 75 of the FTSE 350 companies.
of our key UK properties now have the able to report on carbon emissions from system installed.
There were immediate energy consumption for our operations in results as significant reductions in both gas the USA.
and electricity consumption were identied and implemented at those locations.
The system has been complemented by the installation of our own Atkins Remote Technology ArT system at 11 properties.
Figure 2: Figure 3: Total emissions Tonnes of CO per employee Total 2 2009 10 from energy consumption CO emissions from CO emissions from emissions 2 2 Source energy consumption tonnes business travel tonnes tonnes USA Region Gas Electricity Diesel Road Air Rail UK Europe Middle East China 0 600 0 33 861 0 1,494 Europe 25 642 0 247 144 30 1,088 China Middle East 0 3,392 278 341 424 0 4,435 UK 2,292 11,968 4 12,824 3,694 1,321 32,103 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 USA 0 573 0 n a 533 n a 1,106 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Reviews Reviews 47 Committed to reducing our carbon Atkins has won multiple recognition emissions by 10% in 2010 for its carbon reduction drive For more information visit For more information visit www.
com awards carbon The calculation for CO emissions from In the USA we ew 43% fewer business for road and air travel, the DEFRA gures 2 our energy consumption is made using miles than the previous year, reducing our for rail travel in the UK and the US Intercity the latest published DEFRA gures for CO equivalent emissions by 398 tonnes.
In rail emissions gure for non-UK rail travel 2 electricity in the UK and for gas in the UK China emissions from business travel by air in the absence of valid country-specic and Ireland.
We use the five-year average decreased by 5.3% whilst more accurate information.
The calculations include the from the latest published Greenhouse data led to a slight increase in emissions conversion of other greenhouse gases into Gas Protocol gures for each country from road travel.
In Europe emissions carbon emissions.
The numbers reported other than the UK for electricity.
Where from air travel increased slightly with the for 2008 09 have been revised due to data does not exist we extrapolate inclusion of Poland in our reporting whilst changing DEFRA emissions factors to known consumption data in the region emissions from road travel increased enable better year-on-year comparison.
to include the remaining locations.
signicantly with extra data now available In the UK a financial incentive to encourage from Denmark and Poland.
employees to choose lower-emitting We are now also able to report on business company car vehicles was introduced in travel emissions for all of our operations.
The calculation for CO equivalent 2009.
The average carbon emissions of 2 Our business travel data covers: all road, emissions from our business travel is made our UK company car fleet of 1,500 vehicles air and rail travel for the UK: company car, using the latest published DEFRA gures has reduced to 148g km 2009: 154g km.
air and rail travel for Europe and India: See Figure 4. company car and air travel for China, and air travel for the USA.
Our business travel emissions from road and air for the Middle East business account for approximately Figure 4: Company car fleet emissions UK average 60% of our operations in that region.
100 A Our worldwide CO equivalent emissions 2 associated with business travel were 101-110 B 111-120 C 20,452 tonnes.
This is 2 186-200 J against a backdrop of a 7.9% decrease in 201-225 K average headcount over the same period.
226-255 L 256 M A-M UK Vehicle Exercise Duty VED bands.
Our carbon target Aim target Monitoring Indicator Baseline Reduce energy Energy Total consumption Annual consumption by consumption data of gas and consumption up 12.5% between electricity to October 2009 October 2009 and March 2011 Progress summary s RACE launched to worldwide operations in October 2009 s RACE e-learning modules made available to staff in October 2009: 5,750 staff completed the modules by March 2010 s More than 50 locations worldwide already participating in RACE.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 CO emissions g km 2 48 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued Respect for the environment Waste management was a key consideration Water reduction We are committed to conducting business in our Derby ofces relocation last year.
We appreciate that water is a limited in an environmentally responsible manner.
Waste was kept to a minimum wherever resource around the world and we work All of our operations worldwide are possible during the project with 90% of with clients to develop water-efficient covered by the ISO 14001 standard.
We construction waste recycled and items solutions.
We have worked on projects have summarised here our activities on returned to manufacturers and suppliers such as rainwater harvesting in East waste reduction, water efficiency and for recycling.
New desks purchased for the Anglia, UK: Northwood Primary School regulatory activity.
ofce are 99% recyclable and the fabrics in Darlington, UK: and water supply and used on the chairs were made from 100% sanitation in Nigeria.
We extended the safety, health and recycled material.
environment SHE Culture Survey to Our water performance our non-UK businesses as referred to in Our waste performance Because we lease the majority of the Safety Leadership section.
This was We continue to improve and rene our our properties, as with waste it is difficult the first time that we had surveyed our waste management facilities.
As we lease to obtain relevant water consumption data employees on environmental issues the majority of our properties it is very for these locations.
We are able to monitor outside our UK operations.
difficult to obtain accurate waste data for consumption at locations in the Middle all of our operations.
However we are able East, Bangalore, Ireland, Poland, Portugal Waste reduction to report on waste and recycling for a and in the UK covering approximately In September 2009 we signed up to the number of key UK properties that account 30% of our employees.
WRAP Waste and Resources Action for approximately 35% of our UK staff.
Programme Halving Waste to Landll Through these locations 40% of the waste We have introduced waterless vehicle commitment in the UK.
We aim to achieve is recycled.
In Sweden we continue to cleaning for some operations to reduce this target by 2012 by embedding the divert 100% of waste away from landll the amount of water that we consume.
principles of designing out waste into our through recycling or conversion to energy.
Since signing up we have In China we recycled 65% of our waste Regulatory activity engaged project managers and designers on and introduced a new recycling system In the last year we received four visits key design issues and applied the principles into our Shenzhen ofce.
Our operations from the Environment Agency.
We received to several pilot projects to help establish in Ireland and Poland recycled 24% of a warning letter, as did our client and a baseline data on waste.
contractor, due to a problem with waste management on one project site.
No other In the UK we have piloted composting enforcement action was taken during the of food waste at our Epsom and Bristol year and we have not been prosecuted for ofces.
The scheme has proved very any breaches of environmental legislation.
successful with almost eight tonnes of food waste diverted from landll.
The compost generated is used for regeneration projects in London.
Our environmental target Aim target Monitoring Indicator Baseline Halve waste sent Quarterly review Levels of waste 2010 data to landll through with businesses avoidance and our UK projects amounts diverted by 2012 away from landll Progress summary s Workshop to introduce key design principles in September 2009 s Key design principles embedded in pilot projects across the business.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Reviews Reviews 49 We have signed up to the WRAP Halving Waste to Landll commitment in the UK For more information visit www.
uk Excellence in delivery All our businesses are required to make We have also created a supply chain Following a business review of how we the transition to the revised standard knowledge centre for our Highways operate we have developed a business of ISO 9001 by November 2010.
The and Transportation and Rail businesses.
improvement programme to enable us assessment programme, run by our This provides extensive management to win signicantly more work and deliver certication body Lloyds Register Quality information on supplier capability, it more profitably.
The programme covers Assurance, began last year.
So far 80% pre-qualication status, and performance.
key items such as client engagement of the Group has achieved approval This assists Highways and Transportation and project excellence.
As part of the against the new standard.
and Rail with their more stringent supplier programme we are working towards requirements and enables them to provide adoption of a common business Supply chain the necessary assurance for clients.
management system BMS to enable us We recognise that our supply chain plays to implement a more consistent approach a significant part in delivering successful to common processes.
For this reason we have developed a supply chain sustainability To help us deliver technical excellence commitment to help us engage our consistently we have created 14 technical suppliers on important economic, social networks across the Group.
networks are chaired by our most respected specialists who provide leadership in their The principles were applied to the Derby appointed subject or discipline, identify ofce move that was undertaken during investment opportunities, and raise the the last year.
Local suppliers were used prole of Atkins on technical expertise.
extensively in the project, equating to 70% of the contract value: site safety was We continue to deliver complex exemplar paramount, with all site workers required projects, details of which can be viewed to have the Construction Skills Certication on our website.
Scheme card: and minibuses were used to move workers to and from the site to reduce carbon emissions and vehicle movements around the area.
The plan is now to embed the sustainability commitment within the supply chains of each business through a pan-business procurement forum.
Our excellence in delivery target Aim target Monitoring Indicator Baseline Embed supply chain Supply chain Number of suppliers n a sustainability reviews delivering on the commitment within commitment individual business supply chains Progress summary s Commitment agreed with all business managing directors s Engaged corporate-level suppliers to deliver on the commitment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 50 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued Working with our community Staff in Bangalore supported World We are passionate about contributing Environment Day by planting trees, to the communities in which we operate cleaning up the area and donating and engaging our people to join together bins to the vicinity around our ofce.
to make a difference where it counts.
An employee from our geospatial team We aim to support our people in their has used his expertise to help locals in own communities around the world Sri Lanka clear danger zones of mines through local charitable donations, and to co-ordinate relief effort following fundraising, volunteering activities and the Haiti earthquake.
Atkins network of house managers continues to help Clients and staff from our Leeds ofce coordinate and promote these activities took part in the three peaks challenge, through our ofces.
A few examples raising 140,000 for charity over the of activities that took place around the last five years.
This year proceeds went world during 2009 10 follow.
Fuller to the Wakeeld Hospice.
information is available on our website www.
Employees and their families supported the Emirates Environment Group Clean Up We continue to be actively engaged in UAE campaign in the Dubai Investment a range of educational initiatives from Park area.
They also supported the can primary schools through to universities.
collection drive helping to collect more than For example we support a number of 13 tonnes of aluminium cans for recycling.
undergraduate prizes at universities, often with the emphasis on low-carbon solutions, and contribute to undergraduate and postgraduate teaching programmes.
Many Atkins locations around the world, including Hong Kong, Dubai, Sharjah and London, supported the global Earth Hour campaign this year by ensuring that all lights were switched off for the event.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
