Governance Governance 55 Articles of association Charitable donations Employees are routinely informed of financial Company law has undergone substantial During the year, the Group made charitable results and significant business issues via the change since January 2007 when the donations of 93,054 2009: 187,757.
The use of email, voice conference, the Companys phased implementation of the Companies beneciaries of these donations were local intranet and in-house publications.
The articles charities serving the communities in which of association of the Company were revised the Group operates or charities working in An annual survey is carried out to obtain in 2008.
At this time it was envisaged that areas relevant to the Groups activities.
This survey further changes to the articles of association Group intends to continue its focus on local is condential and is used alongside would be proposed at the 2009 AGM charities in the current financial year.
consultation with employees and union as a result of the continuing phased representatives where appropriate.
implementation of the Act and the Corporate governance and implementation of the EU Shareholders remuneration Employee involvement in the Groups Rights Directive the Directive.
However, The Company prepares reports on performance continues to be encouraged some uncertainty surrounded the corporate governance pages 58 to 64 and through share ownership.
In the UK, employees are given the opportunity to implementation of the Directive at the on directors remuneration pages 65 to 71, time of the 2009 AGM and it was therefore which are incorporated into this report become shareholders through the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
Approximately 10% of decided that the prudent approach was by reference.
to delay further changes until 2010.
A UK employees participate in the Atkins Share Incentive Plan.
resolution will therefore be proposed at Corporate responsibility the Companys forthcoming AGM to adopt A summary of the Groups corporate Further details on staff issues can be new articles of association.
Further details responsibility activities is provided for are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
shareholders in the Corporate Responsibility found in the Human Resources Review pages 36 to 41. Review pages 42 to 50.
In addition, the Political donations and expenditure Group provides further information on Suppliers It is the Groups policy not to make corporate responsibility, which includes political donations and not to incur political detailed information in respect of safety The Groups policy is to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with expenditure, either in the UK or overseas.
leadership and performance, carbon Accordingly, the Group made no political reduction, respect for the environment suppliers and to endeavour to abide by these terms and conditions, subject to the supplier donations and incurred no such expenditure and working with our community, on the during the year and has no intention of Groups website www.
making any such donations or incurring such expenditure in the future.
However, Employees No one supplier arrangement is considered to be essential to the business of the Group.
the provisions enacted in the Act relating The Group is committed to the fair and to donations and expenditure covered equitable treatment of all its employees, The Company, as a holding company, by this disclosure are wide.
To prevent an irrespective of sex, race, age, religion or inadvertent breach of the Act the Board belief, disability, sexual orientation, gender did not have any amounts owing to trade creditors as at 31 March 2010. has historically sought authority for the reassignment, marriage and civil partnership Company and its subsidiaries to make such and pregnancy and maternity.
To this end, Share capital and share purchases donations and incur such expenditure up policies have been put in place to ensure this to an aggregate limit for the Company and commitment is implemented at recruitment As at the date of this report, the Companys share capital consists of its subsidiaries of 90,000, subject to the and then continues throughout an provisions of the Act.
The Board considers individuals employment with the Group.
104,451,799 issued and fully paid ordinary shares each with a nominal value of 0.5p, it prudent once again to seek such authority The Group encourages recruitment, training, at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
The career development and promotion on the listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Of these, 4,341,000 ordinary shares are held authority will not be used to make political basis of aptitude and ability, without regard donations within the normal meaning of to disability.
It is also committed to retaining in treasury the treasury shares.
Shares may be held in certicated or uncerticated form.
Further details are contained and retraining as necessary employees in the Notice of Meeting.
who become disabled during the course Further details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital, including changes of their employment.
during the year, can be found in note 31 to the Financial Statements page 114.
Notice of Meeting visit www.
com investors agm WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
