Governance Governance 57 Cautionary statement The directors, whose names and functions Disclosure of audit information Under the Companies Act 2006, a companys are listed in this Annual Report pages The directors confirm that, as at the date directors report is required, among other matters, 52 and 53, confirm that, to the best of this report was approved, so far as each to contain a fair review by the directors of the their knowledge: director is aware there is no relevant audit Groups business through a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and information of which the Companys auditor performance of the business of the Group and the s they have complied with the above is unaware and that he or she has taken all position of the Group at the year-end, consistent requirements in preparing the the steps he or she ought to have taken as with the size and complexity of the business.
Financial Statements a director in order to make himself or herself The directors report set out above, including s the Directors Report includes a fair review aware of any relevant audit information and the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives of the development and performance of to establish that the Companys auditor is Statement, the Business Review, the Human Resources Review, the Corporate Responsibility the business and the position of the Group, aware of that information.
Review, the Corporate Governance Report and together with a description of the principal the Remuneration Report incorporated into it by risks and uncertainties that it faces Going concern reference together, the Directors Report, has been prepared only for the shareholders of the Company s the Financial Statements, prepared in The directors have a reasonable expectation as a whole and its sole purpose and use is to assist accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the that the Company and the Group have shareholders to exercise their governance rights.
In European Union, give a true and fair view adequate resources to continue in particular, the Directors Report has not been audited or otherwise independently veried.
The Company of the assets, liabilities, financial position operational existence for the foreseeable and its directors and employees are not responsible and profit of the Group and the Company.
future and therefore continue to adopt the for any other purpose or use or to any other person going concern basis in preparing the in relation to the Directors Report.
The directors are responsible for keeping Financial Statements.
The Directors Report contains indications of likely adequate accounting records that are future developments and other forward-looking sufficient to show and explain the Auditors statements that are subject to risk factors associated Companys transactions and disclose with The Companys independent auditor, with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to reasonable accuracy at any time the financial  LLP, has expressed time in the countries, sectors and business segments position of the Company and the Group and its willingness to continue in ofce and in which the Group operates.
These factors include, that enable them to ensure that the Financial resolutions for its re-appointment and to but are not limited to, those discussed under Principal Risks and Uncertainties pages 34 to 35.
These and Statements and the Remuneration Report authorise the directors to determine its other factors could adversely affect the Groups results, comply with the Act and, as regards the remuneration will be proposed at the strategy and prospects.
Forward-looking statements Group Financial Statements, Article 4 forthcoming AGM.
involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
They relate to events and or depend on circumstances of the International Accounting Standard in the future which could cause actual results and Regulation.
They are also responsible for Approved by the Board and signed on outcomes to differ materially from those currently safeguarding the assets of the Company and its behalf by anticipated.
No obligation is assumed to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of the Group and hence for taking reasonable new information, future events or otherwise.
steps for the prevention and detection of Richard Webster fraud and other irregularities.
Company secretary 16 June 2010 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
com investors constitution WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
