56 Directors report continued Defence Joint Venture Agreement dated 16 November 2005 between 1 Babcock Support Services Limited and 2 DynCorp International LLC to form Babcock DynCorp Limited On 16 November 2005, Babcock DynCorp Limited entered into the Regional Prime Contract East with The Secretary of State for Defence acting through the agency of Defence Estates to provide property maintenance and capital works across the MoD Estate in the East of England.
Under the terms of the Babcock DynCorp joint venture agreement, if either party undergoes a change of control, the other party may require that party to sell its shares in the joint venture at a fair value.
Group Borrowing facilities The Company is party to the following credit facility agreements each of which provides that in the event of a change of control of the Company, the lenders may, within a certain period, call for the prepayment of any outstanding loans and cancel the credit facility.
600 million Facility agreement originally dated 9 May 2007 between the Company, as borrower, The Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland, J. P. Morgan plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as mandated lead arrangers, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as facility agent, and a syndicate of other financial institutions as original lenders as since amended and restated.
The facility was originally established in part to fund the acquisition of Devonport Management Limited in 2007 and in part to provide funds for general corporate purposes.
Backstop Facilities Agreement dated 23 March 2010 between the Company as borrower, J. P. Morgan plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc, as mandated lead arrangers, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, as facility agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N. A. and Lloyds TSB Bank plc as original lenders.
The Backstop Facilities Agreement provided for two facilities in a maximum aggregate principal amount of 600 million comprising a 295 million term loan facility Facility A and a 305 million revolving loan Facility B.
Facility A may be used towards financing the acquisition of shares in VT Group plc pursuant to the recommended acquisition announced on 23 March 2010 the VT Acquisition, including the payment of the cash price, financing the costs of the VT Acquisition, financing the consideration payable in respect of the surrender or cancellation of options or awards over VT Group shares and repaying indebtedness of the VT Group that exists at the date of the VT Acquisition.
Facility B was to be used towards refinancing any indebtedness incurred under the Existing Facility Agreement and general corporate and working capital purposes of the Combined Group, however upon execution of the amendment and restatement of the above mentioned 600 million Facility Agreement on 22 April 2010, Facility B was cancelled.
Bridge Facility Agreement dated 23 March 2010 between the Company as borrower, J. P. Morgan plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc, as mandated lead arrangers, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, as facility agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N. A. and Lloyds TSB Bank plc as original lenders.
The Agreement provides for a term loan facility in a maximum aggregate principal amount of 400 million the Facility.
The Company may use the Facility towards financing the VT Acquisition, including the payment of the cash price, financing the costs of the VT Acquisition, financing the consideration payable in respect of the surrender or cancellation of options or awards over VT shares and repaying indebtedness of the VT Group that exists at the date of the Acquisition.
It may also use the Facility towards refinancing any indebtedness incurred under the above-mentioned 600 million Borrowing Facility Agreement for the purposes of funding the VT Acquisition.
Multi-Currency Loan Notes On 21 January 2010, the Company issued two series of loan notes to Prudential Investment Management Inc. and certain of its affiliates : a 60 million 4.995 per cent.
Series A Shelf Notes due 21 January 2017 the Series A Shelf Notes : and b 40 million 5.405 per cent.
Series B Shelf Notes due 21 January 2020 the Series B Shelf Notes, together, the Multi-Currency Loan Notes.
Each series is unsecured and unsubordinated and ranks, and will rank, pari passu with all other unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company.
Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled, the Company will redeem the Series A Shelf Notes on 21 January 2017 and the Series B Shelf Notes on 21 January 2020, respectively at their principal amount.
In the event of a change of control of the Company before then, the Company must offer to pre-pay the Multi-Currency Loan Notes together with a make whole premium.
Share plans The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
