16 Group overview Our six divisions deliver engineering excellence through long-term partnerships with their customers.
Throughout the business review, unless otherwise stated, revenue, operating profit, operating margin, profit before tax and earnings per share refer to results from continuing operations, before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
8% Operating return on revenue 8.5% Operating return on revenue 1 1.
2% Operating return on revenue Profile Profile Profile We are the UKs leading naval support We are the largest provider of facilities We have one of the largest specialist business and have a unique role management support to the Ministry of nuclear resources in the UK.
We are site supporting the Royal Navy and the Defence and training support to the Army.
managers at Dounreay, Harwell and Ministry of Defence.
Winfrith and provide outage and We deliver equipment support and maintenance support for current power base support to the RAF and technical We have a growing role in the design generation.
of future naval defence programmes and are expanding our international We also provide these services to We also operate in the decommissioning submarine support operations.
Key activities Key activities Key activities Submarines through-life support, refit, South West and East Regional Prime Contracts Outage support for operational reactors refuelling and decommissioning, base porting for MoD Site management S urface ships warship refit, member of Surface RAF Valley and Linton-on-Ouse MAC contracts Decommissioning activities Ship Support Alliance and Aircraft Carrier Alliance IOS contracts for Hawk fast jet trainers Waste management solutions Naval bases management of HMNB Devonport 30 year RSME training and training support contract Mechanical system design and engineering and HMNB Clyde Support for airport baggage handling systems Safety and risk analysis I ntegrated Technology design and technical at Heathrow, Gatwick and Schipol solutions Key customers Key customers Sellafield Ltd Key customers MoD Defence Estates British Energy now EDF EG MoD Army AWE Aldermaston fide&S Equipment Support RAF Magnox Electric Canadian and Australian Governments BAE Systems Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd Navantia BAA Business review m 3.
8 5 9 e n i % r a 1 5 M Babcock International Group PLC 17 Group overview 1, 895.5m Total Group revenue Rail Networks Engineering and Plant 1.
9m Operating profit 3.6% Operating return on revenue 6.3% Operating return on revenue Profile Profile Profile We are a major player in the rail We operate in the UK high voltage Operating mainly in South Africa the infrastructure market.
power transmission, mobile and division supports Eskom, the national fixed telecommunications and digital power supplier, and operates the Volvo Key activities broadcast infrastructure markets.
Traditional track renewal Signalling and control system installation Key activities In the US we provide specialist oil Telecommunications systems installation High voltage power transmission maintenance pipeline support.
and upgrade Key customers Key activities Transmission design activities Network Rail Maintenance and engineering support Digital switchover antennae design on power station boilers Transport Scotland and replacement Construction, erection and maintenance Mobile and fixed telecommunications network of high voltage power lines upgrades Sole distributor for Volvo equipment to mining and infrastructure construction companies Key customers After sales parts and servicing support for Volvo National Grid EDF Energy Networks Key customers Scottish and Southern Energy Eskom Nokia Siemens Networks Volvo construction equipment customers Ericsson Arqiva t n a l P g m n 2 i. r 4 e 7 e 1 n i g % n 9 E m s 6. k 2 r 1 o 1 w t % e 6 N m 7.
