Business review Babcock International Group PLC 29 Operational r Operational review continued eview continued The East Regional Prime Contract broadened its self delivery Airports capability and completed a number of additional projects The airport operations have had another good year.
Building including Project ELAN, an accommodation modernisation on our success in the UK at London Heathrow and Gatwick programme for the RAF.
during the first half of the year we were awarded the contract for maintenance and operation of part of the baggage We have continued to deliver improved living accommodation handling systems at Schipol Airport, Amsterdam.
for the MoD through the Single Living Accommodation Modernisation SLAM programme, with 14,000 new bed Outlook spaces under the care of our maintenance programme.
Our existing long-term contracts provide us with good visibility Technical support across the division.
We believe pressure across our markets will continue.
We will seek to help our customers meet their We are delivering engineering excellence through our Multi savings targets by developing new innovative ways of Activity MAC and Integrated Operational Support IOS delivering support and services.
We are confident our track contracts all of which are performing well, meeting or record of reducing costs whilst maintaining high service exceeding previous levels of service.
For example, availability performance will place us in a strong position from which of the Hawk jet trainer aircraft consistently runs at over 98%.
to benefit, both the UK and overseas.
This level of performance has been achieved despite a reduction in the fleet size of 30%, resulting in further savings to the MoDs operating budget.
During the year we also supported the introduction of the new Advanced Jet Trainer Hawk TMk2 at RAF Valley.
In addition to winning the multi-activity contract for airfield support and maintenance at RAF Linton-on-Ouse during the first half of the year, we successfully entered the component spares market with a contract to manage the overhaul of under carriage components and assemblies for the Harrier, Hawk, VC10 and Nimrod fleets.
