| 102 Governance Board of directors Skills and experience: Mr.
Rough was a director of Legal & General 1.
Willy Strothotte Group Plc before retiring from Legal & General in June 2002.
As Title and age: Chairman, aged 66 Group Director Investments, Mr.
Rough headed all aspects of fund Appointment: Appointed in February 2002 management within Legal & General Investments Committee membership: Chairman of Remuneration Committee External appointments: Director of Land Securities Group plc, Brown, Skills and experience: From 1961 to 1978 Mr. Strothotte held various Shipley & Co Ltd and LME Holdings Ltd positions with responsibility for international trading in metals and minerals in Germany, Belgium and the USA.
Con Fauconnier joined Glencore International, taking up the position of Head of Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 63 Metals and Minerals in 1984.
Mr. Strothotte was appointed Chief Appointment: Appointed in May 2010 Executive Officer of Glencore in 1993 and held the combined Committee membership: Member of Health, Safety, Environment positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from 1994 until and Community and Remuneration Committees 2001, when the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive were split.
Skills and experience: Dr. Fauconnier was Managing Director of Iscor Mr. Strothotte was Chairman of Xstrata AG from 1994 to 2002 Mining in 1999, before being appointed as Chief Executive of and has been Chairman of Xstrata plc since February 2002 Kumba Resources Limited in 2001.
From 2006 until his retirement External appointments: Chairman of Glencore International AG in August 2007, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Exxaro and currently a director of Century Aluminium Corporation, Resources Limited, a newly formed company from the merger of Minara Resources Limited and KKR Financial Holdings LLC Eyesizwe Mining and the non-iron ore assets of Kumba Resources External appointments: Non-executive Director of Namakwa 2.
Mick Davis Diamonds Ltd Title and age: Chief Executive, aged 53 Appointment: Appointed Chief Executive in October 2001 and then 5.
Ivan Glasenberg Chief Executive of Xstrata plc upon incorporation in February 2002 Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 54 Committee membership: Chairman of Executive Committee, and a Appointment: Appointed in February 2002 member of the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committee Committee membership: Member or Nominations Committee Skills and experience: Previously, Mr. Davis was Chief Financial Officer Skills and experience: Mr. Glasenberg worked in the coal department and an executive director of Billiton Plc, appointed in July 1997, and of Glencore in South Africa for three years and in Australia for two served as Executive Chairman of Ingwe Coal Corporation Limited years.
From 1989 to 1990, he managed Glencore Internationals from 1995.
He joined Gencor Limited in early 1994 from Eskom, Hong Kong and Beijing offices.
In 1991 he became Head of the South African state-owned electricity utility, where he was an Glencores Coal Department and in 2002 Chief Executive Officer executive director of Glencore International External appointments: None External appointments: Chief Executive Officer of Glencore International.
Director of Minara Resources Limited and United 3.
David Rough Company Rusal Limited Title and age: Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, aged 60 6.
Peter Hooley Appointment: Appointed in April 2002 Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 64 Committee membership: Chairman of the Nominations Committee Appointment: Appointed in May 2009 and a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Health, Safety, Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee Environment and Community Committees Skills and experience: Mr. Hooley was, until 2006, Group Finance director of Smith & Nephew plc, a global medical devices business listed on the FTSE 100.
He was previously Group Financial Controller of BICC plc 1 2 3 4 5 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 103 External appointments: Non-executive director of Cobham plc, the retirement, his responsibilities included the legal framework for aerospace and defence group and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
regulation of the UK financial services industry, public private Director and Chairman of BSN medical, a medical textiles business group partnerships, procurement policy including the private finance initiative and the Treasurys enterprises and growth unit 7.
Claude Lamoureux External appointments: Member of the Financial Reporting Council Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 68 and KPMG Chairmans Advisory Board.
Chairman of KPMGs Public Appointment: Appointed in May 2008 Interest Committee Committee membership: Member of Audit and Health, Safety, 10.
Ian Strachan Environment and Community Committees Skills and experience: Mr. Lamoureux was President and Chief Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 67 Executive Officer of the Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board until Appointment: Appointed in May 2003 1 December 2007.
Previously he spent 25 years as a financial Committee membership: Chairman of the Health, Safety, executive with Metropolitan Life in Canada and the US Environment and Community Committee and a member of the External appointments: Director of Northumbrian Water Group plc, Audit Committee Cordiant Capital, Glass Lewis, Maple Leaf Foods Inc. Atrium Skills and experience: Mr. Strachan was Chairman of Instinet Group Innovations Inc. the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, from 2003 to 2005 and Chief Executive of BTR plc from 1996 to The Foundation for Investors Rights, The Learning Partnership and 1999.
Mr. Strachan joined Rio Tinto plc formerly RTZ plc as Chief the York University Foundation Financial Officer in 1987, and was Deputy Chief Executive from 1991 to 1995 8.
Trevor Reid External appointments: Director of Rolls-Royce Group plc and Title and age: Chief Financial Officer, aged 50 Chairman of its Audit Committees.
Chairman of Caithness Petroleum Appointment: Appointed in February 2002 Limited and Transocean Inc. Committee membership: Member of Executive Committee 11.
Santiago Zaldumbide Skills and experience: Mr. Reid joined Xstrata in January 2002.
Prior to joining Xstrata, he was Global Head of Resource Banking at the Title and age: Executive director and Chief Executive of Xstrata Zinc, Standard Bank Group.
He joined the Standard Bank Group in 1997 aged 68 from Warrior International Limited, a corporate finance boutique Appointment: Appointed in February 2002 specialising in the minerals sector Committee membership: Member of Executive Committee External appointments: None Skills and experience: Mr. Zaldumbide is currently Executive Chairman of Asturiana fide Zinc.
He is a previous Chief Executive Officer and 9.
Sir Steve Robson CB Director of Union Explosivos Rio Tinto and of Petroleos del Norte.
Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 67 In 1990, Petroleos del Norte became part of the Repsol Oil Group Appointment: Appointed in February 2002 where Mr. Zaldumbide was responsible for establishing the Committee membership: Member of Audit and international structure of the enlarged Repsol Oil Group.
In 1994, Nominations Committees he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Corporacin Industrial Skills and experience: Sir Steve retired as Second Permanent fide Banesto and, in December 1997, Chairman and Chief Executive Secretary at HM Treasury in January 2001.
He had joined HM Officer of Asturiana fide Zinc Treasury after leaving university.
His early career included a period as External appointments: None Private Secretary to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and a two-year secondment to Investors in Industry plc 3i.
