55 Significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control Many agreements entered into by the Company or its subsidiaries contain provisions entitling the other parties to terminate them in the event of a change of control of the Group company concerned, which can be triggered by a takeover of the Company.
The following agreements are those agreements which the Company considers to be significant to the Group as a whole that contain provisions giving the other party a specific right to terminate them if the Company is subject to a change of control following a takeover bid.
Marine Partnering Agreement dated 29 August 2002 between 1 The Secretary of State for Defence 2 Babcock Marine Clyde Limited Clyde formerly Babcock Naval Services Limited and 3 Babcock International Group PLC Under the Partnering Agreement as subsequently amended, Babcock Marine Clyde Limited provides services to the Ministry of Defence MoD in relation to the operation of HM Naval Base Clyde.
In 2005, the period of the Agreement was extended and it will now expire in 2013.
In the event of a change of majority control of Babcock International Group PLC, the MoD may request information regarding the new controlling entity and in certain circumstances, including if it is not satisfied as regards the financial affairs and standing of the new entity, serve a Change in Circumstance notice, and thereafter can elect to terminate the Agreement.
The Agreement can also be terminated if MoD considers that unacceptable ownership, influence or control domestic or foreign has been acquired over Clyde and that this is contrary to the essential security interests of the UK.
This might apply, for example, in circumstances where any non-UK person s directly or indirectly acquire control over more than 30% of the shares of the Company, though such a situation is not of itself such a circumstance unless the MoD in the given situation considers it to be so, and any level of ownership by particular foreign or domestic persons may, on the facts of the case, be so treated.
Articles of Association of Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited and Rosyth Royal Dockyard Limited The Articles of Association of Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited DRDL and Rosyth Royal Dockyard Limited RRDL, both subsidiaries of the Company, grant the MoD as the holder of a special share in each of those companies certain rights in certain circumstances.
Such rights include the right to require the sale of shares in, and the right to remove Directors of, the company concerned.
The circumstances when such rights might arise include where the MoD considers that unacceptable ownership, influence or control domestic or foreign has been acquired over the company in question and that this is contrary to the essential security interests of the UK.
The Company believes that RRDL presently has the right under its Articles of Association to request that the special share held by MoD in RRDL be redeemed.
Terms of Business Agreement ToBA dated 25 March 2010 between 1 The Secretary of State for Defence 2 Babcock International Group PLC 3 Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited 4 Babcock Marine Clyde Limited and 5 Babcock Marine Rosyth Limited The ToBA confirms Babcock as the MoDs key support partner in the maritime sector and covers the 15 year period from 2010 to 2025.
The MoD may terminate the ToBA in the event of a Change in Control of the Company in circumstances where, acting on the grounds of national security, the MoD considers that it is inappropriate for the new owners of the Company to become involved or interested in the Marine Division.
Change in Control occurs where a person or group of persons that control the Company ceases to do so or if another person or group of persons acquires control of the Company.
Networks Joint Venture Agreement dated 24 November 2006 between 1 Babcock Networks Limited, 2 AMEC Group Limited and 3 Mott MacDonald Limited to form the unincorporated joint venture known as the Energy Alliance.
On 16 March 2007, Babcock Networks Limited, AMEC Group Limited and Mott MacDonald Limited, acting jointly and severally as the Energy Alliance, entered into the Area Alliance Agreement with National Grid Electricity Transmission PLC for the provision of services to upgrade National Grids transmission network as part of its Capital Investment Programme.
Under the terms of the Energy Alliance joint venture agreement, if any party undergoes a change of control, then the other parties may suspend or exclude that party from further participation in the joint venture and by extension the Area Alliance Agreement.
