Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 105 Directors report Results and dividend Exploration and research and development The Groups financial results are set out in the financial information The Group business units carry out exploration and research and section and in the Financial review section of this report.
development activities that are necessary to support and expand their operations.
The Board recommends a final dividend of US$0.20 per share amounting to $586 million.
The total 2010 dividend is US$0.25 Political and charitable donations per share or $732 million.
The shareholders will be asked to approve In accordance with Xstratas corporate social involvement CSI policy, the dividend at the Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2011, for no political donations were made in 2010.
Xstratas corporate social payment on 13 May 2011 to ordinary shareholders whose names involvement expenditure supports initiatives that benefit the were on the register on 26 April 2011. communities local to the Groups operations in the areas of health, education, sport and the arts, community development, job creation Principal activities and enterprise.
In 2010, Xstrata set aside over $84 million for CSI Xstrata is a major global diversified mining group with its initiatives.
Donations during the year to UK registered charities headquarters in Zug, Switzerland, and has a Premium Listing on totalled 903,000. the London Stock Exchange.
Xstrata also has a Secondary Listing on the SIX Swiss Exchange.
Additional information on the Groups Employee policies and involvement operations is provided in the Business overview and strategy, The Groups policy and performance regarding employee Financial review and Operational review sections of this report.
involvement, disabled employees, labour relations and employee share schemes are provided throughout the Strategy section on Review of the business, future developments pages 18 to 47. and post balance sheet events A review of the business and the future developments of the Group Board of directors is presented in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives report The directors during the year under review were Mick Davis and the Business review from page 50 to page 95.
Chief Executive, Dr Con Fauconnier independent non-executive, A full description of acquisitions, disposals, and changes to Group Ivan Glasenberg non-executive, Peter Hooley independent companies undertaken during the year, including post balance sheet non-executive, Claude Lamoureux independent non-executive, events, is included in the Financial review on pages 50 to 55.
Sir Steve Robson independent non-executive, David Rough Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and non-executive, Corporate governance Trevor Reid Chief Financial Officer, Ian Strachan independent A report on corporate governance and compliance with the non-executive, Willy Strothotte Chairman and non-executive, and principles and provisions of the Combined Code on corporate Santiago Zaldumbide executive director.
governance is set out on pages 110 to 118 and forms part of this Further details about the directors, their skills and experience and report by reference.
their roles within the Group are given in the directors biographies on pages 102 and 103.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, details Directors conflicts of interest of its financial instruments, hedging activities and its exposures to Under section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, a director of price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are discussed on pages 50 to 55 a company must avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, of the Financial review and in Note 37 of the Financial statements.
a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the company.
The duty is not infringed if the Creditor payment policy and practice matter has been authorised by the directors of the relevant company.
In view of the international nature of the Groups operations there Under the Act, the board of directors of the relevant company has is no specific Group-wide policy in respect of payments to suppliers.
the power to authorise potential or actual conflict situations.
The Individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms Board maintains effective procedures to enable Xstratas directors and conditions for their business transactions and ensuring that to notify the Company of any actual or potential conflict situations suppliers are aware of the terms of payment.
It is Group policy that and for those situations to be reviewed and, if appropriate, to be payments are made in accordance with those terms, provided that authorised by the Board, subject to conditions and for a period all trading terms and conditions have been met by the supplier.
The Nominations Committee undertakes the role Xstrata plc is a holding company with no business activity other than of reviewing notifications in detail and making appropriate the holding of investments in the Group and therefore had no trade recommendations to the Board regarding authorisation.
Directors creditors at 31 December 2010. conflict situations are reviewed annually.
A register of authorisations is maintained.
Health, safety, environment & community HSEC An overview of health, safety and environmental performance and community participation is provided throughout the Strategy section on pages 18 to 47.
| 106 Governance Directors report continued The following awards were made on 18 February 2011: Directors liabilities The Company has granted qualifying third party indemnities to each Share Conditional Deferred Deferred 1 2 3 4 Name of director options shares Bonus shares Bonus shares of its directors against any liability that attaches to them in defending Mick Davis 562,791 204,856 91,944 91,944 proceedings brought against them, to the extent permitted by the Trevor Reid 283,480 103,187 46,312 46,312 Companies Acts.
In addition, directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered by Directors & Officers liability insurance.
Santiago Zaldumbide 233,371 84,947 58,149 43,611 1 Granted under the Xstrata Long Term Incentive Plan at an option price of 14.68 per Directors and their interests share, exercisable between 18 February 2014 and 18 February 2021.
Details of interests in the share capital of the Company of those 2 Granted under the Xstrata Long Term Incentive Plan vesting on 18 February 2014.
The number of options and conditional share awards granted under the Xstrata Long directors in office as at 31 December 2010 are given below.
None of Term Incentive Plan are maximum numbers and are subject to the satisfaction of the shares were held non-beneficially.
No director held interests in performance conditions over a three-year period under the terms of the Long Term Incentive Plan rules.
the shares of any subsidiary company.
Ordinary Ordinary 3 Deferred share options granted under the Xstrata Executive Committee Bonus Plan shares held shares held at an option price of 1 in aggregate, exercisable between 1 February 2012 and beneficially beneficially 1 February 2021. as at as at 4 Deferred share options granted under the Xstrata Executive Committee Bonus Plan 1 January 31 December at an option price of 1 in aggregate, exercisable between 1 February 2013 and Name of director 2010 2010 1 February 2021.
Executive The share options are forfeitable if the director leaves employment in certain circumstances specified in the Xstrata Executive Committee Bonus Plan rules.
Mick Davis 1,378,958 2,517,849 Trevor Reid 260,046 511,389 Share capital Santiago Zaldumbide 27,139 At the date of this report, the ordinary share capital of the Company Non-executive was $1,482,346,038 represented by 2,964,692,076 ordinary shares Con Fauconnier of $0.50 each.
Ivan Glasenberg Following the full and final conversion of all the outstanding bonds Peter Hooley under the $375 million 4.00% Guaranteed Convertible Bonds due Claude Lamoureux 27,000 27,000 2017 issued in October 2006 by Xstrata Capital Corporation A. V. V. Sir Steve Robson Xstrata C. C. into redeemable preference shares of Xstrata C. C. David Rough 24,999 24,999 and the subsequent exchange of such shares into fully paid ordinary Ian Strachan 43,098 43,098 shares of Xstrata plc Xstrata, the Companys issued ordinary share Willy Strothotte capital increased to 2,964,692,076 shares of $0.50 each.
In addition to the above interests in shares, the executive directors, The Company has in place an equity capital management have also been granted interests in the share capital of the Company programme ECMP under which up to 10% of the issued share in the form of conditional rights to free shares and options to subscribe capital of the Company can be purchased in the market by Batiss to shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan: and nil cost share Investments Limited Batiss.
Batiss currently holds 28,428,786 options under the Xstrata Executive Committee Bonus Plan, which ordinary shares, 0.96% of Xstratas current issued ordinary share are forfeitable in certain circumstances.
Details of these interests capital.
Batiss waives its rights to receive dividends on the ordinary are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 127 shares that it holds from time to time.
Major interests in shares During the period from the end of the financial year to 15 March As at 16 March 2011, the Company had been notified of the 2011, the following changes in directors interests have occurred: following interests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary Mick Davis acquired legal and full beneficial interest in 72,751 share capital of the Company: ordinary shares, Trevor Reid acquired legal and full beneficial interest Number of in 36,653 ordinary shares, and Santiago Zaldumbide acquired legal ordinary shares % of ordinary Name of shareholders of US$0.50 each issued share capital and full beneficial interest in 82,220 ordinary shares upon the vesting Glencore International AG, Zug 1,010,403,999 34.08 of deferred bonus shares awarded under the Executive Committee BlackRock, Inc 176,597,103 5.95 Bonus Plan in 2010.
The voting rights comprised in this interest are directly controlled by Finges Investment Santiago Zaldumbide sold 316,948 ordinary shares following B. V. a wholly owned subsidiary of Glencore International AG.
the exercise of share option awards and the vesting of deferred bonus shares.
Alternatively, if the majority lenders do Significant contractual arrangements not require cancellation, but a specific lender does on the basis of Glencore International AG is Xstratas major shareholder and at internal policy, that particular lender can require that its commitments the date of this document holds 34.08% of Xstratas issued share are cancelled and all amounts outstanding in respect of that lenders capital.
The relationship between Xstrata and Glencore is regulated by commitments shall become immediately payable.
a Relationship Agreement which ensures that all commercial arrangements are transacted on an arms-length basis.
Glencore is the US$500 million notes due 2037 sole distributor of Xstratas nickel, cobalt and ferronickel production, On 30 November 2007, Xstrata Finance Canada Limited issued has sales agreements with Xstrata Copper for some of its copper $500 million 6.90% notes due 2037, guaranteed by the Company, concentrate and copper cathode and is the marketing agent for much Xstrata Schweiz AG and Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited.
The terms of Xstrata Alloys ferrochrome and vanadium.
Glencore has a market of these notes require Xstrata Finance Canada Limited to make an advisory role with Xstrata Coal.
Full details of related party contractual offer to each noteholder to repurchase all or any part of such holders arrangements are provided in Note 36 of the financial statements.
notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes so repurchased plus any accrued and The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to disclose the unpaid interest on the principal amount of the notes repurchased to following significant agreements that contain provisions entitling the the date of repurchase, if both of the following occur: counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: i a change of control as defined in the terms and conditions of the notes of Xstrata: and Relationship Agreement The Company is party to the Relationship Agreement with Glencore ii the notes are rated below investment grade by each of Moodys International AG Glencore dated 20 March 2002.
The Agreement and Standard & Poors on any date from 30 days prior to the regulates the continuing relationship between the parties.
In date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a particular it ensures that a the Company is capable of carrying on change of control as defined in the terms and conditions of the its business independently of Glencore as a controlling shareholder notes until the end of the 60-day period following public notice as such term is defined in the Agreement : b transactions and of the occurrence of a change of control.
relationships between Glencore or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates 750 million notes due 2011 and the Company are at an arms length and on normal commercial On 23 May 2008, Xstrata Canada Financial Corporation issued terms: c Glencore shall be entitled to nominate up to three directors 750,000,000 5.875% guaranteed notes due 2011, 600,000,000 or if lower or higher such number of directors equal to one less 6.25% guaranteed notes due 2015 and 500,000,000 7.375% than the number of directors who are independent directors: and, guaranteed notes due 2020 the 2008 MTN Notes.
The 2008 MTN d directors of the Company nominated by Glencore shall not be Notes are guaranteed by each of Xstrata plc, Xstrata Schweiz AG, permitted to vote on any Board resolution, unless otherwise agreed Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited and Xstrata Finance Canada Limited by the independent directors, to approve any aspect of the and were issued pursuant to the $6,000,000,000 Euro Medium Term Companys involvement in or enforcement of any arrangements, Note Programme.
agreements or transactions with Glencore or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.
The Agreement provides that, save to the extent required Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 2008 MTN Notes, if: by law, the parties agree that they shall exercise their powers so that i a change of control occurs as defined in the terms and the Company is managed in accordance with the principles of good conditions of the 2008 MTN Notes : and governance set out in the Combined Code and that the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in the Combined Code are ii the 2008 MTN Notes carry, on the relevant announcement date complied with by the Company.
It is expressed that the Agreement of the change of control: terminates in the event that Glencore ceases to be a controlling a an investment grade credit rating is either downgraded to shareholder of the Company following a sale or disposal of shares a non-investment grade credit rating or is withdrawn: or in the Company or if the Company ceases to be listed on the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
b a non-investment grade credit rating is downgraded by one or more notches or is withdrawn: or US$4.68 billion syndicated facility On 25 July 2007, Xstrata Schweiz AG and Xstrata Finance Canada c no credit rating and a negative rating event as defined in Limited entered into a $4.68 billion multicurrency revolving syndicated the terms and conditions of the 2008 MTN Notes occurs, loan facility agreement with, amongst others, Barclays Capital and The each holder has the option to require Xstrata Canada Royal Bank of Scotland plc as arrangers and bookrunners, Barclays Financial Corp. to redeem such 2008 MTN Notes in cash at Bank plc as the facility agent, and the banks and financial institutions the principal amount plus interest accrued to but excluding named therein as lenders the Syndicated Facilities Agreement.
Upon a change of control, no borrower may make a further utilisation unless otherwise agreed.
The majority lenders, as defined in the agreement, can also require that the Syndicated Facilities Agreement is immediately terminated and declare that all outstanding loans | 108 Governance Directors report continued US$4 billion revolving loan facility Special voting share On 17 September 2010, the Company entered into a new $4 billion Certain rights, that are inalienable under Swiss law, have been facility split into two $2 billion tranches, with one tranche maturing preserved in the Xstrata plc Articles of Association by creating a three years after the date of the new facility and the other maturing special voting share that carries weighted voting rights sufficient to five years after the date of the new facility guaranteed, amongst defeat any resolution that could amend or remove these entrenched others, by the Company, Xstrata Schweiz AG, Xstrata Finance rights.
The holder of the special voting share is the Law Debenture Canada Limited, Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited and Xstrata Trust Corporation plc which has entered into a voting agreement Canada Financial Corporation as guarantors, and the banks and with the Company, specifying the conditions upon which it is entitled financial institutions named therein as lenders.
This agreement to exercise its right to vote.
The special voting share does not carry contains change of control provisions, in substance, identical to a right to receive dividends and is entitled to no more than the amount those set out in the referenced Syndicated Facilities Agreement on of capital paid up in the event of liquidation.
Shares held by Xstrata plc Employee Share Ownership Trusts at Xstrata plc Long Term Incentive Plan 31 December 2010, the trustee of the Xstrata plc Employee Share The rules of Xstratas employee share plans set out the consequences Ownership Trusts, which is an independent trustee, 6,884,930 shares of a change of control of the Company on employees rights under under the terms of the trusts for the benefit of employees and the plans.
Generally such rights will vest on a change of control and former employees of the Company.
The trusts are discretionary trusts participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Company and the shares are held to meet employees entitlements under the or, in some cases, to the payment of a cash sum of equivalent value.
Companys Long Term Incentive Plan and Executive Committee Bonus Plan.
Employees have no voting rights in relation to the shares Articles of Association while they are held in trust.
The trustee has full discretion to exercise Xstratas Articles of Association adopted by special resolution on the voting rights or to abstain from voting.
Shares acquired by 19 March 2002 and amended by special resolutions passed on employees through the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan rank 9 May 2005, 6 May 2008, and 5 May 2010 may only be amended pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
The trustee by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
of the Employee Share Ownership Trusts waives its right to receive dividends on ordinary shares that it holds from time to time.
Share rights The rights and obligations attached to Xstratas ordinary shares are Voting rights set out in the Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained Subject to the rights and restrictions attached to any class of shares: from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company i on a show of hands, every member present in person or by proxy Secretary.
Subject to the Companies Acts as defined in the Articles has one vote save that neither the holder of the special voting of Association, and without prejudice to any rights attached to any share nor any holder of deferred shares shall be entitled to vote existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with such and a proxy appointed by a member on behalf of such members rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution shareholding shall also have one vote: determine or, subject to and in default of such determination, as the Board may determine.
ii on a poll: Ordinary shares a every member pr esent in person or by proxy except the Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at holder of the special voting share and any holder of the general meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies to exercise deferred shares shall have: their rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on i one vote for each fully paid share: and a winding up may share in the assets of the Company.
ii for each partly-paid share, such proportion of the votes Deferred shares attached to a fully paid share as would mean that such The holders of deferred shares do not have the right to receive notice proportion is the same as the proportion of the amount of any general meeting of the Company nor the right to attend, paid up on the total issue price of that share: speak or vote at any such general meeting.
The deferred shares have no rights to dividends and, on a winding up or other return of capital, b the holder of the special voting share shall, on an Entrenched entitle the holder only to the repayment of the amounts paid upon Rights Action, have enough votes to defeat the resolution such shares after repayment of the nominal amount paid up on the but, on all other decisions, shall have no votes: and ordinary shares, the nominal amount paid up on the special voting c the holders of the deferred shares shall not be entitled to vote.
share plus the payment of 100,000 per ordinary share.
The Company may, at its option, redeem all of the deferred shares in issue at any time but subject to the minimum capital requirement of the Companies Act 2006 at a price not exceeding 1.00 for each share redeemed to be paid to the relevant registered holders of the shares.
com 109 Restrictions on transfer of shares Electronic copies of the annual review and financial There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the statements 2010 and other publications Company other than: A copy of the 2010 Annual Report which includes the Annual review and financial statements, Directors report, Corporate i the right of the Board to refuse to register the transfer of a Governance report and Directors remuneration report, the Notice certificated share that is not a fully paid share provided that the of the AGM, the 2010 Sustainability report available in early April refusal does not prevent dealings in shares of that class in the and other corporate publications, reports, press releases and Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The announcements are available on Xstratas website at Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated www.
share, unless the instrument of transfer a is lodged, duly stamped if applicable with the Company and except where the Responsibility statement shares are registered in the name of a recognised person and no Pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
12, the directors certificate shall have been issued therefore is accompanied by the confirm to the best of their knowledge: relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to i the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the transfer as the Board may require : b is in respect of one class applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair of share only: and c is in favour of not more than four persons: view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of ii pursuant to Xstratas share dealing code whereby the directors the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation of the Company require, and employees may require, approval taken as a whole: and to deal in Xstratas shares: ii the directors report including those sections incorporated iii certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws therein by reference includes a fair review of the development and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation iv where a person whose shares represent at least a 0.25% interest taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal in Xstratas shares has been served with a disclosure notice and risks and uncertainties that they face.
has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares, except as otherwise provided in Disclosure of information to auditors the Articles.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of Xstratas auditors, each director confirms that so far as each director is aware, there is The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders no relevant audit information of which Xstratas auditor is unaware that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares and and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken for voting rights.
as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit The Board shall decline to register any transfer of the special voting information and to establish that Xstratas auditor is aware of share unless approved in accordance with a voting deed between the that information.
Company and the holder of the special voting share.
Going concern The directors believe, after making inquiries that they consider to be Annual General Meeting appropriate, that the Company has adequate resources to continue The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason at Theater-Casino Zug, Artherstrasse 2-4, Zug, Switzerland on they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 4 May 2011 at 11 a. m. Central European Summer Time.
webcast will be provided of the AGM through Xstratas website www.
A telephone dial-in facility will also be provided The directors have made this assessment after consideration of the on a listen-only basis.
Further details of the dial-in facility and Companys budgeted cash flows and related assumptions, undrawn webcast will be available from Xstratas website www.
com debt facilities, debt maturity review, analysis of debt covenants, and at least one week in advance of the meeting.
in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 published by the Financial Full details about the AGM, including explanatory notes, are Reporting Council.
contained in the Notice of AGM which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Notice sets out the By order of the Board resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution.
All documents relating to the AGM are available on the Companys website at www.
Richard Elliston Company Secretary 16 March 2011
