| 38 Business review: strategy Key performance indicators continued Non-financial key Safety performance indicators Injury frequency rate In addition to monitoring the Groups We are committed to providing a We track total recordable injuries, which financial performance, as a measure safe workplace and believe that every include lost time injuries, medical treatment of the Companys performance against work-related incident, illness and injury injuries and restricted work injuries, as this its objectives, Xstratas Board also is preventable.
provides a more complete measure than regularly monitors a range of nonlost time injuries alone.
The total recordable In 2010, three people two contractors and financial KPIs to assess performance injury frequency rate and lost time injury one employee lost their lives at Xstratas against sustainable development frequency rates are reported per million managed operations in South Africa targets and strategic objectives.
hours worked and include contractors.
We value the safety of Xstratas Board sets and overviews the contractors in exactly the same way as our For the tenth consecutive year, a significant Groups industry-leading Sustainable employees.
We monitor the performance of reduction was achieved in the frequency of Development SD Framework.
The all contractors and insist on full compliance total recordable and lost time injuries.
Total SD Framework has been mapped to with our safety standards and procedures.
recordable injuries fell by 20% and lost international standards and comprises All of our sites implement regular and time injuries were 10% lower than in 2009 Xstratas Statement of Business appropriate behaviour-based training, per million hours worked.
Principles, SD Policy, SD Standards with emphasis on the identification and and Assurance Programme.
Our managers work with their supervisors and Xstrata operates a highly devolved operators in the field to identify appropriate management model.
Each commodity topics to be covered in daily team talks and business is responsible for the safety training.
implementation of the Groups SD Framework throughout its business.
Performance against the SD Framework Total recordable injury frequency rate Lost time injury frequency rate is reviewed and evaluated on a quarterly per million hours worked per million hours worked basis by the commodity businesses and progress reported to the Boards Health, 20% 10% Safety, Environment and Community decrease decrease Committee.
The Committee benchmarks Xstratas performance against other 15 3 mining and extractive sector companies.
The KPIs that relate to the SD Framework 2.7 10 2 include safety, environmental incidents, 2.1 10.2 water and energy usage, employee 1.9 8.8 turnover, training, and support for 7.0 1 5 community initiatives, and are regularly reported to Xstratas Board, Executive 0 0 Committee and senior management.
The 08 09 10 08 09 10 Groups internal audit programme also examines health, safety, environment, ethical and community risks.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 39 Environmental incidents Greenhouse gases CO equivalents COe million tonnes 2 2 Xstratas operations record environmental Greenhouse gas GHG emissions are energy use due to higher production incidents according to severity, with measured as CO equivalent tonnes COe.
volumes in response to an improved 2 2 category 1 representing very minor Xstratas main sources of GHGs are from demand for Xstratas commodities.
Xstrata incidents with negligible impact and electricity used, from methane released Coals Australian operations continue to category 4 or 5 representing major or during our coal mining in some regions and invest in using methane from its operations disastrous incidents with medium-to from post mining fugitive methane for energy generation where possible.
Category emissions from our closed coal operations.
In 2010, generating capacity from our 3 incidents cause moderate, reversible We seek to reduce GHG emissions through methane-fired power stations was 31MW, environmental impact and require improved energy efficiency and by capturing a similar level to that achieved in 2009. moderate remediation.
Our target is to coal-seam methane to generate power The electricity generated is either used for achieve zero category 3, 4 or 5 incidents, wherever possible.
power by the mine or sold to the local grid.
which was achieved for the first time In 2010, Xstratas direct Scope 1 and in 2010. indirect Scope 2 GHG emissions from its operations rose by 7% and 20% respectively, mainly as a result of increased Direct emissions Environmental incidents Greenhouse gas COe by CBU 2 Indirect emissions Category 3 emissions COe mt % of Group total 2 1 Coal 40% 100% 12% 5 2 Alloys 36% 4 increase decrease 3 Copper 11% 3 1 4 Zinc 9% 9 30 5 Nickel 4% 24.7 23.4 8 22.0 2 10.3 6 20 8.6 8.5 14.8 14.4 10 3 13.5 3 0 Nil 0 08 09 10 08 09 10 | 40 Business review: strategy Key performance indicators continued Energy usage Water Petajoules Megalitres Energy is measured in petajoules PJ and Effective water management and impact on local water supplies.
Recycled includes both electricity usage and energy conservation is critical to Xstratas operations, water is typically used in place of fresh from the combustion of fuel.
Efficiency and a number of which are located in arid regions.
water for processes such as dust suppression.
energy consumption reductions drive both The extraction and processing of minerals and In 2010, we used 280,236 megalitres ML cost savings and emissions reductions.
metals uses large volumes of water and we of water, 4% higher than in 2009, and the We aim to progressively improve energy are committed to continually improve the use of recycled or reused water by our sites efficiency across our business.
All commodity efficiency with which we use water.
increased by 11% as a result of increased businesses have energy efficiency plans in In May 2010, Xstrata endorsed the United production levels.
place and we carry out regular energy audits Nations CEO Water Mandate, recognising at operations.
We measure efficiency as Our sites have in place effective water we have a responsibility to make waterenergy intensity the amount of energy management programmes, which are resources management a priority, and to required to produce one tonne of product.
tailored to its specific activities and to work with governments, non-governmental local environmental conditions.
A number of our operations are intensive organisations and other stakeholders to users of energy.
Over half of the energy we address the global water challenge.
use comes from electricity and is Xstrata measures total water used and predominantly used to run our metallurgical water recycled.
Our operations seek to operations.
Diesel is the primary source of progressively increase the use of process energy at our mines and is used to run the and recycled wastewater to reduce our mining fleet and mobile equipment.
During 2010, our energy use was 9% higher than in 2009, as production levels increased in response to improved market conditions.
Energy source % of Group total 1 Electricity 54% 5 2 Diesel 26% 4 3 Natural gas 8% 3 4 Other fuels 8% 1 5 Coal coke 4% 2 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 41 Employee turnover and training Corporate social involvement $m Employee turnover is a measure of our Ongoing training and education is Xstrata sets aside a minimum of 1% of success in retaining our people.
Our conducted both in the workplace and at annual Group profit before tax to fund long-term interests rely on our ability external institutions.
Both training hours initiatives that benefit local communities.
to attract and retain the best people, and training spend are shown as an We also calculate the total value of in-kind at every level, with appropriate skills.
average per employee including contractors contributions such as equipment and Voluntary turnover is calculated as and is shown for all available periods.
We support programmes a percentage of total permanent for community development, enterprise and In 2010, the number of hours of training employees excluding contractors.
job creation, health, education and the that each employee participated in environment, as well as culture and arts.
In 2010, voluntary turnover, which excludes increased compared to the previous year.
compulsory redundancies or performanceThe average amount spent on training per In 2010, we set aside $84 million or 1.2% related terminations, was 11% higher than employee was lower than the previous year, of Group profit before tax and contributed in 2009. mainly as a result of increased in-house a total of $83 million, including $2 million of training programmes as opposed to in-kind contributions, to support initiatives We aim to provide employees with the using the services of external training that benefit the communities in which we resources they require to progress in their service providers.
In 2010, $45 million funded social careers and excel.
We provide career and community development projects, development opportunities, access to $16 million was spent on education initiatives, training and skills development.
$7 million on enterprise and job creation programmes, $6 million on health projects, $4 million on culture and art activities, and $3 million on environment initiatives.
Corporate social involvement by region 2010 cash only 1 South America 40% 5 4 2 Africa 26% 3 Australasia 21% 1 4 North America 11% 3 5 Europe 2% 2
