50 Directors and Company Secretary Mike Turner CBE 61 The Rt Hon Lord Alexander Hesketh PC KBE 59 Chairman of the Board Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Chairman of the Nominations Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Mike Turner was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of Babcock in November Lord Hesketh joined the Babcock Board in October 1993 becoming 2008 after retiring from his position as chief executive of BAE Systems plc.
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in April 1996.
He is a director of a number Until May 2010 he was chairman of the Defence Industries Council DIC, of other private companies.
He was UK government Chief Whip in the House and is a member of the UK governments Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network.
of Lords from 1991 to 1993 and, prior to that, was Industry Minister at the He is a non-executive director of Lazard Limited and is senior independent Department of Trade and Industry.
Having served for more than nine years on non-executive director of GKN plc.
He was last re-appointed as a Director the Board, Lord Hesketh offers himself for re-appointment annually in accordance at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008. with the Combined Code.
Peter Rogers 62 Bill Tame 55 Chief Executive Finance Director Peter Rogers joined Babcock as Chief Operating Officer in June 2002 and Bill Tame joined the Babcock Board as Babcock Group Finance Director was appointed to the Babcock Board in June 2002.
He became Chief Executive in January 2002.
He is a former finance director of Scapa Group PLC before of Babcock in August 2003.
He is a former director of Courtaulds PLC and which he worked for Courtaulds PLC and is currently a non-executive director Acordis BV.
He is also a non-executive director of Galliford Try PLC.
He was last reappointed as a Director at the Companys Annual reappointed as a Director at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008.
Archie Bethel CBE 57 Kevin Thomas 56 Chief Executive, Marine Division Chief Executive, Support Services Division Archie Bethel was appointed to the Babcock Board as an Executive Director Kevin Thomas was appointed to the Babcock Board as an Executive Director with effect from 1 May 2010.
He joined the Babcock Group in January 2004, with effect from 1 May 2010 having joined the Babcock Group in June 2002. and was appointed Chief Executive of the Marine Division on its formation in Prior to joining Babcock, he spent 12 years in facilities management, including mid-June 2007.
He is a Chartered Mechanical Engineer and in 2003 was elected seven years with Serco Group PLC and 15 years in local government with Merton, a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Since 2004, he has been Surrey and Southwark Councils.
Having been appointed by the Board since the vice-president and honorary treasurer of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
last Annual General Meeting, he will offer himself for re-appointment as a Director Having been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
he will offer himself for reappointment as a Director at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC 51 Directors and Company Secretary Sir Nigel Essenhigh GCB 65 Justin Crookenden 47 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Member of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Sir Nigel Essenhigh joined the Babcock Board as a Non-Executive Director Justin Crookenden joined the Babcock Board as a Non-Executive Director in in March 2003.
Until his retirement from the Royal Navy in late 2002 he December 2005.
He qualified as a chartered accountant, and as a former was First Sea Lord and Chief of the Naval Staff.
He is chairman of NGC UK Limited, investment banker worked at UBS, Barclays fide Zoete Wedd and Credit Suisse First Northrop Grumman Corporations UK holding company and chief executive Boston, where he was managing director, UK Investment Banking.
He was last of Northrop Grumman Information Systems Europe Limited.
He was last reappointed as a Director at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009. reappointed as a Director at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009.
Sir David Omand GCB 63 John Rennocks 64 Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Member of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Sir David joined the Babcock Board on 1 April 2009.
He was the first UK John Rennocks joined the Babcock Board as a Non-Executive Director in June 2002.
Security and Intelligence Coordinator, responsible for the professional health He is a former finance director of Corus Group PLC and is chairman of Diploma PLC, of the intelligence community, national counter-terrorism strategy and Nestor PLC and Intelligent Energy Holdings PLC.
He is a non-executive director homeland security, and was the UK governments Chief Crisis Manager of JPMorgan Overseas Investment Trust PLC and Inmarsat PLC.
He was last for civil contingencies.
He served for seven years on the Joint Intelligence reappointed as a Director at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008.
He was previously Permanent Secretary of the Home Office, director of GCHQ the UK Signals Intelligence and Information Assurance Agency and Deputy Under Secretary of State for Policy in the Ministry of Defence.
He was Principal Private Secretary to the Defence Secretary during the Falklands conflict, and was the UK Defence Counsellor in NATO Brussels for three years.
He left government service in 2005.
He is a visiting professor in the department of War Studies, Kings College London.
He was last reappointed as a Director at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009.
Albert Dungate 53 Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Albert Dungate is a Solicitor.
He has been Group Company Secretary and General Counsel since February 2002.
He was formerly General Counsel and Company Secretary of Arjo Wiggins Appleton PLC.
He is Secretary to the Board and to the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
