| 94 Performance Xstrata Technology Services Pyrometallurgy Financial and operating data The pyrometallurgy business is primarily engaged in design and supply of process solutions for non-ferrous smelters utilising the Year ended Year ended flexible ISASMELT Top Submerged Lance smelting technology.
The $m 31.12.10 31.12.09 technology is primarily used by copper and lead producers, although Revenue 153 114 recent developments have included nickel processing and scrap Operating EBITDA 32 28 recycling.
Design work on existing projects in India and China was Depreciation and amortisation 6 6 completed and equipment deliveries for Chinese and Kazakh projects Operating profit 26 22 were finalised.
The improved global economic conditions generated Capital expenditure 2 3 increased interest in the technology, although a slow recovery is anticipated due to the three to five years lead time required for most Xstrata Technology Services provides expertise and technology to smelter projects.
support the processes involved in mining and metallurgy.
It comprises Jameson Cell Xstrata Technology, based in Brisbane, a specialist technology The Jameson Cell is a high intensity flotation technology which solutions provider, and Xstrata Process Support, based in Sudbury, enables low cost and efficient flotation circuits.
During 2010, the an independent group that provides highly specialised technological business completed around 300 installations as a result of strong support both to Xstratas operations and to third party customers.
interest from coal and base metals producers.
Revenue for Xstrata Technology Services increased by 34% to Tankhouse Technology ISA Process & KIDD Process $153 million as a result of work completed during 2010 on larger Xstrata Technology markets the patented ISA and KIDD technologies projects, for existing customers in Kazakhstan, South Africa and India.
and supplies associated core equipment for copper electro-refining and electro-winning tankhouses.
Xstrata Technology has 100 licences Xstrata Technology around the world, accounting for approximately 12 million tonnes Albion Process of installed capacity.
Sales for both technology and equipment The Albion Process is a simple, low cost atmospheric leach recovered to pre-2008 levels as a result of demand and orders technology to recover metals from refractory ores.
Interest in the improving more rapidly than anticipated.
A large number of orders technology continued to grow strongly in 2010.
In 2010, Xstrata were received both from new projects and from replacement orders Zincs San Juan fide Nieva operation commissioned an Albion Process at existing operations in South America and China.
This will improve zinc recovery from McArthur River Mines group continued to develop and demonstrate improved designs for concentrates and is in addition to the plant already under both cathodes and cathode handling and robotic stripping construction at Nordenham in Germany.
A refractory gold plant equipment, which further improve refining efficiency.
is under construction in the Dominican Republic and will be commissioned in 2011.
Further projects are in advanced design Xstrata Process Support stages in Romania, Canada and Armenia.
Xstrata Process Support provides expert technical services to the Xstrata Technology also supplies a package of design and specialist minerals sector through four separate groups.
Interest in the services leaching equipment to enable the successful adoption of the provided began to recover in the second half of 2010 and revenues TM technology.
This package includes the HyperSparge oxygen injection from external customers for the year increased to 35% of total technology, successfully applied at Xstrata Zincs Mount Isa and the revenue compared to 25% in 2009.
TM Asturiana refineries, and the ZipaTank modular tank technology.
Process Mineralogy IsaMill Process Mineralogy is a mineral processing and mineral science group The IsaMill technology package significantly increases the that utilises quantitative mineralogy, sampling, statistics and ore efficiency of mineral grinding and processing.
Enquiries and beneficiation test work to improve concentrate grade and maximise orders recovered significantly from the global economic crisis, with metal recoveries for new mine projects and existing operations.
important sales in Africa, Europe, Canada, Australia and South In 2010, it provided ore characterisation, plant optimisation and America.
A focus on optimising the IsaMill installations at Anglo process design services to Xstrata Nickel, Xstrata Copper and Platinum sites was successful and significant platinum group metals Xstrata Zincs operations in Canada and Australia, and Xstrata Alloys recovery increases have been reported.
Continued strong demand Eland platinum operation in South Africa.
Demand from external is expected as mining projects are progressed.
companies, which had slowed in 2009 and early 2010, began returning in the second half of the year and is expected to continue improving through 2011.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 95 Extractive Metallurgy Extractive Metallurgy provides expert pyrometallurgical and hydrometallurgical services to smelters and refineries.
Extractive Metallurgys engineering service, combined with its laboratory testing and piloting facilities, is used to optimise process design and support environmental compliance projects.
It identifies opportunities in the nickel, copper and gold industries to match available technologies to specific ore types in order to allow for the development of low-cost commercially viable processes.
The group continued to see demand for its process modelling expertise on roasters and smelters from within Xstrata and from external clients.
Process Control Process Control is a group of highly experienced engineers based in Sudbury, Canada, and at various Xstrata operations, and demand for their services continues to be strong.
Process Controls engineers are delivering numerous improvements to Xstrata operations, including Xstrata Alloys Eland platinum concentrator in South Africa and Xstrata Nickels Strathcona concentrator in Canada.
In Sudbury, at Xstrata Nickels new Nickel Rim South mine and Fraser mine projects, Process Control is helping to improve automation and control, particularly for energy savings in ventilation systems.
In South America, Process Control is part of Xstrata Coppers Standard Concentrator Design team, which is designing a replicable copper concentrator and other facilities that can be applied to Xstrata Coppers individual projects.
This will enable the early ordering of long lead time items and reduce engineering time and costs on individual projects as well as providing construction efficiencies.
Materials Technology Materials Technology provides services in materials selection, equipment construction specifications, quality assurance, plant reliability inspections and root cause failure analyses.
Plant inspections are specialised and are vital to minimise unexpected plant shutdowns.
In 2010, Materials Technology worked with Xstrata Nickel and completed an asset integrity inspection at Raglan mill in northern Quebec, Canada, developed converter repair procedures for the Sudbury smelter, and reviewed materials selection, design and fabrication procedures for the acid plant pre-heater at the Nikkelverk refinery in Norway.
In addition, several planned inspections of smelter acid plants were completed, two of which were for external companies.
Materials Technology continues to experience strong demand and as a result will expand both its workforce and services in 2011.
