Business review Babcock International Group PLC 27 Operational r Operational review continued eview continued In overseas markets our range of opportunities and contracts During the year our Land Systems team has delivered for the supply of new equipment and support services in excess of 200 Jackal and Coyote off-road armoured patrol associated with  submarines continued vehicles in support of Urgent Operational Requirements to develop strongly.
In Canada, the Victoria In-Service Support UOR for the Army.
We also supported deployment of these Contract VISSC continues to perform well and HMCS vehicles through specialist driver training services and Chicoutimi, the first submarine to require a two year Extended integrated logistic support for the provision of spares Docking Work Period, has been successfully moved into dry and repairs to the vehicles.
dock in preparation for work starting during the summer.
In The Marine Equipment Support business has delivered a very Australia, the secure foothold we have established is allowing good performance across its extensive range of equipment us to develop relationships at a platform level.
availability contracts, including the management of naval The commercial marine market remained flat during the year, pumps, motors and generators, whilst our Weapons Systems albeit the diversity of our other activities allowed us to retain support team continued with the delivery of upgraded our engineering capability.
medium calibre naval guns and Phalanx defensive close in weapons systems.
Naval Bases Our Supply Chain Services business achieved strong growth At the Devonport and Clyde Naval Bases we continue during the year adding to its broad portfolio of contracts to work closely with the Royal Navy and the MoD to improve for the provision of unique spare parts.
the efficiency of their operations.
The recently agreed ToBA extends our management role at both sites to 2025.
It also Outlook provides an important framework within which long-term We remain confident the division will continue to benefit from initiatives can be developed to ensure cost savings are delivered the strength of the relationship with our major customer as through the rationalisation and modernisation of facilities.
well as our ability to reduce operational costs whilst improving the availability of assets.
We have excellent long-term visibility Equipment Support through existing orders as well as the scheduled programme Our Equipment Support business unit has had a very of refits and maintenance.
This degree of visibility has been successful year and continues to deliver improved equipment further enhanced by the signature of the ToBA.
In addition upgrade and availability services to our land, sea and air we continue to pursue and develop a number of opportunities customers in the MoD as well as to the wider defence industry.
to deliver further growth in the UK and overseas where Market conditions have been strong, demonstrating long-term we believe we can build on the strength of our reputation growth opportunities for the expansion of equipment and expertise.
management services, weapon system upgrades and other maintenance operations.
