Business review Babcock International Group PLC 41 Corporate responsibility continued Carbon emissions reduction Community We realise that we have a part to play in helping achieve In many places our operations are the largest employer in the UKs commitment to reduce carbon emissions by 20% the region.
If we are to continue to recruit from our local on 1990 levels by 2020 and understand that effective communities we must maintain our reputation as a responsible management of our carbon emissions is key.
We therefore seek to engage with the communities developed a comprehensive carbon management strategy around our sites and operations and to provide opportunities that focuses on meeting the requirements of the Carbon for employees to assist with local initiatives and support local Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme charities that are important to them.
and reducing the carbon footprint of our business activities, whilst providing comprehensive reduction solutions to We have Group-wide guidelines in place setting out our our customers.
We have embraced this opportunity to review approach to charitable donations, our commitment to the our energy usage and cut our costs wherever possible communities in which we operate and the broader interests by seeking accreditation under the Carbon Trust Standard.
As well as ensuring financial donations Our Infrastructure business achieved this accreditation in are appropriately targeted, they also encourage active December 2009 and we aim to obtain accreditation for the engagement with the communities in which we operate Group as a whole.
through local community support programmes.
In South Africa, local management has identified three specific areas of support which will benefit the local communities as Procurement well as being key areas of concern for the country.
These are Last year, we reported that we were working with the MoD education, HIV prevention and training and HIV orphan support.
to complete the Sustainable Procurement Flexible Framework as part of its 2009 performance review.
The Framework is a In support of our major customer we have continued to provide maturity model and covers five areas: People: Policy, Strategy corporate sponsorship for the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and and Communications: Procurement Process: Engaging Families Association SSAFA, the forces charity providing support Suppliers: and Measuring and Results.
We are fully committed to service families in times of need.
to the governments sustainable procurement agenda and Across the Group we have provided support to a number of completed our baseline assessment under the Framework in charitable causes and during the year we donated 197,000 December 2009.
We are developing an action plan and have 2009: 129,000. set targets to improve our performance where required.
More generally, we have a duty to ensure that all of our customers money is spent efficiently and contracts are managed effectively.
Our customers also rely on us to manage a number of suppliers and sub-contractors on their behalf.
This is why a wholesale review of our procurement processes across the Group has been undertaken this year and is ongoing.
