34 Operational r Operational review continued eview continued Networks Specialist transmission design services continue to be a key Market overview part of the value we can add to support the power network operators.
As a result, we have continued to increase resource The electricity transmission and distribution markets have in our UK and Bulgarian design offices to match demand.
been stable throughout the year, with network owners maintaining a consistent spend on their infrastructure despite In the telecommunications sector, the division secured an increased focus on value for money.
This will continue to be strategic supplier status with Nokia Siemens Networks, a global a priority as the Regulator seeks improved efficiencies through equipment vendor in the communications market, which the Price Control Review process.
is now providing the division with more consistent volumes.
The division is offering wider services across a number In the telecommunications markets there remains some of mobile networks.
volatility, although visibility has improved as network operators outsource services to the original manufacturers.
In addition, We continue to look at opportunities within the Next to enhance network coverage and reduce expenditure, the Generation Networks NGN market and have designed and mobile network operators have started to merge their developed our first NGN, a wireless broadband network network assets Vodafone with O2 and Orange with T-Mobile in Norwich, due to go live in the summer of 2010.
This will which we believe will result in further work for the division.
provide a foundation to build further volumes of work Following the Digital Britain report last year, the next in this growing market sector.
generation of communications networks are starting to show Digital Switchover in the TV and radio broadcasting provided increased opportunities.
consistent revenue streams during the year following the successful delivery of further key projects, although this Operational review programme is now drawing to a successful conclusion in As a result of changes in the market, revenue for the division readiness for the Olympic Games in 2012. has reduced by 6% to 112.6 million 2009: 119.4 million.
Operating profits were 4.1 million 2009: 7.0 million Outlook as a result of both the slow UK telecommunications market We anticipate our customers will continue to seek greater and losses in the Irish telecommunications business.
We have value for money solutions.
However we believe this years now exited the Irish market at a cost of c 1.5 million.
successful delivery to a wide range of customers in the power Operating margins were also impacted and reduced to 3.6% and communications markets will ensure we are well placed 2009: 5.9%.
to maximise the significant opportunities in the years ahead Both the National Grid Electricity Alliance contract a joint as investment by transmission and communication network venture with AMEC and Mott Macdonald and the EDF Energy owners and operators is required to upgrade their infrastructure Networks Alliance contract have performed well and have for new technologies.
provided the division with visibility of future income and the opportunity to deliver improvements in efficiency, innovation and safety performance.
As a result the division is well placed to meet the challenges ahead following the conclusion of Distribution Price Control Review 5.
