Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 21 Competitive environment Xstratas key competitors are Anglo American plc, to capture external opportunities and to realise synergies from within BHP Billiton plc and Rio Tinto plc, all of which are listed the portfolio, for example, using common infrastructure for a range on the London Stock Exchange, and Vale SA, a Brazilian of neighbouring operations.
We benchmark certain key financial As a further driver of consolidation, the quest for diversification aims performance indicators against our key FTSE 100 listed to deliver more stable returns over the cycle and an improved ability competitors collectively FTSE diversified miners, as set out to manage risks across commodities, geographies, currencies and in the Key performance indicators section pages 36 to 41. end-use customer segments.
We also compete with a broader range of private and state-owned During the past 18 months, a number of transactions in the mining or state-sponsored entities across the globe.
A global industry peer sector have experienced difficulties in reaching completion as a result group of publicly quoted diversified and single commodity mining of valuation or regulatory obstacles.
The pool of potential targets companies is used to benchmark Xstratas total shareholder return remains small, with many companies controlled by governments performance, as well as to determine performance criteria under or private shareholders who are unwilling to sell.
The strengthened the Groups long-term incentive plan, and is set out below.
balance sheets of existing companies and the increased activities of new players, such as China and India, have contributed to Competitors opportunities, in particular large acquisitions, facing unrealistic expectations from the equity markets.
Key FTSE 100 competitors Global peer group Rise of diversified global mining major Anglo American Alcoa Inc While several business models exist within the industry, from single BHP Billiton Arch Coal Inc commodity companies, or companies focused in a particular geographic Rio Tinto Eramet SA region, to those more diversified by geography or commodity exposure, Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc the pursuit of scale and diversification has led to the rise of five major Grupo Mexico SA fide CV global diversified companies that lead the industry.
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd Increased scale, diversified currency, commodity and geographic risk, Korea Zinc Inc and access to and the ability to develop significant, large-scale organic MMC Norilsk Nickel growth are vital for success in the mining sector.
These attributes Nordeutsche Affinerie AG enable the large diversifieds to deliver consistently higher shareholder Peabody Energy Corp returns at demonstrably reduced risk.
These majors also often benefit Teck Cominco Ltd from preferential access to new growth, substantial technical expertise, Vale SA and enhanced capacity to engage effectively with stakeholders and Vedanta Resources plc to manage sustainable development risks and opportunities.
Massive capital expenditure programmes Includes FTSE diversified miners.
As the global economy emerges from the financial crisis, the Industry and market trends restocking of inventories undertaken by producers and consumers Consolidation and the impact of one-off weather-related events on supply has The consolidation witnessed in the mining sector over the past driven commodity prices upwards, with many returning to pre-crisis decade has resulted in a smaller number of very large public or levels.
High commodity prices are generating strong cash flows for state-owned mining companies dominating the mining industry.
During the past year, all of the major diversified Following a period of consolidation in the 1990s, driven by structural miners have announced a return to large-scale capital expenditure overcapacity to improve the economics of the industry, consolidation programmes as a means to reinvest surplus cash and to develop was primarily driven by the pursuit of scale and diversification.
Scale is an important attribute in a capital-intensive industry, where Capital investment in the mining sector is increasing competition for, new deposits are increasingly found in riskier and more challenging and leading to potential shortages of, skilled labour, equipment and regions of the world.
Increased scale enables an entity to acquire resources.
First movers will be rewarded, as will those companies and develop several large projects simultaneously, without risking with established relationships with mining equipment suppliers and a substantial portion of the companys capital in any one region or industrial contractors.
Execution risks escalate as companies enter on any one project.
Scale also brings an improved ability to access new geographies and embark on large-scale greenfield expansions capital, talent and new resources.
It enhances a companys ability in challenging new environments.
| 22 Business review: strategy M&A, share buybacks and dividends Constrained supply In addition to investing in large scale capital investment programmes, At the same time, supply is expected to struggle to keep pace with many large mining companies are finding themselves underleveraged rising demand over the medium term.
Prior to the global downturn, or even with large cash surpluses.
Investor pressure is being exerted on existing mining operations were already experiencing a number of these companies to return cash to shareholders through dividends and problems in attempting to maintain or increase production levels, share buybacks and many mining companies have reinstated dividend including declining grades, unplanned outages, labour or social payments and announced modest buyback programmes.
The availability unrest, longer haulage distances and inflation in input prices.
of funds and strengthened financial facilities is also likely to bring During the downturn, a significant number of mining projects were about a renewed focus on M&A activity across the sector.
delayed or postponed as companies scaled back capital investment New competitors from emerging markets and some higher cost or end-of-life capacity was permanently In recent years, new major competitors have emerged from markets withdrawn, further impacting supply.
It is estimated that approximately such as the former Soviet Union, Kazakhstan, Brazil, India, and China, 2 million tonnes of future supply has been removed from the copper some of which are now amongst the worlds largest mining companies, market and new projects are subject to frequent delays and cost notably Vale.
Many of these companies are state-sponsored entities or overruns, particularly as the mining industry moves into more benefit from investment from home nation governments.
complex territories to access new resources.
Secular upwards trend in demand The lag between new large-scale sources of supply replacing ageing Xstratas long-term scenario analysis supports the expectation of existing production will bring about an environment of structural secular strength in demand for commodities and the potential to deficit expected to last through the next decade.
return to a strong commodity price environment based on sustained Government intervention demand growth from industrialising and urbanising countries such Governments are increasingly concerned about the amount of as China, India, Indonesia and Brazil.
See the Markets section speculation and volatility in many basic commodities, particularly pages 18 to 20 for further commentary on the trends food and energy, but also metals and minerals.
Governments and underpinning future commodity demand.
regulators are looking at various measures to reduce this volatility and are playing an increasingly active role in the mining industry in various forms, including regulation, protectionism, increased taxation and resource nationalism.
Competitive position The Group maintains industry-leading positions amongst the top five producers in each of its key commodity markets.
Ferrochrome producers Thermal coal exporters Coking coal exporters 1500 60 45 1000 40 30 500 20 15 0 0 0 Xstrata ENRC Samancor Hernic ASA Metals Xstrata Bumi Anglo Adaro Rio Tinto BHP Mitsubishi Teck Anglo Xstrata Chrome Resources American Billiton American Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 23 Resource nationalism takes many different forms, including As emerging markets growth levels return to those experienced increasing royalty regimes and the tax burden on mining to pre-downturn, developing economies such as China and India are controlling access to resources.
All forms of resource nationalism increasingly adopting policies that seek to control growth and limit may intensify further in the near-term as governments look to inflation risks.
As a result of the slow economic recovery of the mining and other cash-rich industries to help mend their fiscal OECD countries, it is the developing economies that will continue to deficits.
Regulatory and fiscal measures will impact the relative drive future demand for commodities, and any potential disruption attractiveness of individual countries and the location of long-term to their growth expectations will have an immediate impact on mining investment.
The entry of sovereign wealth funds as investors in the mining Exchange rate dynamics industry is likely to increase politically motivated investment in With significant amounts of quantitative easing in the US, and resources.
Given Xstratas expectations that new supply of mining increasing concern around the artificial weakness of the Renminbi, resources will lag demand, it is likely that countries where demand many resource-based economies, such as Canada, Australia, South for resources outstrips domestic supply will continue to seek to Africa and Brazil, have seen their currencies reach unprecedented secure access to resources as a strategic and political imperative.
In the short-to-medium term, companies operating in these countries will see their operating costs becoming less competitive in Sensitivity to political and economic change US dollar terms and moving up the cost curves.
In some cases, but The sector remains highly sensitive and vulnerable to the global not all, this will be passed through to the end user through higher macroeconomic outlook, in particular around the emerging commodity prices.
Any disruptions, shocks or political upheaval will have a powerful impact on sector sentiment and commodity prices.
The Investment fund flows popular uprisings currently being seen in North Africa and the Commodities are now established as an attractive investment class Middle East are not only affecting investor sentiment but have the in their own right, with significant growth in exchange-traded potential to disrupt supply chains, rapidly alter market dynamics and commodities and futures markets, and substantial fund flows that cause unexpected increases to input costs such as oil.
This trend will lead to ongoing volatility in prices, particularly in traded commodities.
Copper producers mined kt Nickel producers refined kt Zinc producers mined kt 300 1,800 1,200 1,200 200 800 100 600 400 0 0 0 Codelco F-McM BHP Xstrata Rio Tinto MMC Jinchuan BHP Vale Xstrata Xstrata Hindustan Minmetals Teck Glencore Copper Billiton Norilsk Billiton & Gold Sources: Brook Hunt, CRU and AME.
