32 Operational r Operational review continued eview continued Operational review Rail As anticipated, revenue for the division was below last year at 150.7 million 2009: 228.9 million, mainly due to our Market overview withdrawal from the multidisciplinary contract market but The Office of Rail Regulation ORR has agreed a settlement also due to the loss of the High Output Track Renewals of 28.5 billion with Network Rail for Control Period 4 CP4 contract that we had successfully operated for Network Rail covering 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2014.
We anticipate that for five years through our SB Rail joint venture with Swietelsky.
some 22 billion will be spent on infrastructure renewals and upgrades, providing the division with significant potential As a result we have developed a robust three year opportunities in an area where we excel operationally.
transformation plan to return the business to profit and improve its overall market position.
The implementation of The ORRs settlement provides Network Rail with a lower this plan is well underway and is already having a significant overall level of funding than had been requested so they will positive impact on the divisions financial and operational need to identify and implement savings in project delivery performance.
Including restructuring costs in the order of costs of over 20% during the control period.
With this in mind 4 million, operating losses for the division have been reduced they are looking at each area of their business to identify more to 1.2 million 2009: 6.4 million and the division operated cost effective and innovative contracting and delivery profitably during the second half of the year.
These include changes to the way that core track headcount in the division will be reduced by 25% during renewals are contracted and the introduction of new low cost the second quarter of 2010 and the number of operating technologies in key elements of the market.
Discussions locations across the North West are being rationalised.
on the detail and implications of these proposals are ongoing with Network Rail.
During the year we have concluded settlements on the majority of outstanding legacy contracts.
This significant achievement further reduces the level of commercial risk in the business and has enabled us to strengthen our relationship with key customers.
Operationally, it has been a strong period with positive feedback from Network Rail on a number of changes we have introduced to the way work packages are planned and managed.
