Business review Babcock International Group PLC 21 Objective and strategy Our objective is to be the leading engineering support services company in the UK and in selected overseas markets thus creating superior levels of returns for our shareholders.
In order to achieve this we will develop a balanced portfolio of businesses by focusing on the following strategy: Leading market position Aim Key examples We expect our businesses to be one of the top three k Sole provider of support to the Royal Navys submarine fleet in their market sector.
If they are not they will have clear plans to achieve this goal.
k Largest Prime contractor for Defence Estates k The sole distributor of Volvo construction equipment in South Africa Preferred customers Aim Key examples We seek to work with customers who own large k The MoD is our largest customer in both the Marine and Defence divisions strategically important assets.
These customers tend to be government departments, public k Network Rail, our Rail divisions largest customer, bodies or private companies operating in highly owns and operates Britains rail infrastructure regulated markets.
k We provide support to British Energys fleet of AGR nuclear power stations Customer focused, long-term relationships Aim Key examples We seek to work collaboratively with our customers k Management contracts at HMNBs Devonport and Clyde have been extended to support the long-term nature of our contracts.
through the ToBA until 2025 k 30 year RSME training and training support contract Integrated engineering and technical expertise Aim Key examples We seek to use our skills, integrating engineering k Babcock engineers are providing around 50% of the design input in the new Queen Elizabeth and technical expertise to deliver projects and aircraft carrier programme long-term asset management.
k Networks is working with EDF Energy Networks and National Grid to develop, design and construct new powerlines across the UK Balance risk and reward Aim Key examples We seek to enter into contracts that fairly balance Successful delivery of the following contracts will the risk and reward with our customers, so we can ensure maximum benefits are shared by Babcock each share the financial effects of success or failure.
and the MoD k Submarine Engineering Support Contract k East and South West Regional Primes k Management contracts at HMNBs Devonport and Clyde Maintain an excellent safety record Aim Key examples We expect all our divisions to deliver a sectork RoSPA Gold Award Networks, Nuclear leading safety performance.
We believe all our k British Safety Council International employees and others working on or visiting our Award Nuclear operations should be able to return home safe and k RoSPA Sector Award facilities management well at the end of the working day.
Infrastructure k British Safety Council International Award Infrastructure
