68 Remuneration report continued Kept itself abreast of the views of institutional shareholders and the special committees set up to review remuneration in the past year: Decided on the level of annual bonus payments to be made to Executive Directors and senior managers in respect of the years to 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2010: Decided upon the level of cash bonuses earned by senior managers not Executive Directors under cash-based long-term incentive schemes ending 31 March 2010: Finalised for approval by shareholders at the 2009 Annual General Meeting the terms of the new Performance Share Plan PSP and a new Company Share Option Plan CSOP : Decided to whom and on what terms share awards should be made in 2009 under the PSP and CSOP with a Performance Period of 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2012: Exercised its powers to amend the rules of the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan L-TIP so as to permit an assessment to be made of performance against TSR and EPS growth targets attached to awards made under that plan, at the discretion of the Committee, during the final month of the three-year performance period: Considered the level of vesting of the share awards made under the L-TIP in 2006 and 2007: Reviewed the targets to be attached to share awards to be made in 2010: and Issued shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and other senior managers in receipt of share awards, and revised those guidelines.
In deciding to permit vesting and exercise of the 2007 L-TIP awards and payment of annual and other bonuses for performance periods ending on 31 March 2010 during the second half of the month of March 2010, the Committee had before it information sufficient to make a sound judgement as to the achievement of the relevant performance targets, without the need to shorten the performance period.
It considered that as such awards and payments related to a performance period that expired on 31 March 2010 it would be appropriate to allow exercise and payment a few days before that date so that for tax purposes the benefit would fall to be taxed in the then current tax year.
The only changes being made were as to the timing of the assessment of performance and release of the reward and to use unaudited figures as the basis for the assessment where relevant.
In assessing TSR performance for the purpose of the share awards the Committee had regard to the fact that this test involves the use of an averaging of share prices over 12 months so the Committee felt that it could assess in late March performance to the end of March with confidence.
In order, however, to protect shareholders against the small possibility that any amounts paid exceeded the amounts that would have been paid had the assessments been deferred until after 31 March and fully audited results been used, each employee who received payment of bonus in the month of March 2010 agreed that the Company could adjust his future salary or reduce future bonuses if this turned out to be the case which it did not.
As regards the vesting in March 2010 of the 2007 L-TIP awards only 50% of the shares obtained on exercise of their awards by Peter Rogers and Bill Tame were transferred to them on an unrestricted basis, meaning that the other 50% cannot be sold or disposed of before 11 June 2010 and were potentially liable to be forfeited, in whole or part, if, had the assessment of TSR and EPS growth relevant to those awards been made after the end of March 2010 and using audited results, fewer shares would have vested than vested in March 2010 which was not the case.
What is the Companys remuneration policy?
The Committees approach to setting the structure of remuneration packages for executives is designed to underpin the effective and proper management of risks and challenges and to reward executive management fairly if it is successful in continuing the track record of strong performance and long-term growth prospects enjoyed by Babcock and its shareholders over recent years.
The Committees intention is that executives have remuneration packages that overall are fair and allow enhanced but fair rewards for the delivery of superior performance by allowing for the possibility of upper quartile total actual remuneration to be earned for upper quartile performance.
As a result, base salaries for the Companys Executive Directors are around or below median, and there is an emphasis on the gearing of performance-related annual bonuses and share awards.
The Committee believes this approach more closely aligns Directors interests with those of shareholders and allows pay to be structured around delivery of strategic objectives and with risk and longer term consequences firmly in mind.
In order further to align the interests of management and shareholders, the Committee adopted shareholding guidelines in June 2009 that expected Executive Directors and other members of the senior management team to hold Company shares derived from the net proceeds of share awards when added to any purchased by them.
For Executive Directors the guideline value was originally set at150%, of their base salaries.
This has since been increased to 200%.
69 Linkage of remuneration to strategic objectives, risk management and its alignment with shareholder interests The Committee strongly believes that the remuneration of executives should be aligned with the long-term interests of shareholders and should support the key strategic and risk management objectives of the business.
The linkage is achieved through the performance criteria both financial and non-financial used in the annual bonus and long-term incentive schemes.
Examples include the following: Objective Annual bonus scheme metric Long-term incentive metric Financial measures focused on delivery of Focus on delivery of top quartile Delivering superior returns sustainable year-on-year delivery of budgets performance and returns over the to our shareholders.
and especially on growth by rewarding superior longer term.
earnings and or profits growth whilst maintaining strict control of cash.
Objectives linked to improvement of the financial performance of specific business areas.
Specific non-financial objectives for: Developing and maintaining leading the establishment or expansion of targeted market positions in the UK and selected domestic and overseas markets: overseas markets.
securing key business development milestones: developing detailed strategic plans for expansion into target markets.
Non-financial objectives linked to measuring and Customer-focused, long-term improving customer satisfaction.
relationships with strategically important customers.
Non-financial objectives: for example, the Retentive nature of the long-term schemes.
Development of the Groups long-term establishment of a more effective ongoing talent technical and management expertise.
management and succession planning process.
Retentive nature of the requirement for deferral into shares of 40% of annual bonuses earned by senior executives.
General underpin giving Remuneration Committee Maintenance of an excellent health, complete discretion over the reduction or safety and environmental record.
annulment of awards in the event of unsatisfactory performance.
A focus on year-on-year earnings or profit growth The long-term schemes and annual bonus Balancing risk and reward.
remains the prominent feature of the bonus schemes are mutually reinforcing, with the schemes, placing a premium on delivery of long-term schemes increasing the personal sustainable growth, discouraging short term riskexposure of executives to the potentially taking and encouraging planning for and negative consequences of short-term underpinning of future prospects.
thinking and, as a further control, by requiring for full vesting superior The use of financial metrics that are principally cash flow, profit and earnings driven rather than sales performance in returns to shareholders.
based discourages poor quality sales growth.
The use of non-financial objectives reinforces links to key strategic steps or risk mitigation objectives.
The requirement to defer 40% of any bonus into shares for two years exposes executives to the future impact of current year decisions.
The Committee is satisfied that the incentive structure for Executive Directors does not raise environmental, social or governance issues by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Details of the structure of the annual bonus scheme and share schemes are set out in the following pages.
70 Remuneration report continued Balance of remuneration The balance of remuneration for Executive Directors is such that the major part of overall remuneration is subject to achieving performance conditions over both the short and long term.
The reward mix for the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and other Executive Directors is shown in the charts below, with long-term incentive awards being valued on a fair value basis.
The charts assume that PSP awards over shares have a value on grant equal to 150% of the Directors basic salary.
The charts are based on fair values of for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame 72% and for Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas 58% of salary for the annual bonus including the mandatorily deferred share element as described below, and 59% of salary for the Performance Share Plan.
Internal relativity The Committee is sensitive to the need to set Executive Directors remuneration having regard to pay and conditions in the Group as a whole and is advised as to proposals in that regard when reviewing executive salaries.
It is satisfied that its approach is fair and reasonable in light of current market practice and is in the best interests of shareholders.
Basic pay Basic pay is considered in the general context of total remuneration at companies that are comparable in terms of size market capitalisation, revenues and number of employees and other companies in the support services sector.
Against these data sources taken as a whole, the fair value of the Companys total remuneration is around the median and basic pay is below median.
Basic pay is normally reviewed annually.
The normal annual review of Executive Directors pay for the year commencing 1 April 2009 resulted in an increase for the then existing Executive Directors Peter Rogers and Bill Tame of approximately 2%, which was in line with the increase in pay across the Group as a whole.
For the current year commencing 1 April 2010, the Committee has approved the following: Basic pay at 1 April Basic pay 1 2010 at 1 April 2009 Director 000 000 Peter Rogers Chief Executive 500 479.5 Bill Tame Finance Director 320 312 Archie Bethel Chief Executive, Marine Division 275 N A Kevin Thomas Chief Executive, Support Services Division 275 N A 1.
The salaries shown for Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas took effect from 1 May 2010, the date of their appointment to the Board.
