54 Directors report continued Shares intended to go towards satisfaction of the share awards and options granted under the PSP, CSOP, L-TIP and 1999 Schemes are held by the trustees of the Babcock Employee Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust.
The trustees of these Schemes do not intend to exercise the voting rights attached to the shares held by them.
As at 10 May 2010 the total number of ordinary shares in such trusts was 364,053, which represented 0.16 % of the Companys issued share capital.
Shares are also held by the trustees of the Approved Employee Share Ownership Plan mentioned above.
The trustees of that plan only exercise any voting rights attached to those shares in accordance with directions from the employee on whose behalf they are held.
The trustees of the Babcock Employee Share Trust effectively waive dividends on shares held by them see note 25 on page 115.
Authority to purchase own shares At the Annual General Meeting in July 2009, members authorised the Company to make market purchases of up to 22.95 million of its own ordinary shares of 60p each.
That authority expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July 2010 when a resolution will be put to renew it so as to allow purchases of up to a maximum of 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
No shares in the Company have been purchased by the Company in the period from 9 July 2009 the date the current authority was granted to the date of this Report.
The Company currently does not hold any treasury shares.
Details of purchases of the Companys shares made in the year to 31 March 2010, or since then to the date of this Report, by the Babcock Employee Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust are to be found in note 25 on page 115.
Research and development The Group commits resources to research and development to the extent management considers necessary for the evolution and growth of its business.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group donated 197,000 2009: 129,000 to charitable organisations.
Donations were typically of relatively small individual amounts made to a wide range of local and national charitable organisations or events, for example: schools and other educational or training institutions or charities: hospital, hospice or medical charities: charities helping serving and or former servicemen and women: sporting events or charities: and charities intended to benefit children and young adults.
No donations were made during the year for political purposes.
Supplier payments The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with practices or arrangements agreed with them.
The Company itself had 87,000 in trade creditors at 31 March 2010 representing 32 creditor days and 703,000 in trade creditors at 31 March 2009 representing 34 creditor days.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions Under their respective Articles of Association, the Directors of the Company and of Group subsidiary companies are, and were during the year to 31 March 2010, entitled to be indemnified by respectively the Company and those UK subsidiaries of which they are or were Directors against liabilities and costs incurred in connection with the execution of their duties or the exercise of their powers, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
There are also qualifying third party indemnity provisions entered into between the Company and Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas in their capacity as Directors of International Nuclear Solutions PLC a subsidiary of the Company on 6 and 8 November 2007, which were in force at the date of approval of this Report.
The Company also entered into deeds with the two former independent Directors of International Nuclear Solutions PLC on 22 January 2008, under which the Company agreed to pre-pay any reasonable costs or expenses incurred by those Directors that are not pre-paid by the Companys directors and officers insurance policy in respect of any claim made against them and which is connected with their positions as Directors of International Nuclear Solutions PLC.
If the Director does not successfully defend any such claim, the Director must repay the Company the amount so pre-paid.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions are also in place for the benefit of Directors of the Group companies that act as trustees of Group pension schemes.
Persons with contractual or other arrangements with the Group which are essential to the business of the Group The majority of the Groups revenue comes from the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence through various contracts across across different businesses, which contracts together are essential to the business of the Group as a whole.
Certain other companies in the Group have contractual or other arrangements with third parties which, though not essential to the Groups business as a whole, are essential to their own respective businesses, namely National Grid Networks division, Network Rail Rail division and, in South Africa, Eskom and Volvo.
