| 18 Business review: strategy Market overview Markets Xstratas portfolio of Xstratas portfolio of exposures is diversified by commodity, geography, currency and end-user market.
Revenues and exposures is diversified earnings for mining companies depend to a large extent on the prevailing prices for the commodities produced.
These commodities are globally traded and, as a result, in common by commodity, with its competitors, Xstrata does not control the prices it receives for commodities.
Commodity prices are significantly geography, currency affected by global economic conditions and, in particular, industrial production, which drives global demand for metals and end-user market and energy.
In the aftermath of the global financial crisis, the pace of the world economic recovery in 2010 beat most expectations due to growth in developing markets, fiscal expansion in more mature markets and restocking.
Governments in both developed and emerging economies responded decisively to the crisis, putting in place financial stimulus programmes and maintaining low interest rates.
These actions helped to promote a rebound in global economic growth from late 2009, bolstering demand for commodities.
In particular, the commodities sector, which suffered from an immediate and dramatic destocking throughout its value chain in late 2008 enjoyed a relatively quick recover by mid-2009 as customers initiated a restocking on the back of recovering demand for their manufactured products.
In China, the massive stimulus injected into the economy by the government at the onset of the financial crisis in late 2008 resulted in a unsustainably high rate of GDP growth in the early part of 2010.
To avoid an impending rise in inflation and the consequences of a growing bubble in high-end real estate, the Chinese government put in place a series of tightening measures, including raising reserve ratios for banks and interest rates and increasing the percentage deposit required for speculative real estate investment.
These initiatives were broadly successful in moderating Chinese growth rates during the course of 2010 within a more sustainable, albeit high, range.
Further initiatives have been implemented in 2011 to ensure the Chinese economy sustains a manageable growth rate.
Notwithstanding these initiatives and despite lower demand from their major export markets, China and India both recorded robust GDP growth rates in 2010 of around 10%.
The recovery of the US economy continued throughout 2010.
While unemployment remained stubbornly high during the year, stimulusled growth was succeeded by a slow but steady manufacturing-led recovery and fears of a double dip recession gradually receded.
In Europe, growth remained sluggish throughout 2010, exacerbated by budget deficits and sovereign debt risks, although Germanys strong export sector drove a more solid recovery in that country, which has continued into 2011.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 19 The combination of continued growth in demand from developing EU industrial production European Union countries and expectations of a return to growth in OECD countries, EU leading indicator year-on-year changes restocking of inventories and fixed investment accounted for a dramatic rise in industrial production and global trade during 2010.
The price of most commodities rallied in the second half on the back 15 of unexpectedly strong economic growth and inventory restocking.
10 A series of one-off weather-driven events and ongoing supply-side 5 impacts such as industrial action and declining grades continued to constrain the supply response further contributing to improving 0 prices for most commodities.
-5 After a better than expected economic performance in 2010, -10 the global economy ended the year on an uncertain note.
High -15 commodity prices fed back into inflation, especially in developing -20 nations, while developed economies began to contemplate deficit -25 reduction through severe austerity measures with potential impacts 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec on growth and economic recovery.
In Europe, underlying sovereign and banking vulnerabilities remain Outlook a challenge to economic recovery, and uncertainty is likely to persist For the foreseeable future, developing markets will underpin given the potential for unemployment to be impacted by austerity global growth, especially demand for metals and minerals.
measures, which could lead to a longer and more gradual recovery.
A three-speed global economy has emerged, reflecting While uncertainty is likely to prevail in the Eurozone for some time, continued healthy levels of growth in major developing export-orientated countries, such as Germany and France, will markets, the US settling into a steady growth rate as its perform better as they take advantage of growing demand from flexible economy restructures and, other than Germany, the East, Russia and Brazil.
Europe taking some time to return to historic growth rates.
Xstratas proprietary early-warning tracking indicates that industrial US industrial production United States production and real economy leading indicators for the US, Eurozone US leading indicator year-on-year changes and China are positive, with a particularly impressive rebound in US economic growth and a slower recovery in Europe, while Chinese measures to curb inflation are likely to stabilise economic growth at 15 robust but more sustainable levels.
10 5 China industrial production left axis China China leading indicator right axis year-on-year changes 0 -5 -10 30 15 -15 25 10 -20 5 20 -25 0 2006 Jan 2007 Jan 2008 Jan 2009 Jan 2010 Jan 2011 Jan 15 -5 In the US, consumer confidence was at its highest level in three years 10 -10 in early 2011, with manufacturing output expanding rapidly and a -15 5 recovery in employment numbers finally taking hold, and the worlds -20 largest economy appears to be on a firm footing for a recovery in 2011.
0 -25 2006 Jan 2007 Jan 2008 Jan 2009 Jan 2010 Jan 2011 Jan | 20 Business review: strategy Developing markets such as China, South Asia, Brazil and India are will encourage lower savings.
The sweeping land reforms that are continuing to underpin demand for commodities through state transferring rural land leases to private farmers are facilitating a support for growth, massive infrastructure spending imperatives and transfer of wealth and accelerating urbanisation.
rapidly growing and urbanising populations.
As emerging markets While India lags China somewhat on the path to economic continue on their resource-intensive phase of economic growth, development, it is increasingly becoming significant as a source of strong demand for commodities is expected to continue.
demand for metals and minerals, especially early-stage infrastructure commodities.
India is projected to be the third largest global Chinas 2011-2015 five-year plan sets out spending plans of economy by 2030 and already accounts for over 10% of demand $2 trillion on urban infrastructure investment and $450 billion for for globally traded thermal coal and 20% of traded coking coal.
Much of this investment is targeted at the inland Demand for thermal coal is expected to grow significantly over the provinces which lag the south-eastern provinces in development.
next five years, by around 15 to 20 million tonnes per annum and These plans will see continued strong demand for energy generation, India is expected to become the second largest producer of crude 70-80% of which is expected to continue to be fuelled by thermal steel over the same timeframe.
Planned expenditure on Indian coal, despite efforts to improve Chinese energy and carbon intensity.
infrastructure is estimated at $514 billion in the five years to 2012.
Infrastructure commodities such as iron ore and coking coal are also Power and telecommunication investment is particularly important set to benefit.
Demand for higher-value consumer goods will bolster for demand for copper.
Investment in transportation, especially rail, demand for mid-cycle commodities including copper and stainless will boost demand for iron ore and coking coal.
steel, the latter requiring ferrochrome, nickel and zinc as key inputs.
Recent global events are likely to leave their mark on the world Longer term, these key emerging economies are looking to reduce economy in 2011.
Social uprisings in North Africa and the Middle their dependence on exports and develop their domestic sources East and the consequent impact on world oil prices are further of growth.
Despite its 20% growth in exports in 2010, Chinas impacting inflation and, if sustained, may dampen tentative 2011-2015 five-year plan explicitly announces the governments economic recovery in more vulnerable regions.
More recently, the desire to bring about a structural transformation of the economy impact on global economic conditions of the massive earthquake from being export-led based on abundant low cost labour towards and tsunami that hit Japan in March 2011 is still being assessed.
This is a long-term objective, but the government has begun to take specific actions to facilitate this Overall, the outlook for commodity demand in 2011 and into the fundamental transformation of the economy.
medium term remains positive, although global economic growth is likely to moderate from 2010 levels as a result of counter-inflationary The shift towards a consumption-led economy will require rising measures, fiscal consolidation and the end of restocking.
household incomes and improvement in the social safety net.
Together with a shift towards higher-value production in the form The Chairmans statement pages 6 to 8 and Chief Executives report of finished goods, a reduction in the number of new entrants into pages 9 to 15 include commentary on the outlook for Xstratas the labour pool due to an ageing population will result in higher markets.
More detailed commentary on each of Xstratas key wages a trend already in evidence.
Growing social security commodity markets is included in each operating review, see pages investment, such as expanded pensions and health care provision 56 to 95.
