Directors report The directors present the report and accounts and has failed to supply such information within of Yell Group plc Yell or the Company for the 14 days after service of the notice, then the year ended 31 March 2010. shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote at a shareholder meeting.
Overview and principal activities Where the participants under Yells employee Yell is a leading international directories business share plans may be the beneficial owners, but operating in the classied advertising market not the registered owners of shares, the voting through printed, online and phone-based media rights are normally exercised at the discretion in the UK, US, Spain and Latin America.
Review of business and future developments Holders of Yell shares may, by ordinary resolution, The business review on pages 1 to 55 of this report declare dividends but may not declare dividends forms part of this directors report.
A review of the in excess of the amount recommended by the performance for the reporting period and expected directors.
The directors may also pay interim future developments is given within pages 8 to 14. dividends if it appears that such dividends are The principal risks and uncertainties that may aect justied by the profits available for distribution.
Yells long-term value or prospects, including Any shareholder may transfer all or any of his shares significant relationships with stakeholders, are in certicated form by instrument of transfer in the given on pages 18 to 29, and within note 15 of the usual common form or in any other form which financial statements.
Key performance indicators the directors may approve.
The transfer instrument are given on pages 16 and 17.
A review of Yells shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor governance arrangements including details on our and, except in the case of fully-paid shares, by or social and environmental responsibilities are given on behalf of the transferee.
Where any class of on pages 36 to 44. share is for the time being a participating security, title to shares of that class which are recorded Dividends as being held in uncerticated form, may be No dividends were proposed to be paid to transferred by the relevant system concerned.
shareholders in the reporting period.
Under the terms of the recent renancing, we are not in a The directors may in their absolute discretion refuse position to consider reinstating the dividend until to register any transfer of shares in certicated form we have further reduced our senior debt.
being shares which are not fully paid or on which Yell has a lien, provided that, if the share is listed Share capital and shareholder rights on the Ocial List of the UK Listing Authority, such Yells share capital consists of ordinary shares of refusal does not prevent dealings in the shares 0.01 each Yell shares which are fully paid up and from taking place on an open and proper basis.
quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Full details The directors may also refuse to register a transfer of the movements in the issued share capital of Yell of shares unless the transfer instrument: a is during the reporting period are provided in note 23 lodged at the registered oce, or such other place to the financial statements.
as the directors may appoint, accompanied by the relevant share certicate s : b is in respect of only The holders of Yell shares are entitled to attend, one class of share: and c is in favour of not more speak and vote at any general meeting of Yell than four persons jointly.
and to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise these rights.
At a general meeting, every shareholder The directors may refuse to register the transfer present in person, by proxy or in the case of a of a share in uncerticated form in any case where corporate member by corporate representative, Yell is entitled to refuse under the Uncerticated has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer, has one vote for every share held.
provided that such refusal would not prevent dealings in the shares taking place on an open To decide who can attend or vote at a general and proper basis.
meeting, the notice of the meeting can give a time, which must not be more than 48 hours before the No person holds Yell securities carrying special meeting, by which shareholders must be entered rights with regard to control of Yell.
Yell is not on the register in order to have the right to attend aware of any agreements between holders of or vote at the meeting.
securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
If a shareholder has been properly served with notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 Yells articles of association may only be amended requiring information about interests in shares, by a special resolution of Yells shareholders.
30 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Directors report continued significant agreements to the financial statements.
There are no other On 27 April 2006, Yell and certain of its subsidiaries, agreements between Yell and its directors or as borrowers, entered into a senior facilities employees providing for additional compensation agreement the Old Facilities Agreement with for loss of oce or employment that occurs because Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Deutsche Bank AG, of a takeover bid.
Goldman Sachs International and HSBC Bank plc and certain other financial institutions, as lenders, Substantial shareholders pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make Yell maintains a record of substantial shareholdings available to the Group certain term loans and a in accordance with the provisions of the Disclosure revolving credit facility, details of which are set out and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services in note 20 to the financial statements.
At 7 June 2010, Yell had received renancing of Yells debt arrangements completed notications from the following parties that they on 30 November 2009, the lenders under the have an interest in 3% or more of the Companys Old Facilities Agreement agreed to exchange their issued share capital: participations under the Old Facilities Agreement Number of % of issued for indebtedness under a new facilities agreement Shareholder voting rights share capital the New Facilities Agreement, and the facilities Invesco Asset Management Ltd 543,961,309 23.04 made available thereafter the New Facilities, Fidelity International Ltd 313,728,705 13.28 which was entered into on 30 November 2009 Standard Life Investments 235,257,872 9.97 between Yell and certain of its subsidiaries, as Taube, Hodson & Stonex borrowers, HSBC Bank plc, as facility agent and Partners 135,361,582 5.74 security trustee, and those financial institutions Deutsche Bank AG 91,465,097 3.87 who were party to the Old Facilities Agreement, Capital International, Inc 71,285,935 3.02 as lenders.
Under the terms of the New Facilities Ignis Investment Services Ltd 70,824,464 3.00 Agreement, lenders holding more than 66.66% of total commitments can cancel the New Facilities and require all amounts outstanding under the Directors, their powers and appointments, New Facilities Agreement to be immediately repaid their interests and indemnity arrangements if there is a change of control of Yell.
Our directors will submit themselves for re-election or in the case of newly appointed directors, election No other agreements that take eect, alter or at the Annual General Meeting on 29 July 2010. terminate upon a change of control of Yell following Biographical details of the directors seeking election a takeover bid are considered to be significant or re-election are shown on pages 34 and 35. in terms of their potential eect on Yells business.
The table below shows directors of the Company Details of the change of control provisions in Yells during the year: employee share plans may be found within note 28 Appointed Resigned Bob Wigley Chairman 24 July 2009 Bob Scott Chairman 1 July 2003 24 July 2009 John Condron Chief Executive 10 July 2003 John Davis Chief Finance Ocer 10 July 2003 Tim Bunting Independent non-executive director 18 May 2007 John Coghlan Independent non-executive director 1 July 2003 Toby Coppel Independent non-executive director 12 October 2009 Joe Eberhardt Independent non-executive director 1 July 2003 Carlos Espinosa Independent non-executive director 18 May 2009 Richard Hooper Senior Independent Director 13 March 2006 Lord Powell of Bayswater Independent non-executive director 1 July 2003 24 July 2009 On 18 May 2010, John Condron gave notice of his intention to retire from Yell and John Davis gave notice of his resignation from Yell.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 31 Directors report continued The Board of directors is responsible for leading Yell amended its articles of association in July 2008 and controlling Yell and may exercise all the to deal with the provisions in the Companies powers of the Company subject to the provisions Act 2006 on directors conicts of interest.
The of the memorandum and articles of association.
amendments included adding a provision to the The directors must limit Yells borrowings and articles of association giving the Board power exercise all voting and other rights or powers of to approve situations in which a director has an control exercisable by Yell in relation to its subsidiary interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with undertakings, so as to ensure that the total amount the interests of Yell.
Since then, Yell has put in place of all moneys borrowed by Yell and its subsidiary procedures for the disclosure and review of any undertakings outstanding at any time will not conicts, or potential conicts, of interest and for exceed five times the Adjusted Capital and Reserves the authorisation of such conict matters by the as dened in Yells articles of association at Board.
In deciding whether to authorise a conict or that time.
At the 2009 Annual General Meeting, potential conict the directors must have regard to resolutions were passed so that the directors of their general duties under the Companies Act 2006. the Company were authorised and sanctioned, Article 224.1 of the Companys articles of association in accordance with article 146 of the Companys permit the Company, subject to the Companies Act articles of association, to exceed the restriction 2006 and other applicable legislation, to indemnify on their powers to incur borrowings as set out in any of the directors against any loss or liability in article 146, provided that at any time the aggregate connection with any proven or alleged negligence, principal amount outstanding of all moneys default, breach of duty or trust by him, in relation to borrowed by the Yell Group the Group may not the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
In accordance exceed an amount equal to 4,920,000,000 four with this provision, in November 2009 the Company thousand nine hundred and twenty million pounds.
entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of the This authority shall end at the conclusion of the 2011 current and former executive and non-executive Annual General Meeting of the Company.
For these directors and ocers of the Company, its subsidiaries purposes, moneys borrowed shall be determined in and any other companies to which the Company or accordance with articles 147 to 154 of the Companys any of its subsidiaries has nominated or appointed articles of association except that foreign currency any such person as a director or ocer.
The deeds of borrowings shall be translated into sterling using the indemnity, which remain in force, are qualifying third rates of 1 US$1.43280 and 1 1.08130, being the party indemnities for the purposes of section 234 of relevant closing exchange rates on 31 March 2009. the Companies Act 2006.
The directors require the approval of Yells shareholders in order to increase or reduce Yells Charitable and political donations share capital or to buy back Yell shares.
During the past financial year, Yell has made charitable donations totalling 0.675 million, comprising Directors may be elected, removed and replaced 0.36 million Yell UK, 0.15 million Yellowbook and by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders or 0.16 million Yell Publicidad 2009 1.1 million, appointed by the Board.
A director appointed by which support various community related charities the Board shall retire and may be re-elected by the and projects.
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting after his appointment.
No political donations were made during the year.
At no time during the year did any director hold People with disabilities a material interest in any contract of signicance Yell is an Equal Opportunities Employer.
We are with Yell, or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
committed to the employment of people with Our directors emoluments are disclosed on page 51. disabilities and guarantee an interview for those who meet minimum selection criteria.
We provide Details of our directors service contracts are training and development for people with disclosed on page 49. disabilities, tailored where appropriate, to ensure The beneficial interests of our directors and their they have the opportunity to achieve their potential.
immediate families in Yells issued share capital are If a Yell person becomes disabled while in our given on page 55.
No director had a material interest employment, we will do our best to retain them, at any time during the year in any derivative or including consulting them about their requirements, financial instrument relating to Yells shares other making appropriate adjustments, and providing than as disclosed on page 55. alternative suitable provisions.
32 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Directors report continued Information provision to our people Post-balance sheet events We seek feedback from our people on a wide range There are no post-balance sheet events.
of topics through day-to-day contact, team meetings and, in the UK, through our annual employee Purchase of own shares feedback survey Tell Yell, where our survey results Yell is, until the date of the next Annual General are benchmark best.
Meeting, generally and unconditionally authorised to buy back up to 10% of its issued share capital at We also conduct an annual employee feedback 3 June 2009 78,586,735 shares.
No such purchase survey in the US and are working on improvements has been made.
to the workplace as a result.
Each year we make a significant investment in Going concern employee communications to ensure that everybody In adopting the going concern basis for preparing knows and understands Yells objectives, to ensure the financial statements, the directors have considered everyone is kept up-to-date with progress against the business activities as set out on the Overview plans, and to ensure comprehensive communication section as well as the Groups principal risks on of local and Group news.
Based on the Groups cash ow forecasts and projections, the Board is satisfied that Health and safety the Group and the Company will be able to operate We are committed to providing our people with within the level of its facilities for the foreseeable a safe and healthy working environment.
For this reason the Group continues to a team of professionals and a committee within adopt the going concern basis in preparing its Yell UK who manage our health and safety financial statements.
The team develops and maintains our health and safety policies and procedures and Statement as to disclosure of information provides guidance on safe working.
to auditors Each director of Yell confirms that: a so far as Our people and our contractors are required to he is aware, there is no relevant audit information report all health and safety incidents and accidents of which Yells auditors are unaware: and b that on our online system.
In 2010, our accident rate he has taken all the steps that he ought to have for the UK at 1.96% was extremely low.
taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Approach to share ownership that Yells auditors are aware of that information.
We actively encourage our people to share in For these purposes, relevant audit information the future of Yell.
An employee ShareSave scheme means information needed by Yells auditors in operates in the UK, and a Stock Purchase Plan connection with preparing their report set out operates for our people in the US.
Financial instruments Auditors Please see notes 15 and 16 to the financial Resolutions to reappoint  LLP statements for details in relation to Yells use of as auditors of Yell and to authorise the directors to financial instruments.
determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
 LLP Policy and practice on payment of creditors have confirmed their willingness to continue in oce.
It is Yells policy to use its purchasing power fairly and to pay promptly and as agreed.
Payment terms Annual General Meeting for purchases under major contracts are settled as The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, to be part of the contract negotiations.
In the UK and US, held on 29 July 2010, together with an explanation it is Yells practice to make payments for other of the business to be dealt with at the meeting, purchases within thirty days following the end of appears from page 111 onward.
the month in which a correct and valid invoice is received.
In other countries in which we operate, By order of the Board payment terms are usually longer and are dictated by local custom.
Howard Rubenstein Company Secretary At 31 March 2010, trade payables represented 8 June 2010 31 days 2009 39 days of purchases.
Yell Group plc has no significant trade creditors.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 33
