Board of Directors Directors seeking election and re-election to the Board Bob Wigley John Condron John Davis Chairman Chief Executive Ocer Chief Financial Ocer Bob was until January 2009, Chairman of John began his career within Yell, then a part John Davis has been Chief Financial Ocer Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and Africa.
of BT, in 1980 as a member of the marketing of Yell Group since 2000.
He previously held During his time at Merrill Lynch, he also sat on team.
He was appointed as Marketing and positions within Pearson plc, where he was the boards of LCH.
Clearnet plc and Euroclear Sales Controller in 1987 and in 1992 took on latterly Group Finance Director of the FT plc.
Between 2006 and 2009, Bob was a additional responsibility as Managing Director Group, and Emap plc, which he joined in 1989 member of the Court of the Bank of England of Yellow Pages Sales Ltd, a wholly-owned and where he was Director of Corporate and of its Risk Policy and Audit Committees.
John was appointed as Finance and Treasury between 1995 and 1997.
Bob is an investor in, and on the Advisory Managing Director of the Yellow Pages Group John is a Chartered Accountant, having Board of, the venture capital rm Bluegem in 1994 and continued as CEO of the Yell Group qualied at PriceWaterhouse, and has a Capital Partners LLP and is the European on its sale by BT in 2001.
Masters in Management from the Stanford financial services operating partner of Advent John is a graduate of Queens University, Graduate School of Business.
Currently he is Deputy Chair Belfast and has served as Chairman of the appointed a non-executive director of of Business in the Community, on the Advisory Directory Publishers Association, Chairman Informa plc in October 2005.
Council of Business for New Europe and a of the Jurors for the EFQMs European Quality Visiting Fellow of Oxford University.
Bob is also Awards and as a member of the Governments Chairman of Oxford University Sad Business Advisory Committee on Advertising.
School Centre for Corporate Reputation, Chairman of the Green Investment Bank John is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Commission and Chairman of the National Employers and Education Taskforce.
He is Master of the Worshipful Company of International Bankers.
In December 2009, he became non-executive Chairman of Sovereign Reversions plc.
Bob is a graduate of Bath University with a business degree and an honorary doctorate.
Bob is a member of the Remuneration Committee and is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Tim Bunting John Coghlan Toby Coppel Independent, non-executive director Independent, non-executive director Independent, non-executive director Tim is a partner at Balderton Capital.
Prior John is Chairman of Inchcape Shipping Toby is a partner at Virgin Green Fund VGF, a to joining Balderton, Tim was a partner at Services, and a non-executive director of private equity fund that invests growth capital Goldman Sachs where he spent eighteen postal courier company, DX Group, both in renewable energy and resource eciency years.
At Goldman, Tim held various roles private equity-owned businesses.
Prior to VGF, he spent eight years including Global Head of Equity Capital non-executive director of Ashley House plc, in senior executive roles at Yahoo!, including Markets 2002 to 2005 and Vice Chairman of an AIM-listed company involved with the Managing Director of Yahoo!
Europe & Goldman Sachs International 2005 to 2006. primary care sector of the NHS in the UK.
Canada 2007-2008, Chief Strategy Officer John is also a non-executive director of 2006-2007 and Senior Vice President Tim is a Governor of Wellington College Freight Transport Association Ltd. Corporate Development 2001-2006.
Prior and the Wellington Academy: a Trustee to Yahoo!, Toby was a co-founder of Windsor of the Rainbow Trust Childrens Charity and John is former Deputy Chief Executive and Media, a media-focused investment company a Trustee at the Paul Hamlyn Foundation.
Group Finance Director of Exel plc, where and also previously held finance and investment he spent eleven years.
Prior to Exel Ocean Tim is a member of the Remuneration roles with Allen & Company and Goldman Group plc, he spent seven years with Committee.
Toby is a Henry Crown Tomkins plc in various financial roles, having Fellow at the Aspen Institute and a member joined them after eight years with Arthur of the Advisory Board of the Oxford Internet Andersen, where he qualied as a Chartered Institute.
Toby has a Master of Arts degree Accountant.
John is a graduate of University from Oxford University and an MBA from College Cork.
John is Chairman of the Audit Committee and Toby is a member of the Remuneration is a member of the Nomination Committee.
34 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Board of Directors continued Joachim Eberhardt Carlos Espinosa fide los Monteros Richard Hooper Independent, non-executive director Independent, non-executive director Senior Independent Director Joachim is currently the owner and President Carlos is President and CEO of Mercedes-Benz Richard Hooper is Senior Independent Director of Oxnard European Motors LLC and adviser Espana, SA.
He is also a director of the of VocaLink Holdings Ltd, a privately owned consultant to a number of companies in following companies: Acciona, Schindler company.
He is a lead mentor for Bird & Co Europe and the US.
Espana, La Fraternidad, INDITEX, and ARCADIS.
Richard has He was formerly a director at DaimlerChrysler recently chaired both the Independent Review He is the former SVP and global CMO of Espana, SA and Gonzalez-Byass.
of the Postal Services Sector for former LexisNexis a division of Reed Elsivier plc, a Secretary of State Lord Mandelson, and the business information based B2B technology panel to select three independently funded company.
Prior to joining LexisNexis, he news consortiums, in a pilot scheme to was Executive Vice President of Global Sales, replace ITVs regional news service in Scotland, Marketing and Service for DaimlerChrysler Wales and the Tyne-Tees and Borders regions.
Until 1 June 2003, he was President and CEO of DaimlerChrysler Until May 2007, Richard was the Chairman UK Limited, a position he held from November of Informa plc and spent nine years on the 1999.
He is formerly a non-executive director Board.
From 2002 to 2005 he was Deputy of a number of DaimlerChrylser owned Chairman of Ofcom and Chairman of its subsidiaries.
Joachim holds a Master of Arts Content Board.
From 2000 to 2003 he was degree from the Academy for Administration Chairman of the Radio Authority.
and Economics in Stuttgart, Germany and Richard Hooper is a member of the Nomination an MBA from New York University Stern Committee and the Audit Committee, and is School of Business.
Joachim is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 35
