Directors Report: Business Review BAE Systems business model BAE Systems business model is driven by its strategy to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value.
It is underpinned by the Groups commitment to Total Performance.
1 SALES BY MARKET SEGMENT % A strong portfolio of products, services Platforms Readiness & and capabilities Sustainment BAE Systems has three market 42% segments designed to meet the 39% evolving needs of its customers in 48% Services both its home and export markets.
13% 6% Electronic Systems Cyber & Intelligence SErvicES ElEctronic SyStEmS PlAtformS In Readiness & Sustainment, the Group The Group designs, develops, The Group designs, develops, provides total support for mission manufactures and integrates a diverse manufactures and integrates a broad success, ranging from preparation and portfolio of mission-critical electronic range of defence systems and equipment.
training programmes that are designed to systems.
In air, the Group provides advanced ensure military personnel and equipment The Groups capabilities help meet its military air capability through delivering are ready for deployment Readiness, customers requirements in the areas combat aircraft and jet trainers, and is through to maintenance and of electronic warfare, signal processing addressing the emerging global market enhancement services Sustainment.
for autonomous systems and related In Cyber & Intelligence, the Group helps technologies.
The Groups wide range of products government and commercial clients to include situational awareness and In land, the Group provides armoured collect information to reveal intelligence, survivability systems, intelligence, combat vehicles, tactical wheeled maintain security, manage risk and surveillance and reconnaissance vehicles, missile launchers, artillery strengthen resilience, and also provides systems, secure networked systems and munitions.
mission-critical cyber security solutions, communications and navigation information technology, intelligence and In maritime, the Group provides above systems, precision targeting and analytical tools, and support solutions and under water battlespace capability night vision systems.
to the intelligence, defence and civilian through the delivery of surface ships and communities.
This high technology business is nuclear powered submarines.
Contracts can be multi-year, thereby underpinned by the investment of a providing the Group with strong incumbent significant proportion of the Groups positions and intimacy with customers.
BAESystems has a track record of delivering both enhanced capability and cost savings, and this is an area of potential growth for the Group as customers budgets remain under pressure.
BAE Systems is committed to Customer FoCus and underpinned by developing a culture of total The Groups priority to all its customers a culture of total Performance, which encompasses isto understand their needs and customer focus, Programme Performance.
expectations, and deliver on its Execution, financial Performance and commitments throughout the life of the responsible Behaviour, and provides a products and services it has delivered.
platform to deliver sustainable growth Customer Focus is measured through in shareholder value and enhance schedule adherence metrics relating the Groups reputation.
the Groups to milestone performance across the success is measured by the Board with Groups major contracts, and customer a range of financial and non-financial satisfaction.
For more information on the Groups KPIs p16 4 www.
com across multiple delivered by four supported by home markets principal operating essential resources groups BAE Systems business is based BAE Systems has four principal the Groups key resources and around identified home markets where operating groups each with different arrangements, together with the the Group has established, or seeks characteristics resulting from the application of the mandated policies and to establish, a good position in the nature and phase in the lifecycle of processes in the operational framework, defence industrial base.
programmes, products and services help the Group achieve its strategy.
provided, procurement philosophies United States customers oftheir principal customers, and United Kingdom geographical areas in which they Subcontractors and other suppliers operate.
Saudi Arabia People Electronics, intelligence & Support Australia research and development land & Armaments india intellectual property Programmes & Support international For more information on the For more information on the For more information on the p20 p64 p32 Groups key home markets operating groups Groups resources For more information on the p84 Groups operational Framework ProGramme exeCutIon FInanCIal PerFormanCe resPonsIble behavIour The Groups performance is dependent The Group sets itself challenging financial Responsible Behaviour is measured with onthe successful execution of its projects.
targets through the Integrated Business metrics relating to safety, the roll-out and Itis important that the Group wins and Planning process.
Financial Performance training of the Code of Conduct, and the contracts for high quality new programmes, is measured through a range of key biennial employee opinion survey.
and delivers on those projects within tight financial salients derived from the Groups BAESystems global Code of Conduct is a tolerances of quality, time and cost consolidated financial statements, summary of the principles and standards performance in a reliable, predictable and including order intake, sales, underlying ofbusiness conduct expected of all 2 repeatable manner.
Programme Execution EBITA, underlying Earnings per Share and employees.
Together with the Groups is measured by reference to outturn operating business cash flow.
Responsible Trading Principles, the Code projections of, and movements in, margin of Conduct underpins its business of key customer-funded projects.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 37.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 5 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
