Directors Report: Business Review Strategy Our strategy purpose and continues to deliver value.
The Group is not The Groups strategy integrates its major goals and actions complacent and efficiencies continue to be driven hard within intoa cohesive whole.
It provides the framework which defines the business.
the direction and shape of the Group over the long term.
This Our business is focused on the defence and security markets, enables the Group to prioritise the deployment of its resources.
and our home market investments in Australia, India, Saudi To address evolving challenges and maximise the Groups Arabia, the UK and the US.
Sweden and South Africa are no resilience in the current environment, it has reviewed and longer viewed as home markets, but remain an important part refined the strategy, so as to ensure it remains robust, fit for ofthe Groups Land & Armaments business.
GROUP STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK 2011 Our Vision is to be the premier global defence and security company Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through our commitment to Total Performance Customer Focus Programme Execution Financial Performance Responsible Behaviour Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold Our Strategy Operate and grow in the defence and security markets in the segments of Services, Electronic Systems and Platforms Grow in existing and develop new home markets Grow our export business Strategic Actions Invest and grow in Services, Implement the Develop new Implement including Invest and grow Sustain our home market home markets rationalisation Readiness & in Electronic Platform strategy to grow and grow our and efficiency Sustainment Systems positions our business export business programmes and Cyber & Intelligence Integrated Business Plans For more information on the Groups home and export markets For more information on the performance of the Groups operating groups p20 p64 14 www.
com The home markets in which the Group operates have been in three market segments Services, Electronic Systems and refined on the basis of strategic alignment, market materiality, Platforms.
The global initiatives in Land, Security, Readiness financial and risk profile, and the presence of a sustainable &Sustainment and Unmanned Aircraft Systems have now business.
The Group will continue to look for additional home moved successfully from initiatives to fully embedded markets, and its current focus is on markets in South America operational plans within the businesses.
The Group continues to evolve its strategy.
The Group Strategic At the core of the Groups strategy is the creation of long-term Framework has been refreshed for 2011. sustainable value for the Groups shareholders, and leadership GROUP STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK 2011 Vision Whilst the GroupsVision defines the destination, a The Groups consistent Vision provides a clear definition of commitment to TotalPerformance guides its actions.
thefuture state it wishes to attain it is to be the premier global This is embedded in the GroupsMission.
Mission The Group believes that by embodying the four elements of The Groups Mission describes its overall goal and the Total Performance Customer Focus, Programme Execution, philosophy that underpins its activities it is to deliver Financial Performance and Responsible Behaviour it will sustainable growth in shareholder value through our deliver that growth in shareholder value.
commitment to Total Performance wherever we operate.
Values Trusted Innovative Bold Achieving a culture of Total We deliver on our We create leading edge We constructively challenge Performance depends on all commitments: solutions: and take the initiative: employees living the Groups We are honest and take We value imagination We operate with tenacity Values Trusted, Innovative responsibility and experience and resolve and Bold.
Having shared We can be relied upon We empower teams We accept challenges and values helps to bind the Everyone matters Working together we turn manage risk Group together and underpins our ideas and technologies We set stretching goals delivery of its strategy.
into solutions Strategy Systems and Platforms.
Secondly, to build upon the geographic There are three essential elements to the Groups Strategy diversity which has fostered growth to date, the Group will target which have been incorporated into the Group Strategic growth in existing home markets and develop new home Framework for 2011. markets.
Finally, the Group will target growth from export business.
Firstly, the Group plans to operate and target growth in the defence and security market segments of Services, Electronic Strategic Actions To this end, the Group plans to invest in Services, including For 2011, the Group has revised its six Strategic Actions to Readiness & Sustainment and Cyber & Intelligence, and in reflect the market environment.
They are designed to shape its Electronic Systems.
It will seek to sustain the Groups Platforms business portfolio and strengthen performance over the long positions across air, maritime and land.
These actions translate the Groups overarching strategy implement the home market strategy, the Group will also seek into operational plans, delivered through its lines of business.
to develop both new home markets and its export business.
The execution of the Groups strategy is underpinned by continuous implementation of rationalisation and efficiency programmes.
Integrated Business Plans The plan is based on individual Integrated Business Plans from The Integrated Business Planning process is an annual, each of our businesses, which are prepared in accordance with two-stage process that culminates in a BAESystems Board and our Operational Framework see page 84.
Executive Committee approved five-year strategic and financial plan, which is used to shape the Strategic Actions.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 15 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
