Directors Report: Business Review Operating group reviews Electronics, Intelligence & Support 1 In 2010, Electronics, Intelligence & Support sales were oVerVieW 1 5,653m 2009 5,637m.
On a like-for-like basis, sales Electronics, Intelligence & Support, with 30,800 decreased by 2.4% over 2009 primarily reflecting the impact 1 employees, provides a wide range of electronic systems of contracting delays caused by the extended Continuing and subsystems for military and commercial applications, Resolution funding at the end of 2009. technical and professional services for US national security Return on sales increased to 11.8% 2009 10.2% reflecting and federal markets, and ship repair and modernisation good programme execution on certain maturing programmes, services.
and ongoing cost reduction and efficiency programmes.
Key points Financial 3 Operating cash inflow was 568m 2009 380m reflecting 1 good working capital management.
Order intake growth of 7.5% Return on sales increased to 11.8% The business reduced its Lost Work Day Case Rate by 17% in 3 2 Cash flow conversion of underlying EBITA at 85% 2010, driven by good performance in high risk areas.
Although the overall target of a 20% reduction was not achieved, the safety perFormance performance of the businesses has continued to demonstrate a year-on-year improvement.
With the exception of Atlantic Marine 2010 2009 2008 sites acquired in 2010, all sites with more than 150 personnel Financial progressed to Level 4 on the Groups Safety Maturity Matrix.
1 Order intake KPI 5,823m 5,416m 4,904m Electronic Solutions 1 Order book 4.8bn 4.5bn 5.2bn Electronic Solutions completed the $53m 33m acquisition 1 KPI Sales 5,653m 5,637m 4,459m ofOASYS Technology, an electro-optical systems manufacturer, 2 which strengthens BAE Systems Electronic Systems Underlying EBITA KPI 668m 575m 506m capabilities, providing a wide range of night vision, soldier-borne Return on sales 11.8% 10.2% 11.3% imaging systems.
3 KPI Cash inflow 568m 380m 380m The business maintained its leadership position in electronic Safety warfare, with strong performance on Low-Rate Initial Production Lost Work Day Case LRIP of electronic warfare suites for F-35.
The initial Rate per 100,000 countermeasures system was delivered, with significant KPI employees 262 315 472 improvements made to its mission systems flight testing software.
The F-22 electronic warfare programme completed its required Key points operational deliveries, retired all risk items as planned and exceeded its Acquisitions of Atlantic Marine and OASYS Technology cost reduction expectations.
completed The US Army continues to order the Common Missile Warning Central operating group headquarters closed as part of System, a helicopter missile warning system, with contract the restructuring of BAESystems, Inc. awards of $34m 22m in 2010.
The business also unveiled Continued to perform on legacy programmes and secured its directable, infrared countermeasures suite, Boldstroke, several strategic contract awards in new markets an integrated aircraft survivability system for protecting aircraft US Army qualified IMX-101 as a safer and effective from infrared-guided missiles and other threats.
alternative for the potential replacement of TNT A $46m 29m LRIP contract was signed with the US Navy for in artillery the Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System.
BAE Systems Strong ship repair performance continued, with order designed the laser guidance and controls on this cost-effective intake totalling $1bn 0.6bn in 2010 guidance kit that transforms standard unguided rockets into highly precise laser-guided missiles.
2010 Executive Committee objective Support Solutions Grow our EI&S Bae systems received a multi-ship, multi-option msmo contract, with a potential value of $365m business both 233m, for executing planning, modernisation, maintenance and repair work on 11 arleigh Burke organically and DDg-51 class destroyers at its norfolk, Virginia, facility.
this contract, and existing contracts for viaacquisitions, cg-47 class cruisers and amphibious ships, andimprove support work at the groups norfolk, san Diego and Hawaii shipyards, and positions Baesystems as a efficiency major supplier of support services to the us navy.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital 2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of expenditure net and financial investment, dividends intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense from equity accounted investments, and assets EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 37. contributed to Trust.
com The business continues to invest in research and development.
As equipment and aftermarket work through to 2019.
The contract part of a three-year, $70m 45m investment in the development covers commercial electronics for the Boeing 737, 747, 767 of state-of-the-art manufacturing and systems engineering and 777 aircraft, with a potential value of $800m 511m.
facilities for integrated aircraft survivability equipment, the In the UK, the business delivered the first order of new helmetWorrell Weeks Aircrew Protection Center, a new testing and mounted optical sighting systems to the Royal Navy, addressing equipment evaluation laboratory, was dedicated during the year.
a mission-critical need for increased air door gunner situational Following strong performance by the business on legacy contracts, awareness.
US Army demand for thermal weapon sights continued in 2010 BAE Systems began production deliveries of its HybriDrive with the award of an additional $123m 79m contract under a propulsion system to British bus builder Alexander Dennis under five-year, Indefinite-Delivery, Indefinite-Quantity contract.
The order the UK Green Bus Fund initiative, with over 100 systems in increases the total thermal weapon sight contract value to more service to date.
The business began the development of a than $1bn 0.6bn since 2004. hydrogen fuel cell system for SunLine Transit, delivered its first In 2010, the Drivers Vision Enhancer Family of Systems production bus to the Seattle Transit System, and was selected completed the hardware qualification phase and began to power New Flyer hybrid buses in Atlanta, Georgia and Everett, production deliveries, with orders totalling more than $92m Washington.
Transit buses powered by BAE Systems 59m.
The combat-proven Check-6 thermal camera system HybriDrive green propulsion systems surpassed 200 million received additional contracts worth more than $120m 77m miles of clean, reliable revenue service.
Support Solutions In an emerging market related to unmanned aerial vehicle Consistent with the Groups strategy to grow its Readiness & opportunities, BAE Systems was awarded several wide-area Sustainment activities, Atlantic Marine was acquired in July for persistent surveillance contracts totalling over $100m 64m.
The acquisition enhances the Groups ability to meet ongoing demand for ship maintenance, repair, overhaul In export markets, the business secured a $67m 43m and conversion services: marine fabrication: and construction.
contract with the Slovak Ministry of Defence for a newly designed Integration of the business is largely complete.
mobile military communications system MOKYS.
The system supports secure transfer of information in the form ofvoice, data A five-year, $400m 256m MSMO contract was secured to and images at both operational and tactical levels ofcommand.
repair and modernise eight combatant ships for the US Navy.
The contract includes docking and non-docking work on four Intelligence & Security CG-47 Ticonderoga class cruisers and four DDG-51 Arleigh In February 2011, BAE Systems completed the acquisition of Burke class destroyers.
L-1 Identity Solutions, Inc. s Intelligence Services Group, which expands its existing presence in the US intelligence community, In another Services market, the US Army awarded the business for a cash consideration of approximately $297m 190m.
a contract worth up to $95m 61m to install and maintain automated access control systems at US Army bases and other Within the Services market segment, Intelligence & Security installations.
This award expands BAE Systems support of continues to support US and international government and physical security at US government sites.
commercial clients in the collection and management of information to gather intelligence, maintain security, manage BAE Systems has been approved to provide engineering and risksand strengthen resilience in todays complex operating technical services to the US Army and other federal customers environments.
Key focus areas are intelligence and under the Rapid Response 3rd Generation $16.4bn 10.5bn counterintelligence, homeland security, law enforcement, government-wide contract, making it eligible to bid on a range of andsupport of military operations.
task orders during the ten-year life of the contract.
With sustained intelligence and security operations around the outlooK world, the business captured significant, indefinite-quantity Pressures continue on the US defence budget.
The US contract vehicles to provide knowledge management, cyber, Secretary of Defense recently announced a directive aimed information technology, and analysis support to defence at reducing funding for multiple programmes and services.
and intelligence agencies, and the US Federal Bureau of Whilst these funding reductions and expected slowing or Investigation FBI.
ultimate cancellations of new programmes could impact the Other key contract awards included: Next Generation Desktop business, BAESystems remains well positioned to support forup to $300m 192m that will deploy over 12,000 analyst its US customers with a balance of products, technologies workstations across the intelligence community: a $40m and services.
In recognition ofthe growing importance of 26m contract for the FBI supporting enterprise network affordability and efficiencies, BAESystems streamlined the operations and information assurance: and a command and organisation of its US business in 2010 to reduce costs and control system contract for the US Navy with an estimated value improve flexibility.
BAESystems expects to benefit from its of $100m 64m that leverages BAE Systems market-leading presence in markets that are forecast to grow despite general capabilities in full-motion video analysis, geospatial imagery market pressures, such as Cyber & Intelligence and ship repair analysis and mission planning.
The business will continue to focus its investment in market areas where growth is expected.
Platform Solutions In the air domain, the business extended a long-term agreement For more information on the groups p12 with Boeing, securing its exclusive position for Boeing original 2010 executive committee objectives BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 67 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
