Directors Report: Business Review Operating group reviews continued International 1 During 2010, International sales were 4,534m 2009 oVerVieW 3,828m.
The increase in sales was predominantly a result of 1 International, with 17,200 employees, comprises the increased activity on the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Groups businesses in Australia, India and Saudi Arabia, Programme SBDCP in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and together with interests in the pan-European MBDA joint progress on the Landing Helicopter Dock programme in venture and Air Astana.
2 Underlying EBITA of 478m 2009 419m generated a return Key points Financial on sales of 10.5% 2009 10.9%.
The reduction in return on 1 Like-for-like sales growth of 15.3% over 2009 sales is due to the low margin being traded on increased activity Settlement achieved with the former owners of Tenix Defence on the early stages of the Salam and Landing Helicopter Dock programmes.
perFormance 3 Operating cash inflow was 195m 2009 813m reflecting the 4 4 Restated Restated expected utilisation of advance funding on the Salam programme.
2010 2009 2008 The Lost Work Day Case Rate increased by 20% compared Financial with 2009.
The overall trend in safety performance has been 1 Order intake KPI 2,908m 4,564m 3,559m improving since 2007, but this level of improvement was not 1 Order book 9.1bn 11.0bn 10.2bn maintained in 2010.
Senior management are reviewing safety 1 KPI Sales 4,534m 3,828m 2,926m processes in order to put in place an improvement plan.
All sites with more than 150 personnel progressed to Level 4 on the 2 KPI Underlying EBITA 478m 419m 417m Groups Safety Maturity Matrix.
Return on sales 10.5% 10.9% 14.3% Saudi Arabia 3 Cash inflow KPI 195m 813m 163m The business continues to develop its presence in Saudi Arabia Safety and remains committed to developing a greater indigenous Lost Work Day Case capability in the Kingdom.
This strategy is being enhanced by Rate per 100,000 the entry into service of Typhoon aircraft and subsequent KPI employees 896 746 1,393 development of the Typhoon in-country industrial base.
Of the 72 Typhoon aircraft contracted under the Salam programme, 18 have Key points operational been delivered to the customer.
Six of the ten aircraft delivered this year are the twin-seat variant which will allow the Royal Saudi A further ten Typhoon aircraft delivered under the Air Force RSAF to conduct their own training missions.
Salamprogramme Whilst deliveries on the Salam programme remain on schedule, Typhoon operational capability being provided under the programme is likely to be adjusted to accommodate some thesupport contract customer changes.
These may include relocating final assembly 157 Tactica vehicles accepted by the Saudi Arabia of the last 48 of the 72 aircraft, the creation of a maintenance and National Guard upgrade facility in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and, in addition, BAE Systems Australia selected as Lockheed Martins the last 24 of the 72 aircraft might be delivered with modifications partner for maintenance and upgrade support on the to allow future incorporation of Tranche 3 capability.
Australian F-35 programme The business continues to provide support to the operational Defence Land Systems India Private Limited joint venture capability of both the RSAF and Royal Saudi Naval Force through becameoperational the SBDCP.
Customer discussions are ongoing for the next phases of SBDCP and the Salam programme.
The Group expects the customer to place a greater emphasis on performance-based contracting and use of the Saudi industrial base.
2010 Executive Committee objective BAE Systems Australia F-35 Grow our home Bae systems australia has been selected as a key australian partner for readiness & sustainment markets in the support for the F-35 combat aircraft.
Baesystems is ideally placed to provide support for the F-35 Kingdom of Saudi through its established capabilities at Williamtown where its 400-strong workforce already provides Arabia, Australia maintenance and through-life support to the and India F a-18 Hornet and Hawk lead-in Fighter fleets.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital 4 Restated following the sale of half of the Groups 20.5% 2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of expenditure net and financial investment, dividends shareholding in Saab AB and subsequent classification intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense from equity accounted investments, and assets as a discontinued operation.
EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 37. contributed to Trust.
5 Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence.
com All 200 Tactica land vehicles have been delivered to the Saudi missiles, Milan anti-armour missiles and Exocet anti-ship Arabia National Guard.
In 2010, 157 vehicles were accepted missiles.
bythe customer and entered into service.
The remaining 43 Development programmes continue to progress well, with vehicles are expected to be accepted in the first quarter of keymilestones being passed on the MEADS air-defence 2011.
The business continues to support these vehicles in programme, SCALP Naval stand-off missile programme, Meteor accordance with a separate contract.
beyond visual range air-to-air missile, and all assessment and 5 The C4I programme remains challenging, but good progress development phases of the UK Complex Weapons Programmes.
The issues arising during last years Sea Viper firings have been Australia resolved, culminating in a number of successful trial test firings In 2010, BAE Systems consolidated its position as a strategic of the Aster missile.
A successful system firing involving an support provider to the Australian Defence Force ADF.
The Aster 30 missile was also made in October, to achieve Europes Australian governments parallel commitments to maintain first ever intercept of a tactical ballistic missile.
defence funding in real terms until 2018 and achieve A$20bn India 13.1bn of savings through its ten-year Strategic Reform In 2010, Defence Land Systems India Private Limited, the Programme represent both an opportunity and a challenge Groups 26% joint venture with Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, tothe business.
became operational, giving BAESystems a domestic capability The business has formally presented a proposal to the in the land sector.
The first new product, Mine Protected Vehicle customer that is expected to deliver savings of at least 20% on India, was unveiled in Delhi in February.
the support contract for the Royal Australian Air Forces RAAF BAeHAL Software Limited, the Groups 40% joint venture with Hawk Lead-In Fighter fleet without impacting aircraft availability.
Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, has undertaken a series of A Memorandum of Understanding was signed with Lockheed initiatives to expand its scope of operations and provide IT Martin to establish BAESystems as the preferred Australian solutions to a wider range of customers.
partner for maintenance and upgrade support for the F-35 that Air Astana will form the mainstay of the RAAFs air combat capability later Air Astana achieved another year of strong performance.
Groups share of revenue increased by 18% to $321m 208m, The business is a sub-contractor to Boeing on the Wedgetail with an improvement in profit driven by rising passenger demand Early Warning and Control aircraft programme.
During the year, and strong cost base control across its portfolio of international the business completed delivery of the airborne components and domestic routes.
ofthe Electronic Support Measures package under the Oman programme.
The business has strengthened its presence in Oman during The maritime business achieved on-schedule performance theyear and significant activity is ongoing to agree an order for forthe Landing Helicopter Dock project.
On the Air Warfare the supply of Typhoon aircraft to the Royal Air Force of Oman.
Destroyer programme, work continues to recover the schedule A number of other longer-term prospects are being pursued, for the construction of hull blocks following initial fabrication and the business is also developing strategies to improve difficulties.
its Services offerings across the significant installed and anticipated future product base.
The business was not down-selected as a preferred tenderer forthe Land 121 Phase 3 project to supply medium and heavy outlooK tactical vehicles to the ADF.
The Group seeks to sustain its long-term presence in the Outstanding issues concerning the acquisition of the Tenix Kingdom of Saudi Arabia through delivering current programmes Defence business in 2008 have been resolved.
Payments and industrialisation, and developing new business in support totalling A$127.5m 74m, net of legal fees are to be made of all Saudi military and paramilitary forces.
tous by the former owners of the business.
The Salam programme changes referred to will necessitate MBDA contract and pricing revisions that will need to be concluded in MBDA has delivered increased sales and increased return on 2011.
These will bias both sales and profits to the second half sales compared to 2009. of 2011.
Order intake in 2010 was below the level achieved in 2009 as In Australia, BAE Systems aims to capture its share of the global budgetary constraints meant certain export contracts growth in defence spending through delivery of innovative, value were delayed.
Order intake with domestic customers was good for money solutions across both new and existing programmes with new production orders received for additional Mistral in close co-operation with its major customer, the Australian surface-to-air missiles in France, the development and early Defence Materiel Organisation.
manufacture contract for Fire Shadow loitering munitions, and In India, BAE Systems plans to develop its home market strategy the assessment phase, development and early manufacture for through existing and, if appropriate, additional joint ventures SPEAR Selectable Precision Effects At Range weapons under and partnerships to address the future requirements of the the Complex Weapons contract in the UK.
Indian armed forces, in new product and support activities.
Key deliveries included Aster surface-to-air missiles, Mica For more information on the groups air-to-air missiles, Eryx anti-armour missiles, Taurus stand-off p12 2010 executive committee objectives BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 73 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
