Directors Report: Business Review Operating group reviews continued Programmes & Support 1 Order intake in the year was 4.1bn 2009 8.8bn.
oVerVieW The prioryear intake included long-term orders for production 1 Programmes & Support, with 31,600 employees, primarily of Typhoon Tranche 3A aircraft, and support for Typhoon, comprises the Groups UK-based air, maritime and Cyber & Harrier, Type 45, and Spearfish and Sting Ray torpedoes.
1 Sales in 2010 were 6.7bn, which, on a like-for-like basis, were broadly unchanged from 2009.
Key points Financial 2 2 Underlying EBITA was 529m 2009 670m with a return Underlying EBITA includes a charge of 100m on the 2 onsales of 7.9% 2009 10.6%.
Underlying EBITA in 2010 terminated Trinidad and Tobago Offshore Patrol Vessel includes a 100m charge on the terminated Trinidad and OPV programme Tobago OPV programme.
As expected, margins were impacted by higher pension service costs arising from a fall in the perFormance discount rates applied to pension liabilities.
2010 2009 2008 The business reduced its Lost Work Day Case Rate by 48%, Financial exceeding the 2010 objective of a 20% improvement on 2009.
1 Order intake KPI 4,139m 8,789m 4,195m There were particular improvements in safety in the Surface Ships 1 Order book 21.1bn 24.3bn 19.8bn business.
All sites with more than 150 personnel progressed to 1 KPI Sales 6,680m 6,298m 4,638m Level 4 on the Groups Safety Maturity Matrix.
2 KPI Underlying EBITA 529m 670m 491m In addition to approximately 1,750 redundancies announced in 2009, a further 2,900 were announced across the operating Return on sales 7.9% 10.6% 10.6% group in 2010 to continue to deliver efficiencies and align the 3 Cash inflow KPI 227m 285m 651m cost base following the SDSR.
Safety Military Air Solutions Lost Work Day Case Delivery of Typhoon Tranche 2 aircraft to the four partner nations Rate per 100,000 continued with 41 aircraft delivered in the year.
Deliveries to the KPI employees 426 812 992 Royal Saudi Air Force RSAF were made in accordance with the programme, with 18 of the 72 contracted aircraft delivered to date.
Key points operational A 111m, four and a half-year Services contract was awarded on 537m Hawk India contract secured the Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer AJT fleet at RAF Valley.
Twenty-five Third Type 45 destroyer accepted off contract and sixth of the 28 Hawk AJT aircraft for the RAF have now been accepted.
launched BAE Systems has secured a 537m contract from Hindustan HMS Astute acceptance completed and second boat, Aeronautics Limited to supply products and services to enable an Ambush, launched additional 57 Hawk AJT aircraft to be built under licence in India.
Nimrod MRA4 programme terminated and Harrier to be taken out of service in 2011 following Strategic Defence On F-35, major unit deliveries to Lockheed Martin have been and Security Review SDSR completed for the development programme and the first two production contract lots.
Production continues to schedule on Continued rationalisation and efficiency activity across the Lot 3, which includes the first two UK operational test and operating group and alignment of cost base post SDSR evaluation aircraft.
The SDSR decision to acquire the F-35 Carrier variant instead of the F-35 Short Take Off and Vertical Landing variant will not change BAESystems role on the programme.
BAE Systems workshare arrangements are 2010 Executive Committee objective BAE Systems wins Establish in the pan-European Readiness &Sustainment contract UK sustainably in may 2010, a five-year, 150m contract was profitable awarded for the delivery of typhoon avionics equipment repair to the air Forces of germany, through-life business spain and the uK.
combined with the 400m in air, land and sea radar and Defensive aids sub-system Dass contract awarded in 2009, the contracts offer a range of repair services, halving the customers avionic repair costs for typhoon and improving availability.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital 2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of expenditure net and financial investment, dividends intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense from equity accounted investments, and assets EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 37. contributed to Trust.
com notmatched against the UK governments decisions on aircraft In the UK, cyber security has been highlighted as a significant type or quantities.
threat in the National Security Strategy.
Detica continues to be well placed as a strategic partner to UK government.
In 2010, On the Tornado and Harrier programmes, operational TM Detica launched a new cyber security service, Detica Treidan, requirements continued to be met through the delivery of and is advising commercial and government customers on contractual milestones and Urgent Operational Requirements.
preventing and responding to attacks on their networks.
BAE Systems continues to show good progress in its Unmanned The Detica NetReveal solution continues to show global Aircraft Systems activities, with the roll out of the joint MoD salesgrowth with some key wins, particularly in the financial and industry Taranis Unmanned Combat Aircraft System services sector.
In July 2010, the Home Office terminated the e-Borders Surface Ships contract.
Detica was a subcontractor to Raytheon on that Programmes for the Royal Navy have progressed to plan, with programme and has submitted a claim in connection with construction well advanced on sections of the first Queen thetermination for convenience of its subcontract.
Elizabeth Class aircraft carrier in Portsmouth and Glasgow.
In December 2010 and January 2011, respectively, the Group The Type 45 build programme continues, with delivery of announced the proposed acquisitions of ETI A S and Norkom third ofclass, Diamond, sea trials for fourth of class, Dragon, Group plc in the Cyber & Intelligence domain.
and launch of the sixth and final ship, Duncan, during 2010.
The Type45 support solution has been contracted for and Integrated System Technologies Insyte established in Portsmouth.
The FALCON secure deployable broadband communication system for the British Army and RAF completed Technical Considerable achievements have been made to transform the FieldEvaluation in July.
The contract provides for the initial business and drive cost savings under the Terms of Business operational capability to be accepted in 2011.
The business Agreement ToBA with the MoD, including efficiency savings isin discussions with the customer with regard to a revision generated in the year to March 2010 for the MoD of 66m.
BAE Systems was awarded a four-year, 127m contract by the A re-baselined programme on the Maritime Composite Training MoD to develop a highly flexible, multi-role frigate for the Royal System has been agreed with the customer.
A revised ready for Navy, the Type 26. training date is planned for September 2011.
The export contracts for Oman, and Trinidad and Tobago have The ARTISAN 3D radar successfully completed Customer encountered significant difficulties during construction that Critical Design Review in June, allowing the programme to have led to further delays and losses of 163m.
The fair values progress towards full production.
of these contracts have been updated accordingly see note 29 to the Group accounts.
The Sting Ray lightweight torpedo main production order for the Royal Navy completed production deliveries in May.
The delivery In September, BAE Systems received written notice from the contract for the government of Norway is on schedule, with initial Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago GORTT of deliveries achieved in December.
its intention to cancel the contract for three OPVs.
The Group has challenged GORTTs entitlement to cancel and has itself outlooK issued a termination for default notice on GORTT.
The parties Anticipating the impact of pressure on government spending are now proceeding in accordance with the contracts dispute and the SDSR, the business has worked closely with the MoD resolution provisions and a charge of 100m has been taken.
toalign objectives and transformation plans.
Programmes & Submarine Solutions Support was re-organised with effect from 1 January 2011.
HMS Astute, the first of class attack submarine for the Royal Anew Maritime business has been created, encompassing Navy, was accepted by the MoD in November.
Ambush, the allUK maritime activities, and the new Military Air & Information second of class, was launched in January 2011 and will now line of business integrates the military air and information undertake commissioning activities prior to commencing sea systems activities.
Construction continues on the third and fourth boats.
Maritime is underpinned by the Type 45, Queen Elizabeth carrier A360m order, which includes commencement of construction and Astute class submarine manufacturing programmes, of the fifth boat and long lead procurement for the sixth boat, the 15-year ToBA, and the concept design of the successor has been received.
The concept phase for the successor to the Vanguard class In Military Air & Information, growth is linked to increasing submarine is scheduled to complete in March 2011, with the combat aircraft production.
The business is underpinned by assessment, design and development phases then to follow.
Detica Deticas position in the UK market, and its development as Deticas Cyber & Intelligence activity, which focuses on cyber asolutions integrator and provider of cyber security services, security and information assurance, countering terrorism and means that it is well positioned to support the UK governments organised crime, and border security, has maintained sales growth National Security Strategy, the increased focus on intelligence and despite reduced UK government spending.
Growth opportunities security in the UK and overseas, and growing commercial markets.
in other BAE Systems home markets, and elsewhere in the Middle East and Europe, have secured sales into the law enforcement, For more information on the groups p12 telecommunications and financial services sectors.
2010 executive committee objectives BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 71 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
