Directors Report: Business Review UniTed KinGdom Key home markets p24 Global positions in home markets and export No.
1 supplier to the Ministry of Defence opportunities 38,400 2 Employees $54bn 35bn 3 Defence expenditure 2.5% 3 of GDP UniTed STaTeS p22 th 6 largest supplier to the Department 1 of Defense 39,200 2 Employees $666bn 426bn 3 Defence expenditure 4.7% 3 of GDP Home markets to defence and security budgets across The Groups BAE Systems continues to benefit multiple domains.
They are countries five key home from a broad and diverse market base, that welcome foreign investment to operating indigenous businesses in develop and sustain a domestic markets generated market segments where it sees good, industrial capability.
They are also 4 92% of Group sales sustainable growth prospects.
Today, markets where we have established, the Group is focused on five key home or seek to establish, a good position in 2010 markets, in Australia, India, the Kingdom in their defence industrial base along of Saudi Arabia, the UK and the US.
with strong customer relationships and high standards ofresponsible These markets are identified as having business conduct.
asignificant and sustained commitment 1 Based on 2009 Department of Defense expenditure.
com 4 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Excluding the Groups share of equity 5 Mobile military communications system.
com SaUdi arabia india p26 p30 No.
1 New in-country defence supplier home market in 2009 5,300 $29bn 19bn 2 3 Employees Defence expenditure $41bn 26bn 2.4% 3 3 Defence expenditure of GDP 10.9% 3 of GDP aUSTralia p28 No.
1 in-country defence supplier 5,700 2 Employees $24bn 15bn 3 Defence expenditure 2.4% 3 of GDP 4 Export markets Many of the Groups products have export SALES BY KEY HOME MARKET % Exports are an increasingly important part potential, but the focus in 2011 will be of the Groups business.
BAESystems onthe Typhoon combat aircraft, M777 Saudi Arabia has opportunities to export its products howitzer, Bradley and CV90 vehicles, to many countries around the world.
14% United States is renewed support from both the US and The Group will continue to evaluate UK governments for defence and security potential new home markets in countries export efforts.
44% that match the Groups established United Kingdom Export successes in 2010 include criteria.
The economic strength and 29% 5 MOKYS to Slovakia, Hawk Advanced Jet growing defence budgets of markets Trainer to India and Archer self-propelled inSouth America and Asia make them 5% 8% artillery system to Norway.
Australia Other BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 21 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Key home markets in detail United States market context our position bae Systems is a large and high-performing part The US remains the largest ofthe US defence industrial base, ranked the sixth largest US defence contractor in 2009.
The Group single defence market with is well positioned to support its US customers with 2009 defence spending of a balance of products, technologies and services.
The US business encompasses a diverse range $666bn 426bn.
The 2010 ofcustomers and contracts with relatively low Quadrennial defense review exposure to any single programme.
Qdr identified growth in investment allocations and confirmed strategic priorities.
atlantic marine acquisition In July 2010, BAESystems acquired Atlantic Marine, a naval services business.
The acquisition has enhanced BAESystems ability to support current and future US Navy home-porting strategies, broadened the customer base, and increased capabilities in maritime maintenance and modernisation activities.
com outlook The Cyber & Intelligence market segment is a priority area for After exceptional growth in the last decade, the US Department further investment by the US government and represents one of Defense now forecasts a declining rate of growth and ofthe opportunities for growth in the US.
eventual flattening of the defence budget, representing an opportunities overall reduction of approximately $78bn 50bn to the Five BAESystems continues to benefit from its presence in capability Year Defense Plan 2010 to 2015.
However, the US government and product sectors that are expected to grow against the remains committed to protecting the size, reach and fighting general downturn and wider market pressures.
strength of the military, and has committed to substantial investments in high priority capabilities and programmes.
The Group continues to invest in distinctive capabilities that provide competitive advantage.
In Services, the acquisition Increases in procurement funding are expected to be largely ofAtlantic Marine in July enhances the ability of the Groups funded through new cost efficiencies as operations and shiprepair business to support maritime maintenance and maintenance funding is expected to occupy an increasing modernisation.
The acquisition of OASYS Technology enhances proportion of the baseline budget.
More than $100bn 64bn the Groups product offerings in growing markets for Electronic in savings have already been identified to allocate to high priority Systems, as would the proposed acquisition of Fairchild programmes, and a new initiative has been launched to ensure Imaging.
In February 2011, the Group completed the acquisition value from contracting for defence goods and services.
of L-1 Identity Solutions, Inc. s Intelligence Services Group, In recognition of the growing importance of affordability and which expands its existing presence in the US intelligence efficiencies, BAESystems streamlined the organisation of its community.
US business in 2010 to reduce costs and improve flexibility.
BAE Systems will continue to focus its investment on With the Land & Armaments market impacted by lower demand strengthening its current positions in these growing sectors for new vehicles, BAESystems continues to rationalise its ofthe market.
facilities and other costs to sustain profitability, and compete more effectively for development, production, upgrade and Readiness & Sustainment contracts.
opportunities in action In the US, the business is focused on expanding capabilities and contracts in the Cyber & Intelligence market segment bringing BAESystems to new markets and customers.
InSeptember, BAESystems was selected to provide critical information security safeguards, including certification and accreditation, to ensure the confidentiality and privacy of US Federal Bureau of Investigation FBI computer networks inthe US and around the world.
Under this $40m 26m contract, BAESystems servesas the prime contractor offering information security risk assessments, a form of quality control.
The information assurance process iscontinuously monitored and improved as risks change so that data, some of it classified, is transmitted, stored and protected safely.
Continuous monitoring is a technique to address the security impacts on an information system resulting from changes to the hardware or software during thelifecycle.
Following this win, BAESystems was also selected as one of 45 IT contractors to participate in the FBIs largest ever Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity IDIQ contract, potentially worth up to $30bn 19bn amongst the competing contractors over an eight-year period.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 23 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Key home markets in detail continued United Kingdom market context our position The Group has a key role in supporting the UK The 2010 national Security armed forces, and the nations security and intelligence capabilities.
Together, the nSS and Strategy nSS, and Strategic SdSr have confirmed that the Groups strategy for defence and Security review the UK market is focused on the appropriate areas.
in defence, the business has a secure backlog of SdSr have defined the areas contracted business across air, maritime and land for future UK spend in security platforms, including significant readiness & Sustainment contracts.
in Cyber & intelligence, and defence.
thebusiness continues to play a formative role supporting customers in the growing intelligence, civil government and commercial markets.
Type 45 programme The Type 45 build programme is more than half complete, with delivery of the third of class, Diamond, sea trials for fourth of class, Dragon, and the launch of the final ship, Duncan, during 2010.
com outlook opportunities In the air domain, the SDSR committed the UK to modernise Across all domains, the Group has been working with the andupgrade the capabilities of Typhoon, and to procure F-35 Ministry of Defence to reduce costs and deliver military foroperation from the Queen Elizabeth class aircraft carriers.
Broad service offerings, including Inaddition, the UK and France are expected to develop ideas Readiness & Sustainment solutions, will be a key contributor to forcloser co-operation on Unmanned Aircraft Systems.
These delivering additional savings and efficiencies.
The Group is well factors will contribute to the future sustainment of the Groups positioned to expand these service offerings in support of the combat air capability.
In the maritime domain, the Groups surface warship design, The Groups investment in Cyber & Intelligence positions it build and support capability is sustained by a 15-year Terms forgrowth in this expanding market segment.
The Group is ofBusiness Agreement ToBA.
The SDSRs commitment to committed to delivering world class technologies and services theconstruction of two Queen Elizabeth class aircraft carriers to assist the government and commercial sectors to detect underpins that capability in the near and medium term, as does anddefend against cyber attacks, prevent fraud and money the Type 26 Global Combat Ship programme in the longer term.
laundering, and ensure secure delivery of services.
The future of the Groups submarine business is secured by the governments commitment to the procurement of seven Astute class submarines, and the retention and planned renewal of a submarine-launched continuous nuclear deterrent.
The NSS outlined and prioritised the different and more complex range of threats from a myriad of sources that the UK faces, and identified an additional 650m of investment to be made in the next four years in the strengthening of national cyber security aspart of that response.
BAESystems is well placed to access growth in the emerging security market through its investments in Detica and elsewhere.
opportunities in action During 2010, the Group launched the Detica TM Treidan cyber threat detection service and is working with a number of clients including major private sector organisations to detect and stop sophisticated intrusions into their IT systems.
Building on the Groups capabilities in data capture TM and large scale data analytics, the Detica Treidan service hunts out patterns of unusual behaviour in order to detect unauthorised intruders who have gained access to protected systems using cyber attacks, and to stop these incursions before the attacker has had the opportunity to identify and compromise sensitive systems and information.
Findings from these highly sensitive operations confirm many of the messages in the SDSR about the threat to the UKs security and economic prosperity.
The Group continues to invest in a wide range of new technologies and approaches in this area for which it forecasts growing demand as both public and private sector organisations become increasingly aware of thenature and scale of the threat to their operations.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 25 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Key home markets in detail continued Saudi arabia market context our position bae Systems acts as the prime contractor for regional tensions continue theUK KSa  defence agreement and also holds certain direct contracts to ensure that defence and with the Saudi government.
Progress is ongoing security remain a high priority tomodernise the Saudi armed forces in line with the2005 UK KSa Understanding document, and forthe Kingdom of Saudi arabia theGroup continues to support the operational KSa.
in 2009, defence capability of the royal Saudi air Force rSaF and royal Saudi naval Forces rSnF through the Saudi expenditure was 10.9% of GdP.
british defence Co-operation Programme SbdCP.
investing in Saudi industry BAE Systems continues to develop its presence in Saudi Arabia and remains committed to developing agreater indigenous capability in-Kingdom.
The business is pursuing a policy oftransferring technology and work to Saudi Economic Offset companies in areas such as the Tornado Programmed Depot Maintenance and Upgrade facility.
com outlook opportunities Regional tensions combined with enduring high oil prices result BAE Systems is seeking to extend its activities to support all in robust budgets and increasing opportunities.
The linking of Saudi military and paramilitary forces.
defence and security procurement to indigenous industrial In the air domain, availability contracting and additional support development and in-Kingdom job creation for Saudi nationals on the Salam Typhoon contract represent opportunities for will continue as a strategic objective for the KSA government.
BAESystems continues to invest in Saudi industry to help deliver on this requirement.
In the land and maritime domains, there are a number of near-term direct programme prospects for vehicle artillery systems and maritime equipment.
The security market continues to mature and near-term opportunities are expected in Intelligence, Surveillance andReconnaissance.
opportunities in action The RSAF is now the sixth air force in the world tobe flying Typhoon aircraft.
In 2007, a contract to supply 72 Typhoon aircraft toKSA was agreed and 18 were delivered by the end of2010 in line with the programme.
In 2009, to support continued aircraft availability, the governments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UK reached agreement on detailed arrangements under the Salam support solution toprovide support for operations by the RSAF Typhoon fleet for a three-year period.
Building on BAESystems knowledge and experience gained working alongside the Royal AirForce in supporting the UKs Typhoon fleet, the Salam support solution provides a full availability service contract the first of its kind for Typhoon.
The contract includes training in the UK for RSAF Typhoon pilots and multi-skilled aircraft technicians.
In support of the contract, BAESystems continues to invest in local Saudi companies, develop an industrial technology transfer plan and train Saudi nationals to assist inthe provision of Readiness & Sustainment.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 27 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Key home markets in detail continued australia market context our position bae Systems is the largest defence company australias 2009 defence budget inaustralia.
it supplies total capability across mission systems, air defence, land combat was $24bn 15bn and, as its largest systems, maintenance, logistics support, and defence contractor, baeSystems is intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance.
inJanuary 2011, the Group acquired stratsec.
net, wellplaced to provide the australian an information security company, adding to the defence Force adF and security Groups capabilities and footprint in the growing market segment of Cyber & intelligence.
community with a full range of products and services.
readiness & Sustainment BAE Systems and Australian Army personnel inspect an upgraded M113AS4 Armoured Personnel Carrier at Bandiana, Victoria.
com outlook opportunities The Australian government has detailed an expansive BAE Systems expects strong opportunities for Readiness acquisition programme for platforms and systems over the &Sustainment to the ADF in both the air and maritime domains.
nextdecade, and has committed to average real growth in the Cyber & Intelligence also represents an important focus for the defence budget of 3% annually to 2017-18, with further growth Australian government.
beyond in order to meet the defence and security objectives BAE Systems is well placed to offer a range of solutions that are outlined in its 2009 Defence White Paper.
An important sourced both from indigenous capability within Australia and contributor to this growth will be savings and efficiencies in capability sourced from elsewhere in the Group.
For example, Australias military sustainment expenditure emerging from the the business has recently experienced success in the Cyber ten-year Strategic Reform Programme, which will be re-invested &Intelligence market segment through the transfer of Deticas in the acquisition programme.
This is expected to generate new UK capability into BAESystems Australia.
opportunities for service offerings in Readiness & Sustainment.
opportunities in action In January 2010, BAESystems began modifying the first of the Royal Australian Navys ANZAC Class frigates to be upgraded under the Anti-Ship Missile Defence project.
The upgrade will significantly improve the anti-ship self defence capabilities of the ANZAC Class by integrating leading-edge CEA Phased Array Radar, Vampir New Generation Infrared Search & Track, Sharpeye Navigation Radar Systems and an upgraded Combat Management System which will include an improved Operations Room layout.
The platform integration of these systems requires significant structural modifications, and BAESystems has developed innovative design solutions to minimise the impact on the ships weight and stability.
In October 2010, the first ship departed from the BAESystems production facility, and entered its test and trials phase, with delivery back to the customer anticipated in mid-2011.
This upgrade contract is a key example of BAESystems strong position in the Services segment of the Australian maritime market, a key focus for future growth.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 29 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Key home markets in detail continued india market context our position india is bae Systems newest home market, building on the indias 2009 defence Groups long-standing relationship with Hindustan aeronautics limited Hal and rolls-royce, supplying 66 Hawk advanced expenditure was$29bn Jet Trainer aJT aircraft to the indian air Force.
baeSystems 19bn and is in future also has a 40% interest in baeHal Software limited, a joint venture with Hal, specialising in aerospace software and expected to grow in line engineering services.
in 2010, the Group secured a new order with the countrys economy.
with Hal for a further 57 Hawk aircraft, and established a land systems joint venture with mahindra & mahindra limited, defence land Systems india Private limited, which is currently developing and marketing several vehicles with the support of baeSystems businesses across the world.
land systems joint venture This year, the Group established a land systems joint venture with Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, which is currently marketing several vehicles, including the MPVi shown, with the support of BAESystems businesses across the world.
com outlook opportunities The Indian government has embarked upon a modernisation The Group is committed to a programme of investment programme across the air, maritime and land domains, involving andtechnology transfer in support of its strategy to create the acquisition of new aircraft, missiles, artillery, combat indigenous capability in the Indian defence and security market, vehicles and naval vessels, and development of capabilities in and significant order opportunities exist for BAE Systems.
command, control, communications and intelligence gathering.
In the air domain, BAE Systems continues to support EADS The Indian security market is less mature, but growing, as the inthe promotion of Typhoon for the Indian Air Force Medium threat of terrorism and internal insurgency continues.
Multi-Role Combat Aircraft competition, as well as working Currently, approximately 70% of Indias defence requirements withHAL on the supply of Hawk AJT aircraft.
The Indian government has a stated In land, India is trialling the M777 howitzer in advance of a desire to reverse this situation and is looking increasingly potential purchase and further opportunities exist to sell tosource its defence capabilities from indigenous Indian FH77-B05 artillery.
companies, partnered with foreign suppliers where necessary.
Opportunities also exist to import capability from other areas ofthe Group to meet growing requirements in the security and land domains.
opportunities in action In 2010, BAE Systems secured a new order with HAL, worth 537m, to supply products and services to enable a further 57 Hawk AJT aircraft tobe built under licence in India for the Indian Air Force and Indian Navy.
The aircraft will be manufactured under licence at HALs facilities inBangalore, and BAE Systems will provide specialist engineering services, the raw materials and equipment necessary for airframe production, and the support package for the customer.
The new order extends the current partnership withHAL for a further six years.
The Hawk AJT fast jet training solution enables anair force or navy to prepare front-line pilots for the most modern fighter aircraft.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 31 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
