Directors Report: Business Review Resources The Groups key resources and arrangements include its relationships with customers, subcontractors and other suppliers, people, research and development, and intellectual property.
These resources, together with the application of the mandated policies and processes in the Operational Framework, help the Group to achieve its strategy.
Customers The lifecycle of a project comprises business winning and contract The Groups core businesses are primarily defence and execution phases.
During business winning, management security-related, selling products and services in its home focuses on the customers requirements and the ability of the and export markets both directly and indirectly, mainly to government, but also to commercial, customers.
Customer Group to deliver a product or service at acceptable risk and profitability.
In the contract execution phase, management relationships often extend over decades, and span the full product and service lifecycle from initial concept definition, concentrates on developing and proving the product or service to deliver to customers requirements and planned margins.
through the system development phase, into production and then on to support for the system in service.
Schedule adherence and customer satisfaction metrics are regularly reviewed by the Board to monitor contract milestone Improvements in schedule adherence and customer satisfaction achieved achievement, and to ensure that the Group is delivering on its commitments to its customers.
Principal customers Customer Reviews The Groups most significant customers are the governments ofthe US, UK, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia.
In the US, Throughout the project lifecycle, the Group engages extensively with its customers and undertakes Customer Reviews to drive BAESystems is subject to a Special Security Agreement that safeguards US national security interests, as a result of which change, and promote and sustain the growth and development of customer relationships.
BAESystems is allowed to supply products and services of a highly sensitive nature to the US government.
Agreements between the Under the Operational Framework, businesses are required to governments of the United Kingdom and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia undertake a Customer Review at least every two years with their relating to defence co-operation programmes remain essential to key customers, using specified processes.
Customer Reviews the development of the Groups business in Saudi Arabia.
In also include questions to determine customer perceptions of Australia, BAESystems is subject to an Overarching Deed with the BAESystems ethics.
Commonwealth of Australia that protects their national security and other interests, and allows the Group to own certain Australian These reviews help the Group to understand how its customers perceive its performance and behaviours, and help to understand defence-related industrial assets.
customer priorities, and to reshape services and behaviours when Indian government policy on Foreign Direct Investment mandates necessary.
that foreign partners can hold a maximum of 26% equity in Responsible Behaviour business conduct defence ventures.
BAESystems does not compromise on the way it conducts Lifecycle Management LCM business, and consistency of this approach is key in defining its The application of LCM, which is a mandated project management reputation.
The Group has four Responsible Trading Principles process, is fundamental to the Groups capability to deliver see page 33, which underpin all of its business activity.
projects on time, within cost and according to agreed requirements, thereby meeting customer commitments.
It The Groups corporate responsibility agenda, including its commitment to be recognised as a leader in business conduct, provides a structured approach to managing the Groups projects throughout their lifecycles, promoting the application of best contributes to successful long-term relationships with customers.
practice management, facilitating continuous improvement and The Group measures the success of its customer relationships through the providing a competitive advantage in the way that projects are KPI schedule adherence and customer satisfaction KPIs see page 18 managed.
Working closely with the customer at the Groups new design and prototyping centre BAE Systems opened a new state-of-the-art design and prototyping centre in Sterling Heights, Michigan, in close proximity to its customer to allow further development of an ongoing, collaborative working relationship.
The centre houses facilities for vehicle and subsystem modifications, integration and testing, electrical assembly fabrication, software development and system integration of vehicle control and crew station electronics.
com Subcontractors and other suppliers Subcontractors and other suppliers provide the products Responsible Trading Principles andservices needed to manage the business from design tomanufacturing to Readiness & Sustainment.
Managing BAE Systems has four Responsible Trading Principles that underpin all of the Groups business activity.
These are: performance and expenditure with suppliers, which can represent a significant portion of project cost, is an we understand and support our customers national security and other importantvalue driver for the Group.
requirements: we work to BAESystems Values in all that we do: Top 1,000 suppliers are provided with the Groups global Code of Conduct and encouraged to work to equivalent we assess carefully our products and services with the objective that standards neither BAESystems nor our customers are exposed to significant reputational risk: and Standard terms and conditions introduced across the UK and US we are as open as practicable about the nature of our business.
Business sustainability Responsible Behaviour business conduct BAE Systems is committed to developing and improving The behaviour of suppliers could potentially impact the Groups relationships with suppliers to deliver better value and reputation and performance, and the Group is taking steps to innovation for customers.
To minimise risk to the Group, the encourage suppliers to adopt standards of Responsible financial health of key suppliers is assessed to ensure they can Behaviour consistent with the Groups.
In March 2010, the continue to deliver essential products and services.
The Groups Groups Code of Conduct was sent to the top 1,000 suppliers global database of vulnerable suppliers identifies those which who are encouraged to work to equivalent standards.
Tenders may be at risk during the economic downturn, and which may from major suppliers are now also assessed against the Groups need support to ensure business continuity.
Responsible Trading Principles see above.
Terms and conditions Guidance has been introduced to help procurement teams apply Standard terms and conditions have now been introduced the Groups Responsible Trading Principles, and criteria relating across the Groups UK businesses to help to ensure that a to business conduct, safety and environmental management consistent approach to supplier management is adopted for have been integrated into supplier selection criteria and ongoing routine purchases.
These include clauses on environmental supplier management.
sustainability, business conduct and responsible trading.
Other home markets are following suit.
Standard terms and conditions Responsible Behaviour environment had already been established by the Groups businesses in the Reducing environmental impacts in the supply chain continues to US, and the majority have adopted the standards.
be a focus, with guidance published by the Groups Sustainable Procurement Working Group.
BAESystems remains committed Capability development to the UK Ministry of Defences Sustainable Procurement Charter Professional development of procurement staff is important.
that seeks to improve environmental standards in the defence Atraining programme has been developed in partnership with supply chain.
the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply in the UK, and with the Institute of Supplier Management in the US.
The UK programme was launched in 2010, and the US version is scheduled to pilot in 2011.
Supporting employment in the UK In 2009, the Groups UK businesses spent an estimated 5.9bn on procurement ofequipment, components, raw materials, rent, energy and services from its suppliers.
It is estimated that some 4.1bn of this was spentin the UK.
Distributing BAE Systems UK procurement spending across industrial sectorsand examining the impact of that spending on total sales of different industries, using input output tables, suggests that a typical job in BAESystems in the UK supports a total of 1.2 jobs elsewhere in the economy.
Put another way, taking into account the first and second tiers of suppliers, together the 42,360 Full-Time Equivalent FTE UK jobs at BAE Systems in 2009 supported a further 52,088 FTE jobs further down the supply chain.
Source: Oxford Economics BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 33 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Resources continued People The Groups investment in its current and potential future and leadership development.
It aims to strengthen leadership workforce is designed to provide the capabilities and skills capabilities to optimise delivery of the Groups strategy.
The needed to deliver on the Total Performance objective.
The framework provides a set of tools for matching individuals skills Group takes a through-career approach to skills development, and potential with business goals, as well as feedback from from influencing the choices made by people in full time employee surveys and customer reviews.
It includes training, education and early careers programmes tocontinuous coaching and mentoring to support managers and aspiring professional development.
Through the global application of leaders in achieving their career goals.
its People Policy, the Group aims to provide an employment Education and early careers proposition that attracts, retains and engages highly skilled, Education programmes in the Groups home markets aim to motivated and valued people.
interest young people in science and engineering careers.
1 98,200 employees globally The schools road show in the UK, and the Groups sponsorship of FIRST For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and During 2010, the Group recruited 441 graduates and 338 Technology in Australia and the US target school age students.
apprentices globally The Group also partners with universities to develop courses Responsible Behaviour safety that meet the needs of industry and provide placement The Groups commitment to a strong safety performance is opportunities for undergraduates.
afundamental responsibility, and contributes to business In 2010, the Group launched its Skills 2020 strategy in the performance and employee engagement see page 50.
UK, aprogramme for delivering the skills the engineering and Responsible Behaviour diversity and inclusion manufacturing sectors need over the next ten years.
In the US, A focus on diversity and inclusion encourages innovation and the Group is a member of Change the Equation CTEq, an enhances productivity by helping the Group to recruit, motivate initiative to improve Science, Technology, Engineering and and retain the best people see page 51.
Mathematics STEM education for children.
The goals of CTEq The People Policy within our Operational Framework obliges are to improve teaching in STEM subjects and inspire student each employee to contribute to the creation of an inclusive work learning and career choices in STEM.
environment where individuals are respected and the value of The Groups education and early careers programmes support its adiverse workforce is recognised.
Diversity and inclusion are commitment to diversity and inclusion, by tackling perceptions that included in the performance objectives of senior leaders.
engineering is a male career choice, and encouraging female and The Group is committed to giving full and fair consideration to minority students to consider a career in the industry see page 51. applications for employment from disabled people who meet the Employee engagement requirements for roles, and making available training opportunities Regular internal communication, including newsletters and the and appropriate accommodation to disabled people employed by the intranet, keeps employees involved and motivated.
Unlawful discrimination against individuals with disabilities is the 2010 biennial Group-wide employee survey demonstrated not tolerated.
The principles set out in the People Policy are subject that the Group continues to engage proactively with its employees to relevant legislative, regulatory and security requirements.
The Group will analyse Capability development the results and develop action plans to address areas where Focused training and development programmes help to ensure appropriate to enhance its engagement with employees.
that employees have the skills and technical know-how to meet The Group has constructive relationships with trade unions, and our customers changing needs.
A strategic approach to training regularly communicates and discusses business developments helps us to map employees skills against changing business which impact the Group and its employees.
requirements and identify training priorities.
Flexible training anddevelopment programmes encourage a culture of lifelong The Group welcomes employees becoming shareholders in learning, helping employees to reach their full potential.
BAESystems, and offers a number of employee share plans to support this.
Developing leadership capability The Total Performance Leadership framework provides an The Group measures its safety performance using the Lost Work Day Case KPI Rate KPI see page 19 integrated approach to performance management, resourcing BAE Systems commitment to future capability development BAE Systems graduate programmes are part of its wider commitment to future capability development, and are designed to help meet its future technology andleadership requirements.
BAESystems core graduate programmes providegraduates with a development programme, which includes a residential Graduate Developing You programme and an annual conference.
The Groups newUK graduate recruitment website won the best new corporate graduate recruitment website award at the 2010 Onrec Awards, the leading industry online recruitment awards.
In the UK, the Group is one of the biggest recruiters of engineering apprentices, employing 286 new apprentices in 2010.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
com Research and Development R&D The Group is engaged in leading edge R&D programmes in support of the Services, Electronic Systems and Platforms that it provides to its customers.
In 2010, R&D expenditure was 1,298m 2009 1,211m of which 270m 2009 278m was funded by the Group The Groups R&D activities cover a wide range of programmes, and include technological innovations and techniques to improve the manufacturing and service of products.
The Group funds strategic R&D across the business, particularly in the Electronic Systems, Cyber & Intelligence and military Services market segments.
Customers fund much of the near-term product development work undertaken by the Group.
BAE Systems is developing liquid armour BAESystems has an Investment in Innovation programme to protect frontline troops aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises and academia BAE Systems has developed a counterintuitive liquid which hardens toidentify and accelerate the development of new technologies when struck as part of a project to create future body armour, offering in support of customers requirements.
As well as providing soldiers greater ballistics protection and ease of movement in combat situations.
The technology, referred to as liquid armour, harnesses the financial support, BAESystems offers expertise and resources, unique properties of shear thickening fluids which lock together when including the use of test and evaluation facilities.
Current subjected to a force to enhance the existing energy absorbing properties investments focus on the areas of cyber security, surveillance of material structures like Kevlar.
Ceramic-based armour plates used in current body armour systems to An example of the Groups R&D activities within Cyber & cover large areas of the torso are heavy and bulky, restricting movement Intelligence is the development of a technology demonstrator and contributing to fatigue, particularly in harsh environments like Afghanistan.
that integrates biometrics in the form of face and iris recognition to a prototype system that can recognise subjects on the move.
Liquid armour seeks to address a requirement for materials which can offer troops increased protection with reduced mass, wider area cover, In military Services, for example, the Group has developed greater manoeuvrability and easy integration with other systems.
The processes for the installation and testing of new capabilities on technology canbe integrated into standard Kevlar body armour.
Tornado aircraft, including for urgent operational requirements, which have reduced timescales for delivery to the customer.
The Group continues to invest in autonomous systems in the air domain to address emerging global demand.
In conjunction with its customer and industry partners, BAE Systems has designed, developed and built the Taranis autonomous stealthy unmanned combat air vehicle, which was unveiled during 2010.
Intellectual property Intellectual property is vital to the Groups success in obtaining and maintaining a competitive advantage.
In 2010, the Group filed patent applications covering over 250 new inventions At 31 December 2010, BAE Systems had a total portfolio of patents and patent applications covering more than 2,000 inventions worldwide The Groups intellectual property is a key competitive differentiator to the business in all market segments Services, Electronic Systems and Platforms.
It takes many forms, in DEMON demonstrates flapless flight products, processes and know how.
technology The Operational Framework mandates a policy to protect the In September, the DEMON Unmanned Air Vehicle UAV successfully Groups intellectual property including patents, copyrights demonstrated flapless flight in the UK.
Developed by Cranfield andtrade marks through appropriate use and observance University, BAESystems and nine other UK universities, DEMON is designed to be able to forgo the use of conventional mechanical ofintellectual property law, so that returns made from elevators and ailerons, which usually control the movement of an theinvestment in R&D and technological innovation are aircraft, in favour of novel aerodynamic control devices using blown jets protected, and commercial and business innovations are of air.
The aircraft is the outcome of a five-year programme jointly adequately safeguarded.
funded by BAESystems and the UKs Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 35 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
