Directors Report: Governance Board of directors 1.
Harriet Green OBE Key: Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors 1.
Paul Anderson Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Non-executive director Appointed to the Board: 2004 BAESystems, Inc.
Appointed to the Board: 2009 Nationality: British Appointed to the Board: 2009 Nationality: US Skills and experience: A chartered civil engineer Nationality: US Skills and experience: Paul Anderson has with extensive experience of managing complex Skills and experience: Appointed to the Board extensive global business experience in the international engineering projects, he held a as President and Chief Executive Officer of energy and mining sectors.
He spent more variety of senior management positions in the BAESystems, Inc. she was previously President than 20 years in two spells at Duke Energy oil industry culminating in his appointment to of the Companys US-based Land & Armaments Corporation and its predecessor companies, the board of BP p. l. c. as CEO of Exploration and operating group.
She joined the Company in culminating in his appointment as Chairman, Production in 1998.
Subsequently appointed 2006 from General Dynamics where she President and Chief Executive Officer.
He was Deputy Group Chief Executive of BP in 2003, had worked since 1992 in a variety of roles subsequently Chairman of Spectra Energy stepping down from that role when he assumed culminating in her appointment as Corporate Corporation until 2009 and in the intervening the chairmanship of BAE Systems.
Vice President and President, Armament and period he served as Managing Director Other appointments: Business Ambassador for Technical Products.
and Chief Executive Officer of BHP and, UK Trade & Investment, and member of the Other appointments: Member of the United subsequently, of the newly merged BHP Billiton.
Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group and Service Organizations Worldwide Board of Other appointments: Non-executive director of Prime Ministers India UK CEO Forum.
Also a Governors, the Association of the United States Spectra Energy Corporation and BP p. l. c. member of the Multinational Chairmans Group Army Council of Trustees, and engineering Past appointments: Non-executive director of and the Trilateral Commission, a Fellow of the advisory boards for engineering programmes BHP Billiton plc and Qantas Airways Limited.
Royal Academy of Engineering and Chairman of at the universities of Maryland and Florida.
Committee membership: Chairman of the the Education for Engineering E4E Policy Group.
Committee membership: Non-Executive Corporate Responsibility Committee and Past appointments: Non-executive director of Directors Fees Committee member of the Nominations Committee Thomson Reuters plc.
Committee membership: Chairman of the 4.
Harriet Green OBE Nominations Committee and the Non-Executive Group Finance Director Non-executive director Directors Fees Committee Appointed to the Board: 1998 Appointed to the Board: 2010 Nationality: British Nationality: British 2.
Ian King Skills and experience: Appointed Group Finance Skills and experience: Currently Chief Executive Chief Executive Director in 1998, he is a Fellow of the Chartered Officer and executive director of Premier Farnell Appointed to the Board: 2007 Institute of Management Accountants.
Prior to plc, a leading, high service, multi-channel Nationality: British joining the Company in 1992 he gained technology distribution group, Harriet Green Skills and experience: Appointed as Chief substantial experience in the engineering and has significant global business experience Executive in 2007 having been originally manufacturing sectors, having held senior having run volume distribution businesses in appointed to the Board as Chief Operating finance positions in the Rover Group and four continents including Asia Pacific for Arrow Officer, UK and Rest of the World.
Electronics as well as having functional previously Group Managing Director of the Other appointments: Non-executive director of responsibility for worldwide marketing, suppliers Companys Customer Solutions & Support Saab AB and National Grid plc, and a member of and strategy.
business and, prior to that, Group Strategy and the Industrial Development Advisory Board.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of Planning Director.
Prior to the BAe MES merger Emerson Electric Co. he was Chief Executive of Alenia Marconi Committee membership: Corporate Systems, having previously served as Finance Responsibility Committee Director of Marconi Electronic Systems.
Other appointments: Non-executive director and Senior Independent Director of Rotork plc.
Committee membership: Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee 76 www.
Carl Symon Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board: 2003 Appointed to the Board: 2005 Appointed to the Board: 2008 Nationality: British Nationality: US Italian Nationality: US British Skills and experience: A Fellow of the Institute of Skills and experience: Roberto Quartas Skills and experience: Carl Symon has an Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, management experience spans a broad range extensive background in global business Michael Hartnall is a former Finance Director of manufacturing and service businesses with operations and management, retiring in 2001 of Rexam PLC where, in addition to his finance global operations.
A partner in the private equity after a long career at IBM during which he held responsibilities, he gained considerable firm Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, he also serves as senior executive positions in the US, Canada, exposure to mergers and acquisitions activity.
Chairman of Rexel SA, one of the worlds largest Latin America, Asia and Europe, including that of Prior to that he held senior finance and electrical products distributors, which is one of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IBM UK.
operational positions with a number of the firms portfolio businesses.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of manufacturing companies.
Past appointments: Chairman of Italtel, BT Group plc and Rexam PLC.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of Chairman and Chief Executive of BBA Group Past appointments: Non-executive director of Lonmin plc.
plc, executive director of BTR plc, and a Rolls-Royce Group plc and former Chairman of Past appointments: Non-executive director of non-executive director of PowerGen plc and HMV Group plc.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Committee membership: Chairman of the Committee membership: Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee 12.
Nick Rose Non-executive director Non-executive director and Senior Independent Non-executive director Appointed to the Board: 2008 Director Appointed to the Board: 2010 Nationality: Indian Appointed to the Board: 2003 Nationality: British Skills and experience: Ravi Uppals business Nationality: British Skills and experience: Nick Rose was until experience encompasses both operational Skills and experience: Chairman of Thames recently Chief Financial Officer of Diageo plc.
management and business development in Water and Senior Independent Director of He held the position for over ten years and, in India and globally.
Currently Managing Director Subsea 7 S. A. an international offshore addition to his finance responsibilities, he was and Chief Executive of L&T Power Limited, a engineering, construction and services also responsible for supply, procurement, member of the Larsen & Toubro group which contractor.
Formerly Chairman and Chief strategy and IT on a global basis.
His financial operates in the technical, engineering, Executive of Balfour Beatty Limited, and Chief experience has encompassed a number of roles construction and manufacturing sector.
He was Executive of AMEC plc, Sir Peter has extensive since joining Diageos predecessor company, previously President, Global Markets, for the experience in engineering, construction and Grand Metropolitan, in 1992, including group power and automation technology group long-term contracting.
treasurer and group controller, having spent his ABBLimited where he was responsible for Past appointments: Executive director of earlier career with Ford Finance.
ABBs marketing and business development BICCplc and chief executive of Norwest Holst Other appointments: Non-executive director of on a worldwide basis.
Past appointments: Managing Director of Committee membership: Audit Committee, Past appointments: Non-executive director of Volvo India.
Corporate Responsibility Committee and Met Hennessy SNC and Scottish Power plc.
Committee membership: Audit Committee Nominations Committee Committee membership: Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee Each of the eight non-executive directors listed above is considered to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
David Parkes Company Secretary BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 77 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
