Directors Report: Governance Other statutory and regulatory information Principal activities Airmen and Families Association SSAFA Forces Help, BAE Systems is a global defence and security company.
: TheBAESystems Group delivers, through its subsidiaries and 652,000 donated to education charities, including Arkwright equity accounted investments, a full range of products and Scholarships Trust, Smallpeice Trust, Enthuse Charitable Trust services for air, land and naval forces, as well as advanced and The Princes Trust: with electronics, security, information technology solutions and support services.
the remaining 28,000 donated for other charitable purposes, including the advance of health and culture heritage.
Company registration BAE Systems plc is registered in England and Wales with the Further details of the Companys charitable activities are set out registered number 1470151. on page 53.
Directors Political donations The current directors who served during the 2010 financial year No political donations were made in 2010. are listed on pages 76 and 77.
Of those directors, Nick Rose Issued share capital was appointed to the Board on 8 February 2010 and Harriet As at 31 December 2010, BAE Systems issued share capital Green on 1 November 2010.
In addition, Phil Carroll and Andy of 89,684,547 comprised 3,587,381,835 ordinary shares Inglis served as directors during the period up to their respective of 2.5p each and one Special Share of 1. retirements from the Board on 5 May 2010 and 9 July 2010.
It was announced on 10 December 2010 that George Rose Treasury shares would be retiring from the Board on 31 March 2011 and that During the year 143,951,447 ordinary shares of 2.5p each Peter Lynas would be appointed in his stead with effect from were repurchased under the buyback programme announced 1April 2011.
Ravi Uppal will retire from the Board at the end on 18February 2010.
The total consideration for the purchase of his three-year term of office on 1 April 2011. ofthe shares, including commission and stamp duty, was 503,128,212. Dividend An interim dividend of 7.0p per share was paid on 30 November As at 1 January 2010, the number of shares held in treasury 2010.
The directors propose a final dividend of 10.5p per totalled 43,952,360 having a total nominal value of ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final 1,098,809 and representing 1.23% of the Companys called dividend will be paid on 1 June 2011 to shareholders on the up share capital at 1 January 2010.
During 2010, the Company share register on 26 April 2011. used 9,526,179 treasury shares having a total nominal value of 238,154 and representing 0.27% of the Companys called Annual General Meeting AGM up share capital at 31 December 2010 to satisfy awards under The Companys AGM will be held on 4 May 2011.
The Notice of the Free and Matching elements of the Share Incentive Plan Annual General Meeting is enclosed with this Annual Report and awards vested under the Share Matching Plan.
Of the and details the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
9,186,543 treasury shares utilised in respect of the Share Office of Fair Trading undertakings Incentive Plan, the 6,026,625 treasury shares used in respect As a consequence of the merger between British Aerospace and of the Free Shares element and the 3,159,918 treasury shares the former Marconi Electronics Systems businesses in 1999, used in respect of the Matching Shares element were disposed the Company gave certain undertakings to the Secretary of of by the Company for nil consideration as were the 339,636 State for Trade and Industry now the Secretary of State for treasury shares utilised under the Share Matching Plan.
As at Business, Innovation and Skills.
In February 2007, the 31 December 2010, the number of shares held in treasury Company was released from the majority of these undertakings totalled 178,377,628 having a total nominal value of and the remainder have been superseded and varied by a new 4,459,441 and representing 4.97% of the Companys called set of undertakings.
Compliance with the undertakings is up share capital at 31 December 2010. monitored by a compliance officer.
Further information regarding The rights to such shares are restricted in accordance with the the undertakings and the contact details of the compliance Companies Act and, in particular, the voting rights attaching to officer may be obtained through the Company Secretary at the these shares are automatically suspended.
Companys registered office or through the Companys website.
Rights and obligations of ordinary shares Supplier payment policy On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of ordinary It is Group policy that suppliers should be paid in accordance shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote, with the payment terms and conditions stated in the and every proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote unless the applicable purchase order.
In the UK, the Group is a proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case the signatory to the governments Prompt Payment Code proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been see www.
uk, under which it has instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and undertaken to pay suppliers on time, give clear guidance on by one or more members to vote against the resolution: or if the payment procedures and encourage the adoption of the code proxy has been instructed by one or more shareholders to vote throughout its supply chain.
either for or against a resolution and by one or more of those The average number of days credit provided in 2010 by shareholders to use his discretion how to vote.
On a poll, every suppliers was 34 days 2009 31 days.
member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Subject to the Charitable donations relevant statutory provisions and the Companys Articles of During 2010, the amount donated for charitable purposes in the Association, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend UK was 1.5m 2009 1.6m.
In line with the Company Giving where declared or paid out of profits available for such purposes.
strategy, this included: Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Companys 852,000 given to armed forces charities, including ABF Articles of Association, on a return of capital on a winding-up, The Soldiers Charity, Combat Stress, RAF Benevolent Fund, holders of ordinary shares are entitled, after repayment of the Royal Navy and Royal Marines Charity, Soldiers, Sailors, 1Special Share, to participate in such a return.
There are no redemption rights in relation to the ordinary shares.
com Rights and obligations of the Special Share employees require the Companys approval to deal in shares: The Special Share is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for and Business, Innovation and Skills the Special Shareholder.
awards of shares made under the Companys share incentive Certain provisions of the Companys Articles of Association plan are subject to restrictions on the transfer of shares prior cannot be amended without the consent of the Special tovesting.
These provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can The Company is not aware of any arrangements between its have more than a 15% voting interest in the Company, the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of requirement that the majority of the directors are British, and shares and or voting rights.
therequirement that the Chief Executive and any executive Significant direct and indirect holders of securities Chairman are British.
As at 16 February 2011, the Company had been advised of the The holder of the Special Share is entitled to attend a general following significant direct and indirect interests in the issued meeting, but the Special Share carries no right to vote or any ordinary share capital of the Company: other rights at any such meeting, other than to speak in relation Name of shareholder Percentage notified to any business in respect of the Special Share.
Subject to the AXA S. A. and its group of companies 5.00% relevant statutory provisions and the Companys Articles of Barclays PLC 3.98% Association, on a return of capital on a winding-up, the Special BlackRock, Inc 5.16% Share shall be entitled to repayment of the 1 capital paid up on Invesco Ltd 5.08% the Special Share in priority to any repayment of capital to any Franklin Resources Inc, and affiliates 4.92% other members.
Legal & General Group Plc 3.99% The holder of the Special Share has the right to require the Company to redeem the Special Share at par or convert the Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes Special Share into one ordinary share at any time.
The Trustees of the employee trusts do not seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts other than Restrictions on transfer of securities on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
No voting rights The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are are exercised in relation to shares unallocated to individual as follows: beneficiaries.
the Special Share may only be issued to, held by and transferred Restrictions on voting deadlines to the Special Shareholder or his successor or nominee: The notice of any general meeting shall specify the deadline for the directors shall not register any allotment or transfer of any exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote shares to a foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, in relation to resolutions to be proposed at the general meeting.
who at the time have more than a 15% voting interest in the The number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect of Company, or who would, following such allotment or transfer, each resolution are publicised on the Companys website after have such an interest: the meeting.
the directors shall not register any person as a holder of any Appointment and replacement of directors shares unless they have received: i a declaration stating that Subject to certain nationality requirements mentioned below, upon registration, the share s will not be held by foreign the Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to persons or that upon registration the share s will be held by be a director.
a foreign person or persons: ii such evidence if any as the The majority of directors holding office must be British.
directors may require of the authority of the signatory of the Otherwise the directors who are not British shall vacate office in declaration: and iii such evidence or information if any as such order that those who have been in office for the shortest to the matters referred to in the declaration as the directors period since their appointment shall vacate their office first, consider appropriate: unless all of the directors otherwise agree among themselves.
the directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register Any director who holds the office of either Chairman in an any transfer of shares which are not fully paid up but not so as executive capacity or Chief Executive shall also be British.
to prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place : The Company must have six directors holding office at all times.
the directors may also refuse to register any instrument of If the number is reduced to below six, then such number of transfer of shares unless the instrument of transfer is in persons shall be appointed as directors as soon as is respect of only one class of share and it is lodged at the place reasonably practicable to reinstate the number of directors to where the register of members is kept, accompanied by a six.
The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time relevant certificate or such other evidence as the directors may vary the minimum number of directors.
reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make At each AGM of the Company, any director who was elected or the transfer: last re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar the directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer year before the then current calendar year must retire by rotation of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly: and such further directors must retire by rotation so that in total one-third of the directors retire by rotation each year.
A retiring where a shareholder has failed to provide the Company with director is eligible for re-election.
It is the Boards intention that certain information relating to their interest in shares, the all directors will stand for election or re-election in 2011 in directors can, in certain circumstances, refuse to register a compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
transfer of such shares: Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended and regulations for example, insider trading laws : by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
restrictions may be imposed pursuant to the Listing Rules of Where class rights are varied, such amendments must be the Financial Services Authority whereby certain of the Groups approved by the members of each class of shares separately.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 121 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Other statutory and regulatory information continued In addition, certain provisions of the Articles of Association Directors indemnities cannot be amended without the consent of the Special The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with all its Shareholder.
These provisions include the requirement that no current directors and those persons who were directors for any foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have part of 2010 which are qualifying indemnity provisions for the more than a 15% voting interest in the Company, the requirement purpose of the Companies Act 2006. that the majority of the directors are British, and the requirement The directors of BAESystems Pension Funds Trustees Limited, that the Chief Executive and any executive Chairman are British.
BAESystems 2000 Pension Plan Trustees Limited, BAESystems Powers of the directors Executive Pension Scheme Trustees Limited and Alvis Pension The directors are responsible for the management of the Scheme Trustees Limited benefit from indemnities in the business of the Company and may exercise all powers of the governing documentation of the BAESystems Pension Scheme, Company subject to applicable legislation and regulation, and the BAESystems 2000 Pension Plan, the BAESystems the Articles of Association.
Executive Pension Scheme and the Alvis Pension Scheme, respectively, which are qualifying indemnity provisions for the At the 2010 AGM, the directors were given the power to buy back purpose of the Companies Act 2006. a maximum number of 351,599,099 ordinary shares at a minimum price of 2.5p each.
The maximum price was the higher All such indemnity provisions are in force as at the date of this of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle Directors report.
market quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived Change of control significant agreements from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling business days immediately preceding the day on which such the counterparties to exercise termination, alteration or other ordinary shares are contracted to be purchased, and ii the similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange as The Group has entered into a 2bn Revolving Credit Facility stipulated in Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation dated 8 December 2010 and a 500m Letter of Credit Facility Regulation.
This power will expire at the earlier of the conclusion dated 27 March 2006 as amended, which provide that, in the of the 2011 AGM or 30 June 2011.
A special resolution will be event of a change of control of the Company, the lenders are proposed at the 2011 AGM to renew the Companys authority to entitled to renegotiate terms, or if no agreement is reached acquire its own shares.
onnegotiated terms within a certain period, to call for the repayment or cancellation of the facilities.
The Revolving At the 2010 AGM, the directors were given the power to Credit Facility was undrawn as at 31 December 2010. issue new shares up to a nominal amount of 29,296,994.
This power will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the The Company has entered into a Restated and Amended 2011 AGM or 30 June 2011.
Accordingly, a resolution will be Shareholders Agreement with European Aeronautic Defence proposed at the 2011 AGM to renew the Companys authority to and Space Company EADS N. V. EADS and Finmeccanica issue further new shares.
At the 2010 AGM, the directors were S. p. A Finmeccanica relating to MBDA S. A. S. dated also given the power to issue new issue shares up to a further 18December 2001 as amended.
In the event that control of nominal amount of 29,296,994 in connection with an offer by the Company passes to certain specified third party acquirors, way of a rights issue.
This authority too will expire on the earlier the agreement allows EADS and Finmeccanica to exercise of the conclusion of the 2011 AGM or 30 June 2011, and a an option to terminate certain executive management level resolution will be proposed at the 2011 AGM to renew this nomination and voting rights, and certain shareholder additional authority.
information rights of the Company in relation to the MBDA joint venture.
Following the exercise of this option, the Company Conflicts of interest would have the right to require the other shareholders to As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, the Companys purchase its interest in MBDA at fair market value.
Articles of Association contain provisions which enable the Board to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts that individual The Company and EADS have agreed that if Finmeccanica directors may have.
acquires a controlling interest in the Company, EADS will increase its shareholding in MBDA to 50% by purchasing the To avoid potential conflicts of interest the Board requires the appropriate number of shares in MBDA at fair market value.
Nominations Committee to check that any individuals it nominates for appointment to the Board are free of potential The Company, BAESystems, Inc. BAESystems Holdings conflicts.
In addition, the Boards procedures and the induction Limited and BAESystems Holdings Inc. entered into a Special programme for new directors emphasise a directors personal Security Agreement dated 8 November 2010 with the responsibility for complying with the duties relating to conflicts USDepartment of Defense regarding the management of of interest.
The procedure adopted by the Board for the BAESystems, Inc. in order to comply with the US governments authorisation of conflicts reminds directors of the need to national security requirements.
In the event of a change of consider their duties as directors and not grant an authorisation control of the Company, the Agreement may be terminated unless they believe, in good faith, that this would be likely to or altered by the US Department of Defense.
promote the success of the Company.
As required by law, the In addition, the Companys share plans contain provisions as potentially conflicted director cannot vote on an authorisation aresult of which options and awards may vest and become resolution or be counted in the quorum.
Any authorisation granted exercisable on a change of control of the Company in may be terminated at any time and the director is informed of the accordance with the rules of the plans.
obligation to inform the Company without delay should there be any material change in the nature of the conflict or potential Auditors conflict so authorised.
The Nominations Committee has been KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors for the Company, have indicated asked to review on an annual basis any authorisations granted their willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing and to make recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
their re-appointment will be put to the AGM.
