our governance board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 Chairman and Executive Directors 1 Steve Marshall 4 Andrew McNaughton Non-executive Chairman Chief Operating Officer Age 54.
Appointed a Director in 2005 and Chairman in May 2008.
Appointed to the Board as Chief Operating Officer in 2009.
Heis a non-executive director of Halma p. l. c. and a former chairman He joined Balfour Beatty in 1997, having spent 12 years with the of Delta plc, Torex Retail plc and Queens Moat Houses plc.
He was KierGroup, and held the position of managing director of Balfour chief executive of Thorn plc andof Railtrack Group plc, having also Beatty Civil Engineering from 2004 to 2007, when he became Group served as group finance director at each company.
His earlier career managing director with responsibility for civil engineering in the UK included a wide range ofcorporate and operational roles at Grand and the Groups interests in the Middle East.
He is a chartered civil Metropolitan plc, Black&Decker, BOC and Burton Group.
He is a engineer, a Liveryman in the Worshipful Company of Engineers and Fellow of the Chartered Institute ofManagement Accountants.
Vice-President of the Institution of Civil Engineers.
2 Ian Tyler 5 Duncan Magrath Chief Executive Finance Director Age 50.
A Director since 1999, he became Chief Executive in Age 46.
Appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 2008.
January2005, having been Chief Operating Officer since 2002 HejoinedBalfour Beatty in 2006 as Deputy Finance Director from andprior to that, Finance Director.
He joined Balfour Beatty in 1996 Exel plc, where he was director of investor relations and financial from the Hanson Group where he was finance director of ARC Ltd, strategy, following a number of senior financial roles in the UK and one of its principal subsidiaries.
directorof Cable & Wireless plc in January 2011.
He was formerly anon-executive director of VT Group plc.
He is president of 6 Peter Zinkin Planning and Development Director Construction Industry Relief, Assistance and Support for the Age 57.
Joined the Group in 1981 and became Planning and Homeless Ltd, the construction and property industry charity for Development Director in 1991 after a series of senior positions thehomeless.
He is responsible for the Groups merger, 3 Anthony Rabin acquisition and divestment activities as well as the development Deputy Chief Executive ofGroup strategy.
Previously, he worked at the London Business Age 55.
A Director since 2002, he became Deputy Chief Executive School and UMIST.
in2008, having previously been Finance Director.
He is responsible forthe Groups worldwide infrastructure investments business, havingpreviously been managing director of Balfour Beatty Capital.
Prior to joining the Group in 1995, he was a partner at Coopers & Lybrand and before that, a senior assistant director at Morgan Grenfell.
He is a chartered accountant and a barrister.
74 Balfour Beatty Our governance | Chairmans introduction | Board of Directors | Directors Report | Remuneration Report | 7 8 9 10 11 12 Non-executive Directors 7 Robert Amen 10 Hubertus Krossa Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Age 61.
Until 2009, he was chairman Age 63.
Until 2008, he was chief and chief executive officer of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc executive officer of KION Group GmbH, a leading international IFF.
Prior to joining IFF in 2006, Robert spent over 25 years at material handling equipment manufacturer.
Prior to that, he spent International Paper Company in a succession of roles culminating in seven years on the main board of Linde AG, the worldwide producer his appointment as president and member of the board.
He was also and supplier of industrial and medical gases.
He was previously a a director of Wyeth, the US pharmaceutical and healthcare company, member of the European management board of Whirlpool Europe until its acquisition by Pfizer in October 2009.
A US national, he currently and was also chairman of its German operating company, and has serves as an  at Columbia Business School.
previously held non-executive directorships in the UK for Wassall plc and Thorn Lighting Group.
He is currently chairman of the supervisory 8 Mike Donovan boards of Eckelmann AG and Bauknecht Hausgeraete GmbH and Non-executive Director deputy chairman of United Power Technology AG.
He was most recently chiefoperating officer of Marconi plc from 2001 to 2005.
Prior to 11 Graham Roberts that, he was chief executive officer of Marconi Systems and was Non-executive Director previously responsible for managing major divisions of British Age 52.
He is finance director of Aerospace, Vickers and the Rover Group.
Prior to joining British Land in 2002, he spent eight years at Andersen, latterly as a partner specialising 9 Iain Ferguson CBE inthe real estate and government services sectors.
He is a Non-executive Director charteredaccountant.
Until 2009, he was chief executive of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle in 2003, 12 Robert Walvis hespent 26 years at Unilever PLC in a succession of roles culminating Senior Independent Director in his appointment as senior vice president, corporate development.
He was previously with He is a non-executive director of Greggs plc and Berendsen plc and theRoyal Dutch Shell Group, latterly as chairman of the Global ischairman of Wilton Park, an independent and non-profit making Corporate Centre.
He is a non-executive director of Associated Executive Agency of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
BritishPorts Holdings Limited and Johnson Matthey plc, and He is also lead independent director at the Department for Environment, chairman of the supervisory board of Allianz Nederland Groep NV.
He was formerly a non-executive director of Sygen International plc.
