operating review support services continuous iMproveMent What do we do?
Upgrade and maintenance of water, gas and electricitynetworks Total facilities management and business services outsourcing Highways network management, operation and maintenance Rail renewals Whats happened?
Revenue and profit adversely impacted by the slow ramp-up of work in AMP5 Local Authorities unit established to position the business to benefit from the expected increase in outsourcing National Operations Centre NOC established to provide centralised management and administration of contracts Whats next?
AMP5 volumes expected to recover Pursue opportunities in new markets such as renewable energy and carbon management Deliver continuous improvement to customers to retain work and expand scope How we performed Order book 2010 4.5bn 2009 4.5bn Revenue including JVs and associates -1% Local authority requirements are 2010 1,434m 2009 1,443m changing, with a marked shift towards Profit before exceptionals and amortisation larger, multi-activity contracts, and thebundling together of contracts -7% frommore than one local authority.
2010 51m Thistrend favours companies like 2009 55m Balfour Beatty which can offer a KPI Customer retention broadrange ofcapabilities.
Retained customer revenue is a key measure for SupportServices, as it shows how well we have Kevin Craven leveraged our existing customer relationships.
Chief Executive Officer, Support Services 400bps 2010 96.3% 2009 92.3% Defined as the revenue from customers retained from one year to the next, relative to revenue from the same customers in the previous year.
Based on Balfour Beatty WorkPlace and Utility Solutions revenue.
40 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | A bold step beyond outsourcing UK We have broken new ground by launching a partnership with a local council thatcrosses traditional outsourcing boundaries.
Under a 250m, 10-year contract with North East Lincolnshire Council we will deliver a package ofservices spanning regeneration, highways, transport and planning, asset management and architectural support.
As well as cutting costs and improving services, we have committed to meeting 140 KPI targets that add up to a significant improvement in quality of life for local people.
Our risks and rewards link directly to how well we succeed.
Both parties are incentivised to worktogether to maximise results, and over 300 council staff have transferred to a team that integrates expertise from our facilities management business and Parsons Brinckerhoff.
The partnership will deliver 3,500 new and improved homes, cut deaths and injuries on our roads by 33% and50% respectively, secure at least 570m of inwardinvestment into the borough and deliver key regenerationprojects.
Marc Cole Director of Regeneration, North East Lincs Council Its a fantastic opportunity to accelerate regeneration oftheborough.
Balfour Beatty is working with  Council to create 4,200 newjobsand generate 250 training, work or .
Caroline Hopkins, Regional Director for Balfour Beatty WorkPlace Shared goals We are workingwith the council asone team, from managers to lollipop ladies.
Annual report and accounts 2010 41 operating review support services Our strategy Turning up the power NZ Support Services helps our customers maximise their organisational efficiency and the value they generate In alliance with Transpower, which is responsible for fromtheir infrastructure while preserving the continuity New Zealands national grid, we are undertaking, in joint oftheir services.
The breadth of our offering includes venture, the countrys largest electricity transmission butis not limited to facilities management, the upgrade project in half a century.
and maintenance of utility and transport networks, Our NZ$230m 96m contract involves designing business services and business process outsourcing, andbuilding a new 186km 400kV transmission line enabling us to maintain all aspects of a social or civil including some 430 towers and removing an obsolete infrastructure asset.
The new line, going live in Our customers trust us to deal directly with their mid-2012, is vital to meet growing electricity demand infrastructure users and stakeholders.
It is these intimate inupper North Island.
customer relationships that underpin the organic growth of our core business, enabling us to extend the length andbreadth of successful contracts.
We are a services integrator, bringing together different capabilities to meet varying customer needs.
While bringing together our teams, sub-contractors and the customers stakeholders is part of the normal course ofour business, this integrated offer increasingly involvescapabilities from other parts of Balfour Beatty.
The majority of our business comes from the public andregulated sectors in the UK.
The potential risk that this poses is mitigated by the different regulatory cycles inwhich the constituent parts of our business operate.
Aswe leverage our scale and skills to grow our business in the private sector, we will bring more balance to our In the utilities sector, market conditions in water were overall portfolio of customer activity.
In addition, pressure particularly tough as the ramp-up of work for the UK on public spending is driving innovation and creating new water industrys 201015 asset management plan opportunities with central and local government as well AMP5 was slow.
The facilities management and business services Our marketplace outsourcing sectors were intensely competitive.
Local authority requirements are changing, with a Volumesof work have held up reasonably well, markedshift towards larger, multi-activity contracts,  spend has reduced from the andthe bundling together of contracts from more levelsbefore the economic slowdown hit in 2008. thanone local authority.
This trend favours companies Financial performance likeBalfour Beatty which can offer a broad range of capabilities, and our work on large highways management Support Services maintained a good level of activity intheyear although revenue and profit were adversely contracts was certainly buoyant in 2010. impacted as the ramp-up of work for AMP5 was slower There was increased competition for more traditional than expected.
Revenue was down 1% to 1,434m highways work, and contracts have tended to be andprofit from operations before exceptionals and smalleras budgets tighten and levels of discretionary amortisation was down 7% to 51m, resulting in a slightly spend reduce.
We expect volumes to pick up in the remainder of the cycle as is typical with the AMP cycles.
42 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Operational performance As part of the Groups cost saving programme Local authorities in the UK are becoming an increasingly announcedwith the half-year results in August 2010, important part of our business as they seek to outsource wehave been developing a Shared Service Centre SSC more activities to the private sector in order to cut costs.
in Newcastle to provide centralised accounting, payroll We have therefore established a new standalone Local and procurement services.
It is managed in the Support Authorities unit to give the sector greater prominence Services division and will deliver services across the andfocus.
majority of Balfour Beattys UK operating companies.
The 250m services contract we won with North East Live processing started to transition into the SSC in Lincolnshire local authority in March 2010 is a testament February 2011, with over 100 people now working in the to the strength of the offer that Balfour Beatty can make centre, supporting the transition of the first six operating as a group, and an example of the type of large, bundled companies.
The remaining operating companies will be contracts that are now available.
This 10-year agreement added in the course of the next two years, and we expect will involve the provision of highways transportation and the SSC to reach full operational capacity by the end of planning, asset management and architectural services.
Parsons Brinckerhoff will undertake the town planning and regeneration services elements of this contract.
Looking forward A strong committed order book gives us confidence Our order book of local authority work is approximately going forward.
We expect AMP5 revenue to start 800m, representing a pipeline of more than four increasing, and further income growth will be generated yearswork.
as our PPP schools and hospitals come on stream.
Our first multi-activity highways contract, with the We are also looking at emerging markets to improve Southampton Highways Service Partnership, was returns.
Renewable energy is one such market in which signedin July.
This 100m deal involves highways our experience in onshore power transmission should transportation planning as well as asset management stand us in good stead.
services for an initial 10-year period.
By developing existing client relationships, we are also We also won contracts this year with the Highways looking to move into new areas such as energy and Agency covering the strategic motorway and trunk road carbon management and extend our existing scope of network in south-west England, with Yorkshire Water work to the DWP to encompass employment services.
These three contracts total 200m in revenue.
In UK rail renewals, we won a five-year contract to work in partnership with London Underground.
The framework contract is worth 220m, with potential for additional work, and our share will be around half.
We also secured a four-year extension to our track renewal contract for Network Rails south-east regions worth approximately 170m provided agreed targets are met during the first Pipes renewed, past intact UK year of the contract.
In partnership with National Grid, we are responsible As a result of Balfour Beattys high level of PPP activity formaintaining and renewing the gas distribution inrecent years, we have four schools and five hospitals network in north-west England.
This includes replacing coming into operation in 2011 which will generate over 500km of obsolete large-diameter pipes each year.
We are currently replacing the old cast-iron network We seek to deliver continuous improvements for our inthe historic town of Chester.
In the centre, the great clients, and it is a measure of our success that the scope majority of buildings are Grade 1 and Grade 2 listed: of work we undertake is becoming increasingly broad.
many are of national importance.
So we have to work Forexample, we are now collaborating with Remploy with sensitivity to our surroundings and to a busy toprovide employment-related support services for calendar of tourism and heritage events.
We work theDepartment for Work and Pensionss DWP Work closely with English Heritage to secure planning Programme.
This is in addition to work that we currently permission for pipe runs into buildings and have a carry out on behalf of the DWP in areas such as full-time archaeologist on the staff to identify and protect porterage, mail handling, call centre management and the wealth of artefacts unearthed by our digging.
