Our gOvernance DirectOrs repOrt Compliance with the Code Remuneration The UK Listing Authority requires listed companies to disclose in Mr Walvis receives his basic non-executive Directors fee of relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Financial 52,000per annum plus a 10,000 per annum supplement covering Reporting Council which is appended to the UK Listing Rules, his additional responsibilities as Senior Independent Director and howthey have applied its principles and whether they have complied chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He receives no other with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority relating to the financial incentives and his remuneration is not considered excessive provisions of the Combined Code throughout the accounting period.
in the context of directors fees paid in FTSE 250 companies nor The Company has complied with the requirements of the UK Listing inthecontext ofhisoverall income.
His fees were last reviewed Authority relating to the provisions of the Combined Code throughout inJune2010.
the accounting period, other than in respect of: Shareholding The effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing procedures is kept At 31 December 2010, Mr Walvis held 14,285 ordinary shares and under review by the Business Practices Committee BPC and not healso had an interest in a further 938 ordinary shares held by the bythe Audit Committee.
The principal reason for this is that the BPC, Craven Arms Investment Club, of which he is a member.
His interest in particular, focuses on the Companys business conduct, its ethics in Balfour Beatty shares is not considered substantial.
and values and, ensuring that procedures exist for employees to raise Conflicting interest concerns in confidence, is an integral element within its overall remit.
As at 1 January 2011, Mr Walvis had disclosed the following interests The Audit Committee is kept informed of any allegations of fraud or which were approved by the Board at its meeting in January 2011 and poor financial controls and internal audit are involved in carrying out none of these were thought to conflict with his role as a member of investigations into such claims.
the Balfour Beatty Board: Notwithstanding that the new UK Corporate Governance Code Associated British Ports Holdings Limited non-executive director doesnot apply for accounting periods commencing prior to 29June2010, the Board has determined to apply its principles Johnson Matthey plc non-executive director immediately.
In accordance with the Code, all of the Directors will Allianz Nederland Groep NV supervisory board chairman retire at this coming AGM and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election or, in the case of Mr Amen, for election as this will be Other thefirst AGM following his appointment.
Mr Ferguson was elected None of the other independence measures listed in the Code, other atthe AGM in 2010 following his appointment on 1 January 2010. than his term of office, were considered relevant by the Board.
At its Board meeting in March 2011, as part of its annual audit of Directors independence corporate governance, the Board considered the independence of At its meeting in September, the Board considered the position thenon-executive Directors against the criteria specified in the Code ofRobert Walvis, Senior Independent Director, who completed and determined that each of them continues to be independent.
nineyears of service on the Board in September 2010.
As required bythe Code, the Board specifically considered those factors which The Board they believed were relevant in determining whether Mr Walvis should The Board currently comprises 12 Directors, of whom seven, continue to be regarded as being independent.
The following factors including the Chairman, are non-executive.
Details of the changes were taken into consideration in determining that Mr Walvis would during the year can be found under the heading Board composition continue to be regarded as independent: on page 77.
The Directors believe that the Board continues to include Constructive challenge an appropriate balance of skills and retains the ability to provide The Board considered the strength of his engagement and the effective leadership to the Group.
robustness of his challenge and critique around the boardroom table.
Matters reserved for the Board He has participated in an ad hoc group of executive and non-executive The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company Directors who have been assessing the development of the and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision which Companys strategy and, in his role as Senior Independent Director, includes the matters summarised below.
he has provided an effective sounding board for the Chairman and the other Directors who value the insight he brings to a range of topics.
Determining the Groups strategic direction Approving annual budgets and financial reporting, includingthe As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Mr Walvis has annual and half-year results and interim management statements alsodisplayed independent leadership in the development of the  policy over a number of years and in its Approving interim, and recommending final, dividends application on a fair and consistent basis.
There have been no Approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure significant concerns raised by shareholders over this period on the Ensuring the necessary financial and human resources areinplace nature and extent of executive pay-outs and the various incentive to achieve objectives and reviewing  schemes and relationships have remained positive throughout, Setting the Companys values and ethical standards including the most recent consultation on the remuneration review, the proposals for which will be presented to shareholders at the Approving policies and systems for risk management 2011AGM.
andassurance 76 Balfour Beatty Our governance | Chairmans introduction | Board of Directors | Directors Report | Remuneration Report | The Board reviewed its list of reserved matters in 2010 and, most Chief Executive recently, at its meeting in March 2011.
The terms of reference of the Strategy development and the stewardship of physical, Board and the Board Committees are available on request from the financialandhuman resources Company Secretary and are also displayed on the Companys website Group operational and financial performance www.
Descriptions of the specific responsibilities Executive leadership which have been delegated to the principal Board committees are also provided on pages 80 to 84.
Health, Safety and Environmental performance Corporate values and ethics Board composition The names of the Directors at the year-end are shown on pages Objective setting for the senior management team 74and 75 together with brief biographical details.
Full details of Organisational structure and talent management Directors service agreements, emoluments and share interests, Major capital expenditure prioritisation areshown in the Remuneration Report commencing on page 89.
Consideration of acquisitions, disposals and financing Iain Ferguson and Robert Amen were appointed as non-executive Stakeholder management Directors on 1 January 2010 and 10 June 2010 respectively.
Gordon Sage retired from the Board on 31 December 2010.
Senior Independent Director Robert Walvis is the Senior Independent Director, and his principal The following blend of skills is exhibited by the Directors through responsibilities are to ensure that the views of the other non-executive theirrespective professional backgrounds: Directors are properly considered and to provide an additional Strategic development communication channel between the non-executive Directors and theshareholders and other stakeholders, as required.
Operating performance and delivery Mergers and acquisitions Directors interests No Director had any material interest in any contract of significance Business integration with the Group during the period under review.
The Directors have put Financial management and planning in place procedures to ensure the Board collectively and the Directors Experience of international markets individually comply with the disclosure requirements on conflicts of Health and safety interest set out in the Companies Act 2006.
At its meeting each January, a formal declaration of interests is reviewed by the Board.
Risk management and assurance HR management The interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company and itssubsidiary undertakings and their interests under the long-term Stakeholder engagement incentive scheme the Performance Share Plan 2006, the deferred Ethics, values and culture bonus plan and share options, are set out in the tables in the Remuneration Report commencing on page 89.
Chairman and Chief Executive There have been no changes in their respective interests since The two roles are complementary.
The Chairman is responsible formanaging the business of the Board, whilst the Chief Executive 31December 2010. actually runs the business.
As the senior executive officer of the Directors indemnities Company, the Chief Executive is responsible to the Chairman and The Company grants an indemnity to all of its Directors to the extent Board for directing and prioritising the profitable operation and permitted by law.
These indemnity amounts are uncapped in relation development of the Group.
The Chairman and Chief Executive keep to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties in the each other appropriately informed on the others current activities.
course of acting as a Director of the Company, or in any office where such duties are performed at the request of the Board, or as a result Specifically, their roles comprise the following principal responsibilities: of their appointment as Directors.
Chairman Ensuring effective strategic planning is undertaken by Board meetings  Procedures for Board meetings remain unchanged from previous years.
Ensuring corporate governance is properly maintained Papers are generally sent out at least three business days in advance Formally appraising the performance of the Chief Executive of the meeting.
The papers include a written report from each of the andreviewing with the Chief Executive his views on the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating Officer, the Finance Director, and performance of the other executive Directors the Director of Safety, Health and the Environment.
At the meetings, oral reports are made on issues arising from the written reports and Providing leadership to the Board both these and other matters of immediate interest or concern are Acting as senior ambassador for the Company discussed by the Board, for example mergers and acquisitions activity.
Considering Board balance, composition and succession Ensuring the smooth operation of the Board and itsCommittees Providing effective communication between the Board anditsshareholders Steve Marshall spends an average of two days per week on thebusiness of the Company.
The Board considers that his othercommitments are not of such a nature as to hinder his dutiesasChairman.
Annual report and accounts 2010 77 Our gOvernance DirectOrs repOrt The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on 2010 Board and Board Committee meetings appropriate governance matters, ensuring good information flow and Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
He also provides meetings and meetings of the Audit, Business Practices, Nomination updates on legal matters of relevance to the Group and is available and Remuneration Committees during the year are set out in the toindividual Directors for advice on Board procedures.
following table: Business 2010 meeting programme Name of Director Board Audit Practices Nomination Remuneration Four Board meetings in 2010 were held at the Companys head office, 2 R M Amen 6 6 2 2 2 2 0 0 whilst six meetings were held elsewhere.
Each meeting normally M J Donovan 10 10 4 4 3 3 1 1 lasts four to five hours, but can be longer.
3 I G T Ferguson 9 10 3 3 1 1 4 4 On the evening preceding a Board meeting, the Directors generally G E H Krossa 10 10 4 4 3 3 1 1 4 4 meet for dinner and the opportunity is taken, on some of these D J Magrath 10 10 occasions, to discuss pre-determined developmental themes, led by one of the executive Directors, other senior managers or a specialist S Marshall 10 10 2 3 1 1 4 4 external speaker.
For example, in 2010, the themes included new A J McNaughton 10 10 business development, investor relations and board practices.
A L P Rabin 10 10 4 The following topics were also addressed by the Board during 2010 G C Roberts 9 10 3 4 1 2 0 1 1 1 under the themes identified, in addition to the standing agenda topics 5 G H Sage 7 10 3 4 1 1 4 4 comprising monthly updates from the Chief Executive, the Chief I P Tyler 10 10 1 1 Operating Officer and the Finance Director, as well as reports on R J W Walvis 10 10 4 4 1 1 4 4 health, safety and environment, risk management and assurance, andsuccession planning.
P J L Zinkin 9 10 Finance Notes: Budget 2010 1 The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could attend either following his appointment during the year or as a result Annual and half-year financial reports ofchanges to Committee memberships.
Capital structure and financing 2 Mr Amen appointed on 10 June 2010.
3 Mr Ferguson appointed on 1 January 2010.
Operational performance 4 Mr Roberts joined the Remuneration Committee on 9 November 2010 Business reviews: onstepping down from the Business Practices Committee.
Professional Services 5 Mr Sage retired on 31 December 2010.
Construction Services UK, including a major project review Non-attendance at meetings was due to illness and prior business Support Services, including utilities commitments.
In each case, where the Directors have not been able Infrastructure Investments to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and provided their comments Rail directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chairman, as appropriate.
Shared services and procurement operational effectiveness Board development Induction Strategy Directors undertake a significant induction programme and receive Group strategy strategic development priorities arange of information about the Company when they join the Board.
Medium-term performance review This includes considerable background information on Balfour Beatty, its Code of Conduct and ethics, processes for dealing in Balfour Organisational design Beatty shares and Board procedures, as well as the minutes of past Infrastructure Investments Board and Board Committee meetings.
In addition, they also take part in a series of one-to-one meetings with other members of the Board Communications and senior executives which include briefings on the Companys Investor relations business strategy, financial procedures, business development, legal and other key issues.
Government affairs Professional development Mergers and acquisitions The Directors induction programme is supplemented throughout theyear by a series of internal and external updates, including visits Halsall Canada tooperating companies to meet local management and visits to Balfour Beatty projects, both in the UK and overseas.
Corporate governance Normally, such meetings take place for each non-executive Director Board evaluation including operation and administration four times each year, although some Directors have not been able UK Bribery Act toattend all the sessions whilst some have been able to participate UK Corporate Governance Code inmore meetings.
UK Stewardship Code Non-executive Director independence 78 Balfour Beatty Our governance | Chairmans introduction | Board of Directors | Directors Report | Remuneration Report | In 2010, a different approach was taken in relation to the programme The Board rated highly in its impact on, and contribution to, of visits organised for non-executive Directors.
Key themes were thesuccess of the Company.
Three areas of significant strength identified which enabled Directors to gain a better understanding werehighlighted: ofthe business, how it operates and its principal strategic issues.
The work of the Board The principal themes which were explored during the visits were: Including the strategic focus, the use of targeted visits, the work ofthe Committees and the Boards approach to remuneration.
Facilities management strategy Board culture and dynamics Rail international strategy for future growth Including Board size and balance, Board dynamics, the Chairmans Building what comes after health and education?
leadership and the leadership of the executive management team.
Engineering and maintenance a business integration review Board structure Civil engineering what should the strategic focus be Including the structure of the Boards agenda.
Given the Boards desire for continuous improvement, there were Infrastructure investments three themes arising from the review which the Board considered Professional services, including the integration of the UKbusiness itwanted to address in order to enhance further its effectiveness US market Professional services review overthe longer term and these themes are: Business model Eight visits were organised in 2010, including visits to Parsons The Company has to date benefited from a clear vision and Brinckerhoff in the US and Balfour Beatty Rail International in directionand an appropriate and enabling infrastructure.
A similar programme is being planned for 2011. thegrowth rate and management of an increasingly international As part of the ongoing refresher training provided to non-executive andcomplex group and the market environment, present particular Directors, visits are also organised to specific operating companies.
For example, providing Directors with a thorough understanding of Risk management thedesign-build projects lifecycle process, including identifying those Risk management is seen to be an essential operational focus drivers out of which profitable performance can be generated.
throughout the Group and there is a range of priorities regarding key risks including market instability, changing regulation and increasing Board evaluation competition.
These various priorities influence the development of The last time an external evaluation had been carried out was at the strategy and its risk profile, executive targets and corporate culture, beginning of 2010 in respect of the 2009 financial year.
This was aswell as influencing how the Board allocates its time.
conducted by an external consultant, Boardroom Review.
This was designed to assess the quality of the Boards decision-making and Corporate culture debate, its overall contribution to, and impact on, the long-term health Although financial and operational stability is important, management and success of the Company and its preparation for future challenges.
ofthe less tangible and less visible aspects of the Company is The evaluation was conducted over three months and was completed vitaltoits future health and achievement of its strategic objectives.
Confidential interviews were undertaken with each The Boards understanding of the factors which bind people ofthe Directors and other members of the senior management togetherand the stewardship of intangible influences on teamas well as observation of Board and Remuneration Committee , ethics, HR, retention and succession, meetings and a review of Board and related papers.
Boardroom willhelp to maximise the benefits associated with the Groups Reviews report summarising the conclusions was discussed at the cultureand history.
The principal conclusions are outlined below: In addition, the Company Secretary conducted a separate series of interviews with the Directors in August 2010 on Board procedures and administration matters, the conclusions of which were shared with the whole Board in September 2010.
Key issues discussed included: Agenda Papers and timing of issue Quality and length of papers Board dinners In 2011, the Board is conducting its own internal evaluation, using anonline structured questionnaire covering the Board and its principal Committees.
The questionnaires have been supplemented by individual interviews with the Directors carried out by the Company Secretary, where appropriate, and the findings summarised for theBoard.
The Chairman will also meet with each of the Directors.
Theoutput from the evaluation process will be reported in the 2011 Directors Report.
Key themes emerging from this evaluation process reinforce elements of the work already being undertaken by the Board arising from the 2010 evaluation.
Annual report and accounts 2010 79 Our gOvernance DirectOrs repOrt Board Committees Graham Roberts isachartered accountant and is finance director Audit Committee ofThe British Land Company PLC and has been identified by the Board as having recent and relevant financial experience.
At the Board meeting following each meeting of the Committee, the Committee chairman provides an oral report on the work of the Committee and any significant issues that may have arisen.
The minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all members of the Board.
At the invitation of the Committee, partners from the external auditor, the Head of Group Risk Management and Assurance, the Deputy Chief Executive and the Finance Director regularly attend each meeting.
In addition, any independent non-executive Director who is not a Committee member has an open invitation to attend meetings.
Graham Roberts chairman In 2010, the Committees work programme comprised the following Meetings in 2010: 4 principal topics in addition to the standing agenda items: Members February Graham Roberts chairman 2009 annual report and accounts and preliminary results Robert Amen from 10 June 2010 announcement Mike Donovan Accounting for the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff Hubertus Krossa Pensions Gordon Sage retired 31 December 2010 Key contract valuation and accounting judgements Robert Walvis Non-audit fees Directors PPP valuation Responsibilities Risk management and assurance Financial statements Commissions Financial controls Dishonest behaviour incidents External auditor Annual review of internal audit work and findings Internal audit Directors expenses Risk management and assurance External audit partner rotation The terms of reference for the Committee are based on the Guidance May onAudit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council formerly iXBRL compliance new HMRC tax filing requirements Smith Guidance.
The terms of reference were approved by the Board IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in October 2003 and updated most recently in November 2010.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are summarised below: External audit: key risks, IFRIC 12, auditor independence, auditfees, interim review Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group Consideration of fraud as part of the external audit planningprocess andany formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: Internal audit Parsons Brinckerhoff Review the Groups internal controls established to identify, Risk management and assurance in light of the new risk profile assess, manage and monitor risks, and receive reports from ofthe Group with the growth of Support Services and management on the effectiveness of the systems they have ProfessionalServices established and the conclusions of any testing carried out by Results of the external review of the effectiveness of the internal theinternal and external auditor: audit function conducted by a third party the results of which Monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function confirmed that the function was fit for purpose including its work programme: August Make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment 2010 half-year financial report ofthe external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms ofengagement of the external auditor: and November Assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Non-audit services review external auditor and to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Accounting Practices Board ethical standards for auditors publishedin July 2010 The triennial valuation of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund External audit scope applied to Group companies Internal audit plan 2011 Risk management and assurance review of new Group organisational structure move to divisional structure Annual review of the work of the Committee and its terms ofreference 80 Balfour Beatty Our governance | Chairmans introduction | Board of Directors | Directors Report | Remuneration Report | Throughout 2010, the Committee has continued to review the Annual internal assessment Groups risk management and internal control systems and A detailed internally prepared assessment of the previous years processes.
As a result, the Committee recommended to the Board external audit process, together with any identified improvement that it could properly conclude that the Group continued to maintain recommendations.
In carrying out this assessment, each operating sound systems of risk management and internal control and that a company within the Group is required to evaluate the performance review of the effectiveness of these systems had been completed.
ofthe assigned external audit team and to compare that performance against the previous year.
External auditor independence and effectiveness To assess the independence and effectiveness of the external External auditors assessment auditor, Deloitte LLP, the Committee carries out a formal review An assessment is also carried out by the external auditor in annually comprising the following elements: consultation with the operating companies using a structured questionnaire.
In addition, the Audit Committee participates in Non-audit work responding to the questionnaire.
Compliance with the Group policy is tested each year.
At each meeting, the Committee also reviews the non-audit work which Having completed its review and having received their formal hasbeen carried out by the external auditor and that planned, together statement of independence, the Committee is satisfied that the with the associated fees.
The objective set out in the Companys external auditor remains independent of the Company.
policy is to ensure that the external auditor is not placed in a position The Committee has recommended that the Board proposes to where their independence is, or might be seen to be, compromised.
shareholders that Deloitte LLP continue as the Companys external Under no circumstances will any assignment be given to the external auditor and will review the proposed audit fees and terms of auditor, when the result is that: engagement in May 2011. as part of the statutory audit, they are required to report directly External auditor rotation ontheir own non-audit work: Audit partners are rotated every five years.
The advisory partner they make management decisions on behalf of the Group: changed in 2010 and the audit engagement partner will change they act as advocates for the Group: or in2011.
the level of non-audit fees is such, relative to audit fees, astoraise A number of circumstances would lead to consideration being given concerns about their ability to form objectivejudgements.
to carrying out an audit tender review.
Forexample: in circumstances where the external auditors performance had The Companys policy identifies the various types of non-audit been called into question, or where, through the auditpartner services and determines the analysis to be undertaken and level rotation process, no suitable replacement had beenidentified: ofauthority required before the external auditor can be considered where value for money considerations had arisen: toundertake such services.
Included within such analysis is consideration of the cost and efficiency benefits as well as the where there was a real or perceived threat to independence: or realorperceived threats to auditor independence.
where conflict of interests had been identified.
There is no inconsistency between the Accounting Practices Board APB standards and the Companys policy.
The APB published, in 2010, new ethical standards for auditors leading to greater disclosure and transparency.
The Committee considered the changes and concluded that no adjustments were required to the existing policy and that there were appropriate checksand balances in place.
In 2010, the external auditor was appointed to carry out non-audit related work, principally in connection with the post-acquisition fiscalrestructuring following the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff inOctober 2009.
Other non-audit work carried out by the external auditor during 2010 related, in the main, to tax advice compliance inEurope and the US.
The Committee considers that the Company receives particular benefit from the advice provided by its external auditor, given their wide and detailed knowledge of the Group and its international operations.
The majority of non-audit related work was carried out using the services of other major international audit firms.
Annual report and accounts 2010 81 Our gOvernance DirectOrs repOrt Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Steve Marshall Chairman Robert Walvis chairman Meetings in 2010: 1 Meetings in 2010: 4 Members Members Steve Marshall Chairman Robert Walvis chairman Robert Amen from 10 June 2010 Iain Ferguson Mike Donovan Hubertus Krossa Iain Ferguson Steve Marshall Hubertus Krossa Graham Roberts from 9 November 2010 Graham Roberts Gordon Sage retired 31 December 2010 Gordon Sage retired on 31 December 2010 Responsibilities Ian Tyler Remuneration strategy and policies Robert Walvis Remuneration packages Responsibilities Incentive plans Structure and composition of Board Information about the workings of the Committee during the financial Appointment of non-executive Directors year is set out in the Remuneration Report commencing on page 89.
Succession planning and talent management In 2010, the Committees work programme comprised the following principal topic: Recruitment of non-executive Director: An external search consultancy was engaged to seek candidates tojoin the Board as a non-executive Director who had current or recent experience as a chief executive of a public company and who had business experience principally in the US.
The Committee reviewed candidates as presented by the consultancy and Committee members were involved in the interview process before making their recommendations to the Board.
All members of the Board were given the opportunity to meet Robert Amen prior to his appointment.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for specific three-year termsand it is part of the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee to review all appointments of non-executive Directors atthree-yearly intervals, or as near to that as is practicable and make recommendations to the Board accordingly.
The Committee will carry out a review in 2011 of the skills and experience requirements for non-executive Directors, including developing an approach to diversity, in light of recent proposals forincreasing the representation of women on company boards.
82 Balfour Beatty Our governance | Chairmans introduction | Board of Directors | Directors Report | Remuneration Report | Business Practices Committee In addition to the standing agenda items, the following principal topics were considered at Committee meetings during the year: March Ethics and compliance: In addition to further work on embedding the Code of Conduct across the Group, including within Parsons Brinckerhoff, the compliance functions focus has turned to the procedures, controls and assurance necessary to ensure compliance with the Companys policies.
Whistleblowing cases and their resolution.
GIACC monitor: The Committee reviewed the work of the external Mike Donovan chairman monitor, Neill Stansbury of GIACC, covering the period from November 2008 to December 2009, the conclusions from which Meetings in 2010: 3 were embedded in Mr Stansburys annual report to the Serious Members Fraud Office.
His report concluded that the Balfour Beatty Code ofConduct and the underlying processes were, in his view, Mike Donovan chairman significantly ahead of market practice.
Robert Amen from 10 June 2010 Group Minimum Commercial Expectations GMCEs : These are Iain Ferguson aseries of processes designed around best practice commercial Hubertus Krossa standards and have been internally developed and adopted acrossthe Group, including within a number of joint ventures Steve Marshall andpartnerships.
These provided a benchmark against which Graham Roberts until 9 November 2010 commercial requirements could be measured and set the minimum standards which Balfour Beatty would be prepared to operate Responsibilities under.
It was expected that the GMCEs would lead to enhanced Corporate values, ethics and Code of Conduct standards and improved commercial practices.
Health & Safety HR Measures: Quantitative data was received relating to employee Sustainability numbers, employee profiles and other measures including age distribution, absence levels, graduate churn and the output from Whistleblowing the Group succession planning processes.
The Committee focuses significant attention on values, the Groups Community engagement: The Group theme is focused around Code of Conduct and the training which will ensure that the Groups theyoung disadvantaged and details of the community programme business principles are properly embedded throughout the business.
are included in the separate 2010 Sustainability Report.
This focus follows the settlement with the Serious Fraud Office July inOctober 2008 and the subsequent appointment of an external monitor, further details of which are set out in the separate 2010 Anti-bribery legislation in the UK and US Sustainability Report.
In addition, the new UK Bribery Act and the Managing government affairs in the US actions needed in order to ensure compliance with this Act, was Sustainability, including proposals for the 2010 Sustainability Report aparticular area of focus for the Committee in 2010. and the roadmaps of each of the operating companies At each of its meetings, the Committee receives detailed updates on health and safety performance and specifically the current status of December the Groups Zero Harm initiative, including statistical data and trends, Review of ethics and compliance and the external monitors annual accident reporting, and high potential incidents as well as occupational report for 2010 health.
The Committee also reviews the output from the independent health and safety audit carried out across the Group.
The Committee will continue to monitor its terms of reference to establish whether it should expand its remit.
For example, in 2011, the Committee will be specifically carrying out a review of the Companys engagement with its stakeholders and operational excellence.
Annual report and accounts 2010 83 Our gOvernance DirectOrs repOrt Group Tender and Investment Committee Finance and General Purposes Committee Meetings in 2010: Numerous Members Ian Tyler chairman Duncan Magrath Andrew McNaughton Anthony Rabin Peter Zinkin Ian Tyler chairman Responsibilities Meetings in 2010: Numerous Banking facilities and other arrangements Share options Members Share buy-backs Ian Tyler chairman Duncan Magrath The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his absence, Andrew McNaughton byone of the other executive Directors.
Its principal purpose is to Anthony Rabin approve various routine banking and treasury matters, share option grants and exercises and other matters relating to share capital.
Peter Zinkin Asummary of the business conducted at the meetings is provided Kevin Craven from 1 January 2011 toall the Directors.
Manfred Leger Risk management and assurance Brian Osborne The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems of Mike Peasland riskmanagement and internal control and reviews their effectiveness.
George Pierson The Groups principal risks and how they are mitigated are summarised Andy Rose until 28 February 2011 on pages 55 to 61.
The Board continued to assess the effectiveness of the risk management processes and internal controls during 2010 Robert Van Cleave and to the date of this report.
Such assessment is based on reports made to the Board, the Audit Committee and the Business Practices Responsibilities Committee, including: Major contract approvals the results of internal audits reviews of internal financial controls: Acquisitions and disposals a Group-wide certification that effective internal controls had Capital expenditure beenmaintained, or, where any significant non-compliance orbreakdown had occurred with or without loss, the status This Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his absence, ofcorrective action: and byone of the other executive Directors.
Its main purpose is to review allmajor proposed contracts with projected contract values above a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent and specified levels.
The Committee also has authority to approve capital mitigation of significant risks and on the systems of internal controls.
expenditure applications and any proposed acquisitions or disposals over certain specified limits determined by the Board.
For example, The Groups systems and controls are designed to ensure that the currently the Committees terms of reference require contracts for Groups exposure to significant risk is properly managed, but the construction or services in the UK of a value exceeding 100m to be Board recognises that any system of internal control is designed to submitted for review, whilst other limits vary according to geography manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business and nature of the contract.
Inaddition, irrespective of the financial objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute scale of the contract, the Committee also reviews tenders in assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, not all territories which are classified ashigh risk above 35 in the material joint ventures in which the Group is involved are treated, Transparency Internationals Corruption Perceptions Index or where for these purposes, as part of the Group.
Where they are not, there is a security risk in that territory.
Minutes of Committee systems of internal control and risk management are applied as meetings are made available to all the Directors.
agreed between the parties to the venture.
Central to the Groups systems of internal control are its processes and framework for risk management.
These accord with the Turnbull Guidance on internal controls and were in place throughout the year and up to the date of signing this report.
84 Balfour Beatty Our governance | Chairmans introduction | Board of Directors | Directors Report | Remuneration Report | The Groups systems of internal control operate through a number Other disclosures ofdifferent processes, some of which are interlinked.
These include: Business and financial review The Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, the Chief Executives the annual review of the strategy and plans of each operating strategic review on pages 12 to 23, the Chief Operating Officers market company and of the Group as a whole in order to identify the risks review on pages 24 to 27, the Operating reviews on pages 28to 47, to the Groups achievement of its overall objectives and, where the Financial review on pages 48 to 51, and Sustainability on pages appropriate, any relevant mitigating actions: 62 to69 are incorporated by reference into the Directors Report.
monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of Results and dividends results and forecasts by executive Directors and line management, The results for the year are shown in the audited financial statements including particular areas of business or project risk.
This is used to presented on pages 103 to 169 and are explained more fully in the update managements understanding of the environment in which Chief Executives and Chief Operating Officers reviews, the the Group operates and the methods used to mitigate and control Operating review and the Financial review.
Aninterim dividend the risks identified: payment of 5.05p net per ordinary share was approved by the Board individual tender and project review procedures commencing at on 10 August 2010 and a final dividend of 7.65p net per ordinary operating company level and progressing to Board Committee level share will be recommended at the Annual General Meeting AGM if value, or perceived exposure, breaches certain thresholds: giving a total of 12.7p net per ordinary share, which compares with regular reporting, monitoring and review of health, safety and atotal dividend per ordinary share of 12.0p net in 2009.
Preference environmental matters: dividends totalling 10.75p gross per preference share were paid in 2010 2009: 10.75p gross per preference share.
the review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and capital expenditure through the Boards Committees and the The Directors continued to offer the dividend reinvestment plan.
Board itself: Research and development the review of specific material areas of Group-wide risk and the The Group continues to be committed to investment in research and formulation and monitoring of risk mitigating actions: development in all its areas of activity.
This covers new products and the formulation and review of properly documented policies and processes and innovation in areas such as information technology procedures, updated to address the changing risks of the business: andasset management systems.
A range of development initiatives specific policies set out in the Group Finance Manual, covering the isundertaken throughout the business and these are supported by financial management of the Group, including arrangements with links with selected universities.
the Groups bankers and bond providers, controls on foreign The Group innovation forum is one of several fora through which exchange dealings and management of currency and interest rate theCompany is enhancing the sharing of knowledge and the exposures, insurance, capital expenditure procedures, application encouragement of joint working between the various operating ofaccounting policies and financial controls: companies.
Improving the ability to tap into the depth and breadth a Group-wide risk management framework which is applied to all ofexpertise and capability which exists within the Group, and functions in the Group, whether operational, financial or support.
sharingit, is seen as a key enabler and catalyst for innovation, Under it, the key risks facing each part of the Group are regularly aswellas serving to identify where the Group can respond better reviewed and assessed, together with the steps taken to avoid totheneeds of its various stakeholders.
The results of these reviews are placed Details of the Groups 2010 research and development expenditure onrisk registers and, where necessary, specific action plans are given in Note 4.1 on page 118. aredeveloped: reviews and tests by the internal audit team of critical business Share capital and shareholders financial processes and controls and specific reviews in areas Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2010, ofperceived high business risk: and including the rights attaching to each class of share, are set out in Note 27 on pages 151 and 152.
During the year to 31 December the Groups policy in relation to staff being able to raise concerns, 2010 no ordinary or preference shares were repurchased for inconfidence, about possible improprieties on matters of financial cancellation.
657,138 ordinary shares were issued following the reporting and other issues.
exercise of options held under the Companys savings-related share option scheme and 472,928 ordinary shares were issued following These systems are extended, as soon as possible and as appropriate, the exercise of options held under the Companys executive share to all companies joining the Group.
The Head of Group Risk Management and Assurance is responsible for ensuring that a comprehensive framework of assurance including internal audit exists within operating companies and for co-ordinating the risk management activities across the Group.
No significant failings or weaknesses have been identified by the Board in carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
Annual report and accounts 2010 85 Our gOvernance DirectOrs repOrt At 31 December 2010, the Directors had authority under The Company has continued its long-established programme of shareholders resolutions approved at the AGM and at the separate communication with institutional investors and brokers throughout Class meeting held in May 2010 to purchase through the market 2010.
A Head of Investor Relations was appointed in 2010 to help 68,542,443 ordinary shares and 16,775,968 preference shares at further enhance the Companys investor programme and provide prices set out in those resolutions.
This authority expires at the dedicated resource.
Presentations of the half-year and annual conclusion of the separate Class meeting which will follow the 2011 resultswere made in accordance with the practice of previous years.
AGM or on 1 July 2011 whichever is earlier.
Approximately 200 meetings have been held at regular intervals through the year 2009: approximately 140 with institutional Throughout the year, all the Companys issued share capital was shareholders, brokers and analysts including two hosted events.
publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange and it remains so Oneevent was held in New York to provide better understanding asatthe date of this report.
There are no specific restrictions on ofthe strength and depth of capabilities of Parsons Brinckerhoff.
thesizeof a shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, which are Thesecond was a more general description of infrastructure bothgoverned by the Articles of Association and the prevailing law.
marketsand Balfour Beattys competitive positioning and strategy TheDirectors are not aware of any agreements between holders andincluded an update on the evolving strategy for the infrastructure ofthe Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the investments business.
transferof shares or on voting rights.
Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and Finance Director, Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration hold meetings with the Companys principal institutional shareholders Report commencing on page 89.
Shares held by the Balfour Beatty to discuss the Companys strategy, financial performance and specific Employee Share Ownership Trust are not voted.
The Chairman has also met with a number of these institutional shareholders and the other non-executive Directors There is no person who has special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
are invited to do so whenever they wish.
The Chief Operating Officer and members of senior management met with representatives from As at 2 March 2011, the Company had been notified in accordance the UK Shareholders Association as well as hosting them on a visit with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services tothe Blackfriars project in London.
Authority of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: This communications programme will continue and be expanded Number of Percentage where appropriate, subject to the constraints of regulation and ordinary shares of ordinary held shares held practice.
The 2011 investor programme will focus on broadening theshareholder base, particularly amongst US investors.
Standard Life Investments Limited 54,071,872 7.88 Prudential plc 34,309,232 5.00 Care is exercised to ensure that any price sensitive information isreleased to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with BlackRock, Inc 34,307,689 5.00 UKListing Authority requirements.
Legal & General Group plc 26,889,659 3.92 AXA SA 22,003,406 3.21 Reports to the Board on meetings or other contact with shareholders or their representatives are made by executive Directors on a regular basis.
The non-executive Directors continue to believe that, through Auditors their direct and ready access to, and contact with, the Chairman Deloitte LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as auditors to andthe Senior Independent Director and through the regular reports the Company and a resolution for their appointment will be proposed totheBoard, they are kept fully aware of the views of the larger at the AGM.
shareholders in the Company and the investment community generally.
Honorary President The Board also has access to the services of independent external Viscount Weir is Honorary President of the Company, having been corporate and investor relations consultants who provide advice on appointed to this position in May 2003, following his retirement as the relationship between the Company and its institutional investors.
They conducted a series of interviews with key shareholders in Apriland presented the results to the Board in June 2010, the output Relations with shareholders from which has largely been addressed by developing the investor The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good programme through 2010 and 2011 and the appointment of a relationships with all shareholders and ensures that shareholders dedicated investor relations resource.
arekept informed of significant Company developments.
86 Balfour Beatty Our governance | Chairmans introduction | Board of Directors | Directors Report | Remuneration Report | The Board regards the Companys general meetings as an opportunity Group policies to communicate directly with private investors and actively encourages The Groups published policies on health and safety, the environment, participative dialogue with all the Companys shareholders.
The chairmen business conduct and ethics remain in place and are subject to regular of the Board Committees attend the AGM each year as well as the reviews.
The business conduct and ethics policy has been reviewed other Directors and are available to answer questions from shareholders.
and updated including the introduction of an external ethics helpline which is available to all employees and other parties with whom the The website www.
com is an important source Group works.
ofinformation on the Group, including financial press releases, shareholder documentation, annual and half-year results presentations Further information on each of these policies and the progress and the terms of reference of the principal Board Committees.
The whichhas been made during the year is provided in the separate website is being relaunched in the third quarter of 2011 so that it can 2010Sustainability Report.
become an even more effective source of information for investors.
Employment Political donations As the Group operates across a number of business sectors in At the AGM held on 12 May 2010, shareholders gave authority for different environments, it has evolved a decentralised management theCompany and its UK subsidiaries to make donations to political structure, with employment policies designed to suit the needs organisations up to a maximum aggregate amount of 25,000 in ofindividual businesses.
However, each employing company is theEuropean Union.
This approval is a precautionary measure in expected to comply with certain key principles in its design and viewof the broad definition of these terms in the Companies Act.
Nosuch expenditure or donations were made during the year These are: andshareholder authority will be sought again at the 2011 AGM.
to provide an open, challenging and participative environment: In the US and Canada, donations totalling 278,000 were made to enable all employees to utilise their talents and skills to the full, byoperating companies during 2010.
Most of these donations were through appropriate encouragement, training and development: made by Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc, and these donations are small to communicate a full understanding of the objectives and andall were permitted by law.
In the main, they relate to support performance of the Group and the opportunities and challenges given for local campaigns, public bond financing or similar referenda facing it: topromote investment in infrastructure.
Any political contributions to provide pay and other benefits which reflect good local practices ordonations are tightly controlled and must be approved in advance and reward individual and collective performance: inaccordance with the Companys internal procedures and must alsostrictly adhere to the Companys policies on probity set out in to ensure that all applicants receive equal treatment regardless itsCode of Conduct.
A review of existing practices was undertaken ofage, origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, during 2010. religion or belief: and to ensure that all employees similarly receive equal treatment Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc sponsors a Political Action Committee andspecifically in relation to training, development and career PAC.
A PAC is an independently administered committee which progression.
receives voluntary contributions from Parsons Brinckerhoffs US employees and allocates the funds received, whatever they may be, to US political candidates and other eligible stakeholders who Operating companies use a variety of methods to communicate support investment in infrastructure markets generally.
Contributions keybusiness goals and issues to employees and also consult and are entirely voluntary from employees and are kept completely involve their employees through local publications, briefing groups, separate from company funds.
Decisions taken by the PAC are consultative meetings, training programmes and working groups independent ofinfluence by Balfour Beatty.
Total PAC contributions toassist the process of continuous improvement in the way in2010 were 128,958. businessis conducted.
Regular publications inform employees of major business and technical achievements.
Most of the UK-based Corporate responsibility operating companies have either attained or have committed to A full description of our approach to sustainability, including attainthe UK Investors in People standard.
information on the Groups charitable activities, appears on pages62to 69.
For the tenth year, the Company is publishing Post balance sheet events aseparate 2010 Sustainability Report including values, ethics, Details of post balance sheet events are set out in Note 34 on safety, socialand environmental issues and for the first time this page159.
isbeing published to coincide with the publication of this report and isdisplayed on the Companys website www.
com Contractual arrangements The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third partiesin support of its business activities.
The disclosure in thisreport of information about any of those third parties is not considered necessary for the understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups business.
Annual report and accounts 2010 87 Our gOvernance DirectOrs repOrt Change of control provisions The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The Groups bank facility agreements contain provisions that, upon records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys 30-days notice being given to the Group, the lender may exercise transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, itsdiscretion to require prepayment of the loans on a change of thefinancial position of the Company and enable them to ensure control and cancel all commitments under the agreement concerned.
thatthe financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the A number of significant joint venture and contract bond agreements Companyand for taking reasonable steps for preventing and include provisions which become exercisable by a counterparty detectingfraud and other irregularities.
upona change of control of the Company.
These include the right ofacounterparty to request additional security and to terminate The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of anagreement.
thecorporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation Some other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation course of business, include change of control provisions.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for the Directors The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: or employees on a change of control.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Payment of creditors adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a In the UK, the Companys policy is to settle the terms of payment trueand fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and with suppliers when agreeing the terms for each transaction or series profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in of transactions: to seek to ensure that suppliers are aware of the theconsolidation taken as a whole: and terms of payment: and to abide by these terms of payment as and the Operating and Financial reviews, which are incorporated into when satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services the Directors Report, include a fair review of the development and inaccordance with the agreed terms.
At 31 December 2010, the performance of the business and the position of the Company and year-end creditors days of the Company were 27 2009: 25. the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Financial instruments they face.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure to the following risks foreign exchange, interest rate, price Statements of Directors as to disclosure of information and credit are described in the financial and treasury risks section toauditors onpages 59 and 60 and detailed in Note 20 on pages 131 to 137.
Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirmsthat: Statement of Directors responsibilities so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the informationof which the Companys auditors are unaware: and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements takenasaDirector to make himself aware of any relevant for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are required auditinformation and to establish that the Companys auditors toprepare the Group financial statements in accordance with areawareof that information.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance theEuropean Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and they with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law, the Directors Directors Report must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied By order of the Board that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
Inpreparing these financial statements, International Accounting C D Vaughan Standard 1 requires that Directors: General Counsel and Company Secretary properly select and apply accounting policies: 2 March 2011 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Registered Office: thatprovides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 130 Wilton Road information: London SW1V 1LQ provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to Registered in England Number 395826 understand the impact of particular transactions, other events andconditions on the Companys and the Groups financial positionand financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue asagoing concern.
