operating review construction services Maintaining progress This was a good year in a weak UK Our early adopter decision in 2008 to market, with excellent operational focus on federal work stood us in good delivery of completed projects and stead: we won a number of bids for project milestones.
Mike Peasland Robert Van Cleave Chief Executive Officer, Construction Services UK Chief Executive Officer, Construction Services US 32 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | What do we do?
Building Refurbishment and fit-out Mechanical and electrical services Civil engineering Ground engineering Rail engineering Whats happened?
Reduced volumes but excellent operational delivery inweak construction markets in the UK and the US US construction, infrastructure and rail activities mergedto enhance synergies, share best practice andpursue joint projects Gammon in Hong Kong delivered good growth andarecord order book Rail business suffered from project funding delays Whats next?
Seek acquisitions to fill gaps in our US coverage, particularly in Atlanta and on the West Coast Implement procurement and back office initiatives tounderpin margins Pursue opportunities in new UK markets such as nuclearand offshore wind How we performed Order book 12% 2010 9.2bn 2009 8.2bn Performance in rail was unchanged Revenue including JVs and associates from the previous year in markets characterised by uncertainty.
-10% 2010 6,743m Manfred Leger 2009 7,491m Chief Executive Officer, Rail Profit before exceptionals and amortisation 2% 2010 212m 2009 207m KPI Secured orders and ABNC as % of revenue The secured order book and the awarded but not contracted orders ABNC are a leading indicator of our future revenue.
32% 2010 188% 156% 2009 Annual report and accounts 2010 33 operating review construction services Our strategy US The strength of our construction business lies in our In 2010, the US economy remained difficult and abilityto integrate and manage local supply chains to competition in the industry was fierce, as contractors deliver projects on budget and on time.
Our technical switched from the private construction market which expertise, supplemented by Parsons Brinckerhoffs has virtually ground to a halt into the federal market.
capabilities, is crucial in meeting the complex needs of Theeducation and defence sectors were particularly our customers.
Increasingly they are seeking to reduce tough.
Our early adopter decision in 2008 to focus on interface and delivery risks by asking us to integrate federal work stood us in good stead: we won a number notonly the supply chain, but also other stakeholders ofbids for large federal projects.
such as owners, users and regulators.
We believe that Opportunities in civil infrastructure were reduced by integrator capability is a competitive advantage that anintensity of competition that saw bids being won differentiates us from our peers.
below the levels at which we would wish to operate.
Our strategy for the UK construction business is to seek Thegovernments stimulus package did little to help growth across the breadth of the market, where our usdirectly as most of it was focused on shovel-ready experience in all segments buildings, roads and ground projects.
The rail market was also limited by funding.
engineering enables us to operate flexibly.
We manage However, we are starting to see one positive trend in risk and focus closely on cost and operational themove towards qualification-based tendering rather performance to maintain robust margins.
International In the US, our construction business has become much broader after recent acquisitions and the merging of our Our joint venture, Gammon, operates in Hong Kong andSingapore, which are very different markets.
US rail and infrastructure businesses.
We see this as an opportunity to achieve synergies and efficiencies while In Hong Kong, Gammons technical capabilities and differentiating ourselves in a very competitive market.
trackrecord are important as bids tend to be assessed Weare currently number five among US building onquality, not just on price.
The Hong Kong economy contractors and aim to become the true national player.
hasreceived considerable stimulus from public sector We will seek to achieve this through organic growth spending on infrastructure: mass transit, road schemes, andinfill acquisitions, leveraging our capabilities into and other heavy civil engineering work.
We expect this otherregions and differentiating ourselves through our spending to continue for the medium term.
integrated service offer and innovation.
In contrast to Hong Kong, Gammons Singapore market Our marketplace ishighly price-sensitive with significant competition on UK open tender lists.
The UK market in 2010 was significantly affected by the Elsewhere in Asia, Macau has opened up again and change of government and subsequent Comprehensive Gammon is working on a number of projects.
Gammon Spending Review CSR the anticipation of which reduced isalso targeting opportunities in Vietnam.
There is also market activity.
Around 20% of the Groups business considerable potential in Indonesia, where GDP growth derives from UK government capital expenditure iscoupled with a need for infrastructure to support the programmes and the majority of that revenue is in export of natural resources.
It is too early to predict precisely what effect the CSR will have, though the government In the Middle East, Dubai has experienced difficult acknowledges the need for continuing infrastructure economic conditions resulting in fewer opportunities for spending, particularly for civil infrastructure in transport new projects.
However, this has been offset by a number and energy.
of awards in the civil and electrical and mechanical engineering sectors in Abu Dhabi, where prospects are Despite uncertainty in the market, a number of the good.
In addition, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and other GCC largeprojects in which we are involved are still going countries are showing strong infrastructure demand.
ahead, including Crossrail, nuclear, power and offshore wind farm projects.
There is still a good level of construction activity in socialinfrastructure markets.
Several Building Schools forthe Future BSF schemes have progressed to financialclose despite cancellation of the remainder: anumber of major hospital projects are on offer: and instudent accommodation we are harnessing the capabilities of our regional construction businesses.
However, there is little sign of green shoots in the commercial sector.
34 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | State-of-the-art medical centre for giant US base US The downturn in US private sector construction highlights the value of our strength in major federal projects.
Recent high-profile wins include a new state-of-the-art medical centre for one of the largest military bases in the US.
To date, its the largest project backed by the US Governments economic stimulus programme.
Our joint venture was selected in September 2010 to design and build this US$503m 325m new Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center hospital for the US Armys Fort Hood base in Texas.
We are a proven team: five members of our team have already collaborated on the outstanding Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda.
Building on that experience, we have worked 100% 55% 50% closely with project stakeholders to design a world-class outside air less energy less water facility that combines clinical effectiveness and energy efficiency with stress reduction and comfort for patients and visitors.
In the US, we are ranked as a Top 10 Green Builder andthe new medical centre is designed to meet the  LEED Gold standard for environmental performance.
It will use 30% less energythan a baseline building and at least 55% less utilities energy than the 45-year-old building it replaces.
The climate control system will use 100% outside air tominimise the risk of cross-infection.
Artists impression We are great believers in bringing local small businesses into our supply chains.
We met with over 170 firms at outreach events and provided support such as mentoring for managers and joint employee training.
Tommy Campbell, Operations Director Brent Blake, Senior Project Manager Balfour Beatty Construction, US Ward zone The hospital serves a community of 65,000 on one of the USs largest military bases.
Annual report and accounts 2010 35 operating review construction services Broad capabilities create wide opportunities UK The breadth of skills we have assembled to address all aspects of infrastructure gives us great flexibility.
We are well placed to bid successfully for a broad range of work, in line with our strategic aim to focus on markets with the greatest opportunities.
A case in point is the recovery in commercial office developments, particularly inLondon.
We emphasised our credentials in this market with the completion in2010 of 1 Bartholomew Lane, an imposing office development on a sensitive corner site in the City of London, opposite the Bank of England.
The 32.5m project involved retaining the six-storey faade of a 1930s bank building.
Behind this, and rising four floors above it, we built a highly-efficient modern office offering almost 7,400 square meters of space on 12floors.
The building is built to high energy-efficiency standards and has a BREEAM rating of Very Good.
Successful completion of this high-profile and complex project on a challenging site positions us well to tender forother commercial developments, particularly where faade retention is involved.
We were building onto six storeys of supported faade with limited access in a sensitive conservation area with tight space restrictions.
Thats quite a challenge, but we delivered toatight schedule while staying on good termswith neighbours and the customer.
Graham Mercer Project Director, Balfour Beatty Construction Lime and a twist The limestone-lined reception features an elegant spiral staircase.
36 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Rail In January 2011, we won in joint venture a 235m contract In most of our markets 2010 was characterised by from Crossrail for the construction of Whitechapel and uncertainty, with many rail projects being postponed Liverpool Street Station tunnels and associated works orscaled down.
This is the first of a series of contracts that weexpect to win from Crossrail as this enormous project In the UK, the concern over government spending gets underway.
causedproject delays and inhibited growth.
However, inGermany, where we are particularly strong in We strengthened our presence at Sellafield with two electrification and track, market conditions have remained contracts to build new storage facilities at the facility, stable.
Customers have been focusing on cost-cutting and adding to our nuclear experience.
We have also been we have been working with them to achieve their goals.
shortlisted for work at Hinckley Point, where EDF is planning to build two new nuclear power stations, and we Sweden has shown excellent growth up 30% in volume are looking to bid for work at the proposed RWE E. ON compared to 2009, and our business in Spain also had a nuclear power station at Wylfa on Anglesey.
good year, despite the economic difficulties.
Mansell, our regional building business, had a busy year.
Financial performance The Strata business we acquired in December 2009 was 2010 was a good year for Construction Services in weak integrated successfully, and in October 2010 we bought construction markets.
Revenue declined by 10% relative parts of the Rok business, which have the potential to add to 2009, although compared to the 13% decline in the 100m of revenue to Mansells operations.
Two significant first half of the year, this was an improved performance awards were a 65m design and build contract to inthe second half.
Several successful completions, good redevelop Wornington Green Estate for Kensington operational delivery and focus on cost-efficiency have Housing Trust and a share of a 220m four-year resulted in profit from operations before exceptional items framework for the London Borough of Hackney.
and amortisation of 212m 2009: 207m up 2% on Thesecured order book at Mansell improved in the year 2009 and hence a higher margin.
by more than 200m almost 40% up on 2009.
Order intake was particularly encouraging, bringing We rebuilt 1 Bartholomew Lane, a historic building next theyear-end secured order book to 9.2bn compared tothe Bank of England, as a commercial office and weare to8.2bn at the end of 2009. seeking further opportunities in the commercial buildings sector.
Operational performance Meanwhile, we have a good pipeline of projects as UK partofthe Building Schools for the Future programme.
This was a good year in a weak market, with excellent Wecompleted 10 projects during the year, and began operational delivery of completed projects and project construction in Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton, milestones.
Several other Successful completions included Pinderfields Hospital, schools reached financial close in 2010 and construction Birmingham New Hospital and Tameside Hospital.
The is due to start on 17 schemes in 2011. next phase of bidding for acute hospitals is underway.
US There was good progress on Londons Blackfriars Bridge.
During the period 20072009, we grew our US business The railway station has remained open while we widen with acquisitions in regions where we expect good the bridge, and the successful switch from old to new growth.
The acquired companies are now fully integrated track over Christmas was a major milestone.
into our business, and we have introduced a new organisational structure to improve collaboration and The roads and bridges contracts for the Olympic moreeffective access to the national market.
This includes DeliveryAuthority were handed over during October combining our rail and infrastructure activities with US andNovember on schedule, and we are now involved construction under a single management structure to inbuilding and fitting-out work on this complex project.
enhance synergies, share best practice and pursue joint Successful completion of the first phase of Heathrow projects.
We have also created four regions covering the Terminal 2B in November 2009 led to the award of US, each with a wide range of capabilities and its own second phase work.
This involves not only our design, regional management.
construction, ground engineering, and specialist We are looking to work with PB on projects that require mechanical and electrical expertise, but also the design-build, vertical skill sets or geographic leverage.
professional services capabilities of Parsons Brinckerhoff.
One example is the Eagle P3 commuter rail project in The technical expertise that PB provides was crucial in Denver, Colorado.
This is for the design, build, finance the award of this 460m contract.
andoperation DBFO of more than 30 miles of Highways activity on the M74, A46, A421 and A3 at commuterrail lines and was a spectacular win for Hindhead made significant progress.
Key programme BalfourBeatty in joint venture with Fluor.
We are milestones were achieved on the M25 DBFO Design responsible for a US$500m 333m share in the Build Finance and Operate contract with the first section engineering, procurement and construction contract, completed in March 2010 and the next section due for andhave a third share worth US$340m 227m completion in May 2011. ofa29-year operations and maintenance contract.
Theproject integrates our construction and rail activities as well as PB.
Annual report and accounts 2010 37 operating review construction services In April 2010, we were selected in joint venture for This is a HK$4.75bn 407m contract involving the pre-construction and construction services on Dallas construction of two stations and a 2.2km running tunnel.
FortWorth International Airports terminal development See case study on page 23. programme.
Construction is already underway and we The widening of Hong Kongs Tolo and Fanling highways aremaking good progress on this US$900m 600m is another high-profile project win.
The contract, worth seven-year project for which we were picked purely on HK$2.4bn 195m, includes the modification, demolition qualification a testament to our strength in aviation.
or construction of numerous bridges.
Work began in In September, we won the contract in joint venture to February 2011. provide design-build services for the US$503m 325m Gammon has won in joint venture a HK$2.883bn 238m Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center at Fort Hood, Texas.
contract to build part of the Hong Kong section of the Construction is scheduled to start in the second quarter  Kong Express Rail Link of2011.
See case study on page 35. adirect line from mainland China to Hong Kong.
We were also selected by the US Army Corps of Gammons strength in aviation infrastructure was Engineers to provide design-build services for the Utah confirmed by the award in joint venture of a HK$4.2bn Data Centre at Camp Williams, Utah.
The US$1.2bn 353m air cargo terminal construction contract by 0.8bn project includes a 100,000 square feet technical Cathay Pacific Services.
data centre and 900,000 square feet of technical support and administrative space.
Following the contract for the redevelopment of the Victoria Park swimming pool complex, Gammon won The headquarters for the National Geospatial Agency has acontract for a leisure complex in Kwun Tong featuring progressed well and will be delivered according to plan.
several Olympic-size pools and ancillary facilities.
This is a highly technical project for a national agency, Gammon has also been awarded a five-year transmission andthe skills and experience we demonstrated were line project and an electrical and mechanical contract on instrumental in winning the Utah Data Centre project.
Together, these contracts are worth International HK$2.3bn 190m.
Gammons forward order book is at record levels, with Rail projects worth HK$23bn 1.9bn.
In the UK, we successfully delivered the Airdrie to Gammon has won in joint venture its third contract on Bathgate electrification project and in Scotland, we theWest Island Line project for the Hong Kong metro.
secured the Paisley corridor project.
In Switzerland, we are laying track in the 57km Gotthard train tunnel, and starting electrification.
This massive project took a year of preparatory logistics before Safety first in the Gulf UAE workbegan.
Zero Harm means the same wherever in the world Signalling Solutions, our joint venture with Alstom, wework.
But the way we make it happen is tailored to hadanother good year and our catenary manufacturing every project and workforce.
Our BK Gulf joint venture in business in China performed extremely well.
the UAE, with its multicultural workforce, puts particular emphasis on communication and training all its safety We are now starting to submit bids in collaboration officers are multilingual.
withPB, to offer more integrated solutions.
We are preparing our final bid for a project in Denmark, and It also makes effective use of new techniques and another in Australia.
Without PB as a partner, both of products to reduce hazards.
Last year it completed over ourbids would simply have been as a sub-contractor a million hours work without a single lost time incident tothe contract winner.
on the extension to the gigantic Mall of the Emirates, thanks in part to its use of prefabricated wiring and Looking forward pipework modules the first system of its kind to Overall, the medium-term prospects for Construction beapproved in Dubai.
These eliminated the need for Services look good.
While the lingering effects of the hotwork on-site.
Across all its projects, the company financial crisis mean that some markets remain weak, clocked-up 21.4m manhours without a reportable others are thriving.
Short-term reductions in public sector incident between October 2009 and November 2010 spending will be offset by long-term spending on new and won the MEP Middle East Health and Safety energy and infrastructure projects worldwide.
Balfour Achievement Award in December.
Beatty is well placed to benefit from these developments.
We expect to maintain growth in general construction in the UK through our school building work and a slow return of commercial markets.
38 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Senior living is an area of opportunity for our regional P3 on track US building business.
Budget hotels are also growing, andour2010 acquisition of Multibuild gives us strength Public-private partnerships are gaining traction in inthissegment.
The contracts we acquired with our theUS, where they are known as P3s.
We are part purchase of parts of Roks business should support ofthe team selected to design and build the Eagle ouractivity in the affordable new-build housing P3commuter rail project in Denver, and maintain construction market.
This is the first rail P3 project intheUS: its also our first transit project to include Energy and power markets are coming to the fore, bothoperation and maintenance, and the first where withan increasing number of nuclear and wind power weareresponsible for the delivery of rolling stock.
Energy from waste and related waste Wewillbe responsible for half the US$1.3bn 0.8bn treatment projects are also growing in number, presenting engineering and construction contract and a third of the us with further opportunities.
Carbon capture and storage US$1.4bn 0.9bn operation and maintenance contract.
is another new market that we are looking at with The project includes 36 miles of commuter lines and technical expertise from PB.
In the US, federal markets are reaching a trough and weexpect this sector to present fewer opportunities in the near future.
There are some green shoots in private construction, though these are tending to be individual projects rather than market-wide trends.
The restructuring of our US operations under one management structure will allow us to offer a broader range of services combining the full capabilities of theGroup.
Gammon has a very strong order book in Hong Kong, Artists impression andthe fact that the government is continuing to spend on mass transit systems is encouraging for our business.
Indonesia offers long-term opportunities to build an infrastructure capable of supporting its economic development.
And in India, our joint venture with GVK isseeking to pre-qualify for a US$1.2bn road contract between Mumbai and Delhi.
In contrast, the Middle East is less active, with Dubai remaining challenging.
Work continues to be let in Abu Dhabi, although at a slower rate than in the past.
There are, however, opportunities in Qatar and Saudi Arabia.
We expect a year of growth for the rail business as a whole: and despite the UK Governments spending cuts, we expect Crossrail to present opportunities in the medium term.
In Europe we expect a steady year, with the business in Germany continuing to grow, while in Asia, the mass transit projects in Hong Kong could lead tofurther opportunities for our rail and electrification activities elsewhere.
Rapid GDP growth is driving infrastructure demand in Asia.
Weareseeing interesting opportunities in India, Indonesia and Vietnam.
Brian Osborne Director of International Business Annual report and accounts 2010 39
