operating review professional services ahead of expectations What do we do?
Programme and project management Construction management Project design Technical services Planning Consultancy Whats happened?
Parsons Brinckerhoff became an integral part ofBalfourBeatty Professional Services was reorganised with more focusplaced on customer service, technical expertise andproject execution Halsall, an employee-owned Canadian professional services business, was acquired Whats next?
Pursue opportunities to add capability to Professional Services by acquisition, particularly in power, water andmining Improve technical teams by transferring skilled labour force between geographies Leverage Parsons Brinckerhoffs customer relationships in emerging markets into other parts of the business How we performed Order book 7% 2010 1.5bn 2009 1.4bn This was a transformational year for Revenue including JVs and associates theGroup in respect of its professional 2010 1,613m services capability.
Parsons Brinckerhoff 2009 558m is now an integral part ofBalfour Beattys Profit before exceptionals and amortisation core business, restructured to improve 2010 85m visibility, efficiency and focus.
2009 13m Parsons Brinckerhoff was consolidated for the full year for George Pierson thefirsttime.
Chief Executive Officer, Professional Services KPI Billability Billability is a good measure of resource utilisation, andhence profitability, in what is essentially a billable hours business.
100bps 2010 58.7% 2009 57.7% Computes PBs total direct labour cost charged to projects divided bytotal labour cost of employees.
28 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Creating South Asias premier aviation hub India Demand for transport infrastructure is growing fast in India.
The new third terminal has more than tripled capacity at Delhis Indira Gandhi International Airport from 12m passengers a year to 37m: and by 2030 the airport is aiming for 100m.
Opened in July 2010, Terminal 3 made Indira Gandhi International South Asias largest and most important aviation hub.
Parsons Brinckerhoff PB was project management consultant for the new terminal, a 2.8-mile runway, 19 miles of taxiway and two fire and rescue stations.
PB has also provided general engineering consultancy for a new rail link with downtown Delhi.
At 500,000 square meters, Terminal 3 is the worlds eighth largest passenger terminal.
It has 168 check-in counters, 78 air bridges at 48 contact stands, 30 parking bays, 95immigration counters, 15 X-ray screening areas andextensive shopping facilities.
The new 2.8-mile runway enables the airport to handle 25% more air traffic.
It is one of the longest at an Indianairport and one of the few in Asia with a CAT IIIB instrument landing system capable of guiding aircraft inlow-visibility conditions.
PBs extensive international aviation experience Artists impression madeitanatural choice for managing this big, complex projectparticularly since some 90% of passengers Guiding light Delhis new gateway sets usingthe airport will pass through Terminal 3.
It really the standard for South Asia airports.
A run Chandran, PB Project Director, Delhi International Airport Annual report and accounts 2010 29 operating review professional services Our strategy Rest of the world The acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff PB has made The business environment in Australia continued to be Balfour Beatty a global player in project management and robust, driven by resource demand, primarily from Asia.
design, as well as the market leader in US transportation The buoyant markets of Hong Kong, Singapore and South and UK power.
Korea encouraged the further development of our already successful businesses.
Professional Services is, in effect, a fee-based consultancy business.
Its success relies on maximising staff utilisation However, demand in the Middle East was sluggish as to increase billable hours, while winning work on the continued uncertainty over debt continued to affect the strength of its track record and staff qualifications.
Our strategy is two-pronged: pursuing geographic and Financial performance market growth, and increasing profitability.
Regions A series of major project wins has maintained a healthy where we see particular scope for growth include pipeline of work for 2011: our order book increased Canada, India and Northern Europe.
Revenue at 1,613m reflects the Halsall was a significant step in developing our business mixeddynamics in our geographies and end-markets in Canada, and we will seek further infill acquisitions and asexplained below.
Profit from operations before joint ventures where this provides the most appropriate exceptional items and amortisation was ahead of means of developing our business.
Similarly, where we expectations at 85m.
Margin was enhanced by the have gaps in our capability in water, mining, building consolidation of PB, the effect of additional 8m incentive engineering and transportation in specific geographies, income in the UK and improved project execution.
Operational performance We have identified a number of areas where there is This was a transformational year for the Group in scope for increasing profitability.
Firstly, we will concentrate respectof its professional services capability.
Parsons on high-margin services and projects such as programme Brinckerhoff is an integral part of Balfour Beattys core and construction management, design-build and PPP.
business, restructured to improve visibility, efficiency Secondly, we will focus on retaining a higher proportion of andfocus.
Professional Services is now organised gross revenue by subcontracting less.
Weare also through four market-focused divisions in the Americas, continuously reducing costs by increasing our organisational together with two international divisions covering efficiency.
Some of the successful initiatives in this area Australia, Asia Pacific and South Africa AAPSA and are outlined in the Operational performance section below.
Our marketplace Creating a Motor City icon US US The financial crisis has delayed the formalisation of The key to growing long-term relationships isnt just spending plans embodied in the Highways Bill, understanding the customers needs.
Its having the whichhasconstrained progress on the award of larger resources to satisfy them.
However, government stimulus measures ofTransport DDOT wanted a new US$22m 14m havebeen indirectly helpful: although they mainly transport interchange to replace the demolished bus fundedshovel-ready projects such as road resurfacing, station.
It found a city centre site, ideally located thisdidfree up other money for states to spend on butextremely tight for the planned 15 bus stands.
professional services for other projects.
Whenthe transit centres original designers declared thesite unfeasible, their client called PB to create this We continue to win work in transportation as a result innovative solution.
ofour strong relationships with our customers and our early-stage involvement in the design and development The idea was to link 21 city bus routes with the People ofpotential projects.
Mover metro and regional bus lines.
More ambitiously, the facility should also be an iconic local landmark and a By contrast, the US power market has not seen many stimulus to urban regeneration.
PB met these goals with major new projects though there is activity in the flair, teaming a three-storey building with a seven-peaked smallpower plant sector, where we are strong.
Its eye-catching The private building market has virtually ground to a halt, General Motors even wanted to shoot commercials though we still have work in public buildings and hospitals.
there but, says PB architect Tushar Advani, the first priority was to provide the greatest comfort for the UK citys travelling public at the most reasonable cost.
The UK market in 2010 was impacted by the change of government.
The incoming coalitions Comprehensive Spending Review CSR put a brake on market activity even before its conclusions were announced, and the proposed reductions in government capital spending were broadly in line with expectations.
While the government acknowledges the need for continued infrastructure spending, particularly in transport and energy, it is too early to predict the precise effect that theCSR will have on our business.
In the power sector, uncertainty over government and regulatory attitudes to new initiatives limited the amount of work available.
30 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Europe, the Middle East and North Africa EuMENA.
Virtuous zircon Australia Management structure has been simplified and more focus has been placed on client service, technical Parsons Brinckerhoff brings us exciting new expertise and project execution.
The changes, welcomed opportunities in the mining sector and in Australia.
The by customers and key staff, have driven improved Jacinth-Ambrosia Mineral Sands Mine combined the performance in the business.
In a joint project team with the mine owner, PB delivered the AU$420m 275m development of one of In October, we acquired the employee-owned Canadian the worlds richest zircon deposits in just 18 months six professional services business Halsall.
See case study weeks ahead of schedule and 10% under budget.
Halsall provides design and engineering performance was outstanding: over 900,000 hours services to the building market and structural engineering work in a remote Southern Australian desert without a services to transportation clients.
Due to its resilient single lost-time injury.
Consult Australia named it 2010s economy and good infrastructure demand, Canada Project of the Year.
isanattractive infrastructure market for Balfour Beatty, anddeveloping the Groups business there is a strategicpriority.
A series of major project wins has maintained a healthy pipeline of work for 2011. Notable wins in the US include a joint venture in which PBwill be responsible for design management and key design aspects of a 1.9 mile underground connection onthe Los Angeles metro, as well as project controls andrisk assessment.
Further east, we will deliver design services for the expansion of the University of Arizona Stadium, connecting two grandstands in a bowl configuration.
In Australia, PB has partnered with Thiess to provide Covering design and programme management, the environmental, electrical, civil and structural services Americas buildings business has been adversely affected insupport of Thiesss transmission cable installation by a surge in competition for work on public buildings programme.
asmany firms move from the subdued private market.
In the rail sector, the Guizhou section of the ChangshaOur EuMENA business performed satisfactorily.
Reduced Kunming high speed line is a joint venture in which PB revenue in the UK was offset by city transit work in willestablish the management system for the projects Northern Europe and North Africa.
In contrast, the Middle construction supervision work.
East continues to underperform as the global financial And in London, PB is part of an integrated Balfour crisis is still affecting the flow of new work.
In response, Beattyteam for the design of a two-mile segment we have continued to adjust our resources to the amount oftheCrossrail project.
This will include the design of work available.
ofanewstation, a four-track railway, and new overhead Our AAPSA business has particular expertise in power electrified railway lines.
inAustralia, building in Asia, and mining in South Africa.
Our Americas transportation business performed The combined operation performed well during the year, verywell, increasing market share in a difficult market.
benefiting from the organisational changes and good Additional project management training, increased operational performance on key projects.
We will continue projectreviews and focus on simplifying the management to drive efficiency improvements.
structure enabled managers to get closer to project teamsand tackle margin erosion.
This improved project Looking forward execution as well as profitability.
Our UK market is likely to remain difficult in 2011 aspublic-sector spending cuts take effect, creating Curbs on public spending mean that new work in uncertainty and project delays.
In the US, the building transportation is tending to come from the expansion market will continue to be challenging but we are ofexisting programmes rather than the launch of new well-positioned in the power sector, with a good base projects.
The cancellation of the Trans-Hudson tunnel load of work.
We are particularly optimistic about our project in New York, which wehad been leading, underground energy storage business, where we are wasamanifestation of the pressures on public finances, theglobal market leader.
but we have a good base of work going forward, and areconfident that we will continue to win anincreasing Our most positive outlook is in Asia.
This region has share of the market.
emerged most quickly and strongly from the financial crisis and is projecting the highest growth rates.
We The Americas power business delivered good results, arebuilding our capabilities accordingly.
Our focus will having kept costs under tight control.
However, a year beon developing profitable, sustainable businesses with reduced emergency work for the Federal Emergency intheemerging markets of India and Vietnam, as well Management Agency significantly affected the asinmarkets such as Hong Kong, Singapore and South performance of our US federal business.
Korea where we are already successful and possess significant scale.
