operating review infrastructure investMents an evolving Model What do we do?
Operate a portfolio of long-term PPP concessions in the UK, primarily in the education, health and roads street lighting sectors Operate a portfolio of long-term military accommodation PPP concessions in the US Have interests in non-PPP assets at Blackpool and Exeter International Airports and Barking Power Station Whats happened?
Won eight PPP bids including four schools projects Reached financial close on three follow-on Building Schools for the Future projects Received additional funding for the Fort Carson military housing project Appointed preferred bidder for Thanet offshore transmission system OFTO Sold interests in two PPP assets, realising disposal gainsof 20m Whats next?
Intend to dispose of some 200m300m of PPP andother assets over the next four to five years Develop funds management business Transfer the successful military housing model to other areas in the US, particularly student housing Pursue PPP opportunities in Canada and in offshore windin the UK How we performed Revenue including JVs and associates -10% We have now reached the point in the 2010 750m business cycle where it is appropriate 2009 829m torealise some of the value inherent in Profit before exceptionals and amortisation infrastructure investments.
We began -38% by disposing of interests in two assets 2010 25m in early 2010 and now plan to accelerate 2009 40m that process.
KPI Directors valuation Anthony Rabin While there are numerous factors that contribute to the Deputy Chief Executive, Balfour Beatty plc movement in the Directors valuation of PPP concessions, it is a good indicator ofthe value we create in our portfolio.
11% 2010 679m 2009 610m 44 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Meeting buoyant demand for student beds US US university budgets are under strain as public support is reduced.
But attendance continues to expand and there is growing demand for student accommodation.
Itsasignificant opportunity for public-private partnerships PPP or P3 in the US, andwe are due to open our first P3 student housing scheme at Florida Atlantic University FAU in August.
At FAU, we are building on the expertise we gained from providing P3 housing projects for the US military.
Balfour Beattys investment and construction businesses have teamed up to design, build, and operate accommodation for over 1,200 students.
The US$123m 79m Innovation Village Apartments project will add 50% to FAUs existing 2,400-bed accommodation, which we will also manage under the contract.
There is also a likely option to develop a further 1,200 beds by 2020.
Balfour Beatty invested capital in subordinated bonds tosupport the project.
FAUs existing student housing was incorporated into a new non-profit organisation which also owns the new assets we are building, allowing funds to be raised for additional infrastructure.
489,000 375 1,216 square feet units beds P3 is an effective way to introduce private expertise and capital into the public sector, meeting the current and future needs for housing and infrastructure at colleges and universities while improving overall value.
B ruce Robinson President and CEO, Balfour Beatty Capital Group Green housing The 375 apartments in two buildings Artists impression are anticipated to meet the LEED Silver standard.
Annual report and accounts 2010 45 operating review infrastructure investMents Our strategy 999 call for private finance UK Over the past 15 years, Balfour Beatty has built the UKs largest public-private partnership PPP or formerly PFI Our investment expertise means we can help public portfolio, outside those held by financial institutions.
sector clients make constrained budgets go further.
Thisportfolio has increased in value significantly, with Intough times, thats a crucial competitive strength.
ourability to enhance operational efficiency adding further Forexample, three fire and rescue authorities in value to assets after their construction.
north-west England have formed a consortium to buy services more efficiently.
Together, they have awarded We have now reached the point in the business cycle us a 48m PPP contract to finance, design and build where it is appropriate to realise some of the value 16new fire stations and to run them for 25 years.
We began doing this by Thisisthe UKs largest fire and rescue PPP to date.
disposing of two assets in early 2010 and now plan toaccelerate that process.
We intend to dispose of some 200m300m of PPP and other selected infrastructure assets over the next four to five years, achieving around 20m in disposal gains per annum.
The proceeds will provide cash for reinvestment opportunities, both within Infrastructure Investments andelsewhere in the Group, as well as providing scope for enhancing dividends.
We will continue to be a substantial investor as well as, increasingly, a developer.
In practice this will mean disposing of some equity positions after construction or, on occasions, simply taking fees to facilitate investment for others at financial close.
The developer model will enable us to increase profit before tax from this business through profits on disposals and developers fees over Financial performance At 31 December 2010, Balfour Beatty had total committed thenext few years, as well as continuing to receive income from the investments themselves.
equity and subordinated debt of 582m across 57 projects, four of which were at preferred bidder stage.
Our marketplace In April 2010, we sold our entire 50% interest in Aberdeen Following the change of government in the UK and the Environmental Services and a 23.9% interest in Consort incoming coalitions Comprehensive Spending Review, Healthcare Edinburgh Royal Infirmary for a total of 24m, the coalition has indicated that it may seek to evolve the realising disposal gains of 20m treated as an exceptional role of PPP.
Relatively positive statements from a number of spending The original 15-year contracts for the supply of gas and departments on the continuing need for private finance electricity off-take for Barking Power came to an end reinforce our view that there will be a continuing and during 2010, and a non-cash impairment charge of 27m important place for PPP.
But we believe the nature was recorded in exceptional items.
We have made the ofPPPinvestment may change with projects put out decision to dispose of our interest in Barking Power.
totender that require more complex solutions than previously necessary, probably involving greater income Overall, despite the asset sales, the Directors valuation of risk.
However, we do not see this as negative and believe the PPP portfolio rose in the year to 679m 2009: 610m.
that our extensive skills base will enable us to address thisnew market successfully.
Operational performance UK In the US, military family housing privatisation programmes In an excellent year for our UK investment business, are drawing to a close although we are still pursuing a wewon eight PPP bids including four schools projects.
small number of large projects.
However, we have almost Inaddition, we have reached financial close on three completed construction of our first student housing PPP, follow-on Building Schools for the Future projects from and see significant growth opportunities in the student our existing concessions and are working on the next housing market as well as an increasing acceptance that phases, and have a number of bids in progress.
The private finance has a role to play in refurbishing the projects we won in 2010 secured future investment of nations infrastructure.
60m, as well as providing around 390m of construction work together with a number of long-term facilities management and operations and management contracts.
46 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | During the year we focused attention on a newly Canada emerging private finance sector: offshore power Canada is an attractive market for infrastructure transmission.
Under the EU Renewable Energy Directive, investments.
It has supported UK-style PPP programmes the UK has committed to meeting 15% of its energy at both federal and provincial levels, particularly in Ontario.
needs from renewable sources by 2020, requiring a In 2010, we set up an office in Toronto with local staff sevenfold increase in renewable energy generation supported by our US and UK businesses.
Together with compared with 2008 and some 100bn of capital Construction Services, this team has already been investment.
Activity has been relatively small-scale so far, shortlisted for two courthouse projects in Ontario.
but is likely to accelerate rapidly over the next 10 years.
The Groups acquisition of professional services group As part of its drive to stimulate investment, the Halsall in October 2010 will also support our increasing government has been licensing wind farms in the UK focus on Canada.
It has also been privatising the transmission infrastructure that links offshore wind farms Looking forward to the onshore network, through three licensing rounds.
Despite economic and political uncertainty we see continuing opportunities for high-quality investment The first licensing round, relating to completed or part-completed assets, is in the final stages of bidding.
inUKPPPs and anticipate over 3bn of bidding opportunities over the next two years.
We also see We have been selected as preferred bidder to acquire the transmission assets of the worlds largest offshore wind increasing opportunities in Canada and are currently considering bids for five new projects.
farm the 100-turbine Thanet array off the Kent coast and have another bid in hand, for which the winner will To expand the Groups income generating potential, be announced during 2011.
Thanet will provide us with a wehave also begun establishing an infrastructure sound investment and give Support Services a long-term fundsmanagement business for which we have contract to repair and maintain the asset.
We believe we have a good chance of success in the second round of existing and semi-completed assets, which begins in 2011, comprising six licences involving over 2bn of capital expenditure.
We also see particular scope for our combination of capabilities in the third round, which covers assets yet to be built.
Licences inthisround will create construction, maintenance and investment opportunities.
There is also the potential for additional construction activity of the offshore platform.
US Class not dismissed UK In the US, 2010 was a year of transition for us.
While ourNavy Northeast project experienced a decrease We have committed 79m of equity investment in inoccupancy due to reduced military demand, and our 14UK education PPPs to build over 100 schools and NavySoutheast project is expected to experience a upgrade and maintain over 100 more.
further reduction in scope, which was driven by reduced There is a continuing need for investment in education rental rates, our Fort Carson project in Colorado received infrastructure, although expenditure is expected to additional funding of US$100m 65m for further reduce following the decade-long boom in spending construction.
thatsaw education take an unsustainable share of GDP In February 2011, we were also selected as the highest see chart below.
Comprehensive Spending Review ranked offeror for the Western Group of four US Air Force figures indicate that spending will stay substantially bases.
Although family military housing programmes are above historical levels.
expected to draw to a close in the short term, the military housing market may return to growth if the Armed Forces Education decides to privatise barracks or single personnel housing.
1.8 1.6 Meanwhile, we are looking to transfer the successful military housing model to other areas, particularly student 1.4 housing.
Universities, like the military, have large property 1.2 holdings, the financing and managing of which is not a 1.0 Education core competency.
Privatisation makes an attractive 0.8 solution and Infrastructure Investments is collaborating 0.6 with Construction Services to develop attractive solutions 0.4 to meet universities real estate and financing needs.
0.2 0.0 In March 2010, we reached financial close on a PPP to develop and manage new student residential facilities for Water Gas, Comms, Air Rail Education Florida Atlantic University.
This US$123m 78m project Harbours Electricity Roads Health is an important step in developing our experience in this Source: ONS sector in the US.
