Governance 54 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Principal business activities G. J. Gordon appointed 23 February 2010 The principal activities of the Group are the A. J. M. Huntley appointed 23 February 2010 management and development of a portfolio of H. E. Staunton appointed 2 June 2010 property investments concentrated in three A. D. Strang appointed 23 February 2010 landmark estates in West London and the West End.
D. A. Fischel appointed 23 February 2010, resigned 4 February 2011 Business review Information fullling the requirements of the G. J. Gordon appointed G. R. Fine as his alternate on Business Review, is contained within the following 9 March 2010. sections of the annual report: On 3 February 2010, Hackwood Directors Limited and The Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9, and P. A. Newcombe were appointed as the first Directors the Business review on pages 12 to 39, contain of the Company and they resigned on the same date.
information relating to the Group and the operation, development and future prospects of the business.
Biographies of each Director can be found on pages 52 and 53 and details of each Directors interests in The Financial review on pages 42 to 48 contains the Companys shares are set out on page 124. information on the results and financial position for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Key The powers of the Directors are determined by Performance Indicators are set out on page 14.
UK legislation and the Companys Articles of The principal risks and uncertainties statement Association together with any specic authorities on pages 16 and 17 contains information on the that shareholders may approve from time to time.
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group: the Financial review, accounting policies on pages At the first Annual General Meeting of the Company, 89 to 91 and note 29 on pages 108 to 113 contain all the Directors will retire from office and will offer information on the use of financial instruments.
The Corporate responsibility report on pages 57 to 60 Directors indemnities and insurance contains information about environmental matters, the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Groups employees and social and community matters.
Association, the Company has indemnified the Directors to the full extent allowed by law.
Directors The Company maintains Directors and Officers The Directors of Capital & Counties Properties PLC insurance which is reviewed annually.
who held office during the year were as follows: Compensation for loss of ofce Chairman: The Company does not have any agreements I. C. Durant appointed 23 February 2010 with any Executive Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or Executive Directors: employment resulting from a takeover except that I. D. Hawksworth appointed 3 February 2010 provisions of the company share schemes may cause S. Das appointed 23 February 2010 options and awards to vest on a takeover.
The terms G. J. Yardley appointed 3 February 2010 of appointment of the Non-executive Directors provide for a payment equal to their basic annual Non-executive Directors: fee in the event of change of control in recognition I. J. Henderson appointed 23 February 2010 of the additional time involved in such an event.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Governance 55 Articles of association Employees The rules governing the appointment and The Groups employees are employed by C&C replacement of Directors are contained in the Management Services Limited, Earls Court Limited, Companys Articles of Association.
Earls Court & Olympia Limited, Olympia Limited, The Brewery by EC&O Limited and Tuttons Changes to the Articles of Association must be Brasserie Limited.
The Company has a policy of approved by shareholders in accordance with communicating appropriate information about its the Companies Act 2006. performance to employees.
This practice is reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure that employees are Dividends appropriately informed.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 1 pence per share to be paid on 19 May 2011 to shareholders Certain of the Groups employees are eligible to on the register at 15 April 2011.
The total dividend for participate in annual bonus arrangements.
These the year amounts to 1.5 pence per share.
arrangements, which may include awards under the Groups Performance Share Plan, help to develop Capital structure employees interest in the Companys performance.
Details of the Companys issued ordinary share Full details of the Performance Share Plan are contained capital, including details of any movements in the in note 39 to the accounts on pages 118 to 120. issued share capital during the year and authorities to issue or repurchase shares, are shown in note 32 The Company operates a non-discriminatory to the financial statements on page 115. employment policy and full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment from There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares disabled applicants where they have the appropriate or on their voting rights beyond those standard skills and abilities, and to the continued provisions set out in the Articles of Association.
No employment of staff who become disabled.
shareholder holds shares carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company encourages the continuous development and training of its employees and the provision Change of control provisions of equal opportunities for the training and career The Company is not party to any significant development of disabled employees.
agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate following a change of control in the Company.
Information relating to employees is given in note 8 on page 95.
The Group provides retirement benets Substantial shareholdings for the majority of its permanent employees.
Details The significant holdings of voting rights in the of the Group pension arrangements are set out in share capital of the Company, notied and disclosed note 40 on page 121 to 123. in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 as at 28 February 2011, are shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1 Voting rights held at time Holding at time Date of last of last notication of last notication notication BlackRock, Inc. Limited 107,448,983 17.28% 24-Feb-2011 Gordon Family Interests 92,143,203 14.82% 01-June-2010 Coronation Asset Management Pty Limited 48,317,490 7.77% 19-Oct-2010 Public Investment Corporation 34,267,159 5.51% 15-July-2010 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 24,034,330 3.86% 12-May-2010 Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Governance 56 Directors report The environment Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern Details of the Groups corporate responsibility basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
policy and its aims and activities are described on the Companys website www.
An overview of the Groups CR activity is given So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant on pages 57 to 60, and a summary report is also audit information of which the auditors are available for download from the website or on unaware and each Director has taken all reasonable request from the Company Secretarys office.
steps to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are The Group recognises the importance of minimising aware of that information.
the adverse impact of its operations on the environment and the management of energy Auditors consumption and waste recycling.
The auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a The Group strives to continuously improve its resolution seeking to reappoint them will be proposed environmental performance.
The environmental at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
management system is regularly reviewed to ensure that the Group maintains its commitment to Annual General Meeting environmental matters.
The first Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 21 April 2011.
The Notice of the Meeting, During the year the Group made charitable together with an explanation of the business to be donations amounting to 119,495.
There were dealt with at the Meeting, will be issued as a separate no political donations made during the year.
document sent to shareholders who have elected to receive hard copies of shareholder information and Creditor payment policy will also be available on the Companys website.
The Groups policy and practice is to pay creditors in accordance with agreed terms of business.
By Order of the Board The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Company by its suppliers in the year ended 31 December 2010 and the amounts owed to its creditors as at 31 December 2010 was nil days.
Overseas branch register R. E. Pavey For the purposes of its listing on the JSE Limited, Secretary the Company maintains an overseas branch register 2 March 2011 in South Africa.
Going concern Economic conditions remain challenging, however the Group has a prudent balance sheet and sufficient cash reserves to meet both its ongoing and future commitments.
The Group has successfully agreed an extension to its Earls Court & Olympia debt facility and has significant headroom against its financial covenants, as disclosed within Other information on page 134.
Having made due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
