Business review 14 Key performance indicators Capcos strategy is to unlock value through growth in capital value and rental levels across its estates, thereby generating superior and long-term returns for its shareholders.
Successful execution of the strategy will be reected business reviews on pages 20 to 39 and in the Financial in property values, which drive NAV.
As the Groups activities evolve the Board will Board believes that the key performance indicators consider whether these performance indicators to measure the Groups progress against its strategic remain appropriate.
aims are Total Property Return and Total Return, as well as Total Shareholder Return which should reect As a newly listed company, the Board has considered the underlying performance.
appropriate annual and medium-term targets for each of the key performance indicators, which are reected A number of other indicators of performance are in the Groups remuneration policy.
The Board has considered by the Board, either at the group level consulted with its remuneration consultants in this including underlying earnings per share, or regard, with reference to relevant market indicators.
specifically relevant to each estate, for example ERV at The objective is to outperform the property market Covent Garden and EBITDA at Earls Court & Olympia.
and comparator group of the eight largest FTSE 350 These are discussed further in the asset-specic real estate companies over the medium term.
Total property return Performance 16.5% Total property return is calculated as capital growth including The Groups 2010 target is to outperform the IPD Total Return 14.5% gains and losses on disposal plus rents received less All Property Index by 1.
As shown, the Group has associated costs, including ground rent.
This metric ensures outperformed by 2.0 per cent in 2010.
On a three-year basis, comparability to the IPD Total Return All Property Index.
the Groups central London properties have outperformed its IPD Capco Total Return benchmark by 3.7 per cent per annum.
All Property Index Total return Performance The total return for Capco is calculated by reference to an Total return is the growth in the EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV opening pro forma adjusted NAV per share of 127 pence as per share plus dividends per share during the period.
set out in the Groups demerger documents.
Outperformance over a three year period, versus a comparator Capcos calculated total return for the year of 18 per cent 22.0% group of the eight largest constituents of the FTSE 350 Real was below the median of the comparator group in 2010.
Due 18.0% Estate Index, is identied as a key measure of the success of to the demerger, only one year of comparison is available for Capcos strategy.
2010, which does not properly reect the medium-term nature of the Groups strategy, particularly at Earls Court.
The Group Comparator Capco signicantly exceeded its annual target for total return in 2010. group median Total shareholder return Performance Total shareholder return is the increase in the price of an The Group generated a total shareholder return of 37.4 per ordinary share plus dividends during the period.
In comparison the FTSE Real Estate Index has achieved 22.5 per cent in the same period.
Due to 37.4% The Groups total shareholder return is benchmarked against the volatility in the Companys shares immediately following the total shareholder return of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
demerger, a one-month average is used to calculate the 22.5% As a key metric for long-term equity-based compensation starting position for this calculation.
for the Groups employees, total shareholder return aligns FTSE 350 Capco incentives with shareholder interest.
Real Estate Index Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
