Business review 15 Outlook and objectives The prospects for 2011 and into 2012 remain positive, as momentum across Capcos business translates into superior valuation and NAV growth through continued unlocking of the potential for increases in rental and capital value.
Whilst the outlook for the UK economy remains uncertain, Capco is confident about the prospects for its estates.
Prime investment yields in central London continue to be supported by the availability of capital from a diverse range of investors, both domestic and in particular from overseas.
Demand for space continues to be robust.
Retailers In EC&O, consolidation of the ECOA masterplan are continuing to search for agship trading into planning applications will take place by June locations in prime districts in the West End, with 2011.
Submission of a detailed planning application London rmly established as a global capital city.
for Seagrave Road will also be made by mid-year.
West End office space remains in short supply, with 2011 will also see completion of the enhancements levels of take-up above trend during 2010. to Olympia, including the new West Hall.
The exhibition venues may show a further limited Further ERV growth across the portfolio is targeted, decline in earnings as market conditions stabilise.
The churn in the tenant mix caused by this proactive management is The successful execution of Capcos asset plans will expected to drive up the estates net rental income likely result in capital growth before improved rental and passing rent but have a negative impact in levels are fully captured in underlying earnings.
The the short term from the temporary voids created.
stabilised level of administration costs that have risen Covent Garden will see investment in further during 2010 due to the costs of running a standalone acquisitions and quality tenant lettings as well public company will continue to impact earnings as the introduction of residential development negatively in 2011. through the launch of 34 Henrietta Street.
As these activities turn the 40 million ERV target into Capco will continue to adopt a conservative nancing reality, Capcos focus is moving towards the next strategy, and maintain a prudent balance sheet to phase of the evolution of the estate.
ensure that it has the liquidity and resources to execute its asset plans across the portfolio.
In The Great Capital Partnership, the continued strength in the property investment market may permit the disposal of other non-core properties to further focus on core locations.
These asset sales will allow Capco to pursue its policy of disciplined capital recycling across its estates but will reduce earnings until the capital is reinvested.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
