Governance 52 The Board of Directors Executive Directors Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive Age 45 Ian is responsible for developing the Companys strategy and for managing the business.
Before joining the Board of Capco, Ian was Managing Director of Capital & Counties and a Director of Liberty International having joined the business in 2006.
Before this he worked in Asia for 14 years, much of which as an Executive Director of Hongkong Land.
Ian is a chartered surveyor and a leading member of several real estate bodies including the Urban Land Institute, AFIRE, Harvard Real Estate Academic Initiative and the British Property Federation Policy Committee.
Committees: Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Member of the Nomination Committee Soumen Das Gary Yardley Finance Director Age 34 Investment Director Age 45 Soumen is responsible for managing the Groups Gary is responsible for managing the Groups finance function, including reporting, treasury portfolio of properties and investments.
Before joining the Board of Capco, joining the Board of Capco, Gary was Chief Soumen was the Corporate Finance Manager for Investment officer of Liberty International, a role he Liberty International having joined the business held from June 2007.
Before that he was Managing in 2009.
Previously Soumen was a Partner of Director of King Sturge Financial Services and Mountgrange Investment Management LLP and an equity partner of King Sturge where he was an Executive Director of UBS Investment Bank in responsible for the creation of a variety of specialist the real estate investment banking and real estate investment and development joint ventures across finance groups.
Gary is a Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Governance 53 Chairman and Non-executive Directors Ian Durant Graeme Gordon Henry Staunton Chairman Age 52 Non-executive Director Age 47 Non-executive Director Age 62 Ian is responsible for the leadership of the Board, Graeme was a Non-executive Director of Liberty A former Finance Director in the media, hotels ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
International for 14 years before joining the Board and leisure sectors, Henry was appointed to the A chartered accountant with a background in of Capco.
He is the son of Sir Donald Gordon, Board in June 2010 and became Chairman of the international financial and commercial management, the founder of Liberty International and represents Audit Committee shortly after in July 2010.
He was Ians career includes periods with Hanson, Jardine the Gordon Family Interests on the Board, whilst previously Finance Director of Granada and ITV Matheson, Hongkong Land, Dairy Farm International, holding a number of other directorships including and is an experienced Non-executive Director Thistle Hotels and SeaContainers.
Immediately prior Creative Investments Limited, CFS Europe Limited, whose current appointments include Legal & to becoming Non-executive Chairman of the Board, Fieldstall Limited and Mymarket Limited.
General, WH Smith and Merchants Trust.
Ian was the Finance Director of Liberty International.
He is also a Non-executive Director and Chairman Committees: Chairman of the Audit Committee, of the Audit Committee of Greene King.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Committees: Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Ian Henderson CBE Andrew Huntley Andrew Strang Non-executive Deputy Chairman and Non-executive Director Age 72 Non-executive Director Age 58 Senior Independent Non-executive A chartered surveyor with 40 years experience Andrew was the Managing Director of Director Age 67 who rose to be Chairman of Richard Ellis from Threadneedle Property Investments Limited for Formerly Chief Executive of Land Securities, Ian has 1993 to 2002.
Andrew is Non-executive Chairman 17 years until January 2008 and is currently been widely involved in property industry matters, of Metric Property Investments and is also a Chairman of Hermes Real Estate Investment including being a past President of the British Non-executive Director of Capital Shopping Management.
Andrew is also a Non-executive Property Federation.
His directorships, trusteeships Centres Group, the Miller Group, and a Director Director of Capital Shopping Centres Group and and board memberships include Capital Shopping of Ashfern Developments.
the British Property Federation and is a consultant Centres Group, Ishaan Real Estate, the Natural to AEW UK, a trading name of AEW Europe LLP.
History Museum, and the Royal Albert Hall.
Committees: Member of the Remuneration Committee, Member of the Nomination Committee Committees: Member of the Audit Committee, Committees: Chairman of the Remuneration Member of the Remuneration Committee, Member Committee, Chairman of the Corporate of the Nomination Committee Responsibility Committee, Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Nomination Committee Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
