Financial review 42 Financial review Central London investment property continued to perform strongly during 2010.
Like-for-like capital values of the Groups investment properties increased 10.8 per cent on the prior year due to ERV growth particularly in the Covent Garden estate and contraction of investment yields.
Underlying profit after tax and earnings per share Underlying net rental income from the investment As recommended by EPRA, the Group has presented properties remained robust.
Given the Groups stated an underlying calculation of profit after tax and strategy this was broadly in line with expectations.
earnings per share gures in addition to the The performance of Earls Court & Olympia proved amounts reported under IFRS.
These amounts resilient: even though EBITDA fell, this was a good exclude the effects of gains and losses associated performance in a weak macroeconomic environment.
with investment property valuations, fair value movements on financial derivatives and certain Demerger exceptional items.
The Directors regard the The Capital & Counties Properties PLC group the presentation of underlying gures as providing Group demerged from its parent company, Liberty useful information on the underlying performance International PLC subsequently renamed Capital of the business.
Underlying profit after tax and Shopping Centres Group PLC, with effect from non-controlling interests fell by 39 per cent from 7 May 2010.
15.2 million to 9.2 million and underlying earnings per share fell to 1.5 pence.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC has a premium listing on the Official List of the UKLA, and a secondary Net rental income inward listing on the JSE Limited, with South African The Groups net rental income reduced to 69.0 institutional shareholders given two years until May million, a fall of 6.1 per cent on a like-for-like basis 2012 to realign their portfolios.
Since demerger, the as explained opposite.
proportion of shares held on the UK register has risen from 54 per cent to to circa 70 per cent.
25.7m Shares in Capital & Counties Properties PLC 13.6m 37% were admitted to dealings on the London and 20% Johannesburg Stock Exchanges in May 2010.
Historic financial information and capital structure 0.6m Included within Other information on pages 131 to 1% 133 are details setting out the basis of preparation of comparative information for 2009 presented within these consolidated financial statements, together with a GCP $ reconciliation of the amounts reported with those which Covent Garden $ appeared within the Groups demerger documents.
29.1m Earls Court & Olympia $ Other 42% $ Where it is more meaningful to do so, comparison has been made to 2009 pro forma financial information as disclosed in the demerger documents throughout this financial review.
Also contained within Other information on page 131 are details outlining the Groups capital structure and demerger transactions.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
