Business review: Earls Court & Olympia 34 The Earls Court & West Kensington globally.
Turnover was 50.7 million down 9.3 per Opportunity Area cent and EBITDA was 18.9 million down 11.3 per The Earls Court venue is perhaps the site with cent for the year comprising net rental income of the greatest immediate potential in London for 22.6 million less related administration expenses large-scale urban regeneration.
Its central location of 3.7 million.
As at 2 March 2011, 79 per cent of surrounded by prime residential districts, together 2011 budget licence fees are contracted.
with its well-developed road, rail and Underground transport infrastructure, make it one of the leading Olympia redevelopment sites in London where the opportunity for major The Olympia venue is particularly competitive in development can be turned into a reality.
the market for mid-sized space close to the West End of London.
The average size of show in this sector is falling, with an estimated 80 per cent now requiring EC&O has been working closely with all respective less than 100,000 square feet.
Building on this strength, public bodies associated with the project since the Group is developing Olympias potential to Capcos initial acquisition in July 2007 in order to become the prime venue for both consumer and trade gain acceptance of the potential of the site as a major exhibitions and shows in central London.
The current strategy is to take forward a planning application for the The EC&O Venues team has closely engaged with Earls Court & West Kensington Opportunity Area its core clients to discuss their future business ECOA in the summer 2011 based on a  and how this ts with the future of led, mixed-use redevelopment.
Should consent be the Earls Court and Olympia venues.
A detailed granted, Capco would benefit from the change of use mapping exercise has been undertaken to determine from the existing exhibition facilities, and the option the transition of the business from both venues to participate in the future of the scheme.
to an enhanced Olympia facility.
This analysis indicates that a 70 per cent utilisation rate at the The ECOA occupies 80 acres and is made up of EC&Os new Olympia building format could be achieved, Earls Court 1 and Earls Court 2 and adjacent land sustaining 65-75 per cent of the existing EBITDA holdings covering 23 acres and the 7.5 acre Seagrave of the business.
It also includes the Empress State Building, Lillie Road Depot owned by Transport for In October 2010, the London Borough of London TfL that borders the A4 Cromwell Road, and Hammersmith & Fulham LBHF resolved to the LBHF owned areas of the West Kensington and grant planning and listed building consent to the Gibbs Green housing estates.
The Royal Borough of redevelopment proposals at Olympia.
The plans Kensington & Chelsea RBKC is closely involved in include reconguration of the West Hall, within the area as the local planning authority, since Earls the existing footprint, into a two-storey 90,000 Court 1 falls within its boundaries.
This will be achieved by adding a oor and creating links to the Grand It is anticipated that the sites designation as an Hall and Olympia Two buildings.
In addition, Opportunity Area in the 2008 draft Replacement Olympia Two will be recongured to provide more London Plan will be ratied on adoption of the efficient servicing arrangements and improved Replacement London Plan later this year.
Much has connectivity with the rest of the facility.
already been achieved at a local level supporting this policy framework with the adoption of the The proposals will improve the exibility of RBKC core strategy and the publication of the the space at Olympia, which as a consequence LBHF draft core strategy currently in consultation.
will be capable of hosting a number of events The submission of a statement of common ground simultaneously while enhancing one of the UKs signed by both local authorities and Capco to the best known venues.
Construction of the West Hall draft Replacement London Plan has provided started in February 2011, and the cost of these works further support for the designation.
Once completed, the goal will be to Discussions with TfL regarding a re-gear of the maximise the intensity of utilisation at Olympia, Groups long leasehold interests on Earls Court 1 with the focus on the transition from Earls Court expiring December 2041 and Earls Court 2 as well as attracting new shows.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Business review: Earls Court & Olympia 35 Principal land ownerships of the ECOA Earls Court 1 & 2, Empress State Building Transport for London London Borough of Seagrave Road, Roxby Hammersmith & Fulham Place Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Business review: Earls Court & Olympia 36 Sir Terry Farrells masterplan for the ECOA incorporating four villages and a high street Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Business review: Earls Court & Olympia 37 1.
North End Village A welcoming, elegant and grand entrance to the development and the With its vibrant street life, varied and green setting and range of goodHigh Street somewhere to spend time and enjoy city life.
quality homes, this village will revitalise North End Road and feel like its always been there.
Taking its cue from the bustle of todays North End Exhibition Square will be wide, classic and decorated with delicate mosaics.
Road market, this neighbourhood will have an urban, culturally diverse and It will be anked by graceful crescents of townhouses that complement the energetic feel.
Buildings of different styles, scales, materials and uses will neighbouring Victorian terraces.
Cobbled courtyards, garden squares, and sit side by side and the greenery will be less manicured than in the other quiet streets will add an element of intimacy to the grand modern mansion villages.
Its many shared spaces and new primary school will give it a blocks, and the boutiques, cafs and delis of the High Street will create a community feel.
Pavements will be lled with cafs, markets and food stalls, gentle, urban buzz.
and the two squares will provide space to meet, play and exercise.
West Kensington Village A leafy, relaxed and tranquil neighbourhood with homes, facilities and open This dynamic, commercial quarter attracts innovation and enterprise, and spaces that are perfect for families.
acts as a new front door to Central London.
West Kensington will be home to ambitious businesses.
The areas entrepreneurial spirit will also attract New boutiques, art galleries and intimate arts centres set the tone for a dynamic residential population, drawn by its loft apartments, strikingly West Brompton Village which leads into the Seagrave residential quarter.
contemporary architecture, superb connections and immediate adjacency The southern end of the Lost River Park snakes down to Seagrave, connecting to the Lost River Park.
Cromwell Place will act as new gateway to London it to the rest of the development and preserving a pleasant outlook from the off the A4 highway and will assert the areas identity through sophisticated historic Brompton Cemetery to the east.
High Street Located on the site of the car park used by the Earls Court Exhibition The High Street wont just be a place to shop.
It will be the life-blood of the Centre which will become redundant when the venue is redeveloped after area and the key connection from east to west.
This 21st century take on the the 2012 Games, Seagrave is largely residential.
It will include a substantial traditional High Street will act as a destination, a community hub, a meeting new London garden square, consist of elegant urban blocks and will be place and a site for celebrations, festivals and parades, as well as a thriving sensitively integrated with surrounding communities and architecture.
Its character will gradually change from the lively bustle of North End Village to the more sedate Earls Court Village.
At the foot of the Empress State Building, an ever-changing programme of exhibitions, classes and lectures will attract a constant stream of visitors.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
