Governance 59 worked with the children as they developed their when more than 42,000 people kissed under the own ideas for the future of the district, and were interactive Christmas tree, activating 50,000 low impressed with their natural focus on sustainability energy LED lights.
The money was raised through and green issues.
a combination of 15,000 sponsorship from The Body Shop, secured by the Covent Garden team, and donations made by the public to the Trust with each People kiss.
A range of other fund-raising and community The number of people employed across the Group at activities were hosted on the piazza and in the the year end totalled 416, of which 50 were based within Market Building throughout the year.
Capco has comprehensive policies, tailored as appropriate for its subsidiaries, which reects recent The team at EC&O Venues also pride themselves changes in legislation, to support the Groups approach on working closely with their surrounding to its employees and provide the framework for the high communities.
The Earls Court and Olympia standards expected of them.
To that end, emphasis is Charitable Trust is a registered charity which placed on the training and development of all members provides 15,000 annually to support charities of the team to enable them to full their roles to the very and organisations within the London Borough of best of their abilities.
Hammersmith & Fulham and the Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea.
In 2010, the business was also Charitable donations proud to support the Kensington & Chelsea Good In 2010 the Group gave 119,495 in charitable Citizen Awards show and The Earls Court Festival donations and are Charter Members of the Duke for the third consecutive year.
This is in addition to the individual contributions made by employees both The ECOA is one of the largest and most important in terms of time and fund-raising.
Over the past development opportunity areas in London and, as year a number of personal fund-raising initiatives with any large-scale plan for regeneration of this were undertaken, including a cycle ride to Paris kind, a variety of views have been expressed by local in support of Fight for Sight, which the Group residents about the implications for them.
Capco and supported by match-funding.
the project team are committed to working with the local community and stakeholders to capture their Health and safety views and clear aims have been set for the consultation Capco places great importance on the health and and engagement process.
The ECOA consultation safety of its employees, occupiers and visitors.
com, was launched in July and Health & Safety Policy is overseen by the Board demonstrates the commitment to the widest public and implemented through a Health & Safety consultation so that all stakeholders can contribute management system.
This is monitored by the Group to the project teams thinking and so influence Sir Health & Safety Committee which promotes a culture Terrys masterplan.
The website keeps those who live of safety consciousness throughout the organisation.
and work in the area fully informed of developments.
It includes a forum for local people to post comments The reporting of urgent or serious matters is and have their say.
Paul Finch, the Chairman of monitored by the Group Health & Safety Committee the Commission for Architecture and the Built and the Board as necessary and performance is Environment, commented that the internet iniative monitored by independent external advisers.
With was an excellent example of how large numbers of estimated combined visitor numbers of more than people can start to feel involved, rather than alienated, 48 million to EC&O Venues and Covent Garden, by the consultation process.
there were 21 RIDDOR Reportable Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation In addition to the website, numerous community accidents reported for the year and two prohibition exhibitions and meetings have been held during notices served, since lifted.
In respect of our 416 the consultation process.
Building on the success employees there were no reportable accidents.
of Take One in Covent Garden, an education project was developed with schools near the ECOA Aims and objectives of the CR programme involving architects from Terry Farrell & Partners.
Capco is a newly listed company and, as it develops The architects and members of the project team and renes its business, the approach to CR will Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Governance 60 Corporate responsibility Gb cebi WX g[X [ Z[Xfg dhT gl bY cebcXegl also develop.
In addition to the development of an management and customer service across the appropriate set of metrics that will help monitor Group, where possible meeting fully the progress as Capco moves forward, the priorities for objectives of shoppers, occupiers and visitors, 2011 are: and to promote appropriate practices for the occupancy of our properties.
Gb WXiX bc TaW eXYeXf[ 6TcVbf 8ai eba`XagT Policy and Guide in support of the evolution of its business.
Gb `c X`Xag fcbafbef[ c TaW V[Te gTU X objectives that support the communities in which Gb `T agT a TaW Xa[TaVX TVVeXW gTg baf gb the Group invests, focusing on projects designed sustainability and community engagement indices to assist in the development of young people, and to implement best practice in respect of these particularly in the areas of sport and health.
Gb XaVbheTZX X`c blXXf gb XaZTZX a 6E a g Tg iXf Gb WXiX bc Vbag ahT l 6E cb V Xf j g[ Ta and contribute at least 100 Group employee hours to embedded formal review every three years, and to supporting these initiatives.
To continue to develop seek to implement these policies across the Group, Group staff as good corporate citizens whilst to ensure full commitment and participation from encouraging them to undertake their own charitable all members of staff.
initiatives through a Staff Recognition Fund.
Gb WXag Yl TaW `TaTZX 6E eX TgXW e f f g[ebhZ[ Gb ceb`bgX g[X :ebhcf :XT g[ FTYXgl Cb Vl TVebff a formal and externally evaluated annual review.
the organisation and to suppliers.
To report and monitor its effectiveness and comply with the Gb fhccbeg TaW Vb`c l j g[ g[X eXdh eX`Xagf bY requirements of the Health & Safety at Work directives.
the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Gb WXiX bc TaW `c X`Xag V XTe Xai eba`XagT objectives.
Achieve a 5 per cent reduction in carbon I. J. Henderson emissions for 2011.
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 2 March 2011 Waste.
Identify and maximise recycling opportunities, minimising the volume of land ll waste.
Develop and implement a process to monitor efficiently water usage, identifying and implementing measures to reduce consumption.
Continue to focus development initiatives on the regeneration of brown-eld sites and the sensitive and appropriate renovation of existing properties.
Gb XaZTZX Vb`ceX[Xaf iX l j g[ fgT X[b WXef including local communities, shareholders, staff and customers, monitoring and responding to feedback.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
