Business review: Earls Court & Olympia 38 The ECOA timeline 2011 Q1 Q2 Unveiling of ECOA Publication and first Submission of ECOA Publication of the LBHF Core Strategy masterplan and consultation of ECOA & Seagrave Road Inspectors report on Examination in Public community drop-in draft Supplementary Planning Applications the draft Replacement sessions Planning Document London Plan SPD expiring September 2115 continue, and agreement is in the future, but Sir Terrys inclusive style and the expected during 2011.
Discussions also continue with way in which he has articulated his desire to recreate a both landowners regarding the future development series of urban London villages has already seen him rights over the ECOA.
A new Certicate of Immunity win awards for the way he approaches such complex from Listing was secured in January 2011, valid for five yet exciting opportunities.
This ensures that there is no risk of Earls Court being listed during this period.
Consultation As one of the largest and most important developments The masterplan in London, the plans for ECOA must carry with them In recognising that a comprehensive scheme the support of the local community.
Numerous covering all land ownerships involved within the community exhibitions and meetings have been held ECOA would be better than taking the sites forward during the consultation process.
individually, EC&O, TfL and LBHF renewed their collaboration agreement as landowners in May Among the positive reactions to ECOA masterplan 2010.
To explore fully the opportunities afforded proposals, there have been concerns voiced by some by the area, the landowners appointed Terry Farrell residents of the West Kensington and Gibbs Green & Partners, led by Sir Terry Farrell, as the ECOAs Estates.
Capco is committed to working with all local masterplanner in May 2010.
Their preliminary residents and stakeholders, and with LBHF, making proposals were published in November 2010. the area work for everybody.
com, demonstrates this commitment to Sir Terrys vision is centred on a new high street which the widest public consultation so that all stakeholders would become the spine connecting four urban can contribute to the project teams thinking and so villages.
These villages would blend in with existing influence Sir Terrys masterplan.
communities and act as natural centres of gravity in the area.
The idea supports the traditional urban It is possible that LBHF or TfL may choose not to complexion of London, creating developments that participate in the future of the masterplan, for example integrate with existing urban settings and become should section 34A of the Housing Act 1985 result in thriving, vibrant neighbourhoods in their own right.
LBHF being unable to secure vacant possession of The plan currently envisages that 80 per cent of the its land interests.
The masterplan has been designed site will be for residential use, set out in a modern such that each landowners interest is individually interpretation of the London fabric of garden squares, implementable, although we believe that Sir Terrys residential streets and mansion blocks.
By taking what vision for the full ECOA would bring substantial they believe to be the best examples of London living, benets to the entire area.
Sir Terrys team has achieved an exciting vision for the future of the area which is very much London Plus.
Seagrave Road Seagrave Road is a 7.5 acre freehold site to the south The Farrell masterplan translates into more than ten of Earls Court.
It is currently used for car parking and million square feet of development over the principal vehicle marshalling for events held at Earls Court.
It ECOA excluding Seagrave Road and Empress State.
has potential to be redeveloped into one of the largest This represents up to 7,500 homes and over 2 million residential schemes in West London in its own right.
square feet of commercial and retail space, including a variety of leisure and cultural uses.
The masterplan Capcos ability to manage this site was restricted by will form the basis for two outline parameter-based a conditional sales contract inherited on the initial applications: one relates to ECOA land excluding purchase of EC&O in 2007.
In October 2010, Capco Seagrave Road that lies within LBHF: the other relates rescinded this contract and took back control of the to the land within RBKC, which is all owned by the site, as well as acquiring some adjacent properties Group.
These applications will be submitted to the on Roxby Place.
A detailed planning application relevant planning authorities by June 2011. for 850,000 square feet of residential space will be submitted by the end of June 2011.
The masterplan vision will need to accommodate a wide variety of aspirations and concerns if it is to The sites potential for residential redevelopment reect truly the way this part of London is to develop has been recognised in the year-end valuation, with a Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Business review: Earls Court & Olympia 39 2012 Q3 Q4 Q3 Second consultation of Anticipated date for Anticipated publication Anticipated date for Olympic Games the ECOA draft SPD adoption of ECOA SPD of LBHF Core Strategy adoption of LBHF Panel Report Core Strategy and the Replacement London Plan significant rise of 39 per cent on a like-for-like basis the Metropolitan Police Authority on a 15-year lease to 104 million, representing 14 million per acre.
The lease is subject to annual RPI increases subject to a collar, with 3 per cent being Empress State Building applied at the 2010 review.
Capcos share of NRI for Capco has a 50 per cent stake in this landmark office 2010 was 6.5m.
complex adjacent to Earls Court 2, comprising a main tower building arranged over 31 oors, a In the medium-term, opportunities to extend or review three-storey building fronting Lillie Road and a the existing lease will be considered or alternatively the two-storey L-shaped building.
Extensively renovated property maybe suitable for a residential conversion in and developed in 2003, the entire building is let to line with the plans for the ECOA.
Sir Terry Farrell and the model of the ECOA masterplan.
EC&O key gures Empress State Building 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change Top m m like-for-like like-for-like Earls Court Market value m exhibitions 138 134 103 94 9 by turnover Olympia Passing rent m 97 99 6.9 6.6 5 Ideal Home Show Valued on an existing use basis reecting their use as exhibitions venues.
Accordingly ERV m 5.9 5.9 The London Book no upside from any future development or planning permission is recognised.
Fair Seagrave Road Equivalent yield % 104 70 6.2 6.7 ICE Totally Gaming Currently a car park supporting Earls Court, valued as a site with the potential for Future Build, residential consent.
Ecobuild Other peripheral assets 39 37 BETT A mixture of small assets and sites.
as at 2 March 2011 Market value 378 340 4.2 EBITDA 18.9 21.3 -11.3 Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
