Governance 57 Corporate responsibility In support of its former parent company Liberty International PLC, Capco actively engaged in corporate responsibility CR initiatives relating to its portfolio of properties.
When Capco became a fully independent public company, the Board and senior management continued their commitment to the objectives set out at Liberty International whilst they developed the Groups future CR focus.
In identifying the objectives which are relevant to Capco going forward, they have committed to placing CR at the heart of day-to-day business.
I. J. Henderson Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Introduction at developing young people in the communities The principal activities of the Group are the in which it invests, and conduct business in a management and development of a portfolio professional and ethical manner.
of property investments concentrated in three landmark estates in West London and the West As an active asset manager of real estate, Capco has End.
Capco manages these properties to serve developed a comprehensive approach to property tenants and customers, while EC&O Venues is a and construction management.
The basis of this market-leading exhibitions and events operating approach is set out in a number of corporate policies business.
Connecting with the communities and based on Liberty International policies that have business stakeholders in the locations where the been brought into line with Capcos business and Groups assets are located is of great importance to approach, notably the Environmental Policy and Capco and this engagement supports the objectives Guide.
The Guide claries Capcos policies under the for each of the estates.
Capco is also active, both general headings of Design and Construction and corporately and through individuals, with many Operational.
Design and Construction policies of the organisations that promote London and the cover topics including energy use, water major property industry bodies.
conservation, waste management and supply chain.
Operational policies regulate property management Each estate offers different opportunities and and set out further requirements in the elds of challenges and is actively engaged in CR-related energy, water, waste and supply chain.
These have been drawn together are continually reviewed: for example, in 2010 an and developed to define the Groups future CR audit of investment properties was completed to strategy.
This is to seek to implement best practice assess the requirements of the Carbon Reduction in everything Capco does, particularly in areas Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme and relating to the environment and sustainability, new processes implemented to ensure adherence to and to promote these practices to customers and the scheme.
In particular, Capco will serve its customers well, develop and engage its people as a responsible employer, support initiatives aimed Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
