Financial review 44 Financial review 2010, increased ERV became a more prominent factor subsidiaries formerly within Liberty Internationals in the second half of the year, reecting the Groups REIT business was 0.1 million, which was paid in strategy of targeting rental growth from its asset plans.
The Groups trading properties were impaired by The net tax charge for the year ended 31 December 0.1 million 2009 - 0.1 million where the fair 2010 was 0.9 million, lower than would be expected value was determined to be less than original cost.
because of capital allowances and certain exceptional In aggregate however the Groups trading property items.
The effective rate of tax on underlying recurring portfolio has an unrealised valuation surplus of 1.1 profit is expected to be approximately 25 per cent.
million at 31 December 2010 which has not been recognised in the financial statements.
Non-controlling interests As outlined in note 23, the accounting treatment Administration expenses for the Groups 50 per cent interest in The Empress Underlying administration expenses increased by 4.1 State Limited Partnership changed from full to million to 18.6 million mostly due to increased head proportional consolidation in August 2009.
This count and establishment costs as a result of becoming resulted in a deemed disposal of 94 million of a standalone business.
This was partially offset by investment property, reduced the Groups gross a 1.4 million reduction at Earls Court & Olympia, debt by 78 million and accounts for a 3.9 million the result of headcount reductions made during reduction in net rental income for the year.
2009: and a reduction in management fees payable in respect of the Groups investments in China with the Derivative valuation focus shifting towards profit taking and divestment.
The majority of the Groups banking facilities have Transitional services provided by the Capital Shopping been arranged on a oating-rate basis, but swapped Centres Group have been recharged on an armsto xed-rate using interest rate swap contracts with length basis since demerger and are expected to be the same term as the relevant debt facility, in line terminated during the first half of 2011. with the Groups policy to eliminate the shortand medium-term risk arising on interest rate volatility.
Exceptional costs directly attributable to the demerger At 31 December 2010, the proportion of gross debt total 5.3 million and have been excluded from the with interest rate protection stood at 95 per cent.
During 2010 short-term rates marginally increased Net finance costs whilst longer term rates reduced.
This led to an income Excluding the change in fair value of derivatives and statement charge of 0.3 million for the year in one-off costs incurred on the termination of interest addition to termination payments referred to below.
rate swaps, underlying net finance costs totalled 38.9 million, a decrease of 8.6 million on the prior Exceptional items year.
This reduction reects decreased average debt Within net nancing costs, exceptional finance following a number of prepayments made in both the charges of 7.1 million were recorded in relation second half of 2009 and the first half of 2010. to the termination of interest rate swaps arising principally from debt prepayment on demerger.
Taxation Demerger-related administration costs of 5.3 Pre-demerger the Group benefited from the tax million are treated as exceptional as are other items savings provided by Liberty Internationals REIT totalling 0.9 million.
Following demerger, the Directors believed that the business would have greater operating Financial position exibility as a listed non-REIT property company, As detailed in the table opposite, EPRA adjusted net hence since from 7 May 2010, the Group is subject to assets have increased, on a pro forma basis, by 135 UK corporation tax and will pay ordinary dividends million or 21 pence per share to 925.9 million since with no requirement to withhold tax at source 31 December 2009. when paying a dividend.
As at 31 December 2010, the outstanding REIT liability due in respect of Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
