qxd 22 7 10 5:16 pm Page 12 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Report together with the Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2010.
Principal Activities of the Group Daejan Holdings PLC is a holding company whose principal activity, carried on through its subsidiary undertakings, is property investment, with some development also being undertaken.
The major part of the Groups property portfolio comprises commercial, industrial and residential premises throughout the United Kingdom.
A number of subsidiary undertakings are incorporated in the United States of America and carry out property investment in that country.
Properties A professional valuation of all the Groups properties was carried out at 31 March 2010.
The resultant figures are included in the Financial Statements now presented and the net increase of 25.0 million 2009 261.6 million decrease over previous book values has been included in the Income Statement.
The Groups UK properties were valued by Colliers CRE, Chartered Surveyors and produced a revaluation surplus of 38.8 million 2009 232.5 million deficit.
The Groups USA properties were valued by Colliers, Meredith & Grew, Joseph J. Blake and Associates Inc. and Metropolitan Valuation Services Inc. All the USA firms are General Certified appraisers.
The revaluation deficit arising on the USA properties was $21.0 million 2009 $42.8 million deficit.
Business Review The Groups Business Review and future developments are included in the Chairmans Statement set out on pages 2 to 11 which are included in this report by reference.
Results & Dividend The profit for the year amounted to 45.7 million 2009 178.7 million loss.
An Interim Dividend of 25p per share was paid on 5 March 2010 and the Directors now recommend the payment of a Final Dividend of 49p per share, making a total for the year of 74p per share 2009 73p per share.
Financial Objectives and Policies and Exposure to Financial Risk The Group operates a cautious financial policy within clear authorities on a non-speculative and long term basis in order to enable the Group to carry on its business in confidence and with strength.
The Group aims to ensure that the cost of capital is kept to a minimum through the maintenance of its many long standing relationships with leading banks and other financial institutions.
The Group seeks to minimise the risk of sudden and unexpected rises in finance costs by way of financial derivative instruments whilst retaining some ability to take advantage of fluctuating interest rates.
There is no obligation or present intention to repay the Groups borrowings other than at maturity.
