qxd 22 7 10 5:16 pm Page 13 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Payment Policy It has long been the Groups policy to settle the terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that those suppliers are aware of those terms and to abide by the agreed terms of payment.
The Group does not, however, follow any formal code or statement on payment practice.
The Group and the Company do not have material trade creditor balances.
Directors The Directors who served throughout the year, and who are still in office, are: Mr B S E Freshwater Mr D Davis Mr S I Freshwater Mr R E Freshwater and Mr A M Freshwater USA were appointed to the Board on 6 July 2010.
Brief biographies of the Directors are as follows: Mr B S E Freshwater.
Aged 62 Joined the Board in December 1971 with primary responsibility for the Groups finances.
In July 1976 he was appointed Managing Director and, additionally, became Chairman in July 1980.
Aged 75 A Chartered Accountant and member of the Institute of Taxation, was previously a partner in Cohen Arnold, the Groups consulting accountants.
He relinquished his partnership in 1971 in order to devote more time to his numerous business and other interests.
He has been a non-executive Director of the Company since December 1971.
Aged 59 Directs the Groups operations in the USA and also has responsibility for the Groups UK sales division.
He has been a Director of the Company since January 1986.
Mr R E Freshwater Aged 40 Standing for election to the Board at the AGM.
He is currently pursuing an academic career and lectures to graduate students.
He is a potential beneficiary of trusts with substantial holdings of the Companys equity.
Mr A M Freshwater Aged 39 Standing for election to the Board at the AGM.
He is resident in the UK and sits as an Arbitrator in complex commercial disputes.
He is also a potential beneficiary of trusts with substantial holdings of the Companys equity and is a trustee of the BSE Freshwater 2002 Settlement owning 250,000 shares in the Company representing 1.35% of the issued share capital.
Directors Interests Day-to-day management of the Groups properties in the United Kingdom is mainly carried out by Highdorn Co. Limited and by Freshwater Property Management Limited.
Mr B S E Freshwater and Mr S I Freshwater are Directors of both companies and are also interested in the share capital of Highdorn Co. Limited.
Mr B S E Freshwater, Mr S I Freshwater and Mr D Davis are also Directors of the parent company of Freshwater Property Management Limited but have no beneficial interest in either company.
Details of the amounts paid for the provision of these services are set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
