qxd 22 7 10 5:15 pm Page 10 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Chairmans Statement continued All our buildings are risk assessed on a regular basis and, with the help of external consultants, comprehensive Health and Safety Policies have been established.
Our development in this area is closely monitored with an annual progress report at Board level.
We also insist that subcontractors employ risk management procedures of a similar standard.
Community Our support for community activities continued during the year with donations totalling 120,000, principally supporting education.
As a consequence of the donation some years ago of shares in the Company, 6.3% of the total dividend payment equivalent this year to 750,000, has passed to charitable companies for the benefit of the communities in which we operate.
Board Changes It is my firm conviction that Daejan has benefited from the close involvement of Directors with a significant ownership interest in the capital of the company.
This has enabled us to pursue a cautious, long term approach which has been to the advantage of all shareholders, as borne out by a recent survey in Property Week.
In a ranking of 28 listed property companies by total shareholder return in the decade to 2009, Daejan came 5th with a return of 253% compared to a sector average of only 33%.
In furtherance of this philosophy, I believe that the time is now right to introduce the next generation of the Freshwater family, although I should add that neither my brother nor I plan to reduce our commitment to the business.
My son Raphael and my son-in-law Mordechai have been appointed to the Board and will offer themselves for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Initially they will not have executive responsibilities.
An active Freshwater family involvement combined with strong professional management and advisers has proven a successful formula to date and these appointments will ensure its continuation in the future.
Above & right: Fishermans Landing Florida, USA Page 10
