qxd 22 7 10 5:15 pm Page 11 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Outlook and Risks Whilst it is encouraging that this years accounts reflect a return to overall valuation surpluses, there remain many uncertainties on the horizon and a renewal of downward pressure on property values cannot be ruled out.
The recent action proposed by the Government to reduce the structural budget deficit is clearly welcome as it offers the best chance in the medium term of sustaining low interest rates and a return to more healthy, private sector led growth.
In the short term, however, the budgetary cutbacks and the proposed rise in VAT may adversely affect our tenants and the demand for property.
The response of the property market to these contradictory forces will be a significant factor in determining our results for the next several years.
Our ability to make new acquisitions and to undertake development projects depends on the availability of finance on acceptable terms.
Whilst we have seen some improvement in this area, the market has a long way to go before it returns to more normal conditions.
The significant property portfolio which we hold in the USA exposes us to movements in the sterling dollar exchange rate.
However, these are accounting adjustments only, as our UK and USA businesses operate on a self-funding basis with no need for remittances of cash in either direction.
If economic growth falters or there is a return to recession then the resultant financial pressure on tenants increases the risk of bad debts and a rise in the rate of voids.
The property and financial sectors depend for their prosperity on the economy as a whole.
Whilst the outlook contains much uncertainty, nevertheless we remain steadfast in the belief that our cautious, long term approach offers the best prospects of continuing success.
As ever sincere thanks must go to our loyal staff, whose unstinting efforts ensure the continued progress of the Group.
B. S. E. Freshwater Chairman Above & left: Hidden Palms Florida, USA Page 11
