qxd 22 7 10 5:16 pm Page 18 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Board is required by the Financial Services Authority to report on the extent of its application of the principles and of its compliance with the provisions contained in the Combined Code.
Your Board fully supports the goal of better Corporate Governance and we comply with the majority of the principles of the Combined Code.
We do not comply with the provisions of the Combined Code in connection with non-executive representation on the Board, as we are doubtful that further extending independent non-executive participation at present would benefit our shareholders.
We consider it vital that the principles of a unitary Board of Directors sharing responsibility for all facets of the Companys business should not be undermined by reserving areas of decision making solely for non-executive Directors.
For this reason the matters which the Combined Code recommends should be reserved for audit, nomination and remuneration committees are dealt with by the entire Board and it is intended to continue this practice.
In view of the fact that the Board comprises only five Directors it is also not considered necessary to split the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
Executive remuneration is not directly related to performance, but a link is established by the fact that remuneration is not agreed upon until after the results for the year are known.
Changes should be made when they are appropriate and in the best interests of the Company, rather than for the sake of change itself.
This Company has a successful track record and whilst the Board will continue to keep under review any proposals which may improve the efficiency of its operations, the current structure has stood the Company in good stead over many years and should continue to do so in the future.
The Board The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable them to meet those objectives.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year on both a formal and informal basis.
Comprehensive management information covering all aspects of the Companys business is supplied to the Board in a timely manner and in a form and quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Boards principal focus, in accordance with the formal schedule of matters referred to it for decision, is on the formation of strategy and the monitoring and control of operations and financial performance.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that the Board procedures are complied with.
The Board has agreed a procedure for Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Board consult on a regular basis with the Groups external auditors and are charged with ensuring that their objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
The entire Board is responsible for the selection and approval of candidates for appointment to the Board.
All Directors retire by rotation and submit themselves to shareholders at Annual General Meetings at regular intervals and at least every three years.
