BusIness RevIew 15 tHe Homes we BuilD ouR stRength our aim is to be recognised as the nations leading housebuilder creating communities where people aspire to live.
Geographic and product diversity The Homes and Communities Agency HCA We operate throughout Britain under the Barratt has established a Delivery Partner Panel we continue to serve all Homes and David Wilson Homes brands and DPP framework to develop its sites, which in Kent and the South East under the local can also be used by local authority partners sectors of the market, Ward Homes brand.
At 30 June 2010, we were for developing their land.
The DPP framework creating homes for sale, selling from 339 2009: 376 active sites across will exist for three years and is split into three shared ownership and 25 divisions.
regional clusters Northern, Central and affordable rental and work Southern panels.
As one of only two national We continue to serve all sectors of the market, housebuilders appointed to all three panels, with government agencies creating homes for sale, shared ownership and we are able to work closely with the HCA and housing associations affordable rental and work with Government in bidding for projects on HCA and local on a broad range of urban agencies and housing associations on a broad authority-owned land across the country.
range of urban regeneration schemes.
Our wide We are pleased to see the DPP framework product range varies from homes for first time being used by a significantly greater number of buyers, family homes and high rise flats to social local authorities than we originally envisaged.
Private selling prices during the financial year ranged people and expertise from 46,500 to 2.1m, with a private average We believe that one of our key strengths selling price for the year of 185,200 2009: is our people and that despite the current 166,500. economic environment it is important to continue to develop and invest in them and During the year, we completed 1,735 2009: their expertise.
Accordingly, we have continued 138 homes under the HomeBuy Direct to invest in our vocational and leadership scheme including 1,679 from the initial allocation training programmes as well as employee of HomeBuy Direct, which has to be completed development, engagement and recognition.
Our HomeBuy Direct funding from Kickstart 1 and Kickstart 2 During the year we have launched the Barratt for c. 510 units has been secured together Academy, which combines professional training with c. 31.1m of other Government funding.
on-site and in the classroom with industryIn addition to the Government supported recognised qualifications.
The Academy will HomeBuy Direct scheme, we also supported deliver trade specialists, site managers and 1,325 2009: 1,369 purchasers with our own commercial and technical specialists.
Since its shared equity schemes.
launch, 48 Site Managers and 48 Assistant Site Managers have joined the programme and The provision of social housing remains a key 100 apprentices are being recruited for the component of our activities with 1,870 2009: first intake of the Apprenticeship Programme 2,069 homes completed during the financial in September 2010.
In addition, we have four year ended 30 June 2010 at an average selling leadership development programmes in place price of 119,500 2009: 107,100. to assist with the development of managers identified within our succession plan.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 16 Business review the homes we build Average CO emitted during the We also have a Graduate Recruitment and swiftly at an operational level.
This process 2 construction process KgCO unit 2e Development Programme consisting of a ensures that adequate information in relation to 1 08 1,767 two-year multi-disciplinary programme.
Due ESG matters is available to the Board.
Significant 1 09 1,804 to the downturn in the sector, we decided not ESG risks that could impact on the future of 10 1,787 to increase the number of graduates in the the business are included in the Principal risks programme in the year to 30 June 2010.
However, and uncertainties section on pages 26 and 27.
1 2008 data, reported as 1,792 in 2008, and we have recruited 30 graduates under the 2009 data, reported as 1,782 in 2009, restated in accordance with Defra DECC Guidelines programme who joined the business in We publish a CR report each year that explains published in September 2009.
August 2010. our approach and our management of CR governance and risk, and includes the actions During the year, we have remained focused we have taken during the year to improve CR We monitor the proportion of construction waste on employee engagement with our third annual performance.
CR disclosures in the Annual segregated for recycling on site, which this year engagement survey seeing an increase in Report and CR Report, including disclosures improved to 91% 2009: 73%.
In addition, we participation to 71% and a 3% improvement on ESG matters, are based on information continually monitor our performance against our in our employee engagement score compared collected annually and from regular management environmental management system via regular with 2009.
We have continued to reward information.
This information is subject to compliance audits on all sites.
our employees giving over 1,400 individual external independent review and internal audit.
experience prizes or additional holiday.
Our health and safety structured recognition programme is ongoing environment We consider health and safety to be of paramount with quarterly and annual divisional awards Our development activities have the potential importance for our employees, customers and and annual national awards for Site Managers, to impact significantly on the environment the public.
All our divisions are certified to the Sales Advisers, Apprentices, Individual and we are subject to extensive and complex health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 which Excellence and Team Excellence.
regulations and an increasingly stringent is verified by a programme of internal and external regulatory environment including planning and audits.
This ensures that we have consistent The expertise of our construction teams has technical requirements, such as a requirement and appropriate standards in place and is again been recognised externally, with 82 for all new homes to achieve zero carbon complemented by our own comprehensive 2009: 76 of our Site Managers winning Pride emissions by 2016.
In response to these Safety, Health and Environmental SHE in the Job quality awards from the National challenges we follow a strong environmental Management System.
We continually monitor House-Building Council.
This is more than agenda which focuses on managing our our performance against our SHE Management any other housebuilder for an unprecedented environmental impact, helping our customers System by carrying out regular compliance sixth consecutive year.
to improve the environment, improving the audits on all sites.
During the year we carried environmental standards of what we build and out over 4,000 monitoring visits and achieved Our target was to have a fully carded making our supply chain more sustainable.
In Construction Skills Certification Scheme CSCS addition, a majority of the Groups Safety, Health workforce, including subcontractors, by 2010.
We are committed to undertaking research and Environment managers are certified to the At 30 June 2010, 97% 2009: 95% of the and development that will enable us to Institute of Environmental Management and Groups workforce, including subcontractors, respond to the increasingly demanding design Assessment standard and are able to undertake was fully CSCS carded and we continue to criteria for new housing.
In 2008 we were the regular environmental audits on our sites.
first major housebuilder to build a prototype home to Level 6 of the Code for Sustainable Injury Incidence Rate per 100,000 persons employed corporate responsibility Homes the Code, the highest level 08 656 We are committed to the principles of attainable.
We are currently building one of 2 09 571 Corporate Responsibility CR as stated the first large scale zero carbon communities 10 582 in our CR policy which is available at in Britain, in partnership with the HCA, at www.
We have Hanham Hall near Bristol.
The development 2 Originally reported as 522 but restated due to identified and assessed the key CR risks facing includes 185 new homes built to Code Level 6 late notifications.
the business, which include Environmental, and the total refurbishment of the hall itself.
Social and Governance ESG risks, and have We use our reportable Injury Incidence Rate IIR grouped these into four key philosophies so The key performance indicator that we use as a key performance indicator to measure health that we can manage them effectively.
The to monitor environmental performance is the and safety performance on a monthly and yearly four philosophies: People, Partners, Planet average amount of carbon dioxide emitted basis.
During the financial year ended 30 June and Customers are underpinned by our during the construction process per legal 2010 our IIR was 582 2009: 571 restated per commitment to financial performance and completion.
This metric reduced slightly this year 100,000 persons employed.
This increase can Health and Safety.
These are each led by a to 1,787 KgCO unit 2009: 1,804 KgCO unit largely be attributed to additional slip and trip 2e 2e member of the Executive Committee who is restated.
We are targeting a reduction in energy incidents due to bad weather in the first quarter responsible for developing and implementing use of 20% over three years and are looking at of the 2010 calendar year.
We are committed to CR related objectives and targets to achieve ways to improve this reduction.
During the year reducing the IIR year-on-year and we are working the overall CR strategy set by the Board.
we carried out energy audits on sample with our supply chain to ensure their supervisory This ensures that CR issues are embedded in developments to understand energy usage in staff are able to manage effectively health and the normal course of business and decisions more detail and the opportunities for increasing safety risk on-site.
affecting CR issues can be implemented energy efficiency.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 BusIness RevIew 17 case stuDY ouR people The quality of our management of health and safety has also been recognised through the receipt of six awards at the inaugural NHBC Health and Safety Awards 2010.
The investigation by the Police and the Health and Safety Executive into the incident at Bedfont, London in February 2008, where carbon monoxide poisoning from a gas heating installation caused the death of one person and left another seriously ill, continues.
We continue to work closely with the authorities.
partners We recognise that there are a large number of stakeholders in our business and we aim to work with local, regional and national partners and stakeholders to ensure the effective delivery of housing needs.
We create homes for sale and shared ownership and work with Government agencies, housing associations and other bodies on a broad range of ownership initiatives including HomeBuy Direct, our own shared equity products and social housing.
We have also been appointed to every HCA DPP and work with a wide range of public sector regeneration agencies, local authorities and Registered Social Landlords RSL.
We are committed to the continuous improvement in the standard of our design for individual homes and entire developments.
We have introduced design guidelines to spread best practice throughout the business and our internal annual design competition promotes high standards of design which focuses on the layout of developments, the creation of places where our customers want to live and compliance with our people our own and national design standards.
AwARd wInneRs We have a specialist public sector developments team, which works on schemes delivering homes on regenerated former public sector during the year, 82 of our site Managers won nhBc pride land, and seeks to promote the highest in the Job quality awards 2009: 76.
Additionally we have industry standards for community engagement, internal awards for site Managers, sales Advisers, environmental practice and local employment.
Apprentices, Individual excellence and team excellence.
We also have a national team which provides Apprentice of the year theo welsh main picture, dwh south west expertise to our divisions in the area of theo received strong feedback at college and has successfully affordable housing, grants and working completed his nvQ level 2. with RSLs.
sales Adviser of the year emma welham inset, Barratt north london We continue to build the majority of our emma achieved a customer satisfaction survey score of 99%.
developments on brownfield sites, with other award winners: 70% 2009: 70% of our legal completions site Manager of the year darren Reaney, dwh north west.
in the year being on brownfield land, Individual excellence Rebecca wasse, Barratt yorkshire west.
which significantly exceeds the previous team excellence group procurement lead buyers.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010
