20 Business review customer service anD qualitY ouR coMMItMent we are committed to offering the highest standards of quality and customer service.
we seek to develop our quality and service standards by listening to customers, monitoring performance and adopting best practice throughout the group.
communicating with our We continue to make progress in improving customers customer service and during the year, 97% Our sales and marketing team has continued 2009: 96% of our customers surveyed said to promote our brands throughout the year they would recommend us to a friend.
These using focused marketing campaigns.
This scores form part of our overall customer included use of the internet, radio and direct survey which our customers are contacted to mail, targeted incentives and discounts for complete nine weeks after legal completion of customers and tools such as shared equity the purchase of their new home.
We monitor products and part-exchange.
the results of the survey on a monthly basis throughout our business.
We have completed the introduction of I-Sales, our new sales technology in our sales centres continuing to develop our across Britain during the financial year.
I-Sales customer service and sales combines website capability with the Groups teams computerised customer database.
We have completed the roll-out of our Quality and Cost programme which implements In December 2009 we launched our new best practice in our pre and post completion customer call centre to help with any enquiries activities, including customer service.
The call centre enables us to also regularly share best practice amongst provide a consistent standard of service and our Customer Service Managers and have deal with high call volumes ensuring that introduced new hand held terminal technology customers can easily contact us.
The call to all of our sites as part of the Quality and Cost centre transfers the customers details to programme.
We have focused in particular the appropriate Sales Adviser so that we upon the early stages of the customer journey can quickly contact them and start to help and have introduced the Sales Development them with their home purchase.
Tracker SDT to our sales team.
customer care charter The SDT is a document personal to each We have a Customer Care Charter which we Sales Adviser and records their learning use to explain our commitment to customers and career progression to ensure that they and to brief and train our sales teams.
During continually develop and improve their skills.
the last twelve months we have sought to We believe that this will improve our Sales embed further the Charter within our systems Advisers efficiency and effectiveness, thus and processes.
In particular we have rolled out improving the quality of service we provide our Quality and Cost programme, introduced to our customers.
a new out of hours service and an online customer enquiry procedure.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 BusIness RevIew 21 case stuDY custoMeR seRvIce consumer code implementation The Consumer Code was introduced as the result of agreement between the housebuilding industry and the Government with the main purpose to ensure that consumers: are treated fairly: know what service levels to expect: are given reliable information on which to make suitably informed decisions: and know how to access speedy, low cost dispute resolution if they are dissatisfied.
The Consumer Code applies to all reservations made on or after 1 April 2010 and only to claims made within two years of the legal completion date.
We have developed point of sale material for our sales offices to implement the Consumer Code and have made changes to all of our reservation forms to ensure that all stages of the purchase process comply with the Consumer Code and that customers are fully informed through the sales process.
We have also undertaken a training programme across the business for our Sales Advisers, Sales Managers and divisional management teams to communicate the principles and requirements of the Consumer Code.
working with mortgage providers We also recognise the importance of assisting customers to find suitable financial assistance to purchase their new homes.
The Groups Lender Relations Manager works closely with mortgage lenders in order to assure them that the homes built by the Group are of a high quality which they can confidently lend on and customer service to gain their support for affordable housing schemes such as HomeBuy Direct.
hoMeBuy dIRect external awards during the year, we completed 1,735 homes 2009: 138 Our high quality homes have been recognised homes under the homeBuy direct scheme.
one of our independently by the achievement of Five Star purchasers was gareth gay, a music teacher, who builder status in the Home Builders Federation purchased a two bedroom apartment in our new south annual customer satisfaction survey and the Quarter development in croydon using homeBuy direct.
award of Daily Telegraph Homebuilder of the gareth was further attracted to our development as the Year at the British Homes Awards 2010. five-year warranty and range of white goods meant that he would not have many other costs after he moved in.
five-year warranty In addition to the record number of awards the Group has received for quality during the year, we are the only volume housebuilder to have introduced a five-year warranty.
This covers fixtures and fittings and is additional to the ten-year NHBC warranty on the fabric of the building.
During the year this has started to work effectively as a point of sale incentive for the customer.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010
