30 Governance Directors report The Directors Report should be read in Directors and their interests conjunction with the information contained in Each of the Directors listed on pages 28 and the Report of the Directors on pages 4 to 54 29 held office as at 30 June 2010.
David which include, inter alia: the Chairmans Thomas was appointed as Group Finance statement, Group Chief Executives review, Director on 21 July 2009, replacing Mark Pain Business review, Group Finance Directors who stepped down on the same date.
review, Board of Directors, Corporate governance and Remuneration report and are The beneficial interests of the Directors and incorporated by reference in and deemed to connected persons in the ordinary share form part of this report.
capital of the Company together with the interests of the Executive Directors in share activities of the Group options and awards of shares as at 30 June Barratt Developments PLC the Company is 2010 and as at the date of this report are the holding company of the Barratt Group of disclosed in the Remuneration report on companies the Group.
The Groups principal pages 50 to 52. activities comprise acquiring and developing land, planning, designing and constructing At no time during or at the end of the year residential property developments and selling did any Director have a material interest in the homes it builds.
These core activities a contract of significance in relation to the are supported by the Groups commercial business of the Group.
development, urban regeneration, procurement, design and strategic land capabilities.
appointment and replacement of Directors results and dividends In accordance with the Companys Articles The loss from continuing activities for the of Association the Articles there shall be year ended 30 June 2010 was 118.4m no less than two and no more than fifteen 2009: 468.6m.
Directors appointed to the Board at any one time.
Directors may be appointed by the No interim dividend was paid during the Company by ordinary resolution or by the financial year 2009: nil.
The Board may from time to time not recommend a final dividend for the year appoint one or more Directors to hold ended 30 June 2010 2009: nil.
employment or executive office for such period subject to the Companies Act 2006 enhanced Business review the Act and on such terms as they may The Chairmans statement, Group Chief determine and may revoke or terminate any Executives review, Business review and such appointment.
Directors are no longer Group Finance Directors review on pages subject to a maximum age limit.
4 to 25 together comprise the Groups Enhanced Business Review.
The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his term of annual General meeting office.
The office of Director shall be vacated if: The Annual General Meeting the 2010 AGM i he resigns or offers to resign and the Board will be held at the Royal College of Physicians, resolves to accept such offer: ii his resignation 11 St Andrews Place, Regents Park, London is requested by all of the other Directors and all NW1 4LE on 17 November 2010 at 2.30pm.
of the other Directors are not less than three in The notice convening the 2010 AGM will be number: iii he is or has been suffering from set out in a separate letter to shareholders.
mental or physical ill health: iv he is absent Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 GoveRnAnce 31 without permission of the Board from meetings Disclosure of information These forecasts are further stress tested at of the Board for six consecutive months and to auditors a Group level on a regular basis to ensure the Board resolves that his office is vacated: So far as each of the Directors is aware, that adequate headroom within facilities and v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with there is no relevant audit information that is, banking covenants is maintained.
In addition, his creditors generally: vi he is prohibited by information needed by the Companys auditors the Group has in place a risk management law from being a Director: vii he ceases to in connection with preparing their report of programme that seeks to limit the adverse be a Director by virtue of the Act: or viii he is which the Companys auditors are not aware.
effects of the other risks on its financial removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
performance, in particular by using financial Each of the Directors has taken all the relevant instruments, including debt and derivatives, Details relating to the retirement and re-election steps that they ought to have taken in to hedge interest rates and currency rates.
of Directors at each annual general meeting accordance with their duty as a Director to The Group does not use derivative financial AGM can be found on page 37 of this report.
make themselves aware of any relevant audit instruments for speculative purposes.
information and to establish that the Companys powers of the Directors auditors are aware of that information.
The Board approves treasury policies and Subject to the Articles, the Act and any This confirmation is given and should be certain day-to-day treasury activities have directions given by special resolution, the interpreted in accordance with the provisions been delegated to a centralised Treasury business of the Company is managed by of section 418 2 of the Act.
Operating Committee, which in turn regularly the Board who may exercise all the powers reports to the Board.
The treasury department of the Company, whether relating to the charitable and political implements guidelines that are established management of the business of the Company contributions by the Board and the Treasury Operating or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise During the year the Group made charitable Committee.
all the powers of the Company to borrow donations of 36,100 2009: 28,300.
Of the money and to mortgage or charge any of its donations in the current year 5,000 was to a liquidity risk undertakings, property, assets and uncalled the Habitat for Humanity, Haiti earthquake Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be capital and to issue debentures and other appeal and the remainder was to local and unable to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
securities and to give security for any debt, good causes.
The Group actively maintains a mixture of liability or obligation of the Company to any long-term and medium-term committed facilities third party.
No political contributions were made during that are designed to ensure that the Group the year 2009: nil.
has sufficient available funds for operations.
Qualifying third party The Groups borrowings are typically cyclical indemnity provisions offices throughout the financial year and peak in April As at the date of this report, there are qualifying The Group had 25 offices excluding those and May, and October and November, of third party indemnity provisions governed by the offices undertaking an administrative function each year, due to seasonal trends in income.
Act in place under which the Company only located throughout Britain at the end Accordingly the Group maintains sufficient has agreed to indemnify the Directors, former of the financial year.
A full list of the Groups facility headroom to cover these requirements.
Directors and the Company Secretary of the offices and their locations can be obtained On a normal operating basis the Group has Company, Directors and former Directors of from the Group General Counsel and a policy of maintaining headroom of up to any member of the Group or of an associated Company Secretary at the registered office 250.0m.
The Group identifies and takes company or affiliate company and members of the Company or from the Companys appropriate actions based upon its regular, of the Executive Committee, to the extent website www.
detailed system for the reporting and permitted by law and the Articles against all forecasting of cash flows from its operations.
liability arising in respect of any act or omission risk management objectives At 30 June 2010, the Group had committed in their duties.
In addition the Company has in The principal operational risks of the business bank facilities of 1,615.3m 2009: 2,284.4m place Directors and Officers liability insurance are detailed on pages 26 and 27.
The Groups and total facilities of 1,676.5m 2009: 2,360.6m.
for each Director of the Company and its financial assets, financial liabilities and At 30 June 2010, the Groups debt drawn associated companies.
derivative financial instruments are detailed against these facilities was 930.1m 2009: in notes 22, 23 and 24.
This represented 57.6% of available No Director of the Company or of any associated committed facilities at 30 June 2010 2009: company shall be accountable to the Company The Groups operations and financing 65.0%.
In addition the Group had 546.5m or the members for any benefit provided arrangements expose it to a variety of financial 2009: 178.8m of cash.
pursuant to the Articles and receipt of any such risks that include the effects of changes in debt benefit shall not disqualify any person from being market prices, credit risks, liquidity risks and The Group was in compliance with its financial or becoming a Director of the Company.
The most significant of these covenants at 30 June 2010.
At the date of to the Group is liquidity risk and, accordingly, approval of the financial statements the property, plant and equipment there is a regular, detailed system for the Groups internal forecasts indicate that it will The Directors are of the opinion that the value of reporting and forecasting of cash flows from remain in compliance with these covenants land and buildings included within the Groups the operations to Group management with for the foreseeable future being at least twelve property, plant and equipment is in excess of the goal of ensuring that risks are promptly months from the date of signing these financial book value but that the difference is not material identified and appropriate mitigating actions statements.
Compliance with covenants is in relation to the affairs of the Group.
taken by the central treasury department.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 32 Governance directors Report The Groups objective is to minimise refinancing financial assets and liabilities, which are solely denominated private placement notes, after the risk.
The Group therefore has a policy that the available for sale financial assets, would decrease effect of foreign exchange rate swaps, for 2010 average maturity of its committed bank facilities in value, excluding the effects of tax, by 5.2m was 11.2% 2009: 11.0% with, at 30 June 2010, and private placement notes is at least two 2009: 6.2m with a corresponding reduction a weighted average period of 6.8 years 2009: years on average with a target of three years.
in both the result for the year and equity.
7.8 years for which the rate is fixed.
At 30 June 2010, the average maturity of the Groups committed facilities was 2.6 years ii Interest rate risk In the year ended 30 June 2010, if UK interest 2009: 3.1 years.
The Group has both interest bearing assets rates had been 50 basis points higher lower and interest bearing liabilities.
Floating rate and all other variables were held constant, the In addition, the Group had 61.2m of undrawn borrowings expose the Group to cash flow Groups pre-tax loss would increase decrease uncommitted facilities available at 30 June interest rate risk and fixed rate borrowings by 1.8m 2009: 3.9m, the Groups post-tax 2010 2009: 68.8m.
expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
loss would increase decrease by 1.3m 2009: 2.8m and the Groups equity would b Market risk price risk The Group has a policy of maintaining both decrease increase by 1.3m 2009: 2.8m.
i uK housing market risk long-term fixed rate funding and medium-term This section specifically discusses UK housing floating rate funding so as to ensure that iii Foreign exchange rate risk market risk in the context of the financial there is appropriate flexibility for the Groups As at 30 June 2010, the Group has fixed rate instruments in the Group balance sheet.
The Group has US Dollar denominated private placement entered into swap arrangements to hedge cash notes of $187.2m 2009: $271.6m.
In order to The Group is subject to the prevailing conditions flow risks relating to interest rate movements on a mitigate risks associated with the movement of the UK economy and the Groups earnings proportion of its debt and has entered into fixed in the foreign exchange rate, the Group has are dependent upon the level of UK house prices.
rate debt in the form of Sterling and US Dollar a policy of fully hedging the principal of its US UK house prices are determined by the UK denominated private placements.
Dollar denominated debt and a significant economy and economic conditions including proportion of the interest payments.
The Group employment levels, interest rates, consumer The Group has a policy that 60%80% of the therefore entered into foreign exchange swap confidence, mortgage availability and competitor Groups median gross borrowings calculated arrangements on the issue of its US Dollar pricing.
However, the Group does seek to on the latest three-year plan taking into denominated debt, all of which are designated maintain an appropriate geographic spread account hedging is at a fixed rate, with an as cash flow hedges.
Accordingly the Group of operating divisions and an appropriate average minimum duration of five years and has no net exposure to foreign currency risk product mix to mitigate any risks caused by an average maximum duration of fifteen years.
on the principal of its US Dollar debt.
The Group has At 30 June 2010, 70.4% 2009: 68.4% of the foreign exchange swaps match 76% of the detailed procedures to manage its market Groups borrowings was at a fixed rate.
interest payments and therefore the Group related operational risks which include: is subject to foreign exchange rate risk upon a weekly review of key trading indicators, The exposure of the Groups and Companys the remaining 24%.
including reservations, sales rates, visitor financial liabilities to interest rate risk is detailed levels, levels of incentives, competitor in note 25.
Details of the Groups foreign exchange activity and cash flow projections: swaps are provided in note 24. the provision to mortgage providers with Floating interest rates on Sterling borrowings complete transparency of house purchase are linked to UK bank rate, LIBOR and money In the year ended 30 June 2010, if the US prices alongside any discounts or market rates.
The floating rates are fixed in Dollar per Pound Sterling exchange rate had other incentives in order that they have advance for periods generally ranging from one been $0.20 higher lower and all other variables appropriate information upon which to to six months.
Short-term flexibility is achieved were held constant, the Groups pre-tax loss base their lending decision: and through the use of overdraft, committed and would increase decrease by 0.4m 2009: collaboration with key mortgage lenders uncommitted bank facilities.
The weighted 0.7m, the Groups post-tax loss would to ensure that products are appropriate average interest rate for floating rate borrowings increase decrease by 0.3m 2009: 0.5m wherever possible for its customers.
and the Groups equity would decrease increase by 0.3m 2009: 0.5m.
The UK housing market affects the valuation of Sterling private placement notes of 77.8m the Groups non-financial assets and liabilities 2009: 114.2m were arranged at fixed interest c credit risk and the critical judgements applied by rates and exposed the Group to fair value interest In the majority of cases, the Group receives management in these financial statements, rate risk.
The weighted average interest rate for cash upon legal completion for private sales including the valuation of land and work in fixed rate Sterling private placement notes for and receives advance stage payments from progress, goodwill and brands.
The value of 2010 was 11.8% 2009: 11.5% with, at 30 June Registered Social Landlords for social housing.
the Groups available for sale financial assets 2010, a weighted average period of 7.7 years The Group has 136.3m 2009: 86.5m of is directly linked to the UK housing market.
2009: 8.5 years for which the rate is fixed.
available for sale financial assets which expose At 30 June 2010 these assets were carried it to credit risk, although this asset is spread at a fair value of 136.3m 2009: 86.5m.
US Dollar denominated private placement notes over a large number of properties.
As such, of 125.1m 2009: 164.9m were arranged at the Group has no significant concentration of At 30 June 2010, if UK house prices had been fixed interest rates and exposed the Group credit risk, with exposure spread over a large 5% lower and all other variables were held to fair value interest rate risk.
The weighted number of counterparties and customers.
constant, the Groups house price linked average interest rate for fixed rate US Dollar Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 GoveRnAnce 33 The Group manages credit risk in the long-term capital structure include adjusting rights and obligations following ways: the level of ordinary dividends paid to attaching to shares The Group has a credit policy that is shareholders assuming the Company is Subject to any rights attached to existing limited to financial institutions with high paying a dividend, issuing new share capital, shares, shares may be issued with such rights credit ratings as set by international arranging debt to meet liability payments and restrictions as the Company may by credit rating agencies and has a policy and selling assets to reduce debt.
ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no determining the maximum permissible such resolution or so far as it does not make exposure to any single counterparty.
likely future developments specific provision as the Board may decide.
The Group only contracts derivative An indication of likely future developments in financial instruments with counterparties the Group including in the field of research Subject to the Act, the Articles specify that with which the Group has an International and development is given in the Business rights attached to any existing class of shares Swaps and Derivatives Association Master review on pages 13 to 25. may be varied either with the written consent Agreement in place.
These agreements of the holders of not less than three-fourths permit net settlement, thereby reducing creditor payments in nominal value of the issued shares of that the Groups credit exposure to individual The Group is responsible for agreeing the class excluding any shares of that class held counterparties.
detail of terms and conditions relating to as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a transactions with its suppliers.
It is Group special resolution passed at a separate general The maximum exposure to any counterparty policy to ensure that suppliers are made aware meeting of the holders of those shares.
at 30 June 2010 was 100.0m of cash on of the terms of payment and to abide by the The rights conferred upon the holders of any deposit with a financial institution 2009: 31.0m.
agreed terms of payment with suppliers where shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly The carrying amount of financial assets recorded the goods and services have been supplied provided in the rights attaching to those in the financial statements, net of any allowance in accordance with the relevant terms and shares, be deemed to be varied by the for losses, represents the Groups maximum conditions of contract.
Implementation of this creation or issue of further shares ranking exposure to credit risk.
policy resulted in a supplier payment period pari passu with them.
by the Company of 29 days 2009: 42 days As at 30 June 2010, the Company was exposed for its trade creditors at 30 June 2010. voting to 898.5m 2009: 1,511.1m of credit risk in Subject to any special terms as to voting upon relation to intercompany loans, financial capital structure which any shares may be issued or may at the guarantees, performance bonds and the bank The Company has a single class of share relevant time be held, every member present in borrowings of subsidiary undertakings.
Further capital which is divided into ordinary shares person or by proxy at a general meeting or class details are provided in notes 32 and 33. of 10 pence each.
All issued shares are in meeting has one vote upon a show of hands registered form and are fully paid.
Details of or, upon a poll vote, one vote for every share d capital risk management the Companys issued share capital and of of which they are a holder.
In the case of joint cash flow risk the movements in the share capital during the holders of a share, the vote of the senior who The Groups objectives when managing year can be found in note 27 on page 112. tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, capital are to safeguard its ability to continue shall be accepted to the exclusion of votes of as a going concern in order to provide returns Subject to the Articles, the Act and other the other joint holders and seniority shall be for shareholders and meet its liabilities as shareholders rights, shares are at the disposal determined by the order in which the names they fall due whilst maintaining an appropriate of the Board.
At each AGM the Board seeks stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
authorisation from its shareholders to allot shares.
At the general meeting held on In accordance with the Act, each member is The Group manages as capital its equity, 19 October 2009, to approve the Companys entitled to appoint one or more proxies, and as set out in the condensed consolidated Placing and Rights Issue, the Directors were in the case of corporations, more than one statement of changes in shareholders equity, given authority to allot shares up to a nominal corporate representative to exercise all or any its bank borrowings being overdrafts, loan value of 61,844,176 for the purposes of the of their rights to attend, speak and vote on their notes and bank loans and its private Placing and the Rights Issue.
In addition, by behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
placement notes, as set out in note 23. virtue of section 549 of the Act, the Directors The timescales for appointing proxies will were given authority to allot further shares up be set out in the Notice of the 2010 AGM.
The Group is subject to the prevailing conditions to a nominal value of 32,168,775 representing of the UK economy and the Groups earnings approximately 33.33% of the nominal value No member shall be entitled to vote at any are dependent upon the level of UK house of the Companys issued share capital general meeting or class meeting in respect prices.
UK house prices are determined by immediately following the Placing and the of any shares held by them if any call or other the UK economy and economic conditions Rights Issue, on the assumption that no further sum then payable by them in respect of that including employment levels, interest rates, shares would be issued as a result of the share remains unpaid or if they have been consumer confidence, mortgage availability exercise of options under any Company served with a restriction notice as defined and competitor pricing.
The management of employee share scheme between publication in the Articles after failure to provide the these operational risks is set out in the principal of the notice of the general meeting and the Company with information concerning risks and uncertainties on pages 26 and 27. completion of the Placing and the Rights Issue, interests in those shares required to be such authority to remain valid until the end of provided under the Act.
In addition, the other methods by which the 2010 AGM.
A resolution to renew this the Group can manage its short-term and authority will be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 34 Governance directors Report transfer of shares in respect of the Companys shares from a shareholder authority for Shares in the Company may be in uncertificated person with a 0.25% interest if such person purchase of own shares or certificated form.
Title to uncertificated shares has been served with a restriction notice after At the Companys AGM held on 17 November may be transferred by means of a relevant failure to provide the Company with information 2009, shareholders gave authority to the system and certificated shares may be concerning interests in those shares required Company to buy back up to an aggregate of transferred by an instrument of transfer as to be provided under the Act.
34,671,802 ordinary shares representing 10% approved by the Board.
The transferor of a of the Companys issued share capital pre share is deemed to remain the holder until the shareholder arrangements to Placing and Rights Issue.
This authority is transferees name is entered into the Companys waive dividends valid until the end of the 2010 AGM or close of register of members.
The Barratt Developments Employee Benefit business on 16 February 2011, whichever Trust the EBT holds ordinary shares in the is the earlier.
Under the authority there is a There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares Company.
The shares are held in the EBT for minimum and maximum price to be paid for except as follows.
The Board may, in its absolute the purpose of satisfying options and awards such shares.
Any shares which are bought discretion and without giving any reason, decline that have been granted under the various back may be held as treasury shares or, if not to register any transfer of any share which is not a employee share schemes operated by the so held, will be cancelled immediately upon fully paid share.
Registration of a transfer of an Company.
The EBT has agreed to waive all completion of the purchase, thereby reducing uncertificated share may be refused in the or any future right to dividend payments on the Companys issued share capital.
circumstances set out in the uncertificated shares held within the EBT and these shares securities rules as defined in the Articles and do not count in the calculation of the weighted No purchases had been made under this where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, average number of shares used to calculate authority as at the date of this report.
the number of joint holders to whom the earnings per share until such time as they A resolution renewing the authority will uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds are vested to the relevant employee.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of The Trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain Dividends and distributions transfer: i is duly stamped or certified or from voting on shares held in the EBT in any Subject to the provisions of the Act, the otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the way they think fit and in doing so may take Company may by ordinary resolution from time Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is into account both financial and non-financial to time declare dividends for payment to the accompanied by the relevant share certificate interests of the beneficiaries of the EBT or holders of the ordinary shares of 10 pence and such other evidence of the right to transfer their dependants.
each, of an amount which does not exceed as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in the amount recommended by the Board.
respect of only one class of share: and iii if joint Details of the shares so held are set out in The Board may pay interim dividends, and also transferees, is in favour of not more than four note 27. any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial such transferees: or where the transfer is position of the Company, in the opinion of the requested by a person with a 0.25% interest Board, justifies their payment.
If the Board acts as defined in the Articles if such a person in good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares has been served with a restriction notice after with preferred or pari passu rights for losses failure to provide the Company with information arising from the payment of interim or fixed concerning interests in those shares required to dividends on other shares.
be provided under the Act, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms The Board may withhold payment of all or any length sale as defined in the Articles.
part of any dividends or other monies payable table 1 notifiable interests Total Number of voting % of issued Date of notification Name rights share capital Nature of holding 1 26 07 2010 JP Morgan Chase & Co. 17,286,656 4.98 Indirect 15 07 2010 Credit Suisse Group AG 57,226,322 5.93 Indirect 17 06 2010 Legal & General Group Plc 57,738,115 5.98 Direct 2 17 06 2010 Phoenix Asset Management Partners Limited 48,256,698 4.99 Direct 10 06 2010 Tremblant Capital LP 30,282,432 3.14 Indirect 08 06 2010 Standard Life Investments Ltd 68,119,574 7.05 Direct & Indirect 06 11 2009 Polaris Capital Management LLC 34,606,679 3.59 Indirect 05 11 2009 FMR LLC 34,579,199 8.24 Indirect 1 Actual receipt of notification by the Company was on this date, even though the notification was sent by JP Morgan Chase & Co. on 9 July 2007.
On 7 July 2010 JP Morgan Chase & Co. confirmed that their current holding remains below 5%.
2 Actual receipt of notification by the Company was on this date, even though the notification was sent by Phoenix Asset Management Partners Limited on 3 December 2009.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 GoveRnAnce 35 major shareholders within a single corporate group, the holders In accordance with the UKLAs Disclosure of the 20m Notes have an option to and Transparency Rules the DTR all require the Company to repay the entire notifications received by the Company unpaid principal amount of the 20m Notes are published on the Companys website held by each holder at par, together with www.
co. uk and via interest accrued thereon and a makea Regulated Information Service.
whole amount: and under the privately-placed notes originally As at the date of this report, the Company amounting in aggregate to 105.0m and had received notifications, in accordance $300.0m the Remaining Notes issued with DTR 5, of the notifiable interests set pursuant to a note purchase agreement out in Table 1, in the voting rights in the dated 23 August 2007 and a note purchase Companys issued share capital.
agreement dated 23 April 2008 each as amended from time to time and most employee share schemes recently with effect from 16 November Details of employee share schemes are set 2009 by the Company to various out in note 28. institutions, the holders of the Remaining Notes have an option to require the articles of association Company to repay the entire unpaid The Articles contain regulations which deal with principal amount of the Remaining Notes matters such as appointment and removal of held by each holder at par, together with Directors, Directors interests and proceedings at interest accrued thereon but without any general and board meetings.
Any amendments make-whole amount in respect of any to the Articles may be made in accordance repayment occurring during an interest with the provisions of the Act by way of special period.
The same repayment right on a resolution at a general meeting.
change of control also applies in respect of the privately-placed notes originally significant agreements amounting in aggregate to 20m issued in The following significant agreements contain pursuant to a note purchase agreement provisions entitling the counterparties to dated 23 August 2008 as amended from exercise termination or other rights in the time to time and most recently with effect event of a change of control of the Company: from 16 November 2009.
However, the under the credit facility agreement dated 11.2m of such notes that remain 5 February 2007, the revolving credit facility outstanding will expire on 15 October 2010. agreement dated 9 July 2008 and the revolving credit facility agreement dated Under the terms of each of the above 2 February 2005 each as amended from referenced note purchase agreements, a time to time and most recently with effect change of control occurs if any person or from 16 November 2009 in each case group of persons acting in concert acquires between, amongst others, the Company, beneficial ownership of more than 50% of the Lloyds TSB Bank Plc as the facility agent issued share capital of the Company carrying and the banks and financial institutions voting rights.
named therein as lenders together, the Credit Facilities, the facility agent must, The note purchase agreements also impose upon a change of control, cancel the total upon the holders customary restrictions on commitments of the lenders under such resale or transfer of the notes other than in Credit Facilities and declare all outstanding compliance with applicable securities laws.
loans and credits, together with accrued interest and any other amounts payable On behalf of the Board in respect of such Credit Facilities, to be immediately due and payable.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if Laurence Dent any person or group of persons acting in Group General Counsel concert gains control of the Company: and Company Secretary under the privately-placed notes originally 7 September 2010 amounting in aggregate to 20.0m the 20m Notes issued pursuant to a note purchase agreement dated 29 August 2007 as amended from time to time and most recently with effect from 16 November 2009 to various institutions Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010
