28 Governance BoarD of Directors robert lawson mark clare David thomas Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Bob Lawson was appointed a Mark Clare was appointed Group Chief from 21 July 2009 Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2008 Executive on 2 October 2006 and is a David Thomas was appointed an and Chairman on 1 July 2008.
He is member of the Nominations Committee.
Executive Director and Group Finance a member of the Remuneration and He was appointed as a Director of the Director on 21 July 2009.
He was formerly Nominations Committees.
Bob is also BRE Trust in August 2009.
He was the Group Finance Director and the the Chairman of Hays plc and a Director formerly an Executive Director of Centrica Deputy Chief Executive of The GAME of The Federation of Groundwork Plc and Managing Director of Centricas Group plc.
Before that he was the Group Trusts.
He was formerly the Managing British Gas Residential Energy operation.
Finance Director at Millennium and Director of the Vitec Group for He joined British Gas in 1994, becoming Copthorne Hotels plc and held senior three years and Chief Executive of Centricas Finance Director in 1997 and financial roles with House of Fraser Electrocomponents plc for ten years.
Managing Director of British Gas and Forte plc.
Residential Energy in 2002. robert Davies tessa Bamford roderick maceachrane Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Bob Davies was appointed a Non-Executive from 1 July 2009 Rod MacEachrane was appointed a Director on 5 May 2004 and is the Chairman Tessa Bamford was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 May of the Remuneration Committee and a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2009 2006 and is a member of the Audit, member of the Audit and Nominations and is a member of the Remuneration Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
He is also a Non-Executive and Nominations Committees.
He was formerly the Director of Northern Rock Asset a Director of Cantos Communications Commercial Director and an Executive Management plc and a member of the Limited, the online communications Director of the National House-Building Investment Advisory Board for North East service provider, where she leads the Council NHBC Main Board before Finance.
He was previously Chairman of corporate client relationships and is a retiring after 25 years service in April Biffa, a Non-Executive Director of British Governor of the British Institute of 2006.
He is a member of the Governing Energy Group plc, the Chief Executive of Florence.
She was formerly a Director Board of the NHBC Foundation, an Arriva plc and the chair of the Board of of J Henry Schroder & Co with whom independent charitable research Governors of Sunderland University.
her career spanned over 12 years in foundation which is a joint venture with He was also the Chairman of the CBI various roles.
the Building Research Establishment Regional Council in the North East and and a Director of the National Centre a Non-Executive Director of Sunderland for Excellence in Housing.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 GoveRnAnce 29 steven Boyes clive fenton Group Board Executive Director Group Board Executive Director Steven Boyes joined the Group in 1978.
Clive Fenton joined the Group in 1983, Formerly the Managing Director of Barratt becoming Managing Director of Barratt York, he was appointed to the Group West London in 1996.
He was appointed Board in July 2001 and is the Group to the Group Board in July 2003 and is Board Executive Director responsible the Group Board Executive Director for the Barratt North Region.
responsible for the Barratt South Region.
mark rolfe William shannon laurence Dent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group General Counsel and Mark Rolfe was appointed a NonBill Shannon was appointed a Company Secretary Executive Director on 1 May 2008.
Non-Executive Director on 1 September Laurence Dent was appointed Group He is the Chairman of the Audit Committee 2005 and is a member of the Audit, General Counsel and Company Secretary and is a member of the Nominations Remuneration and Nominations in January 2001.
He is a solicitor and was Committee.
Mark is also a Non-Executive Committees.
He is currently Nonpreviously Group Deputy Chief Executive Director of The Sage Group plc and Executive Chairman of Aegon UK plc, of Home Group Limited, one of the largest Hornby Plc and Chairman of Lane Clark a Non-Executive Director of Rank Plc housing associations in the UK.
He was formerly the and of Johnson Service Group PLC and Finance Director of Gallaher Group Plc a partner with Tri-Artisan Partners for seven years until April 2007 when it Europe LLP.
He was previously an was acquired by Japan Tobacco Inc. Executive Director of Whitbread PLC.
His career with Gallaher spanned 20 years during which time he served in various finance and executive roles.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010
