Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and accounts of corporate governance procedures and risk management.
As set out in the Directors the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Responsibility Statement on page 26, the Board is Results and Dividends also responsible for the preparation of the Annual The results for the year are set out in the attached Report and financial statements for each financial accounts.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are non-executive, can be found on page 14.
The Group paid interim dividends during the year The Company has no executive Directors or ended 31 December 2010 as follows: employees.
Payment Rate per date share Objective Ninth interim for prior year 29 January 2010 0.5p The Companys investment objective is to provide Tenth interim for prior year 26 February 2010 0.5p Eleventh interim for prior year 26 March 2010 0.5p ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of Twelfth interim for prior year 30 April 2010 0.5p income together with the potential for capital and First interim 28 May 2010 0.5p income growth from investing in a diversified UK Second interim 25 June 2010 0.5p commercial property portfolio.
Third interim 30 July 2010 0.5p Fourth interim 10 September 2010 0.5p Fifth interim 30 September 2010 0.5p Investment Policy Sixth interim 29 October 2010 0.5p The Companys policy is to hold a diversified Seventh interim 26 November 2010 0.5p portfolio of freehold and predominantly long Eighth interim 31 December 2010 0.5p leasehold over 60 years remaining at the time of acquisition UK commercial properties.
It invests It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay principally in three commercial property sectors: dividends as interim dividends.
The Directors do not office, retail and industrial.
Two further interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, were paid The Company invests in properties which the Board, on 28 January and 25 February 2011 and a third will on the advice of the Managers, believes will be paid on 25 March 2011.
The twelfth, and last, generate a combination of long-term growth in interim dividend in respect of the year, of 0.5p per capital and income for shareholders.
Investment share, will be paid on 28 April 2011 to shareholders decisions are based on an analysis of, amongst on the register on 8 April 2011.
It is the intention of other things, prospects for future capital and income the Directors that the Company will continue to pay growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant dividends monthly.
covenant strength, lease length, and initial and equivalent yields.
Principal Activity and Status Investment risks are spread by investing across The Company is a  company different geographical areas and sectors and by registered number 50402 and, during the year, letting properties to low risk tenants.
The Company carried on business as a property investment has not set any maximum geographic exposures, company.
The Companys shares are traded on the but the maximum weightings in the principal London Stock Exchange.
property sectors at any time stated as a percentage The Company is a member of the Association of of total assets are: office: 50 per cent: retail: 65 per Investment Companies AIC.
cent: and industrial: 40 per cent.
No single property may exceed 15 per cent of total assets and the five The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries largest properties excluding indirect property funds are included in note 1 b to the accounts.
may not exceed 40 per cent of total assets in each Business Review case at the time of acquisition.
Short leasehold The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall properties with less than 60 years remaining may stewardship of the Company, including investment not exceed 10 per cent of total assets at the time of and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, acquisition.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Report of the Directors continued The Company is permitted to invest up to 15 per principal risks are therefore related to the cent, at the time of acquisition, of its total assets in commercial property market in general and its indirect property funds including listed property investment properties.
More detailed explanations of companies which invest principally in UK property, these risks and the way in which they are managed but these investments may not exceed 20 per cent are contained in note 18 to the accounts.
The of total assets at any subsequent date.
The Managers also seek to mitigate these risks through Company is permitted to invest cash, held by it for active asset management initiatives and carrying out working capital purposes and awaiting investment, in due diligence work on potential tenants before cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
entering into any new lease agreements.
All of the properties in the portfolio are insured.
The Company uses gearing throughout the Group to enhance returns over the long term.
Gearing, Other risks faced by the Company include the represented by borrowings as a percentage of total following: assets, may not exceed 50 per cent.
However, the Economic external shocks, inflation or deflation, Boards present intention is that borrowings of the economic recessions and movements in interest Group will be limited to a maximum of 35 per cent rates could affect property valuations.
of total assets at the time of borrowing.
Investment and strategic incorrect strategy, Investment of Assets including sector and geographic allocations and At each Board meeting, the Board receives a use of gearing could lead to poor returns for detailed presentation from the Managers which shareholders.
includes a review of investment performance, recent Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead portfolio activity and a market outlook.
It also considers compliance with the investment policy and to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit other investment restrictions during the reporting period.
An analysis of how the portfolio was invested report.
as at 31 December 2010 is contained within the Management and control changes that cause Managers Review on pages 8 to 12 and a portfolio the management and control of the Company to listing is provided on page 13. be exercised in the United Kingdom could lead to The Groups borrowings are described in notes 13 the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom and 14 to the accounts.
taxation on income and capital gains.
Operational failure of the Managers accounting Strategy systems or disruption to the Managers business, As part of its strategy the Board has contractually or that of third party service providers, could lead delegated the management of the property portfolio to an inability to provide accurate reporting and and other services to the Managers.
monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders The Companys performance in meeting its confidence.
objectives is measured against key performance Financial inadequate controls by the Managers indicators as set out below.
A review of the Companys returns during the financial year, the or third party service providers could lead to misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate position of the Company at the year-end, and accounting policies or failure to comply with the outlook for the coming year are contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review.
accounting standards could lead to a qualified audit report, misreporting or breaches of regulations.
Breaching loan covenants could lead Principal Risks and Uncertainties to a loss of shareholders confidence and The Companys assets comprise direct investments financial loss for shareholders see notes 13 and in UK commercial property, although market 14 for details of the principal loan covenants.
uncertainty has resulted in cash being held.
Its 16 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks Directors through continual review, policy-setting and The Directors who held office during the year and enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also their interests in the shares of the Company as at regularly monitors the investment environment and 31 December 2010 all of which were beneficially the management of the Companys property held were: portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the 2010 2009 internal control guidance issued by the Financial Ordinary Ordinary Reporting Council.
Details of the Companys internal Shares Shares controls are described in more detail on pages 20 J H Stephen 42,389 42,389 and 21.
J G Hooley 60,000 60,000 P Niven 43,142 43,142 Shareholder Value The Board and Managers recognise the importance C Russell 50,000 of both marketing and share buy-backs in B W Sweetland 88,961 88,961 enhancing shareholder value.
In terms of marketing, N J M Tostevin 21,832 21,832 the Managers offer a range of private investor savings schemes, details of which can be found on page 52.
In addition, meetings are held regularly There have been no changes in the above interests with current and prospective shareholders and between 31 December 2010 and 22 March 2011. stockbroking analysts covering the investment As explained in the Chairmans Statement, company sector.
Share buy-backs can help reduce Mr Martin Moore will be appointed as an the volatility of any discount of the share price to the independent non-executive Director with effect from net asset value per share and enhance the net asset 31 March 2011.
Mr Moore has very considerable value per share for continuing shareholders.
real estate experience from his role as Managing Communication of quarterly portfolio information is Director of Prudential Property Investment Managers made through the Companys website.
Limited, the property asset management arm of Prudential plc.
He is also a board adviser to The Key Performance Indicators Crown Estate and a board member and past The Board uses a number of performance measures president of the British Property Federation.
He is a to assess the Companys success in meeting its past chairman of the Investment Property Forum objectives.
The key performance indicators are as and is a UK resident.
In accordance with the follows: Companys Articles of Incorporation Mr Moore will retire at the Annual General Meeting, being the first Net asset value total return and total return of the such meeting following his appointment.
Being property portfolio compared to relevant eligible, he will offer himself for re-election.
Investment Property Databank indices: As explained in more detail under Corporate Premium discount of share price to net asset Governance on pages 18 to 20, the Board has value: agreed that all Directors will retire annually.
Dividend per share and dividend yield: and Mr P Niven, Mr B W Sweetland, Mr N J M Tostevin, Mr J G Hooley and Mr C Russell will retire at the Total expenses as a ratio of total assets less Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer current liabilities.
Mr J H Stephen will also A historic record of these indicators is contained retire at the Annual General Meeting.
He will not in the Highlights and the Performance Summary on stand for re-election and will therefore retire from the pages 2 and 3, the Chairmans Statement on Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
pages 4 to 6, and in the Historic Record on Following the Annual General Meeting Mr C Russell, page 51. who was appointed as a non-executive Director in Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 Report of the Directors continued Number of October 2009 and Deputy Chairman in September Ordinary Shares Percentage 2010, will succeed Mr Stephen as Chairman.
Held Held The Board confirms that, following formal Resolution Limited 232,415,797 34.15 performance evaluations, the performance of each Phoenix Life Limited 109,931,698 16.15 of the five current Directors seeking re-election Rensburg Sheppards Investcontinues to be effective and demonstrates ment Management Limited 20,427,179 3.00 commitment to the role.
The Board therefore believes that it is in the interests of shareholders that Corporate Governance these Directors are re-elected.
Guernsey does not currently have its own corporate There are no service contracts in existence between governance code although, at the date of this the Company and any Directors but each of the report, this is being developed and is at the Directors has been issued with a letter of consultation stage.
The Board has therefore appointment which sets out the main terms of his considered the principles and recommendations of appointment.
the AICs Code of Corporate Governance issued in March 2009 the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Management Companies issued at the same time the AIC The Managers provide investment management and Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC other services to the Company.
Details of the Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section arrangements between the Company and the 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Managers in respect of management services, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June including changes made during the year, are given 2008 the Combined Code, as well as setting out in note 2 to the accounts.
additional principles and recommendations on issues specific to investment companies.
The Board keeps under review the appropriateness of the Managers appointment.
In doing so the The Board considers that it is appropriate to report Board considers the past investment performance of against the principles and recommendations of the the Company and the capability and resources of AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which the Managers to deliver satisfactory investment incorporates the Combined Code.
It also considers the length of the Except as disclosed in the following paragraph, the notice period of the investment management Company complied throughout the year with the agreement and the fees payable to the Managers, recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant together with the standard of the other services provisions of the Combined Code.
Directors are non-executive, in accordance with the The Directors are satisfied with the Managers ability AIC Code and the preamble to the Combined Code, to deliver satisfactory investment performance, and the provisions of the Combined Code on the role of the quality of other services provided.
It is therefore the chief executive and, except in so far as they their opinion that the continuing appointment of the apply to non-executive Directors, on Directors Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of remuneration, are not relevant to the Company, and shareholders as a whole.
are not reported on further.
For part of the year, there was no Senior Substantial Interests in Share Capital Independent Director as recommended by principle 1 of the AIC Code and provision A.
3.3 of As at 22 March 2011 the Company had received notification of the following holdings of voting rights the Combined Code.
However, during the year Mr C Russell was appointed as Deputy Chairman and the under the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules : Company now complies with this recommendation.
18 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited During the year the Board considered the principles beyond which Board approval must be sought.
All other matters, including investment and dividend and recommendations of The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting policies, corporate strategy, gearing, corporate Council in June 2010 and applicable for accounting governance procedures and risk management, are periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010 the reserved for the approval of the Board of Directors.
It has also considered the principles The Board meets at least quarterly and receives and recommendations of the new code of corporate full information on the Companys investment governance issued by the AIC in October 2010 the performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board meetings.
As at 31 December 2010 the Company complied substantially with the relevant Throughout the year the Audit Committee, provisions of the New Code and the new AIC Code Management Engagement Committee and and it is the intention of the Board that the Nomination Committee have been in operation.
Company will comply with those provisions These committees operate within clearly defined throughout the year ending 31 December 2011. terms of reference which are available for inspection The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors on request.
and, other than Mr P Niven who is an independent The Audit Committee comprises all of the Directors non-executive director of the Companys largest except Mr P Niven and the Chairman of the Board, shareholder, Resolution Limited, are considered by Mr J H Stephen.
It is chaired by Mr N J M Tostevin.
the Board to be independent.
Mr B W Sweetland As a consequence of the reasons described above, was, until May 2005, an executive director of F&C Mr B W Sweetland was not a member of the Audit Asset Management plc and, during the year, sat on a Committee during the year but has since been committee which provided non-investment related appointed as a member.
The committee meets at advice to F&C regarding its range of socially least twice yearly and is the forum through which the responsible investment products.
This role ceased on auditor reports to the Board of Directors.
Its duties 30 June 2010 since when Mr Sweetland has been include reviewing the Annual and Interim Accounts, considered under the terms of the Listing Rules to be the system of internal controls and the terms of an independent Director of the Company.
appointment and remuneration of the auditor.
The The Companys Articles of Incorporation require objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the Audit all Directors to retire by rotation at least every Committee which also reviews the terms under which three years.
However, in accordance with the the external auditor is appointed to perform non-audit recommendations of the New Code the Board has services.
The committee reviews the scope and agreed that from this year onwards all Directors will results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the retire annually and, if appropriate, seek re-election.
independence and objectivity of the auditor, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Such fees The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and amounted to 92,000 for the year ended experience are considered to add significantly to the 31 December 2010 year ended 31 December 2009: strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the 9,000 and related principally to work undertaken in overall length of service of any of the Companys relation to the merger proposals, a review of the Directors, including the Chairman, has been interim financial information and certification of bond imposed.
New Directors receive an induction from compliance certificates.
Notwithstanding such the Managers and Secretary on joining the Board, services the Audit Committee considers KPMG and all Directors receive other relevant training as Channel Islands Limited to be independent of the necessary.
Company and that the provision of such non-audit The Companys objective, investment policy and services is not a threat to the objectivity and strategy are set out within the Business Review on independence of the conduct of the audit.
A management agreement between The Management Engagement Committee the Company and FCIB sets out the matters over comprises all of the Directors except Mr P Niven.
which the Managers have authority and the limits Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Report of the Directors continued Management Board of Directors Audit Committee Engagement Committee Nomination Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended J H Stephen 6 6 n a n a 1 1 1 1 J G Hooley 6 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 P Niven 6 6 n a n a n a n a 1 1 C Russell 6 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 B W Sweetland 6 6 n a n a n a n a 1 1 N J M Tostevin 6 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 Individual Directors may, at the expense of the It is chaired by Mr J G Hooley.
As a consequence of the reasons described above, Mr B W Sweetland Company, seek independent professional advice on was not a member of the Management Engagement any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of Committee during the year but has since been their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate appointed as a member.
The committee reviews the Directors and Officers liability insurance.
appropriateness of the Managers continuing appointment together with the terms and conditions Going Concern thereof on a regular basis.
In assessing the going concern basis of accounting the Directors have had regard to the guidance issued The Nomination Committee comprises all of the by the Financial Reporting Council.
They have Directors and is chaired by Mr J H Stephen.
The considered the current cash position of the Group, committee is convened for the purpose of forecast rental income and other forecast cash flows.
considering the appointment of additional Directors The Group has agreements relating to its borrowing as and when considered appropriate.
In considering facilities with which it has complied during the year.
appointments to the Board, the Nomination Based on this information the Directors believe that Committee takes into account the ongoing the Group has the ability to meets its financial requirements of the Company and the need to have obligations as they fall due for a period of at least a balance of skills and experience within the Board.
twelve months from the date of approval of the During the year the performance of the Board, accounts.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the committees and individual Directors was evaluated going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
through an assessment process, led by the Chairman.
This process involved the completion of Internal Controls questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the The Board is responsible for the Companys system Company, discussions with individual Directors and of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
individual feedback from the Chairman to each of The Board has therefore established an ongoing the Directors.
The performance of the Chairman was process designed to meet the particular needs of evaluated by the Deputy Chairman after consultation the Company in managing the risks to which it with the other Directors.
is exposed, consistent with the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The table above sets out the number of scheduled The process is based principally on the Managers Board and committee meetings held during the year existing risk-based approach to internal control and the number of meetings attended by each whereby a test matrix is created that identifies the Director.
key functions carried out by the Managers and other In addition to the scheduled meetings detailed service providers, the individual activities undertaken above, there were a further 19 Board meetings and within those functions, the risks associated with 3 Board committee meetings held in Guernsey each activity and the controls employed to minimise during the year.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
20 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited The test matrix is regularly updated and the Board is Relations with Shareholders provided with regular reports highlighting all material The Company proactively seeks the views of its changes to the risk ratings and confirming the action shareholders and places great importance on which has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual communication with them.
To that end, during the review of these procedures is carried out by the year the Board appointed Winterflood Securities Audit Committee and includes consideration of Limited as the Companys broker.
The Board internal control reports issued by the Managers and receives regular reports on the views of shareholders other service providers.
and the Chairman and other Directors are available to shareholders if required.
The Notice of Annual Such review procedures have been in place General Meeting to be held on 19 May 2011 is set throughout the year and up to the date of approval out on pages 49 and 50.
It is hoped that this will of the Annual Report, and the Board is satisfied with provide a forum, both formal and informal, for their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their Directors and Managers of the Company.
nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement Directors Authority to Allot Shares or loss.
At each Board meeting the Board monitors In accordance with the Listing Rules, the directors of the investment performance of the Company in a premium listed company will not be permitted, comparison to its stated objective and against from 6 April 2011, to allot new shares or grant comparable companies.
The Board also reviews the rights over shares for cash without first offering Companys activities since the last Board meeting to them to existing shareholders in proportion to their ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed existing holdings.
investment policy and approved investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to The Board therefore believes that a resolution should the guidelines.
In addition, at each Board meeting, be sought at this years Annual General Meeting to the Board receives reports from the Secretary in disapply pre-emption rights.
respect of compliance matters and duties performed Resolution 10 gives the Directors, for the period until on behalf of the Company.
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in The Board has reviewed the need for an internal 2012 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from audit function.
The Board has decided that the the passing of the resolution, the necessary authority systems and procedures employed by the Managers either to allot securities or sell shares held in and the Secretary, including their internal audit treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on functions and the work carried out by the a pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal Companys external auditor, provide sufficient amount of 680,537.
This is equivalent to assurance that a sound system of internal control, approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary which safeguards the Companys assets, is share capital of the Company as at 22 March 2011. maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Directors will only allot new shares pursuant to this authority if they believe it is advantageous to the Environmental Policy Companys shareholders to do so and in no The Property Managers acquire, develop and circumstances that would result in a dilution to the manage properties on behalf of the Company.
It is net asset value per share.
recognised that these activities have both direct and indirect environmental impacts.
The Board has Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares endorsed the Property Managers own The Company did not buy back any shares during environmental policy which is to work in partnership the year.
with contractors, tenants and consultants to minimise those impacts, seeking continuous The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of Ordinary Shares expires at improvements in environmental performance and conducting regular reviews.
the end of the Annual General Meeting and Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Report of the Directors continued Resolution 11, as set out in the notice of the Annual and acquires an interest in any additional shares carrying voting rights of that company, is normally General Meeting, seeks renewal of such authority until the earlier of the Annual General Meeting in required to make a general cash offer to all the 2012 and 18 months from the passing of the remaining shareholders of the company to acquire resolution.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be their equity shares and transferable securities made subject to Guernsey law and within any carrying voting rights in the company.
An offer under guidelines established from time to time by the Rule 9 of the Takeover Code must be in cash at the Board and the making and timing of any buy backs highest price paid by the person or the group of will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
persons acting in concert in the preceding twelve Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made months.
Rule 37 of the Takeover Code extends this through the market for cash at prices below the principle so that when a company purchases its prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares as own voting shares any resulting increase in the last calculated where the Directors believe such percentage of shares carrying voting rights which a purchases will enhance shareholder value.
The price person or group of persons acting in concert is paid will not be less than the nominal value of 1p interested will be treated as an acquisition for the per share.
Such purchases will also only be made in purposes of Rule 9 of the Takeover Code although accordance with the rules of the UK Listing Authority a shareholder who is neither a director nor acting in which provide that the price to be paid must not be concert with a director will not normally incur an more than 5 per cent above the average of the obligation to make an offer under Rule 9 of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares Takeover Code.
for the five business days before the shares are Mr P Niven is a Director of the Company and a purchased.
Any shares purchased under director of Resolution Limited.
Resolution Limited this authority will be cancelled or held in treasury and its subsidiaries presumed to be acting in within the following limits: concert with it for the purposes of the Takeover Code the Resolution Concert Party are therefore No more than 10 per cent of the Companys deemed to be acting in concert with Mr Niven.
As at issued shares will be held in treasury at any time: 18 March 2011 being the latest practicable date and prior to the publication of this document the Shares will only be re-issued out of treasury at a Resolution Concert Party held 232,429,590 Ordinary premium to the net asset value.
Shares in the Company, representing 34.15 per cent of the issued share capital.
Accordingly, if any Ordinary Shares were to be repurchased by the The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers the Company and the members of the Resolution Takeover Code Concert Party did not sell a proportionate amount of The Takeover Code operates principally to ensure their holding, then the aggregate percentage holding fair and equal treatment of shareholders of publicly of the Resolution Concert Party would increase and, listed companies in relation to takeovers, and also pursuant to Rule 37 of the Takeover Code, in the provides an orderly framework within which absence of a waiver from the Takeover Panel, the takeovers are conducted.
Resolution Concert Party would be required to make Under Rule 9 of the Takeover Code, any person a general cash offer to all of the remaining who acquires, whether by a series of transactions shareholders of the Company to acquire their over a period of time or not, an interest in shares as shares.
The Company is therefore seeking a waiver defined in the Takeover Code which, when taken of such mandatory bid obligation to the extent that it together with shares already held by him or held or would otherwise be triggered by any buy back by acquired by persons acting in concert with him, the Company.
carry 30 per cent or more of the voting rights of a company which is subject to the Takeover Code, or Accordingly, shareholders are being asked to approve a waiver of the obligation on the Resolution who holds more than 30 per cent but not more than 50 per cent of the voting rights of such a company Concert Party to make a general offer for the entire 22 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited issued share capital of the Company.
In order to consider the winding up of the Company or a reconstruction of the Company which offers all comply with the Takeover Code, this resolution will be taken on a poll and both Mr Niven and each of Shareholders the opportunity to realise their the members of the Resolution Concert Party has investment.
If the continuation resolution is passed, undertaken not to vote on the resolution.
The the Directors will propose a similar resolution at the waiver, if approved, will expire at the Annual General Annual General Meeting of the Company five yearly Meeting in 2012.
Further details can be found in the thereafter.
shareholder circular to be dated on or around the Disclosure of Information to the Auditor date hereof entitled Proposed renewal of the waiver of the requirements of Rule 9 of the City Code on The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirm that, so far as Takeovers and Mergers.
they are each aware: Discount Policy and Continuation Votes there is no relevant audit information of which the The Boards stated intention is to use the share buy Companys auditor is unaware: and back authority to purchase Ordinary Shares subject to the income and cash flow requirements of the each Director has taken all the steps that he Company and where the Directors believe the price ought to have taken as a Director to make available to be in the best interests of shareholders himself aware of any relevant audit information as a whole if the share price of an Ordinary Share is and to establish that the Companys auditor is more than 5 per cent below the published net asset aware of that information.
value per share for a continuous period of 20 dealing days or more.
To ensure a fair Auditor comparison, the Directors believe that such discount KPMG Channel Islands Limited has expressed its should be calculated by adjusting the published net willingness to continue in office as the Companys asset value per share for any dividends for which the auditor and a resolution proposing its reshare price has gone ex-dividend.
appointment will be submitted at the Annual General In the event that the Ordinary Shares trade at Meeting.
a discount of more than 5 per cent for 90 consecutive dealing days or more after 1 May Resolutions 2011, the Directors will convene a general meeting The Board considers that the resolutions to be to be held within three months to consider an proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the ordinary resolution for the continuation of the best interests of the shareholders as a whole and Company.
If this continuation resolution is not recommends that they vote in favour of such passed, the Directors will convene a further general resolutions as the Board intends to do in respect of meeting to be held within six months of the first their own beneficial holdings save that Mr P Niven, general meeting to consider the winding up of the who is deemed to be acting in concert with the Company or a reconstruction of the Company which Resolution Concert Party, will abstain from voting in offers all shareholders the opportunity to realise their relation to Resolution 12. investment.
If any such continuation resolution is passed, this discount policy, save in respect of On behalf of the Board share buy backs, would not apply for a period of two years thereafter.
In addition, at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015, the Directors will propose an ordinary resolution for the continuation N J M Tostevin of the Company.
If the continuation resolution is not Director passed, the Directors will be obliged to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting within six months to 22 March 2011 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23
