Managers Review The market total return for the year, as measured by income fall by more than 10 per cent in the case of the Investment Property Databank IPD All Quarterly offices and industrials.
and Monthly Valued Funds, was 15.1 per cent.
Market uncertainty has led investors to focus on core Performance was front-loaded but total returns were markets, established locations and prime buildings.
positive throughout the year, continuing the recovery  which began in mid-2009.
long leases to sound covenants.
The year also saw Capital values rose by 8.5 per cent in 2010 and London and the South East generally outperforming positive growth was sustained throughout the year.
other regions, as concern about the impact of cuts in Most of the uplift occurred in the first six months of public spending intensified.
2010 with values rising by only 2.2 per cent during the As the year drew to a close, there were signs that six-month period to December 2010.
The upturn to yields were stabilising and total returns were being date has been driven by yield compression, driven by the income return.
particularly at the prime end.
With investors Portfolio During 2010 the Companys portfolio, including net purchases, increased in value by 99.4 million to 838.3 million.
This represents an ungeared capital increase, net of purchases, sales and capital expenditure, of 11.3 per cent.
The Companys direct property portfolio recorded a total return of 17.7 per cent over the period, compared with the return from the IPD All Quarterly and Monthly Valued Funds comprising directly held properties only of 15.1 per cent.
The portfolio continues to present both a strong absolute and relative outperformance of the benchmark, and over the period the portfolio was ranked 37 out of 230 funds representing the benchmark, and on the 16th Newbury Retail Park, Newbury percentile.
The Companys portfolio has now achieved top quartile performance over one, three remaining risk-averse given the uncertain economic and five years.
and property market outlook, competition for the limited amount of prime stock available characterised the market in 2010.
Geographical Analysis asat31December2010 The property market has continued to deliver a solid % income return.
The market income return totalled RestofLondon  6.2 per cent in 2010, according to IPD quarterly data, 1.0% 0.1% less than in 2009 but attractive in comparison with other asset classes and cash.
NorthWest9.2% SouthEast26.9% The occupational market has remained subdued with Scotland5.9% rents falling in most segments.
Vacancy rates have edged lower and incentives have stabilised, which Midlands contributed to a rise in net income in the second half 13.8% of 2010 although the full year figure was marginally Eastern2.1% lower.
There was a wide difference in income streams from prime and secondary stock in 2010.
IPD data shows low yielding prime property recording positive growth in net income in all segments of the market.
In London WestEnd 41.0% contrast, higher yielding more secondary stock saw .
8 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited The South East was the strongest performing IPD retail sub-sector producing a total return of 17.4 per cent for the year, much of this dominated by the strength of Central London.
Shopping centres, after a weak 2009, performed more strongly in 2010 with total returns in the final quarter of 4.4 per cent.
Retail warehousing also delivered above-average total returns although the outperformance was concentrated in the early months of the year.
High  with a total return of 11.1 per cent reflecting the high  high streets throughout the UK.
The Companys retail properties produced a total return of 20.3 per cent for the year, comparing favourably with the IPD sector return of 15.7 per cent.
The Companys strongest performance derived from its South East retail properties which recorded a total return of 24.8 per cent.
The Company maintains St. Christophers Place Estate, London W1 a strategic overweight position to this sector which is Strategy and Positioning of Portfolio dominated by its exposure to St. Christophers Place The portfolio maintains a strong conviction position to Estate.
Central London offices and especially the West End, At St. Christophers Place Estate, significant asset whilst St. Christophers Place Estate, London W1 management initiatives were undertaken and, in all,  we completed 18 lettings of retail, restaurant and income stream with asset management opportunities.
office premises generating 1.5 million per annum in The portfolio is underweight to benchmark retail rest rental income.
 Of particular note was the surrender of the lease to has increased due to the recent acquisitions which .
Geographically, the Speciality Retail Group at 372 Oxford Street and a re-letting to Aldo, the Canadian footwear retailer, at a portfolio has a strong weighting to Central London, restofLondon andthe SouthEast and is underweight  700 psf.
The rental tone of shop premises at .
Notably, ithasnoexposure to Northern Ireland, Wales, North East and South West regions which may be vulnerable to their Sector Analysis public sector exposure.
asat31December2010 % Strategically, the focus is to invest the Companys liquidity into the direct property market.
Stock Industrial selection is critical, coupled with the quality of 13.1% income.
When appraising investment opportunities we are very aware of covenant risk, the weighted Offices average unexpired lease term and the lease expiry 40.4% profile of the portfolio.
The quality of available stock Retail remains in short supplybut we are seeking to invest in Warehouses the City of London, retail warehouses, industrials with 19.9% a preference to the South East and, selectively, shopping centres in tight affluent towns.
Retail Retail The retail sector recorded a total return of 15.7 per 26.6% cent for the year, its best performance since 2005.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 Managers Review continued Lease Expiry Profile , , was6.8years 2009:7.2years.
15,000 sq ft, thereby reducing the Companys Elsewhere on the estate we completed the exposure to this particular tenant.
The unit was refurbishment of two shops, a restaurant on James extended by 5,000 sq ft coupled with the installation Street and nine residential apartments.
We are now ofa 15,000 sq ft mezzanine floor.
This involved capital looking to rebrand the estate and to improve the expenditure of approximately 2.48 million.
The unit ,  was re-let to Matalan Retail Limited at a rent of James Street.
Early in 2010 the Company completed 490,000 per annum for a term of 15 years, the purchase of 77 77a Wigmore Street, London W1 representing an increase of 133,600 per annum for 2.96 million, a freehold property occupying a key over the previous rent passing.
Following the demise corner location on the estate and one of the few of Borders Books, Unit 12 was re-let to M&S Simply properties on the estate not owned by the Company.
Food at a commencing rent of 300,000 per annum, equating to the previous passing rent.
Both these lettings are subject to rent-free periods which expire during the first half of 2011.
They improve the tenant mix and retail offering on the park and hopefully build a base from which to leverage future asset management opportunities.
Two rent reviews were settled on the park, increasing the passing rent on these units by 91,000 per annum, or 24 per cent.
The Company does not own any shopping centres having disinvested from the sector in 2008.
We are now selectively looking at acquisitions within the sector.
Offices   butthismasksa , with 124 125 Princes Street, Edinburgh  centrespectively, whilst OfficesRest ofUKrecorded The Companys retail warehouses recorded a total 7.7 per cent.
The office sector last year was a Central return of 16.3 per cent compared with a benchmark London story with the re-emergence of rental growth, return of 16.0 per cent.
The major asset management some large occupational deals, a restricted pipeline activity occurred at Newbury Retail Park, where a of supply and yield compression driven by investor demand, especially from overseas buyers.
In contrast, surrender was taken of the former JJB lease on Unit 6 10 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited   shortages of space emerging in core areas but other Tenure Analysis asat31December2010 areas still struggling with massive over-supply.
% The Companys industrial portfolio recorded a total return of 8.4 per cent.
The underperformance Leasehold6.8% compared with benchmark was due to properties where valuations were marked out for shorter leases, Freehold76.7% and the acquisition costs associated with the purchase of Revolution Park, Chorley.
The Company MixedFreehold remains underweight to the sector.
Leasehold16.5% We continue to masterplan the Cowdray Centre, Colchester where discussions continue with the local sentiment towards offices outside the South East markedly deteriorated as concerns grew about the impact of government spending cuts in areas heavily dependent on public sector employment.
The Companys offices produced a total return of 17.8 per cent.
The Company maintains an overweight position to Central London Offices so returns benefitted from this weighting, with both West End properties and the City exposure beating benchmark returns.
As reported last year, the Companys most significant development is the commitment to 24 27 Great Pulteney Street, London W1.
The redevelopment of 82 King Street, Manchester approximately 32,000 sq ft of new building is well progressed, on budget and on programme with planning authority.
We have made some progress practical completion scheduled for October 2011.
We remain confident of launching this property into a with regard to the conditional sale of a parcel of land to a major national retailer, which remains subject to market with a severe shortage of Grade A accommodation and well ahead of the main body of .
 should prove the catalyst for the regeneration of this completions in the market due to come through in 2014. area.
Elsewhere in the industrial portfolio we are focused on renegotiating and regearing the shorter The regional office markets remain difficult.
The leases where we expect progress will be made in Companys largest void remains at 82 King Street, 2011.
Manchester where three and a half floors totalling 20,024 sq ft remain vacant.
We are pushing for these Purchases and Disposals floors to be let as soon as possible and have recently At the start of the year, the Company purchased been encouraged that tenant enquiries have picked 77 77a Wigmore Street, London W1 for 2.96 million up.
reflecting a net initial yield of 4.55 per cent and it sold 27 28 Commercial Street, Leeds for 8.8 million, at a surplus to valuation.
Industrials The industrial sector was the weakest performing The major acquisition last year was of Units 6 & 8, sector in 2010 recording a total return of 10.5 per Buckshaw Avenue, Revolution Park, Chorley, cent, having been relatively resilient during the Lancashire, for a total consideration of 24.6 million, downturn.
The market is extremely patchy with reflecting a net initial yield of 9.15 per cent.
The Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Managers Review continued property comprises a modern detached distribution Outlook warehouse totalling 368,513 sq ft and was acquired The economic recovery is fragile and with austerity vacant, at vacant possession value.
Upon , inflationmovingupand completion, the unit was simultaneously let to concerns about the international credit markets Kimberly-Clark Limited as its northern distribution continuing, the coming year will be challenging.
The centre, on a new lease for a term of 11 years, subject occupational market is expected to remain subdued to a rent-free period of 12 months.
The lease provides for fixed 2 per cent annual rental uplifts.
The Covenant Strength acquisition price was inclusive of capital works of asat31December2010 8.3 million to include the installation of an automated % racking system to be provided to Kimberly-Clark.
MaximumRisk 5.1% These works are close to completion and are on Unmatched3.3% budget and programme.
HighRisk9.2% Negligibleand The rent-free period will Government expire in June 2011, Risk50.2% Medium-High whereupon the rent will Risk1.2% commence at Low-Medium Risk8.6% 2.25 million per annum.
During the year, the Company announced the strategic disposal of its LowRisk22.4% remaining units in the  IPD.
Industrial Property Investment Fund and The Mall LP.
The total and voids will be a key issue in determining consideration was 9.0 performance.
New supply is constrained and million, providing an uplift although the banks are starting to release stock, of 2.9 million over the they are not flooding the market nor setting fire sale previous valuation.
Total returns are expected to be driven by income in 2011 and the protection of that income stream will be of paramount importance.
As the Property Management Charles House, 5-11 Regent Street, London SW1 output gap narrows and economic growth becomes Against a difficult leasing sustained, rental growth may broaden and increase, market the sustainability especially in areas of low new supply, lifting and protection of income from the portfolio remains performance over the medium-term.
We believe that of paramount importance to the Company.
During the Companys quality portfolio, strong and diverse the year the Company documented 37 lease events, tenant base, low void levels and opportunity to benefit at a passing rent of 1.1 million per annum.
The from active management, coupled with its bias Company remains successful in dealing with its lease towards London and the South East will make it expiries and the leasing of void accommodation.
resilient in the short-term and will benefit performance Although vacancy levels increased very marginally over a longer time horizon.
over the year from 2.5 per cent to 2.6 per cent excluding properties held for development, voids remain significantly better than the IPD benchmark Richard Kirby rate of 8.1 per cent.
Rent arrears and bad debts are, as always, consistently managed and an out-turn for Investment Manager the year of 1.5 per cent remains low for a portfolio of F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc this size and complexity.
22 March 2011 12 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
