Company Summary The Company Further details of the management arrangements are F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited the provided on page 7 and in note 2 to the accounts.
Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Guernsey Capital Structure incorporated investment company.
Its shares have a The Companys equity capital structure consists of premium listing on the Official List of the UK Listing ordinary shares Ordinary Shares.
Authority and are traded on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
Subject to the solvency test provided for in The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 being satisfied, The Annual Report and Accounts of the Company also ordinary shareholders are entitled to all dividends consolidate the results of its subsidiary undertakings, declared by the Company and to all of the Companys which collectively are referred to throughout this assets after repayment of its borrowings and ordinary document as the Group, details of which are creditors.
contained in note 1 b to the accounts.
At 31 December 2010 Group total assets less current Guernsey Regulatory Status liabilities were 934 million and Group shareholders The Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended funds were 655 million.
Investment Scheme domiciled in Guernsey and was granted an authorisation declaration in accordance Objective with section 8 of the Protection of Investors Bailiwick The investment objective of the Company is to provide of Guernsey Law 1987, as amended and rule 6.02 of ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income the Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Schemes growth from investing in a diversified UK commercial Rules 2008, on 9 June 2009. property portfolio.
How to Invest Investment Policy The Managers operate a number of investment plans The Companys investment policy is contained within which facilitate investment in the shares of the the Report of the Directors on pages 15 and 16.
Details are contained on page 52.
Management You may also invest through your usual stockbroker.
The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business Limited referred to throughout this document as FCIB ISA Status or the Investment Managers as the Companys The Companys shares are eligible for Individual investment managers and F&C REIT Property Asset Savings Accounts ISAs.
Management plc referred to throughout this document as F&C REIT or the Property Managers as the Website Companys property managers.
FCIB and F&C REIT The Companys internet address is: www.
co. uk are both part of the F&C Asset Management plc group F&C and, collectively, are referred to in this document as the Managers.
