Board of Directors John Stephen` Chris Russell ` Deputy Chairman Chairman age 61 was appointed a age 62 was appointed a Director in 2005 and Director on 31 October 2009 Chairman on 31 October and is a resident of 2009.
He was, until He is a Fellow of the Royal 2001, an executive director Institution of Chartered of Gartmore Investment Surveyors with over 36 years of property experience Management plc.
He is a director of a number of with Jones Lang LaSalle where he was Chairman for investment companies listed in the UK and US England until he retired from the firm in October including JPMorgan Japan Smaller Companies 2009.
He is also a director of Max Property Group Trust plc, Castle Asia Alternative PCC Limited, plc, a strategic adviser to Evans Property Group, a HSBC Infrastructure Company Limited and The Korea trustee of the Portman Estate and an adviser to Fund Inc.
He is also Deputy Chairman of The Lloyds Banking Groups Corporate Real Estate unit.
Association of Investment Companies, and a director He is a charity trustee, a school governor and a of Schroders C. I.
Limited, Enhanced Index Funds property adviser to the Duchy of Cornwall.
Jonathan Hooley ` Brian Sweetland ` age 55 was appointed a age 65 was appointed a Director on 31 October 2009 Director in 2005 and is a UK and is a resident of resident.
He was, until May Guernsey.
He was, until 2005, an executive director September 2007, the senior of Friends Provident plc FP partner of KPMG in the and a member of its Channel Islands.
As a Chairman of the Channel Islands Stock Exchange solicitor, Mr Sweetland was the company secretary and a non-executive director of BlueCrest AllBlue of FP for over 20 years.
He was formerly a nonFund Limited.
He is a member of the Offshore executive director of Benchmark Group plc and, Advisory Committee of The Association of Investment until January 2005, F&C Asset Management plc.
Companies and an adviser to the Policy Council of the States of Guernsey on external matters.
Peter Niven` Nicholas Tostevin ` age 56 was appointed a Chairman of the Audit Director in 2005 and is a Committee resident of Guernsey.
He has age 58 was appointed a over 35 years experience in Director in 2005 and is a the financial services industry resident of Guernsey.
He is both in the UK and offshore.
an Advocate of the Royal He was a senior executive in Court of Guernsey and was, the Lloyds TSB Group until his retirement in 2004 until 31 May 2009, the senior partner of Babbe.
He and, since then, has been the Chief Executive of has given legal advice on commercial property Guernsey Finance LBG, promoting the island as a transactions in Guernsey for over 25 years.
He was financial services destination.
He is a director of a member of the Guernsey legislature, the States of Resolution Limited and serves on the boards of a Deliberation, from 1991 to 1997 and was a member number of London-listed investment funds.
Mr Niven of the Guernsey Income Tax Authority for six years.
is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and He is a non-executive director of a number of a Chartered Director.
captive insurance companies and Guernsey-based investment companies, including Gottex Market Neutral Trust Limited, a London-listed fund of hedge funds.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Management Engagement Committee `Member of the Nomination Committee 14 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
