Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 25 Property services Highlights Developing our capabilities UK units managed 19,263 Gross rent roll 76m Gross property expenditure 20m Implementation of process improvement technologies including Agreement Graingers Property Services Business provides Express and E-risk management.
property and asset management services nationally Procurement and contractor review to our wholly-owned properties in the UK, properties projects launched to drive down costs, improve quality standards and owned by co-investment vehicles and property consistency of customer experience.
portfolios owned by third parties.
Further development of reporting capabilities to ensure flexibility and In total these amounted to 19,263 units and a gross rent roll of transparency for all stakeholders.
Graingers in-house capability is a distinguishing feature of our residential business.
This owner-manager mentality enables us to drive asset value and facilitate outperformance.
Future opportunities Property and asset management services provide three primary National scale acquisition, valuation and sets of services: sales capability: average annual sales of All elements of the day-to-day operational management of multi-tenure more than 100m of vacant property.
properties including lettings, rent collection, arrears management, Potential to use capabilities to add rent reviews renewals reactive and routine cyclical repairs, proactive value to owners of distressed property maintenance and budgeting of capital works and refurbishment.
We portfolios and to support Grainger focus particularly on the implementation of void reduction and rental business units looking at joint venture growth for our internal and external clients: and partnership opportunities.
Block management of common parts, ground rent, service charge, Identification of opportunities around caretaker, health and safety management: and sustainability initiatives including Feed Managing large-scale acquisition, valuation and disposal processes on a in Tariffs and the coalition governments national basis generally selling in excess of 100m of vacant residential Green Deal.
We deliver a comprehensive, professional service across multiple tenures and tenant groups, whilst ensuring that our managers maintain an ownership perspective on the properties for which they are responsible.
We have a particular focus on the provision of management and client reporting to the high levels expected by institutional investors.
This is a particular strength in an environment where transparency is of increasing importance in demonstrating effectiveness and value for money.
Grainger is committed to the development of the private rented sector and we are active within the bodies representing the sector including the British Property Federation and the Association of Residential Letting Agents.
We are also members of the Property Ombudsman Maintenance work at Old Bethnal Green Road, Bethnal Green, London Scheme.
We pursue the continuous improvement of our processes and information systems and quality management of our own processes so that we can offer increasing assured levels of service to our internal and external customers.
