26 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Development Highlights Building on opportunities Market value 79m Number of sites 23 Our major focus in 2010 has been the preparation and submission of planning applications at: Hammersmith larger scale public private joint venture partnership.
Newlands, Waterlooville Our development business focuses on value strategic land opportunity.
creation by assembling residential development and Macaulay Road design led smaller scale London development.
mixed use opportunities, obtaining or amending planning permissions, installing infrastructure and Future opportunities then either selling or self-developing plots.
We will focus going forward on: Strategic land options, primarily Our development team has the perspective and commitment of a in Southern England.
long-term investor rather than a developer trader.
This long-term approach means that attention to detail, value for money and overall Design led smaller size London design, the long-term sustainability and quality of a scheme are key developments.
We are passionate about promoting the benefits of Larger scale joint venture partnerships.
good design by creating schemes that take into account the way We will manage the development people live.
pipeline to deliver consistent returns Graingers development focus fall into three categories: through balancing existing larger scale opportunities with smaller 1 Strategic land opportunities purchases of options on greenfield scale developments.
sites, primarily in Southern England without planning status and We play to our strengths: the quality of with a long-term view towards promotion within the local planning our covenants, strength of our balance process for future development consent.
A current example is the sheet and our reputation.
Together these 520-acre site at Newlands near West Waterlooville in Hampshire.
make us an ideal development and joint We have been working on this site since 2005, having had an interest venture development partner.
in the site and a relationship with the landowner since the 1990s: 2 Design led smaller size London developments development of urban brownfield sites from acquisition, through planning and selective build out of design led residential schemes such as Hornsey Road Baths in Islington and Macaulay Road in Clapham: and 3 Public private partnership residential led mixed-use schemes developed with the local authority joint venture partners.
The King Street Regeneration Project in Hammersmith where we are partnering with London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham and Helical Bar plc is a current example.
In addition we are actively looking at income-producing assets that Newlands development scheme, Waterlooville, have future residential development potential.
Hampshire The Development Portfolio comprises 22 sites in the UK and one, Zizkov, in the Czech Republic.
As at 30 September 2010, the UK portfolio was valued at 72m and Zizkov at 27m in which our equity stake is 50%.
