20 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 UK residential Highlights Maintaining our portfolio Regulated units owned 5,969 Market value 863m Vacant possession value 1,185m Other units 915 The UK residential business primarily consists of Market value 205m properties subject to a regulated tenancy, 5,969 Vacant possession units valued at 863m producing a gross rental value 232m yield of 3.7% and valued at 72.5% of vacant possession value as at 30 September 2010.
Year-on-year increase in vacant possession values of 4.8% outperformed Under a regulated tenancy, the tenant has a right to live at the the Halifax 2.6% increase and property for the rest of their life.
We typically receive a sub-market Nationwide indices 3.1% increase.
rent, set by a local government rent officer, and generally sell Gross rent roll of 39m per annum.
regulated properties on vacancy to realise the reversionary surplus 81m of completed normal sales were the uplift in value between a tenanted and vacant property.
at an average of 6.6% above September The portfolio is geographically widespread but with a strong 2009 valuations and the margin on sale concentration in London and the South East, 67% of the properties increased to 46.2% from 37.6%.
This is an irreplaceable and unique portfolio Portfolio liquidity demonstrated through assembled over a significant period of time which brings strong speed of sales average 99 days from and stable cash flows from rental income and trading profits on vacancy to receipt of cash.
1.4m additional profit delivered through Rent arrears are low approximately 2% of the rent roll and the selective refurbishment prior to sale.
predictable vacancy rate in our portfolio produces a consistent stream of properties available for sale.
As a result of our long-term Acquisition programme restarted investment strategy we have considerable flexibility in pricing upon purchasing 308 units for 55.7m.
the disposal of the regulated properties enabling us to maximise the value of these assets, whatever the short-term market conditions.
Future opportunities The properties are generally unrefurbished and of low average value We expect to outperform the market average vacant possession value per unit at 30 September 2010 through active asset management and was 199,000, despite the London and South East weighting.
a geographical focus on London and the They attract a range of potential purchasers first time buyers, South-East.
small scale developers, cash-led local investors.
They also provide Challenging market conditions will our asset managers with the opportunity to add value through produce opportunities to acquire core active management, for example, refurbishment prior to sale.
regulated and other residential asset and This attractiveness of the portfolio is also shown in the time taken to make opportunistic acquisitions that for sale which was just 99 days from the date of vacancy to receipt enhance returns.
of cash, and margins achieved on normal sales which were up to Strict application of our acquisition 46.2% from 37.6% in 2009.
The portfolio consistently outperforms criteria will ensure that the assets we the Halifax and Nationwide housing indices demonstrating the acquire will have clear potential to deliver benefits of a carefully selected and managed portfolio.
the required level of returns and focus on areas of growth.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 21 Year-end valuations were up 4.8% from the previous September compared to the average movement in the Halifax and Nationwide housing indices of 2.9%.
We will continue to acquire further regulated tenancies as they become available to maintain the flow of stable rental income and sales proceeds.
Assured tenancies give tenants a degree of security of tenure and are subject to market rental rates.
Assured periodic tenancies are former regulated tenancies which have passed to a relative upon the death of the previous tenant.
They offer security of tenure but are subject to market rental rates.
We also own 915 units not subject to regulated tenancies, including market-let tenancies assured shorthold tenancies, vacant units, agricultural tenancies, garages and ground rents.
Assured shorthold tenancies do not offer security of tenure the landlord may take possession on two months notice expiring on or after the minimum initial six-month term of the tenancy and are also subject to market rental rates.
Performance in these portfolios demonstrate our ability to realise value across a range of residential related sectors.
