Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 27 German residential Highlights Optimising our potential Units 6,776 Market value 442m Gross rents 30m Gross annual running rent 31m Graingers German asset management Grainger started to invest in Germany in late platform covers the full range of 2005 to take advantage of Europes largest residential property investment and residential market.
The JV with the Lindner Group allows us Our acquisitions are concentrated in the economically and to offer an integrated asset and property demographically stronger regions of Germany Baden-Wrttemberg, management service as in the UK.
Bavaria and the Rhine-Main area and major cities such as Frankfurt, The income generated by the portfolio Cologne, Dsseldorf and Munich.
Apart from Berlin and Potsdam, is predominantly market-based rental we have not invested in Eastern Germany.
income, rather than sales proceeds.
As at 30 September 2010, we owned 7,148 units with a total value of 442m, 510m, having reached critical mass through the acquisition Future opportunities of Francono Rhein-Main AG in 2008.
A focus on improving returns through a Due to relatively low home ownership rates in Germany 43% in higher level of active asset management 2008 compared to 68% in the UK : we typically relet our properties activities.
Accordingly, income from the portfolio is predominantly market-based rental income, rather than sales proceeds.
Business growth through introducing third party equity and generating Graingers German asset management platform covers the full range management fees.
of residential property investment and management activities from Capital recycling through sales and the formulation of tailor-made investment strategies to analysis of privatisation.
investment opportunities and portfolio value optimisation through targeted sales strategies.
We intend to improve the returns in our German business by: Undertaking a high level of active asset management aimed at improving operational efficiency and maximising net rental returns by reducing voids and property expenses: Attracting third-party investors by placing parts of the existing portfolio into new structures which will be managed long-term by Graingers German asset management platform.
We are in discussions with a number of potential partners: and Continuing our programme of capital recycling to improve the overall quality of the asset base and enhance cash flow.
We sold some 5m Grainger German property, Dsseldorf of investment assets in 2010 and have identified further assets totalling 25m to be sold in the first half of 2011.
We have also selected an initial portfolio of 10m suitable for potential tenant privatisation.
We also anticipate growth in our property management JV, Gebau Vermogen, following a strengthening of senior management there during the year.
