22 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Retirement solutions Highlights Focusing on innovation Units 6,981 Market value 545m Vacant possession value 800m Successful acquisition of Sovereign Reversions plc for 34.2m with a We are a market leader in the UK Equity Release portfolio valued at 68m.
A 50% equity business, with a particular focus on the home stake was subsequently sold and we reversion sector.
Our Retirement Solutions Business entered into a 50:50 JV with Moorfield offers home reversion plans with a range of who will pay 50% of the acquisition and integration costs and which will features and prices through our Bridgewater generate management fees for Grainger.
business, which distributes these plans through Operational integration has progressed independent financial advisers and a strategic well and management of Sovereign joint venture with Aviva.
assets has transferred to Newcastle.
Cautious acquisition recommenced Our home reversion products are FSA-regulated and we insist that this year, 8m of home reversion all customers receive independent advice from a qualified third party.
The regulated nature of the equity release market also represents Reputation as a market leader recognised a significant barrier to entry for potential competitors.
by winning the Equity Release award for As well as scale and an efficient operating platform, keys to the Best Home Reversion provider for the retirement solutions business are reputation, product innovation and fifth consecutive year and ILP Moneyfacts distribution.
We are delighted therefore that Bridgewater continues to Award for Best Home Reversion Provider receive external recognition including Best Home Reversion Provider 2010. for the fifth consecutive year at the Mortgage Solutions Equity Release Awards in November 2009 and ILP Moneyfacts Future opportunities Home Reversion Provider of the Year 2010.
We anticipate that the joint venture Home reversion with Moorfield will look to make further Under a home reversion plan, an owner sells to Grainger part or all acquisitions in the equity release sector, of their home in return for a cash lump sum or a series of payments further enhancing our market-leading calculated on the basis of the vacant possession value of the property, position.
the ages of the individuals and the proportion of the property being Increased activity to develop IFA sold.
The owner in return receives a lifetime lease allowing them to understanding of Home Reversions will remain in the property, rent free for the rest of their life, after which strengthen our distribution capability the property is sold.
and drive sales of Bridgewater products.
The Home Reversion Portfolio comprises 6,981 properties with an Investment Value of 545m as at 30 September 2010.
The portfolio is more geographically widespread than the UK Residential portfolio and this is reflected in the valuation results for the year, which showed a smaller uplift of 2.2%.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 23 This is a highly reversionary business and depends on scale to produce consistent levels of vacancy and therefore sales income.
Graingers portfolio is the largest in the UK and produces a predictable level of cash flow.
Some parts of the portfolio also produce a rental income or equivalent.
As well as acquiring additional assets for the portfolio through the Bridgewater IFA and Aviva channels, we also purchase directly both individual units and existing portfolios when these are offered on the market.
This year we acquired Sovereign Reversions plc, an AIM listed business with a portfolio valued at 68m.
Shortly after our year end we sold 50% of our equity to MREF II Equity Release Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Moorfield Real Estate Fund II Moorfield under which Moorfield will pay 50% of the acquisition and certain integration costs and Grainger will receive management fees.
The Retirement Solutions Portfolio also includes approximately 1,000 purpose built retirement apartments as well as a portfolio of 1,062 equity mortgages for retired clergy, acquired in early 2007.
Despite recent difficult market conditions, long-term demographic trends in the UK indicate that there is significant growth potential in equity release and we aim to remain at the forefront of the market, building on our established infrastructure in other areas of Grainger.
We will continue to both optimise the channels through which we distribute our products and seek opportunities to influence the external environment in which the equity release market operates to encourage its growth.
Retirement flat Kingfisher Court, Surbiton, Surrey GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final
