18 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Acquisitions During 2009 10 we purchased 63m of property the largest individual acquisitions were: Property name Number of units Price PHA Portfolio Paignton, Devon 162 15m Acquisition team left to right: Robin Hutton, Andrew Saunderson, Charles Allen House Tracey Hartley and Arthur McCalmont freehold block Islington, London 14 4m Focus on acquisitions Apostles Portfolio freehold block Raynes Park, London 16 4m Our UK acquisition team restarted a cautious buying programme this Holland Place Chambers year based on three key criteria.
Desirable properties must provide freehold block one or more of the following: Kensington, London 14 7m Good prospects for long-term capital appreciation: Brondesbury Court Good levels of discounts and or high yields: and freehold block Willesden, London 18 6m Opportunities for redevelopment or refurbishment.
Radstock Co-operative This disciplined approach is reflected in the quality of the assets Somerset 10 1m that we have acquired and the energy that we put into identifying Total of all other potential opportunities and qualifying those brought to us by our property purchases 26m extensive network of contacts.
In total we have looked at 1.5bn Total purchases in the year 63m worth of opportunities this year and made 63m of acquisitions.
The teams skills are based upon long-term experience in the residential market and the in-house development of expertise across different business units.
Andrew Saunderson has worked for Grainger since 2001, and been director of acquisitions and asset management in Knightsbridge, for four years.
Eliza Pattinson, director of acquisitions and asset management in Newcastle, originally joined in an administrative role and qualified as a chartered surveyor while working for Grainger.
Eliza is currently on maternity leave and her post is being covered by Tracey Hartley, who is a senior sales and valuations manager when not looking after acquisitions.
Robin Hutton, acquisitions and asset manager has more than five years experience in residential sales and acquisitions with Grainger, while the newest member of the team, Arthur McCalmont, joined the team recently following several years experience in sales and valuations in our property services business.
Together they bring an approach to property acquisition that focuses explicitly on the identification of opportunities where significant value can be found, added and extracted.
Holland Place Chambers, Kensington, London GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 19 Ranton Estate, Staffordshire Agriculture A smart acquisition process Grainger began investing in agricultural land in 2005 having isnt just a matter of asset identified that land prices had shown very little growth since accumulation.
In an uncertain 1993 following the introduction of the CAP subsidies.
We market we need to be constantly built our portfolio to over 7,000 acres in three years, typically thinking about when to be a acquiring large landed estates with mixed tenure land and residential property, where we could use our expertise in buyer and when to be a seller.
development and asset management to enhance value.
Most importantly we need to Whilst residential and commercial property suffered significant use our specialist knowledge value falls during the credit crunch, agricultural land proved to spot the opportunities where counter cyclical and land values doubled over two years.
We commenced liquidating the agricultural portfolio at the significant value can be found, beginning of 2008, and it has so far provided gross asset sales added and extracted.
of 46m generating in excess of 10m of trading profit.
With around another 17m of sales to come, the agricultural Andrew Saunderson business demonstrates our entrepreneurial ability to recognise Director acquisitions and and invest in opportunities in residential related real-estate asset management sectors which are counter-cyclical to the core regulated portfolio.
