Board of Directors Key to committee members Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Michael Harper Mark Hoad Nick Land Simon Pryce Chairman Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director, Group Chief Executive Chairman, Audit Committee Mark Harper Peter Ratcliff e Hansel Tookes Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman, Remuneration Committee Executive Management Simon Pryce Mark Hoad Mike Askew Peg Billson Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Managing Director, President, Legacy Support APPH Group Michael Scheeringa Hugh McElroy Keith Ryan Martin Filippides President, Signature President, Engine Repair President, ASIG Group HR Director Flight Support and Overhaul Iain Simm Zillah Stone Group General Counsel Group Secretary 8 Directors Report Michael Harper 66 Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in February 2005 and became Non-Executive Chairman in Chairman June 2007.
Michael is an engineer by training and has a wealth of experience gained as a director of Williams plc where, on the demerger in 2000, he became Chief Executive of Kidde plc.
He is Chairman of both Vitec Group plc and Ricardo plc and a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
Simon Pryce 49 Appointed to the Board as Group Chief Executive in June 2007.
Simon is a Chartered Accountant and a member Group Chief Executive of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment who gained international investment banking experience in senior positions at JP Morgan and Lazards in London and New York, before broadening his general management skills in a variety of roles with GKN plc for nine years, latterly as the Chief Executive of GKNs Diversified Businesses Group.
He is on the Board of GAMA General Aviation Manufacturers Association and is aFellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
Mark Hoad 40 Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director on 29 April 2010.
He joined Group Finance Director BBA Aviation as Group Financial Controller in May 2005 from RMC Group plc where he had worked since 1996 in a number of finance roles, including expanding his international business experience with periods based in Germany, Croatia and Australia, where he was Chief Financial Officer of ASX-listed company Adelaide Brighton.
Nick Land 63 Appointed to the Board in August 2006.
Nick was formerly Chairman of Ernst & Young LLP and a member of the Non-Executive Director Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young, positions which he held from 1995 to 2006.
In addition to his Senior Independent Director experience as a Chartered Accountant, Nick brings to the Board his extensive skills as an advisor to international businesses.
His current appointments include being a non-executive director of Vodafone Group Plc, Ashmore Group plc and Alliance Boots GmbH.
He is Chairman of the board of trustees of Farnham Castle, sits on the Finance and Audit Committees of the National Gallery and is Chairman of the board of trustees of Vodafone Group Foundation.
Mark Harper 54 Appointed to the Board in December 2006.
Mark is BBA Aviations CSR Responsible Director.
Following a career Non-Executive Director involving various sales and marketing positions with Ford Motor Company, Lucas Industries and Unipart, Mark joined Bunzl in 1986 where he held a number of general management positions, including a period as President of a US-based plastics business.
He became Chief Executive of Filtrona plc, the international speciality plastic and fibre products supplier, when it demerged from Bunzl in June 2005.
Peter Ratcliffe 62 Appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Peter brings to the Board his experience of working in an industry Non-Executive Director focused on customer service as he was the Chief Executive Officer of Carnival plc until April 2003 and Chief Executive Officer of the P&O Princess Cruises division of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc from 2003 to 2007.
He was previously an executive director of The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company.
He is a Chartered Accountant and a dual US UK citizen.
His current appointments include being a non-executive director of Carnival Corporation, Carnival plc and Mead Johnson Nutrition Company.
Hansel Tookes 63 Appointed to the Board in February 2007.
Hansel brings to the Board his operational perspective and experience Non-Executive Director of the aviation industry drawn from nearly 20 years working in various positions at United Technologies Group including as President at Pratt & Whitneys Large Military Engines Group, prior to which he was a Lieutenant Commander and military pilot in the US Navy and a commercial pilot with United Airlines.
He retired in 2002 from Raytheon Inc. where he had formerly been Chairman and CEO of Raytheon Aircraft, and now his current appointments include being a non-executive director of Corning Inc. Nextera Energy Inc. Harris Corporation and Ryder System, Inc. Directors Report 9
