ASIG Focused on growth ASIGs growing capabilities and the addition of new locations and new services refl ects the changing needs of the global commercial aviation market and underline ASIGs status as a market leader.
In 2010 ASIG extended its European reach with contracts at fi five new airports in the UK, including fuel facility management and aircraft refuelling at Belfast City Airport and Leeds Bradford International Airport.
Elsewhere in Europe and the UK, ASIG has introduced new services including ground and passenger handling and ground support equipment maintenance, some as a direct result of its acquisition of SAS Ground Services UK in June.
With the A380 super jumbo aircraft now in operation, ASIG has pioneered a bespoke service for airlines fl ying the A380 at both Manchester, the fi first regional airport in the world to operate the A380 daily, and London Heathrow airports.
ASIG dedicates a team of at least 20 employees to each Emirates A380 turnaround at Heathrow to ensure that the customers demand for excellence is met.
In other parts of the airport, whether providing a premium service team to assist Emirates passengers, fuelling Singapore Airlines with up to 200,000 litres of fuel per plane, or fide-icing a Qantas A380 ready for take off, ASIG is rising to the challenge of servicing the worlds largest aircraft across multiple contact points and locations.
London Heathrow: ASIG fuels an Airbus A380 aircraft.
ASIG fuels the A380 for all three airlines that fly the super jumbo aircraft into London Heathrow.
32 Directors Report Directors Report 33 Key Facts ASIG is a world leading independent commercial aviation service provider, managing primary outsourced services for airlines, airports and oil companies: Size and scale Expertise and barriers Strong customer to entry relationships 72 locations worldwide Brand strength Diverse customer base with over 350 customers 37 of the top 100 hub Breadth of service Long-term and international relationships with airports major carriers Fuelling approximately Location-specifi c critical 10,000 fl ights per day mass with labour fl exibility Industry-leading training and safety standards 34 Directors Report 1 2010 2009 Inc dec 2009 Inc dec Revenue m m % m % USA 183.1 177.4 3 178.6 3 Europe & ROW 44.3 31.3 42 31.3 42 Total 227.4 208.7 9 209.9 8 1 At constant exchange rates Performance ASIGs revenue grew by 9% to 227.4 million 2009: 208.7 million and grew by 2% on an organic basis, excluding 2.3 million of fuel price infl ation and the 10.6 million contribution from acquisitions made in the year.
The organic revenue growth was delivered against the backdrop of a North American market where movements declined by 1% in the fi first half of the year and then began to increase in the second half.
Forthe year as a whole, fl ight activity in both North America and Europe was fl at.
In Europe this was in part as a result of theEuropean airspace closures in April and May.
In the United Kingdom, ASIG won contracts to provide into-plane refuelling and fuel facility management at Belfast City Airport, aviation fuel services at Leeds Bradford Airport and fuel services and ground equipment repair and maintenance at Bournemouth and London City Airports.
In June, ASIG acquired SAS Ground Services UK Limited SGS for a cash consideration of 2.5 million, giving ASIG access to the passenger and ground handling markets at Heathrow and at Aberdeen, which is a new location for ASIG.
SGS contributed revenue of 10.6 million in the year and is expected to generate incremental revenues of approximately 19 million in the fi first full year of ownership and to be earnings enhancing.
By the end of 2010 ASIG was operating at a total of 15 airports in Europe.
In North America ASIG was successful in securing the outsourcing of American Eagles refuelling activity at Chicago OHare International Airport for a fi five-year period.
At Los Angeles International Airport ASIG secured a technical services contract to provide equipment maintenance and operations services for Terminal 3s passenger loading bridges and baggage handling system, building on its 25 years of experience off ering similar services at Terminals 5 and 6.
The ability to leverage ASIGs capabilities and expertise beyond the normal boundaries of the airport environment has again proven successful.
ASIG signed a fi fiveyear contract renewal with Walt Disney World to provide 20 area resorts and hotels and two cruise ships with luggage logistics services in Orlando.
ASIG has also been leveraging its expertise in fuel transportation logistics by commencing third party jet fuel transportation services offairport, resulting in new activity in Florida and California.
As is usual, ASIG did experience some contract losses, but overall the net impact of US contract wins and losses is expected to be approximately $4.0 million of additional revenue annually.
ASIG continues with its strategic expansion in new markets and at the end of the year ASIG was awarded a 20-year licence to provide complete fuel services at Tocumen International Airport in Panama.
This operation will be established during the course of 2011.
Directors Report 35 London Heathrow: the A380 is a double-deck, wide-body, four-engine airliner that can fly up to 853 passengers.
It has a fuel capacity of up to 85,472 gallons.
