Business Model BBA Aviation maintains a balanced portfolio of aviation support and aftermarket services businesses which have barriers to entry and produce above average growth rates and attractive fi financial returns, with a common focus on growing exceptional long-term sustainable value for all stakeholders.
We deliver this through active management, eff ective strategy execution, effi cient resource allocation and maximising the Groups intrinsic cross-business opportunities.
Our Flight Support division provides specialist on-airport support services to the owners and operators of business and commercial aircraft.
We diff erentiate ourselves from our competitors through our longleasehold network, our technical capability and our focus on customer service.
Our Aftermarket Services and Systems division services, manufactures and supports engines and aerospace components, sub-systems and systems.
We operate with high levels of intellectual property rights, established through OEM authorisations and licences as well as in-house development.
Our Strategy BBA Aviations vision is to be a dynamic, world class supplier to the global aerospace industry, continuously delivering exceptional performance.
Our overriding objective is to grow exceptional long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders through: Exceeding customer expectations and competitor off erings Continuously improving market-leading and innovative businesses Working together for greater gain through improved co-ordination and co-operation Being an employer of choice for empowered individuals in a safe and sustainable environment Always behaving with integrity and respect To deliver on the vision and mission, BBA Aviations employees are unifi ed around a common set of values that are a vital and integral part of the way we do business: Integrity Responsibility We earn the trust and respect of We are committed to managing our stakeholders with honesty, our impact on, and contributing fairness, openness and by positively to, society and the honouring our commitments.
Integrity Responsibility Performance Safety We focus on delivery of longWe are dedicated to safety term and sustainable value, and security, the elimination Performance continuous improvement of hazards and protecting and reliability.
people, property and our Safety environment.
People We are committed to investing Service People in and empowering our people We strive continually to Service through training and education anticipate customer needs, and to providing them with exceeding their expectations.
BBA Aviation has developed through a combination of organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions, in markets where we have market-leading positions, generate strong cash fl ow and in businesses that are well placed to benefi t from cyclical and secular growth.
In order to support delivery of the vision, each year BBA Aviations Executive Management Committee sets a series of short and medium-term specifi c and measurable goals which are then cascaded throughout the Group.
Each business has actions aligned to the achievement of each of the short and medium-term goals, and the execution of those actions is actively monitored by Group management.
14 Directors Report Each of the fi five businesses has a clear business unit strategy to compete eff ectively in its markets and to deliver growth: Division Business Growth Strategy Flight Support Signature Cyclical recovery, continued share gain, structural growth, consolidation, enhanced service off ering, operational improvement, cross business co-operation ASIG Cyclical recovery, increased presence at selected hub and international airports, enhanced service off ering in core locations, operational improvement, cross business co-operation Aftermarket Services ERO New authorisations, military and rotor craft expansion, and Systems operational footprint improvement, cross business co-operation Legacy New licences, active selling, acquisitions of mature technology companies, cross business co-operation APPH Operational improvement, niche organic expansion, cross business co-operation Directors Report 15
