16 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibilities Key highlights in 2010 Our stewardship of corporate responsibility Our definition of corporate responsibility CR remains unchanged it is People our commitment to the positive impact that our business, through our Continued to embed the Savills Values through the appraisal process people, can make on the stakeholders and communities with whom and integration into promotion and reward criteria.
Savills training forum was established to provide a cross-business Our CR programme has further evolved through 2010, with objectives forum for individuals with responsibility for people development.
being selected following analysis of the appropriate stakeholder needsand programmes being developed to support the achievement Clients of our goals.
We maintained our focus on continuously improving client service, The Board as a whole is responsible for determining our CR strategy.
for example by further developing our cross border service capacity The Group Executive Board GEB is responsible for delivering it on a by better linking the investment agency teams across the Group to day to day basis.
The GEB is also responsible for ensuring compliance meet our clients global and regional investment requirements.
with our corporate values and standards.
The framework for delivering We have developed a client care training programme, which was our CR objectives is focused by a CR Working Group which is chaired piloted in our UK Property Management business, and will be by the Group Chief Executive and comprises senior representatives progressively extended across the wider business from 2011. from a range of business and central teams.
In this capacity, the CR Working Group is responsible for co-ordinating activity to deliver our Environment agreed goals and for monitoring Group-wide progress and We continued our programme of environmental initiatives to secure performance.
Operational forums, reporting to the CR Working Group, significant reductions in energy consumption, paper usage and are established as necessary to develop and deliver initiatives at travel.
One of our technology based paper saving initiatives saved business level in the four critical areas of CR, namely People, Clients, theequivalent of 1,680 trees and 180,000 kgs of CO2in 2010.
Community We continue to maintain our focus on ensuring that our people Savills Guardian, our Facilities Management business in Hong Kong, worldwide work to within our specified financial, operational and was awarded the 5 Years Plus Caring Company Logo during the compliance framework, and that these are standards consistently year in recognition of its commitment to good corporate citizenship: applied.
We demand the highest professional standards from all of our reflecting the more than 11,000 hours of work logged bythe people all of the time.
However, given the breadth of activities and the volunteer team in 2010. number of people we employ there may be occasions when we do not meet the high standards we aspire to.
Where we fail to reach these Our UK graduate programme was extended to include the high standards, we treat any breach with the utmost seriousness.
mentoring of students to help them develop employability skills.
We continue to include the consideration of CR related issues in our We have retained our membership of FTSE4Good, evidencing Key Risk Registers ensuring that we can readily identify emerging ourcommitment to meeting globally recognised corporate issues and respond to these on a timely basis.
17 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibilities continued We continue to work to be an employer of choice and to provide an People environment in which our people can flourish and succeed.
We Our vision to be the real estate advisor of choice in our selected support the Core Principles of the International Labour Organisation.
markets and deliver superior financial performance can only be We engage with our people to communicate our vision and strategy achieved through the dedication, commitment and excellence of through well established internal channels.
Most of our businesses ourpeople.
have an intranet through which key messages are communicated, Our people strategy remains focused on supporting delivery of the while all major corporate announcements are communicated across highest standards of client service through motivated and engaged the Group as they are released externally, along with a senior people.
We believe that a positive culture is essential to high quality management briefing to allow full details to be cascaded though client service.
This positive culture is encapsulated in our Values, which thebusinesses.
Individual businesses use a variety of methods to are reflected in all our practices and procedures.
Our reputation has communicate, including regular face to face briefings led by senior been built on our people and we believe that employees whose management, which also provide us with a mechanism for receiving behaviours reflect our Values deliver the excellent client service that employee feedback.
Our Values are: To enhance operational efficiency and allow us to deliver a high quality Pride in everything we do service to our employees, we have continued to extend the HR and Payroll System that we launched during 2009.
This is now live in our We: UK businesses and will be progressively implemented across our take great pride in delivering services of the highest quality: European businesses during 2011.
This system allows our people to always go the extra mile to meet our clients objectives: and take the lead in administering their personal information and enables seek to employ only the best people.
line managers to manage and administer changes which occur during the course of their peoples employment and supports the business Always act with integrity through real time management reporting.
We: We continue to invest in training and have further developed the Savills behave responsibly: leadership programme by broadening membership and increasing the scope of the programme.
This is fundamental to our talent management act with honesty and respect for other people: and and development strategy, and supports the development of high adhere to the highest standards of professional ethics.
potential individuals so that they are equipped to become the next generation of leaders in the Group.
Its core elements include strategic Take an entrepreneurial approach to business leadership training, provided by external as well as internal mentors, We: and exposure to business and sector leaders.
We also continue seek out new markets and opportunities for clients, and take tofocus on attracting and recruiting the best graduates.
acreative and entrepreneurial approach to delivering value: are forward thinking, and always aim to build long term clientrelationships: aim to be a leader in every market we enter, and commit ourselveswith passion, energy and expertise: and approach problems with a proactive, practical attitude, deliveringrobust solutions.
Help our people fulfil their true potential We: encourage an open and supportive company culture in whicheveryindividual is respected: help our people to excel through appropriate training anddevelopment: share success and reward achievement: and recognise that our peoples diverse strengths combined withgoodteamwork produces the best results.
18 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibilities continued Health and safety Clients Savills is committed to the health, safety and welfare of our employees, We strive to encourage our people to deliver the highest standards of contractors and members of the public.
We actively promote a safety client care.
We measure the standards we achieve by seeking regular culture and are strongly committed to key improvements in health and feedback from our clients.
This is augmented by independent market safety.
To this end our Safety Strategy is focused on priorities such as research, which along with other measures, provides a rating combining reducing significant occupational exposure to workplace hazards and brand recognition and client service levels.
Supporting this commitment maintaining regulatory compliance.
Ourpositive safety programme and to provide independent endorsement of the quality of service that has continued to be developed in 2010 toactively promote a safety we deliver for our clients, we continue to work towards accreditation culture within the business.
Key achievements were further raising under ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management across our UK office hazard awareness and improving our internal safety management network.
This accreditation also makes us more competitive when system to reflect the additional controls implemented to protect our tendering for work, particularly when bidding for public sector contracts.
This has been rolled out in the form of a manual At the end of 2010, 49 UK locations were ISO 9001: 2000 accredited.
which codifies and brings together what we already had in place to The green agenda continues to be encouraged by Governments and prevent harm to the health of employees, contractors and the public.
public opinion and influences thinking in our area of advising clients.
During 2010 we continued to focus on addressing key risk areas We have long established and highly regarded teams which advise through use of our health and safety champion network.
Health and both Governments and clients on sustainability issues across the built safety champions are senior leaders appointed in each country and environment.
For example, our UK Energy team has been operating service line and are responsible for the delivery of specific health and inthe renewable and conventional energy sectors for 15 years, and is safety risk agenda.
We have in place systems, processes and metrics now a leading advisor on renewal energy projects, working with clients for reporting personal and process safety performance that support to deliver wind, solar and other clean energy projects.
internal performance management, promote learning and enable In Asia, Savills Guardian was again awarded the Class of Excellence public reporting.
Wastewi$e Label in Hong Kongs 2010 Awards for Environmental Our health and safety framework meets the requirements of HSG65 Excellence.
Its sister company in Hong Kong, Savills Property and we have continued our implementation of more rigorous Management, maintained its focus on fostering environmental standards.
During 2010 an audit of our health and safety performance awareness with clients by producing an annual environment report was undertaken by Crowe Clark Whitehill and they confirmed our andinviting them to participate in the annual Savills Green Gathering health and safety framework meets the requirements of HSG65 and event to share ideas and understand the latest developments for isin line with our international peers.
energy efficiency and water saving.
During 2010, more than 80 buildings managed by Savills in Hong Kong collected more than To enhance the management of health and safety risks across the 184,000 kgs of paper, 11,000 kgs of plastic and almost 6,900 kg Group further, we continue the systematic reporting of recordable ofmetal for recycling.
Similarly, 28 buildings managed by Savills occupational accidents to executive level management.
Governance participated in promoting low carbon emissions and energy efficiency ofhealth and safety has been further improved by changes in the of buildings facilities in 2010.
Our efforts were recognised with membership and terms of reference of the Health and Safety theaward of three certificates for Excellence and Certificates Committee.
Further training was conducted within the businesses ofEnvironmental Good.
The reduction in emissions achieved toraise hazard awareness and health and safety standards by way amounted to over 2.8 million kgs of carbon.
ofseminars, briefings and leadership forums throughout the UK.
Weaim to roll outfurther health and safety training progressively acrossour businesses during 2011.
19 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibilities continued 1 UK Environmental Reporting 2009 10: GHG Emissions Environment 2010 2009 The direct impact of our operations on the environment is low compared to many other industries.
The most significant contribution Unit t CO2e Unit t CO2e Change % we can make is through providing quality advice to our clients, Business mileage 6,514 2,217.2 6,177 2,013.8 10.1 incorporating the principles of sustainability wherever appropriate.
However, we also recognise the value of reducing the direct impact 1 business mileage increased during the year reflecting increased volumes in our UK ofour activities on the environment to as low a level as is reasonably Residential Agency business practicable.
By seeking to reduce our environmental impact we are Community able to achieve increased operational efficiencies and savings.
Globally, we have continued to support charitable causes.
At country Italsoimproves our attractiveness as an employer of choice.
level our teams across our businesses continue to support local Our Group Environmental Policy is based on these principles which are initiatives.
In the UK we focused on raising money and awareness for implemented via our operating companies through both their services various causes or through events in support of our two main corporate and day to day actions.
As an example of our focus on minimising charities, Honeypot and LandAid.
For a Cambridge to London bike ourdirect impact, we have adopted an ongoing programme of office ride we managed to enrol the support of one of our trade magazines based environmental initiatives which include reduced printed paper Property Week which, in assisting in promoting the event through its wastage, sourcing recycled or sustainable paper products, powering website, made this event a must in the UK property calendar.
down idle desktop equipment and encouraging a wide range of During2010, around one third of our Irish team joined the Pedometer recycling initiatives.
We are also increasingly using the internet for the Challenge where money was raised for the Irish Heart Foundation.
dissemination of marketing materials and brochures such as awell In 2010 Savills UK graduates continued to support I CAN, a charity received iPhone app launched in the UK as a residential property assisting children with speech, language and communication needs locator to reduce paper usage as well as enhance client services bycarrying out projects at the Meath School in Surrey raising money andencouraging the use of online and telephone conferencing and spending a day per person at the school to work on a project toreduce travel.
Our cross-company UK Green Group co-ordinates our internal In Asia, Savills Guardian launched its first Education Fund Scheme in actions and communicates the results and good practice to our staff.
2000 and has since then consecutively run this programme every year.
Building on the progress made over the last few years, more than 80% The scheme extends to all children residing in our managed properties of our UK locations now have their energy needs satisfied by one and the purpose is to reward students with good results and to relieve supplier.
Likewise, our German offices now source their electricity from burdens on families with financial hardship.
In recognition of these a single supplier with savings being generated both in costs and efforts, Savills Guardian, which was first awarded the Caring Company emissions.
A key selection criterion is the use of renewable energy logo in 2002 03, was awarded the Caring Company 5 consecutive resources to reduce further our environmental impact.
years logo, in recognition of its continual efforts in this area.
Savills As part of our drive to control our environmental impact and to act as a Hong Kong was also awarded the Caring Company award during hallmark of quality for our clients we have continued to encourage our theyear.
offices to adopt BS EN ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management.
A team at Savills Property Management in Hong Kong collaborated This is designed to achieve sound environmental performance by in2010 with the Boys & Girls Clubs of Hong Kong to organise using a proactive range of practical office management measures programmes to help children living below the poverty line.
During consistent with our aim of carbon reduction.
As an example of the theyear, members of the team held private tutorial sessions with additional measures we continue to implement, video conferencing youngsters as well as helping with an outdoor activity field trip.
facilities were increased to provide 17 installations across four countries in Asia and three locations in the UK.
We intend to expand this capacity At an international level, Savills contributed to the relief effort following further in 2011.
Energy savings, in terms of reduced emissions from the Haiti earthquake in January 2010 and to the Australian floods at travel, have been realised especially within China.
For the third year we theend of December 2010. have also carried out a greenhouse gas emissions assessment of our three main London offices.
Linked to this was our participation in the Future plans 2010 Carbon Disclosure Project.
Two further offices in the UK operations We continued to make progress during 2010 on our CR development, and two teams operating across offices have gained accreditation building on the work done in previous years, we remain committed under BS EN ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management during tocontinuous improvement in this area.
Between 2008 and 2010 overall Electricity consumption in our years we will seek to further develop our CR approach, focusing three principal UK offices reduced by 225.293 KWh, which is the onthose activities where we are best placed to make a significant equivalent to saving 169 tonnes of CO2.
inthese primary locations has been reduced each year since 2007.
In Asia Pacific, properties managed by Savills Guardian continued to gain awards from the Environmental Protection Department for its performance in protecting the environment via promotion of waste separation facilities for facilities management clients.
In addition the Property Management team in Hong Kong also received a number ofawards and certifications, including ISO 14001 energy efficiency, waste reduction, indoor air quality and water quality in recognition ofitscommitment to improving environmental performance.
