22 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Top row left to right Bottom row left to right Our governance Board of Directors Peter Smith, Jeremy Helsby, Timothy Ingram, Charles McVeigh Simon Shaw, Martin Angle Peter Smith Martin Angle Chairman of Savills plc and Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director # #  andChairmanofthe Audit Committee Aged 64, was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on Aged 60, was appointed to the Board on 2 January 2007.
He is a 24 May 2004 and was elected Chairman with effect from 1 November Non-Executive Director of OAO Severstal, Pennon Group plc, 2004.
His other non-executive appointments are: N M Rothschild Chairman of The National Exhibition Group, and Shuaa Capital psc.
&Sons Limited, Rothschild Bank AG, Associated British Foods plc Formerly he was Group Finance Director of TI Group plc and held andChairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
various executive roles with Terra Firma Capital Partners and its Formerly, Peter was Senior Partner of  portfolio companies, including The Waste Recycling Group Executive PwC and served for two years as Chairman of Coopers & Lybrand Chairman and Le Meridien Hotel Group Deputy Chairman.
He is also International and as a member of the global leadership team of PwC.
a member of the Advisory Board of the Warwick Business School and He served as Chairman of RAC plc and was a Non-Executive Director is a Trustee of the FIA Foundation.
of Safeway plc and the Equitable Life Assurance Society.
Timothy Ingram # Jeremy Helsby Senior Independent Non-Executive Director # Group Chief Executive Aged 63, was appointed to the Board on 27 June 2002.
He was Chief Aged 55, joined Savills in 1980 and was appointed to the Board in Executive of Caledonia Investments plc from 2002 until his retirement in 1999.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Savills July 2010.
He is now Chairman of Collins Stewart plc andis a Commercial and Savills Europe for seven years until he was appointed Non-Executive Director of Alliance Trust plc, The Sage Group plc and as Group Chief Executive on 7 May 2008.
He remains a Director of Alok Industries Limited.
He was formerly Chief Executive of First Savills Asia Pacific.
National Finance Corporation, a main Board Director of Abbey National plc and a Non-Executive Director of Hogg Robinson plc.
Simon Shaw Charles McVeigh Group Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-Executive Director and Aged 46, joined Savills as Group Chief Financial Officer in March 2009.
He is one of the two Authorised Chairmanofthe Remuneration Committee Representatives of Savills on the Members Committee of Cordea Aged 68, was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director Savills.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Synairgen plc and was on1 August 2000.
He is currently Chairman of Citigroups Corporate ChiefFinancial Officer of Gyrus Group PLC from 2003 until its sale and Investment Banking Global Wealth Management Partnership.
toOlympus Corporation in 2008, having previously been Chief Heserves on the Board of EFG-Hermes, Petropavlosk plc formerly Operating Officer of Profile Therapeutics plc between 1998 and 2003.
Peter Hambro Mining plc and has recently been appointed to Between1991 and 1997 he was a corporate financier, latterly at Landmark Trust.
Formerly he was Co-Chairman of Citigroups Hambros Bank Limited.
European Investment Bank and served on the Boards of Witan Investment Company plc, Clearstream, the London Stock Exchange, LIFFE, British American Business Inc and was a member of both theDevelopment Board and Advisory Council of the Princes Trust.
Hewas also appointed by the Bank of England to serve on the City Capital Markets Committee and the Legal Risk Review Committee andwas a member of the Fulbright Commission.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee # Nomination Committee Group Executive Board
