Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 10 Managing our portfolio Moving forward.
An important development of the strategy is the active portfolio management of our businesses into two categories of core growth and manage for value.
The core growth area consists of workwear, facilities which comprises mats, washroom and cleanroom, and hotels and healthcare, both in the UK.
Core growth areas Workwear Mats Washroom The workwear division rents and maintains Our facilities division provides floor protection Through the facilities division, we provide workwear for private and public sector mats for commercial users.
Mats reduce the hardware and consumables required to organisations in 11 countries.
Our service meets the dirt and moisture being brought into clients achieve maximum hygiene within commercial the needs of customers in sectors including premises and save on overall cleaning costs.
A range of products and services light and heavy industry, food, pharmaceuticals, We supply, maintain and clean mats in a variety are offered, including cabinet roller towels, soap automotive and markets where safety clothing of types, sizes and colours.
dispensers and soaps, air fresheners, sanitizers or hygiene is a necessity.
12 14 16 Read more on workwear Read more on mats Read more on washroom, , , Cleanroom Hotels UK Healthcare UK Our cleanroom customers rely on the expert We are the market-leading supplier of rental We are the partner of choice for public and knowledge of our facilities team to maintain the linen and laundering services to the hospitality private sector healthcare organisations in the highest standards.
Our textiles and mops sector in the UK.
Although many of our UK and Ireland looking for high quality linen sustain our customers key operations across customers are hotel groups and individual and textile services.
We offer a dedicated many industries, including high-tech companies, hotels, we also supply restaurants, holiday service for hospitals including a complete range universities and research facilities, pharmaceutical, parks, educational and training establishments, of reusable scrub suits as well as a linen service food and medical device companies.
contract accommodation providers and focused on patient comfort and protection.
18 20 22 Read more on cleanroom Read more on hotels UK Read more on healthcare UK, , , Manage for value The manage for value businesses will be managed in a different way and will attract lower investment and will focus on strong cash generation.
This will include hotels and healthcare outside of the UK and clinical solutions and decontamination.
Hotels outside UK H ealthcare outside UK Clinical solutions and decontamination 24 Read more on Manage for value, Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 11 They have an excellent understanding One company Management experience of the markets, opportunities and key As we move towards full sector The executive board have significant success factors to deliver the strategic reporting, we are introducing abusiness experience between them.
The Finance line management structure, with Executive has previously run Director and Company Secretary, executives responsible for each ofthe international multi-site businesses and Kevin Quinn and David Lawler work workwear, facilities mats, washroom has successfully managed strategic with the Managing Directors to provide and cleanroom and hotels and organisation change in previous strong financial and governance healthcare UK operations.
The three Managing controls and framework.
David has been Thisstructure will be in place and Directors who will take on the business with the business for 15 years while fullyoperational from 1st July 2011. line leadership roles have each over Kevin has been in the Finance Director 15years experience in the textile role for sixyears.
Both have international service industry and in the company.
experience and are focused on They have all held a number of different delivering the strategic objectives.
senior management positions across Read the executive boards the countries in which we operate.
47 biographies, Peter Ventress Chief Executive Kevin Quinn Peter Havus Christian Ellegaard Steve Finch David Lawler Finance Director Company Secretary Workwear Facilities UK Hotels and Healthcare Mats, Washroom and Cleanroom Building on a strong foundation The implementation of our new strategy The cornerstone of our approach We also continue to innovate and will mark the next stage of a continuous is a clear commitment to put the improve our customer service, moving process of evolution that has seen customer at the heart of everything the focus from product supply to Berendsen plc become established we do.
Our experienced management delivering service solutions.
Service as aEuropean textile service business teams understand their customers, quality is an essential component withleading positions in most of the markets and their service operations.
of both winning and retaining contracts countries in which we operate.
The new They are commercially focused with significant benefits arising from strategy builds on proven skills and in order to capture the longer term a stable contract base.
All our teams are draws on all our experience of leveraging opportunities for organic growth.
focused on delivering pricing that our buying power, logistics system recovers the increases in ourcost base and considerable know-how toprovide and enables us to invest to support the a cost-effective service.
growth our customers are expecting.
