Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 16 Core growth continued Washroom.
Facilities revenue Operating countries Through the facilities division, we provide the hardware includes mats, Denmark washroom and consumables required to achieve maximum hygiene and cleanroom Ireland within commercial washrooms.
A range of products 128.2m Latvia and services are offered, including cabinet roller towels, Netherlands soap dispensers and soaps, air fresheners, sanitizers 8% Norway and feminine hygiene disposal.
Poland Sweden 13% UK of the group revenue Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 17 Market overview Drivers and trends The market is driven by a general outsourcing trend and a specific trend The market for washroom facilities Serviced washroom solutions are sold towards higher hygiene standards.
has very few limits as the needs rather than bought.
Potential customers Thistrend is boosted by the occasional served are universal for every kind of will invariably have an existing solution outbreak or pandemic such as swine business regardless of size or industry.
or be managing their own source flu, bird flu, SARS and so on.
Customers include retailers, restaurants, and supplies but need the outsourced garages and the full range of offices, benefits presented to them: Almost 80% of all bacteria are spread public sector organisations and from the washroom due to poor Research indicates that hygiene industry, with the average customer sanitation or lack of washroom products standards in shared washrooms are an size being relatively small.
In general and low level of hand washing.
increasing concern for users who want the average cost of outsourced Moreover, the worse the washroom the same safety and level of cleanliness washroom facilities is relatively low.
looks, the higher the risk isthat it is not as they can find in their own home.
The chosen segments are all away Theproducts and services provided from home washrooms where normal byBerendsen are designed to secure Contractual agreements hand washing hygiene standards are personal hygiene in a shared washroom.
The largest customers are By adding new services and products, Berendsen typically supplies washroom typically cleaning companies or other services to a customers specific the market is constantly growing facility service companies where in potential.
Such additions include requirements based upon three to Berendsen is engaged in various five year contractual agreements with vending machines and hand sanitizers.
Customer provision for annual cost increases retention is highat up to 95%.
