Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 41 Board of directors Peter J Ventress 50 N E Kevin Quinn 50 E Christopher R M Kemball 64 R N Chief Executive Finance Director Chairman Peter was appointed Chief Executive Kevin was appointed Finance Director in Christopher was appointed to the board in January 2010 on the retirement of May 2005.
He previously held senior finance in January 1999 and subsequently became Roger Dye.
He previously spent 10 years positions within Amersham plc.
Prior to 1997, non-executive Chairman of the board and in senior management positions in Kevin was with , the nomination committee in May 2005.
Europe and Canada in the office products latterly as a partner in its Prague office, Heis also Chairman of Frontier MEDEX plc distribution industry with Corporate Express having also worked in the USA and France.
and a Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint Partners N. V. becoming Chief Executive in 2007.
He has held senior positions in In 2008 Peter was appointed head of all investment banking in the US and Europe Staples activities outside the United States aswell as number of public company and Canada.
Iain Ferguson 55 David S Lowden 53 Per H Utnegaard 51 R N A R N A R N Senior Independent Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Iain was appointed to the board on 1st March David was appointed to the board on Per was appointed a non-executive director 2010.
Previously he was Chief Executive of 1stMarch 2010.
Previously he was Chief in January 2005 and Chairman of the Tate and Lyle plc from 2003 to 2009, having Executive of Taylor Nelson Sofres PLC from remuneration committee in May 2005. previously worked for Unilever, where he 2006 to 2010 having previously held the He is currently President and CEO of held a number of senior positions including positions of Chief Operating Officer and Swissport International Ltd, previously ran Executive Chairman of Birds Eye Walls Group Finance Director for the company.
his own consultancy firm in Switzerland, andSenior Vice President, Corporate Hehas also held senior financial positions andprior to that was Wholesale Director Development.
He is also a Non-Executive within international companies such ofAlliance UniChem plc.
Director of Balfour Beatty plc, Greggs plc as A. C. Nielsen and Federal Express.
and is a member of the Advisory Board to  LLP.
Andrew R Wood 59 A R N David A Lawler 47 E Key: Non-executive director Company Secretary A Audit committee Nomination committee N Remuneration committee R Member of the executive board E Andrew was appointed to the board on David joined the group in 1995 and was 1stMarch 2010, becoming Chairman of the appointed Company Secretary in May 2005. audit committee at the same time.
He is also He has previously held senior finance a non-executive director of Lavendon Group positions with Thorn EMI plc and KPMG, plc.
From 2001 to 2010 Andrew was Group andhas worked extensively outside the UK Finance Director of BBA Aviation plc and including Denmark, Germany, Ireland and was previously Group Finance Director the USA.
He is a chartered management accountant.
