Company Summary The GP is the general partner and UKCPH is a limited partner of The Company the GLP.
The limited partnerships principal business is that of an UK Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company is a investment and property entity.
closed ended, Guernsey registered investment company which was launched on 22 September 2006.
Objectives The Company has a single class of share in issue, which is listed The investment objective of the Company is to provide Ordinary on the official list and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a The Company has an indefinite life and was incorporated on diversified portfolio of UK commercial properties.
The investment 24 August 2006. policy of the Company is set out on page 17.
The Group Management The Group consists of the Company, its four wholly owned Ignis Investment Services Limited is the Investment Manager of subsidiaries, and a limited partnership.
The subsidiaries, UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited Further details of the management contract are provided in the UKCPH, UK Commercial Property GP Limited The GP, Notes to the Accounts.
UK Commercial Property Nominee Limited UKCPN, and SCP Group Limited SCP are incorporated in Guernsey.
The ISA Status principal business of UKCPH and the GP are that of an The Companys shares are eligible for ISA investment.
The principal business of UKCPN is that of a nominee company.
The principal business of Website SCP is that of a holding company.
The Companys website address is: www.
co. uk The limited partnership, UKCPT Limited Partnership, the GLP is a Guernsey limited partnership.
UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited and UK Commercial Property GP Limited have a partnership interest of 98.99 and 1 per cent respectively in this entity.
The remaining 0.01 per cent partnership interest is held by The Droit Purpose Trust, which is a Jersey purpose trust.
16 20 High Street & 1 3 Bedford Street, Exeter UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 2
