Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and, other than Mr Robertson, are independent of the Investment Manager, are responsible for the determination of the investment policy of the group and its overall supervision.
The Directors are as follows: Christopher Hill Chairman.
John Robertson Christopher Hill is a resident of Guernsey.
He is John Robertson is a resident of the UK.
Mr an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Robertson has over 30 years experience in Bankers and was managing director of investment management in a variety of roles, Guernsey International Fund Managers Limited, and is currently Director Funds and part of the Baring Financial Services Group, for Corporate Governance at Ignis Investment 8 years prior to its sale in 2005 to Northern Trust.
He has over Services Limited.
He is a director of Ignis International Funds plc, 35 years experience in the field of offshore banking and fund Ignis Alternative Funds plc, Ignis Liquidity Fund plc, Ignis administration and is a past Chairman of the Guernsey Strategic Solutions Funds plc and Ignis Global Funds SICAV.
He is Investment Funds Association.
He is Chairman of Quorum Oil a Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants.
and Gas Technology Fund Limited and Close Fund Management Andrew Wilson Portfolios II PCC Limited, both listed in London.
Andrew Wilson is a resident of the UK.
He was Keith Dorrian formerly of Richard Ellis, Royal Insurance as Keith Dorrian is a resident of Guernsey.
He has chief surveyor and he joined Rugby Securities as over 30 years financial experience in the a director in 1987.
He was a founder director offshore finance industry.
He joined of Rugby Estates plc in 1990 and has been Manufacturers Hanover in 1973 before moving chief executive officer since its flotation in 1994.
Rugby Estates to First National Bank of Chicago in 1984 and plc was listed in the Official List and subsequently moved to the ANZ Bank Guernsey in 1989.
He joined Bank of Bermuda, Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Guernsey in 1999 and was appointed Guernsey head of global fund services and managing director of the banks Guernsey fund administration company in 2001, retiring in December 2003.
He is currently chairman of International Public Partnerships Limited, listed on the London Stock Exchange, and is a director of a number of funds and fund management companies including a property company listed on Euronext, Amsterdam.
Christopher Fish Christopher Fish is a resident of Guernsey.
He retired in 2005 as Managing Director of Close International Private Banking.
Mr Fish has over 35 years experience in offshore banking, asset management, treasury, trust services and fund administration.
Mr Fish is the non-executive Chairman of Close International Asset Management Holdings Limited and Close International Bank Holdings Limited.
He is also a director of six other UK listed funds including a European commercial property fund.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 16
