Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 14 Core growth continued Mats.
Facilities revenue Operating countries Our facilities division includes floor protection mats for includes mats, Czech Republic washroom commercial users.
Mats reduce the dirt and moisture being and cleanroom Denmark brought into clients premises and save on overall cleaning 128.2m Estonia costs.
We supply, maintain and clean mats in a variety Finland of types, sizes and colours.
8% Ireland Latvia Lithuania 13% Netherlands of the group Norway revenue Poland Slovakia Sweden UK Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 15 Market overview Drivers and trends Market development up-selling of higher specification products over time.
The mats business addresses a very A mat service is a service which is sold broad customer base that encompasses not bought.
Few customers know of Economics The benefits of outsourcing every kind of business regardless of size the service and most have lived without non-core activities.
Therefore an active and efficient field the mat is exceeded by the savings is relatively small and includes retailers, sales force is the determining factor in maintenance and cleaning.
wholesalers, restaurants, garages and in growing the market.
all kind of offices, industrial premises The rate of market growth is mainly Contractual agreements and government facilities.
determined by the number of sales We typically supply mat services to a Within Berendsen plc, there is representatives active in the market customers specific requirements based considerable cross-selling of mat products and their ability to develop the virgin upon one to three year contractual to workwear customers.
The largest part of the market, where mats are not agreements with provision for annual customers are typically cleaning currently being either used or rented.
cost increases and self-renewing contracts.
companies and other facility companies The key factors in marketing the The billing of mat services typically where we are engaged in different concept are: reflects a low invoice value and is usually types of partnerships.
In general the determined by the following factors: cost of mat services is relatively low Corporate image presenting and therefore price sensitivity is more a consistent and identifiable image Frequency of service provided limited than in some other sectors.
Number of products served Health & Safety compliance specialist Range of products served products to meet the regulatory requirements of different industries Length of contract e. g. wet floors etc.
