Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 18 Core growth continued Cleanroom.
Facilities revenue Operating countries Our cleanroom customers rely on the expert knowledge includes mats, Denmark washroom of our facilities team to maintain the highest standards and cleanroom Netherlands of hygiene standards.
Our textiles and mops sustain our 128.2m Norway customers key operations across many industries, including Poland high-tech companies, universities and research facilities, 8% Sweden pharmaceutical, food and medical device companies.
Ireland 13% of the group revenue Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 19 Market overview regulation and therefore more Contractual agreements difficult to replace.
This has resulted Whereas ordinary workwear is mainly We typically supply rental workwear in high profitability in this segment.
about protection of people against garments to a customers own theenvironment they work in, specification based upon three year Drivers and trends cleanroom isalso about protection contractual agreements with provision ofthe environment against people.
for annual cost increases and residual The core determinants of demand for Theparticles that we as human beings value payments in the event of cleanroom services are similar to that of produce could harm production early contract termination.
The billing our workwear business.
Factors include: ofseveral products or processes of workwear services is usually in conditioned areas.
Many of our The international expansion determined by the following factors: of pharmaceutical and high-tech customers will simply not be allowed Specification of garment toproduce if they have not organised companies into BRIC countries.
their workwear properly due to the Size of workforce number of users Stricter hygiene legislation more quality standards they have to meet.
emphasis on control of supply chain.
Frequency of cleaning replacement Many cleanroom customers need Product specification technical Delivery locations a combination of cleanroom services support and tailor made innovations.
andmore ordinary workwear services Length of contract including hygiene requirements like Economics the scale of larger and ISO22000.
Pharmaceutical industries specialist rental operations purchase and pharmacies require higher level and maintenance drives lower unit costs.
A cleanroom supplier Corporate image presenting istypically a vital part of their quality a consistent and identifiable image management system and external tocustomers.
