Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 20 Core growth continued Hotels.
UK Flat linen revenue Operating countries We are the market-leading supplier of rental linen and includes hotel UK and healthcare laundering services to the hospitality sector in the UK.
Although many of our customers are hotel groups and 191.1m individual hotels, we also supply restaurants, holiday 2% parks, educational and training establishments, contract accommodation providers and shipping companies.
20% of the group revenue Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 21 Market overview Drivers and trends Contractual agreements Large hotel groups are the most attractive There are two main drivers of demand A typical contractual agreement customers, since the lower unit prices for hotel linen rental: lasts for two or three years and imposes that are often achieved are more than an exit penalty on the customer Construction Hotel construction is the offset by the larger unit size, economies together with a requirement to use a main market driver: the London Hotel of volume and reduced seasonality.
set percentage of the stock allocated Development Monitor identified that Onaverage a large group site would to that customer on a weekly basis.
2,261 new hotel bedrooms opened in equate to seven small independent It permits price increases from Sunlight 2009 in London, 1,460 to August 2010, customers.
Large independents, although at unspecified intervals, typically exercised with another 6,536 under construction smaller, also offer scale advantages.
Some of the larger clients have and due for opening by the end of 2012. bespoke terms in their contracts.
The provinces have grown less quickly With small independents transport but there has still been some growth.
andservice costs are proportionately higher, they are usually more seasonal Occupancy The other factor driving and they sometimes process elements growth is occupancy: it is estimated of their linen requirement in-house.
UK-wide occupancy growth of 2.7% in 2010 and 1.7% in 2011, with London Sunlight is the UK market leader in hotel contributing 1.8% and 4.1% respectively linen rental.
Our nearest competitors are much smaller and we are the only Assuming inflation-related market-wide truly national provider although regional price increases and taking into account firms come together in associations known hotel construction, it is estimated tocompete for national business.
that the market value could rise to approximately 375 million per annum by the end of 2012.
