Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 12 Core growth Workwear.
Workwear revenue Operating countries The workwear division rents and maintains workwear Czech Republic forprivate and public sector organisations in 11 countries.
325.4m Denmark Ourservice meets the needs of customers in sectors 2% Ireland including light and heavy industry, food, pharmaceuticals, Finland automotive and markets where safety clothing or hygiene Germany isanecessity.
33% Netherlands of the group revenue Norway Slovakia Sweden Poland UK Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 13 Market overview Drivers and trends Economics the scale of larger and specialist rental operations purchase The European Textile maintenance The core determinant of demand for and maintenance drives lower unit costs.
market is very fragmented with only workwear from our actual and potential asmall number of large players.
customer base is economic activity.
Product specification technical However, the trend towards outsourcing support and tailor made innovations.
The essence of our business is serving drives the rental segment of the market customers with a trouble-free supply at a faster pace and the factors behind ofgarments for their employees.
Contractual agreements this conversion to rental are: Our plants operate in focused We typically supply rental workwear geographical areas in order to Corporate image presenting garments to a customers own guarantee a local approach towards a consistent and identifiable image specification based upon three year our customers.
contractual agreements with provision outsourcing of this service means Health & Safety compliance specialist for annual cost increases and residual that we take complete responsibility value payments in the event of garments to meet the regulatory for all activities regarding workwear requirements of different industries early contract termination.
The billing from the start to the end of the cycle.
of workwear services is usually EN ISO standards.
The advantage for our customers determined by the following factors: is that they can free up time, space, Operational efficiency outsourcing personnel and capital resources.
non-core activities including laundering Specification of garment All these resources can be used and maintenance.
Size of workforce number of users by the customer to focus on their core Free-up capital allowing customers business activities.
To deliver the Frequency of cleaning replacement to invest in their own business.
service we promise, we use both Delivery locations internal and external logistics solutions.
