Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 24 Manage for value Manage for Value revenue As part of the portfolio management process we will manage all of our Scandinavian linen businesses together under a new 341.5m structure.
We have initiated a restructuring in Ireland to adjust 1% 34% to the countrys economic situation.
Our Swedish Direct Sales of the group business, Bjrnklder was included in this category, but revenue we successfully disposed of this business in December2010.
Outside the UK Clinical solutions and decontamination.
Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 25 We operate through separate businesses in Denmark, Sweden and Ireland.
In 2011 and beyond, we aim to manage tightly our capital investment, maximise cash deliveries and adjust our cost base to reflect the change in priorities.
Market overview Value drivers Actions Our hotel businesses outside the UK These businesses are well invested We will manage our Scandinavian operate in Denmark, Sweden and with a strong and stable contract base.
flat linen businesses under a separate Ireland.
These businesses are relatively management structure.
Operational efficiencies and contract strong in their markets but they are management to increase margins.
We will drive for operational efficiencies not of sufficient scale for us to expect and undertake restructuring to ensure significant growth or to gain the Cash conversion in excess of 100%.
we are the lowest cost service provider.
The focus for our healthcare businesses in Austria, Denmark, Germany, Ireland and Sweden is on rationing capital investment, maximising cash deliveries and adjusting our costbase to reflect the change in priorities.
Market overview Value drivers Actions Our Scandinavian, Irish and Austrian These businesses are well invested We have restructured our German healthcare businesses are market with a strong and stable contract base.
healthcare business in 2010. leaders but their scale is more limited Operational efficiencies and contract We will manage our Scandinavian than in our UK business management to increase margins.
flat linen businesses under separate In Germany, our market has been management.
Cash conversion in excess of 100%.
challenging with the consolidation We will drive for operational efficiencies among our customers leading and undertake restructuring to ensure to overcapacity.
we are lowest cost service provider.
Whilst we will continue to address existing decontamination contracts, we will not allocate further capital for growth in this business.
Market overview Value drivers Actions The outsourcing of integrated linen, Greater volume to leverage our We are engaged with our customers consumables and instrument well established infrastructure.
todeliver the returns anticipated by decontamination services for the thetwo decontamination contracts.
operating theatre provides opportunity We are tendering for new contracts for the UK health service to meet its Sourcing savings.
and volumes in sterile consumables.
However, the pace of outsourcing has We drive for service improvements and been much slower than anticipated.
efficiencies in our reusable linen contracts.
