Report of the Directors The Directors present the report and accounts of the UK Investment Policy Commercial Property Trust Limited, the Company for the The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary year ended 31 December 2010. shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a Results and Dividends diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
Investment risks are spread through the Company and its The Company has paid interim dividends in the year ended subsidiaries the Group by investing in a diversified portfolio 31 December 2010 as follows: of freehold and long leasehold over 60 years remaining at the Payment date Rate per share time of acquisition UK commercial properties.
The Group invests in income producing investments.
The Group will Fourth interim for principally invest in three commercial property sectors: office, prior period Feb 2010 0.8988p retail and industrial.
The Group has not set any maximum First interim May 2010 0.5979p geographic exposures within the UK nor any maximum weighting Second interim May 2010 0.7146p limits in the principal property sectors.
No single property shall however, exceed at the time of acquisition 15 per cent of the Third interim Aug 2010 1.3125p gross assets of the Group.
Fourth interim Nov 2010 1.3125p The Group is currently permitted to invest up to 15 per cent of 2 month period.
its total assets in indirect property funds including in other listed Paid in respect of the period 1 January 2010 to investment companies.
The Group is permitted to invest cash, 10 February 2010. held by it for working capital purposes and awaiting investment, Paid in respect of the period 11 February 2010 to 31 March 2010. in cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
Gearing, calculated as borrowings as a percentage of the On 1 February 2011 the Company declared a fifth Interim Group's gross assets, may not exceed 65 per cent.
It is the dividend of 1.3125p per Ordinary Share with an ex-dividend Boards current intention that borrowings will be limited to a date of 9 February 2011, which was paid on 28 February 2011. maximum of 10 per cent of the Groups net assets at the time of Principal Activity and Status borrowing or 80 million.
The Board receives recommendations on gearing levels from the Investment Manager and is The Company is a Guernsey company and during the year responsible for setting the gearing range within which the carried on business as a property investment company.
As at 31 December 2010 the Company had total borrowings of 42.1m, representing 4.6 per Listing Requirements cent of the year end net assets.
Throughout the period the Company complied and intends to continue to comply with the conditions applicable to property An analysis of how the portfolio was invested as at investment companies set out in the Listing Rules.
31 December 2010 is contained within the Investment Manager Review on pages 8 to 13 and a full portfolio listing is Business Review provided on page 15.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship The Companys performance in meeting its objectives is of the Company, including investment and dividend policies, measured against key performance indicators as set out on corporate strategy, corporate governance, and risk page 18.
A review of the Companys returns during the year, the management.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom position of the Company at the end of the year, and the outlook are non-executive, can be found on page 16. for the coming year is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Manager Review.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 17 Report of the Directors continued Principal Risks and Risk Uncertainties Management of Assets and Shareholder Value The Companys assets consist of direct investments in UK The Board has contractually delegated the management of the commercial property.
Its principal risks are therefore related to investment portfolio and other services to Ignis Investment the commercial property market in general, but also the Services Limited.
particular circumstances of the properties in which it is invested The Company invests in properties which the Investment and their tenants.
More detailed explanations of these risks and Manager believes will generate a combination of long-term the way in which they are managed are contained under the growth in income and capital for shareholders.
Investment headings of credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk in note decisions are based on analysis of, amongst other things, prospects 16 to the accounts.
The Investment Manager also seeks to for future capital growth, sector and geographic prospects, mitigate these risks through continual review of the portfolio, tenant covenant strength, lease length and initial yield.
active asset management initiatives, and carrying out due diligence work on potential tenants before entering into new Investment risks are spread through investing in a range of lease agreements.
All of the properties in the portfolio are insured.
geographical areas and sectors, and through letting properties to low risk tenants.
A list of all the properties held as at Other risks faced by the Company include the following: 31 December 2010 is contained on page 15 and further analysis Economic - inflation or deflation, economic recessions and can be found in the Investment Manager Review.
At each Board movements in interest rates could affect property valuations, meeting, the Board receives a detailed presentation from the and also its bank borrowings.
Investment Manager together with a comprehensive analysis of the performance of the portfolio during the reporting period.
Strategic - incorrect strategy, including sector and property allocation and use of gearing, could all lead to poor The Board and the Investment Manager recognise the returns for shareholders.
importance of managing the premium discount of share price to net asset value in enhancing shareholder value.
One aspect of Regulatory - breach of regulatory rules could lead to this involves appropriate communication and, to this end, the suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, Investment Manager meets with current and potential new financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
shareholders, and with stock broking analysts who cover the investment company sector, on a regular basis.
In addition, Management and control - changes that cause the communication of quarterly portfolio information is provided management and control of the Company to be exercised through the Companys website, www.
co. uk, and the in the United Kingdom could lead to the Company Company also utilises a public relations agency to enhance its becoming liable to United Kingdom taxation on income and profile among investors.
Key Performance Indicators Financial - inadequate controls by the Investment Manager or third party service providers could lead to The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess the misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate accounting policies Companys success in meeting its objectives.
The key or failure to comply with accounting standards could lead to performance indicators are as follows: misreporting or breaches of regulations.
Net asset value total return against the Investment Property Operational - failure of the Investment Manager accounting Databank Balanced Monthly and Quarterly Funds Index.
systems or disruption to the Investment Manager business, or Premium Discount of share price to net asset value.
that of third party service providers, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring, leading to a Dividend per share and dividend yield.
Total expenses as a ratio of shareholders funds.
The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through continual review, policy setting and enforcement of contractual These indicators for the year ended 31 December 2010 are set obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment out on pages 3 and 4. environment and the management of the Companys property portfolio and levels of gearing, and applies the principles detailed in the Turnbull Guidance Notes.
Details of the Companys internal controls are described in more detail on page 21.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 18 In accordance with the articles of association Mr K Dorrian and Directors Mr A Wilson retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves The Directors who held office during the period and their for re-election.
Mr J Robertson, being a non-independent Director interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2010 and hence subject to annual re-election retires and offers himself all of which are beneficial were: for re-election.
Following formal performance evaluations, the As at As at performance of each of the Directors seeking re-election 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 continues to be effective with each making a positive contribution 25p Ordinary 25p Ordinary to the performance of the Company.
Given this, the re-election Shares held Shares held of Mr K Dorrian, Mr J Robertson and Mr A Wilson is recommended Christopher Hill 20,000 20,000 to shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Keith Dorrian 10,000 10,000 There are no service contracts in existence between the Christopher Fish 10,000 10,000 Company and any Directors, but each of the Directors was John Robertson 10,000 10,000 appointed by a letter of appointment, which sets out the main Andrew Wilson 20,000 20,000 terms of his appointment.
The letters of appointment of the Directors are available for inspection at the Companys There have been no changes in the above interests between registered office during business hours and for fifteen minutes 31 December 2010 and 29 March 2011. prior to the Annual General Meeting and at the meeting itself.
The Directors are also Directors of UK Commercial Property Management Holdings Limited, UK Commercial Property GP Limited and UK Ignis Investment Services Limited provides management services Commercial Property Nominee limited, which are three of the to the Company.
A summary of the contract between the Companys wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
Mr C Hill, Company and Ignis Investment Services Limited in respect of Mr C Fish and Mr J Robertson are the Directors of the Companys management services provided is given in note 2 to the accounts.
other wholly owned subsidiary, SCP Group Limited.
The Directors, other than Mr John Robertson, have considered The Directors received the following emoluments in the form of fees: the investment performance of the Company and the capability Year to Year to and resources of the Investment Manager to deliver satisfactory 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 investment performance.
They also considered the length of the notice period of the investment management contract and the Christopher Hill 65,000 33,750 fees payable to the Investment Manager, together with the standard of the other services provided.
Keith Dorrian 45,000 28,750 Christopher Fish 47,000 30,250 Following this review, it is the Directors opinion that the continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on the John Robertson 25,000 23,750 terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole due Andrew Wilson 50,000 28,750 to the strength and quality of the management team and the Investment Manager commitment to the sector.
The Directors are remunerated for their services at such rate as the Directors shall determine provided that the aggregate Substantial Interests in Share Capital amount of such fees shall not exceed 300,000 per annum.
At 29 March 2011 the following holdings, representing more The fees will be reviewed annually and may be increased in line than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, had been with usual market rates.
Mr J Robertsons directors fees are notified to the Company.
payable to his employer Ignis Investment Services Limited.
Number of The above table includes additional fees of 80,000 paid to the Ordinary Shares Percentage Directors as follows: Mr C Hill 30,000: Mr A Wilson 20,000: Held 000s Held Mr K Dorrian and Mr C Fish 15,000 each.
This was in respect of the unusual level of additional services undertaken on the Phoenix Life Limited 790,786 66.05% proposed merger with F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited.
This fee is included within other expenses as set out in Note 3 to State Street Nominees 46,002 3.84% the accounts.
Nortrust Nominees 39,921 3.33% The above table also includes an additional one off fee of 5,000 paid to each of the Directors, excluding Mr J Robertson, in respect of additional services undertaken for the placing of 195,000,000 new 25p Ordinary Shares on 11 February 2010.
This additional fee is included within the total launch costs associated with this share issue.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 19 Report of the Directors continued induction from the Investment Manager and Secretary on Corporate Governance joining the Board, and all Directors receive other relevant Changes to the UK listing regime came into force on 6 April 2010. training as necessary.
These changes resulted in the listing regime being restructured into two segments: premium and standard.
The Company, as a The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
result of having equity shares in issue, falls within the premium A management agreement between the Company and its segment.
Due to these changes the Company is currently required Investment Manager, Ignis Investment Services Limited, sets out to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the matters over which the Investment Manager has authority issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the and the limits beyond which Board approval must be sought.
Code, which is publicly available at http: www.
All other matters, including strategy, investment and dividend policies, gearing, and corporate governance procedures, are Arrangements in respect of corporate governance have been reserved for the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board made by the Board, which it believes are appropriate for the currently meets at least quarterly and receives full information Company.
Except as disclosed in the following paragraph, the on the Companys investment performance, assets, liabilities Company complied throughout the period with the provisions and other relevant information in advance of Board meetings.
Since all the Directors are non-executive, the provisions of the Code in respect of Directors remuneration are The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Christopher Fish, operates not relevant to the Company, except in so far as they relate to within clearly defined written terms of reference which are non-executive Directors.
Consequently there is no requirement available on request and comprises all of the Directors other for a separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are than Mr John Robertson.
The duties of the Audit Committee in considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Annual and by shareholders.
Interim Accounts, the system of internal controls and the terms of appointment of the auditors together with their remuneration.
In view of the Boards non-executive nature, and the requirement of the articles of association that all the Directors, retire by It is also the forum through which the auditors report to the Board rotation at least every three years the Board considers it is not of Directors and meets at least twice a year.
The objectivity of the appropriate for a Senior Independent Director to be appointed auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews as recommended by A.
3.3 of the Code or for Directors to be the terms under which the external auditors are appointed to appointed for specified terms as recommended by provision perform non-audit services.
The Boards policy on tenure is that of the auditors is safeguarded by obtaining assurances from the continuity and experience are considered to add significantly to auditors that adequate policies and procedures exist within its the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the overall firm to ensure the firm and its staff are independent of the length of service of any of the Companys Directors, including Company by reason of family, finance, employment, investment the Chairman, has been imposed.
The Company is actively and business relationships other than in the normal course of considering the provisions relating to the annual re-election of the business and enforcing a policy concerning the provision of all directors contained in the new UK Corporate Governance non-audit services by the auditors which governs the types of work Code and, in particular, whether and how to implement a policy from which the additions are excluded.
The Committee reviews of annual re-election.
the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors of which regard to non-audit fees.
Such fees amounted to 265,436 Mr Christopher Hill is Chairman.
All Directors, other than Mr John 2009: 92,844 for the year ended 31 December 2010 and Robertson, are considered by the Board to be independent of related principally to costs in connection with the unsuccessful the Companys Investment Manager.
New Directors receive an Director Meetings Attendance Summary Board of Directors Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Hill 4 4 3 3 1 1 K Dorrian 4 4 3 3 1 1 C Fish 4 4 3 3 1 1 J Robertson 4 4 n a n a n a n a A Wilson 4 4 3 3 1 1 The table above sets out the number of Board and Committee meetings all held in Guernsey during the year and the number attended by each Director.
In addition to the above, there were 28 ad hoc meetings held during the year.
1 meeting held early in 2011 due to the adverse weather conditions in late 2010.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 20 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited merger 196,032 Internal Controls which was charged directly to the statement of comprehensive The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal income under aborted project costs.
12,000 was charged control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has against special reserves as it related to the 11 February 2010 therefore established an ongoing process designed to meet the share issue.
The remaining 57,404 related to taxation services.
particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which The 2009 fees mainly related to the 30 October 2009 share it is exposed, consistent with the guidance issued by the issue.
Notwithstanding such services, the Audit Committee Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
The process is considers Ernst & Young LLP to be independent of the Company.
based principally on the Investment Managers existing risk-based approach to internal control whereby a risk matrix is created that The Management Engagement Committee comprises the full identifies the key functions carried out by the Investment Board other than Mr John Robertson and reviews the Manager and other service providers, the individual activities appropriateness of the Investment Manager continuing undertaken within those functions, the risks associated with each appointment together with the terms and conditions thereof on activity and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
The risk matrix is regularly updated and the Board is provided with regular reports During the year the performance of the Board, committees and highlighting all material changes to the risk ratings and confirming individual Directors were evaluated through an assessment the action which has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual process, led by the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman review of these procedures is carried out by the Board and was evaluated by the other Directors.
There have been no includes consideration of SAS70 and similar reports issued by Directors appointed during the year.
the Investment Manager and other service providers.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek Internal control procedures have been in place throughout the independent professional advice on any matter that concerns period and up to the date of approval of this Report, and the them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, Going Concern assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board The Companys business activities, together with the factors meeting the Board monitors the investment performance of the likely to affect its future development, performance and Company in comparison to its stated objective and against position are set out in the Investment Policy on page 17 and comparable companies.
The Board also reviews the Companys the Risk and Risk Uncertainties review on page18.
In addition, activities since the previous Board meeting to ensure that the Note 16 to the financial statements include the Companys Investment Manager adheres to the agreed investment policy objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its and approved investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves financial risk management objectives: details of its financial changes to such policy and guidelines.
In addition, at each instruments: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Board meeting, the Board receives reports from the Secretary in At both the Company and Group levels comprehensive going respect of compliance matters and duties performed on behalf concern assessments have been performed.
The Board have of the Company.
followed the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 The Board has decided that the systems and procedures when performing their going concern assessments.
employed by the Investment Manager and the Secretary, The assessments performed include review of the valuation including their internal audit functions and the work carried out and liquidity of investments as at the balance sheet date and of by the Companys external auditors, provide sufficient assurance solvency and cash flow projections under both normal and that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards stressed conditions.
In addition the Company has no shareholders investments and the Companys assets, is contingent liabilities.
An internal audit function specific to the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
Having thoroughly considered the going concern assessment the Board has concluded that there are no material uncertainties Relations with Shareholders that may cast significant doubt about the Companys ability to The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places continue as a going concern.
The Directors have a reasonable great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The expectation that the Company has adequate resources to Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders and continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of shareholders if required.
The Annual General Meeting of the accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Company provides a forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Environmental Policy Investment Manager of the Company.
The Investment Manager acquires, develops and manages properties on behalf of the Company.
It is recognised that these Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights activities have both direct and indirect environmental impacts.
In accordance with the new provisions of the Listing Rules, with The Board has endorsed the Investment Managers own effect from 6 April 2011 the directors of a premium listed environmental policy, which is to work in partnership with company will not be permitted to allot new shares or grant contractors, suppliers, tenants and consultants to minimise rights over shares for cash without first offering them to existing those impacts, seeking continuous improvements in shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
environmental performance and conducting regular interviews.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 21 Report of the Directors continued The Board therefore believes that a resolution should be sought It is the intention of Directors that the share buy back authority at this years Annual General Meeting to disapply pre-emption will be used to purchase Ordinary Shares, subject to the income rights.
Resolution 7 therefore gives the Directors, for the period and cash flow requirements of the Company, if the share price of until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2012 or, an Ordinary Share is more than 5 per cent below the published net if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of asset value for a continuous period of 90 dealing days or more.
Resolution 7, the necessary authority either to allot securities or In the event that such discount is more than 5 per cent for 90 sell shares held in treasury, otherwise than to existing dealing days or more, following the second anniversary of the shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal Companys most recent continuation vote, 10 July 2009, the amount of 30,969,850.
This is equivalent to approximately Directors will convene an Extraordinary General Meeting to be 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company held within three months to consider an ordinary resolution for as at 25 March 2011 including Treasury Shares.
It is expected the continuation of the Company.
If this continuation resolution that in future the Company will seek this authority annually.
is not passed, the Directors will convene a further extraordinary general meeting to be held within six months of the first The Directors will only allot new shares pursuant to this extraordinary meeting to consider the winding up of the Company authority if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys or a reconstruction of the Company which offers all Shareholders shareholders to do so and in no circumstances that would result the opportunity to realise their investment.
If any such continuation in a dilution to the net asset value per share.
resolution is passed, this discount policy, save in respect of share buy backs, would not apply for a period of two years thereafter.
Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares The Board intends to renew authority given to it by shareholders Recommendation at the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2010 to buy back The Directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at the shares up to 14.99 per cent of the number of Ordinary Shares in Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the issue.
This special resolution, if approved, will enable the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and recommend that Company to buy back up to 179,482,593 shares based on the shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors current number of shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
Any intend to do in respect of all their own beneficial shareholdings.
buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Guernsey law and within guidelines established from time to time by the Issue of Ordinary Shares Board, which will take into account the income and cash flow On 11 February 2010 the Company issued 195,000,000 New requirements of the Company, and the making and timing of Ordinary Shares of 25p.
On 7 July 2010 the Company issued a any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
further 12,250,000 New Ordinary Shares of 25p.
The total issued share capital of the Company at year end consists of Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the 1,238,794,000 Ordinary Shares of 25p of which 41,445,142 market for cash at prices below the prevailing published net are held in treasury.
The total number of shares with voting asset value of an Ordinary Share, as last calculated, where rights at the year end is 1,197,348,858. the Directors believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with Auditors the rules of the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to to be paid must not be more than five per cent above the continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing their average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit 25 pence a share.
information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware, and The Company may retain any shares bought back as treasury each has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director shares for future re-issue and re-sale, or transfer, or may cancel to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to any such shares.
During the period when the Company holds establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
shares as treasury shares, the rights and obligations in respect of Approved by the Board on 29 March 2011. those shares may not be exercised or enforced by or against the Company.
The maximum number of shares that can be held as treasury shares by the Company is 10 per cent of the aggregate nominal value of all issued Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares held Christopher M. W. Hill as treasury shares will only be re-issued, re-sold, or transferred at Director prices which are not less than the published net asset value of an Ordinary Share.
Christopher Fish Director UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 22
