Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 22 Core growth continued Healthcare.
UK Flat linen revenue Operating countries We are the partner of choice for public and private sector includes hotel UK and healthcare healthcare organisations in the UK and Ireland looking for high quality linen and textile services.
We offer a dedicated 191.1m service for hospitals and nursing homes, including a complete 2% range of reusable scrub suits as well as a linen service focused on patient comfort and protection.
20% of the group revenue Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 23 Market overview Drivers and trends The private sector market is also expected to show relatively low growth: in the Public sector decision making can be The main drivers of demand are: region of 2%3% per annum byvalue.
complex but for NHS purchasing of NHS Outsourcing The main market linen and laundry services the process driver is the potential closure of existing has been simplified by the creation Contractual agreements NHS owned laundries, of which there of National Frameworks that set core are approximately 20 representing about NHS contracts are typically let for prices and run mini-competitions a period of three to five years, with 25% of total volume.
On average, each for those suppliers eligible for the has business equivalent to c1.2million occasionally the possibility of gaining individual Strategic Health Authority extension periods of up to two years.
The closure ofat least four regions.
Thisstructure has significantly locations is anticipated by the end This is longer than the contract period reduced the timelines from the issue of in the private sector, which tends of 2011, leading to a potential increase documentation to the implementation in revenue available to private sector to be nearer three years.
The business is not as affected by Other The underlying market is not seasonal changes although hospital expected to grow dramatically: the current activity can fall during peak holiday economic climate will limit investment periods, as elective surgery and in new hospital capacity inboth the public outpatient appointments are reduced and private sector.
Small increases in and only trauma cases are seen.
volume are likely from the existing stock of hospital beds, in recent years running at c2.5% per annum.
