Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 62 Directors report Details of the fair value of net assets The Directors report of the group for The information that fulfils these the year ended 31st December 2010 is requirements can be found on the acquired and consideration paid are setout in note 25 to the financial set out on pages 62 to 66 inclusive and following pages of this Annual Report includes the sections of the Annual as referenced below: statements.
Report referred to in these pages.
the development and performance of On 22nd December 2010 the group TheDirectors report has been drawn the groups business during the year, disposed of Bjrnklder AB, its Swedish up and presented in accordance with, see pages 1 and 26 to 28: direct sales business, for a gross and in reliance upon, applicable English the position of the groups business at consideration of 30.0 million.
company law and the liabilities of the the end of the year, see pages 26 directors in connection with that report and 72: Directors shall be subject to the limitations and main trends and factors likely to affect restrictions provided by such law.
The current directors of the company, the future development, performance including their biographical details, The directors present their Annual and position of the group, see pages areset out on page 41.
Each served Report and audited financial statements 26 to 28: throughout the year ended for the year ended 31st December 2010. key performance indicators, see 31stDecember 2010 except Iain pages 8 and 9: Ferguson, David Lowden and Andrew This Annual Report contains forwarda description of the principal risks looking statements.
These forwardWood who were appointed to the anduncertainties facing the group, board on1st March 2010.
Philip looking statements are not guarantees see pages 32 to 35: of future performance.
Rather they Rogerson andRen Schuster resigned environmental matters and policy, from theboard on 28th February arebased on current views and including the impact of the groups assumptions and involve known and 2010 and John Burns resigned on business on the environment, 23rd September 2010. unknown risks, uncertainties and other seepages 37 and 38: factors that may cause actual results employee matters and policy, Christopher Kemball and Per Utnegaard todiffer from any future results or seepages 38 and 39: retire at the 2011 Annual General Meeting developments expressed or implied social and community issues and and, being eligible, offer themselves for from the forward looking statements.
policy, see pages 38 and 39: and re-election.
Theunexpired term of the Each forward-looking statement information about persons with service contracts of both is two years speaksonly as of the date of the whom the company has contractual and eightmonths at28th April 2011. particular statement.
or other arrangements which are Further details of notice periods are essential to the business of the on page 58.
Principal activity company, see pages 13, 15, 17, 19, Details of the number of board and The principal activity of Berendsen plc 21, 23 and 64. committee meetings held during the and its subsidiary undertakings is the year and attendance by individual laundering and maintenance of textiles.
Results and dividends directors are included in the Corporate Further information on the services The financial statements set out the governance statement on page 46. provided is outlined on pages 10 to 25 results of the group for the year ended of this report.
Berendsen plc is a public Details of the directors remuneration 31st December 2010 which are shown limited company incorporated in and service contracts and their interests on page 70.
The directors recommend a England andWales and domiciled in the in the shares of the company are final dividend of 14.7 pence per ordinary UK.
Itsregistered office is 4 Grosvenor included in the Report on directors share which, together with the interim Place, London SW1X 7DL.
remuneration which is set out on pages dividend of 6.5 pence per ordinary 54 to 61. share paid in October 2010, makes a Change of name total dividend for the year of 21.2 pence Directors indemnity On 4th January 2011 the company 2009: 20 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to approval by shareholders of Article 133 of the companys Articles of changed its name from The Davis Service Group Plc to Berendsen plc.
the recommended final dividend, the Association the Articles provides, dividend award to shareholders for 2010 among other things that, insofar as Business review will total 35.7 million.
If approved, the permitted by law, every director of the company will pay the final dividend on company or any associated company The UK Companies Act 2006 requires 5th May 2011 to shareholders on the may be indemnified by the company the company to set out in this report register at 15th April 2011. against any liability.
afair review of the business of the groupduring the financial year ended On 30th June 2006 and 30th April Changes in composition of the group 31st December 2010 including a 2007, the company executed deed description of the principal risks The group acquired a number of textile polls for each of the then and all future and uncertainties facing the group maintenance businesses during the Chairmen, executive and non-executive and ananalysis of the position year.
The total consideration including directors of the company and its of the groupsbusiness at the end net financial liabilities assumed and wholly-owned subsidiaries respectively.
of thefinancial year, known as  payable for The indemnities granted under these an EnhancedBusiness Review.
theacquisitions was 92.2 million deed polls constitute qualifying third 2009:34 million.
party indemnity provisions as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and remain in force.
Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 63 Variation of rights The board believes that it is in the best Restrictions on voting interests of the group to provide these No member shall be entitled to vote Subject to the Companies Acts, rights attached to any class of shares may be indemnities to its directors in order at any general meeting or class meeting to ensure that it attracts and retains high inrespect of any share held by him varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths calibre directors through competitive or her if any call or other sum then terms of employment in line with payable by him in respect of that share innominal value of the issued shares ofthat class calculated excluding any the market.
remains unpaid or if a member has been served with a restriction notice as shares held as treasury shares, or with In addition, the company has arranged the sanction of a special resolution defined in the Articles after failure to appropriate insurance cover in respect provide the company with information passed at a separate general meeting of legal action against its directors ofthe holders of those shares.
At every concerning interests in those shares and officers.
required to be provided under the such separate general meeting except Companies Acts.
an adjourned meeting the quorum shall Share capital and control be two persons holding or representing The company is not aware of any by proxy not less than one-third in Pursuant to Section 992 of the agreements between holders of Companies Act 2006, which nominal value of the issued shares of securities that may result in restrictions the class calculated excluding any implements the EU Takeovers Directive, on voting rights.
the company is required to disclose shares held as treasury shares.
At an Dividends and other distributions adjourned meeting, the quorum shall certain additional information.
Such disclosures, to the extent not covered The company may by ordinary beone person entitled to vote and who resolution from time to time declare holds shares of the class, or his proxy.
elsewhere in the Directors report, include the information set out in dividends not exceeding the amount The rights conferred upon the holders recommended by the board.
of any shares shall not, unless otherwise tothe Companies Acts, the board may expressly provided in the rights pay interim dividends, and also any Rights and obligations attaching to those shares, be deemed attaching toshares fixedrate dividend, whenever the tobe varied by the creation or issue financial position of the company, in Subject to applicable statutes in this offurther shares ranking pari passu theopinion of the board, justifies its section the Companies Acts, any withthem.
If the directors act in good resolution passed by the company faith, they will not be liable for any loss under the Companies Acts and other Restrictions on transfer that any shareholders may suffer shareholders rights, shares may be of securities inthe company because a lawful dividend has been issued with such rights and restrictions paidon other shares which rank equally There are no restrictions on the transfer as the company may by ordinary with or behind their shares.
of securities in the company, except: resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not The board may withhold payment of that certain restrictions may from make specific provision as the board allor any part of any dividends or other time to time be imposed by laws maydecide.
Subject to the Articles, moneys payable in respect of the andregulations for example, theCompanies Acts and other companys shares from a person with insidertrading laws : and shareholders rights, unissued shares atleast a 0.25% interest as defined pursuant to the Listing Rules of areat the disposal of the board.
inthe Articles if such a person has theFinancial Services Authority beenserved with a restriction notice whereby certain employees of the Voting asdefined in the Articles after company require the approval Every member and every duly failuretoprovide the company with of thecompany to deal in the appointed proxy present at a general information concerning interests in companysordinary shares.
meeting or class meeting has, upon those shares required to be provided a show of hands, one vote and every The company is not aware of any under the Companies Acts.
agreements between holders of member present in person or by proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register inrespect of the joint holding.
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 64 Directors report continued the long-term interests of beneficiaries: Amendment of Articles iv he is absent without the permission of Association of the board from meetings of the the interests of beneficiaries other than financial interests: board whether or not an alternate Unless expressly specified to the director appointed by him attends the interests of beneficiaries in their contrary in the Articles, the Articles may capacity as employees or former for six consecutive months and the be amended by a special resolution board resolves that his office is employees or their dependants: of the companys shareholders.
vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or the interests of persons whether compounds with his creditors generally: or not identified who may become Appointment and replacement vi he is prohibited by a law from being beneficiaries in the future: and ofdirectors a director: vii he ceases to be a director considerations of a local, moral, by virtue of the Companies Acts: or ethical, environmental or social nature.
The directors shall be not less than twoand there shall be a maximum viii he is removed from office pursuant to the companys Articles.
The company may by ordinary There are a number of agreements Powers of the directors resolution vary the minimum and or that take effect, alter or terminate upon maximum number of directors.
Under Subject to the Articles, the Companies a change of control of the company, the Articles, a director shall not be Acts and any directions given by the suchas commercial contracts, bank required to hold any shares in the company by special resolution, the loan agreements, property lease company.
Directors may be appointed business of the company will be arrangements, and employees share by the company by ordinary resolution managed by the board who may plans.
None of these are deemed to or by the board.
A director appointed exercise all the powers of the company, besignificant in terms of their potential by the board holds office only until the whether relating to the management impact on the business of the group next following Annual General Meeting ofthe business of the company or not.
asa whole except for the groups of the company and is then eligible for In particular, the board may exercise all 420million Revolving Facility reappointment.
The board or any the powers of the company to borrow Agreement dated 26th June 2005, committee authorised by the board money, to mortgage or charge any of its the200 million Revolving Facility may from time to time appoint one or undertaking, property, assets present Agreement dated 25th August 2008, more directors to hold any employment and future and uncalled capital and to the US$250 million US Private or executive office for such period and issue debentures and other securities Placement Note Purchase Agreement on such terms as they may determine and to give security for any debt, liability dated 25th May 2006 and the and may also revoke or terminate any or obligation of the company or of any US$259million and 25 million US such appointment.
Private Placement Note Purchase Agreement dated 24th November At every Annual General Meeting of the Securities carrying special rights 2009.
These agreements contain company any director who has been change of control provisions which, appointed by the board since the last No person holds securities in the iftriggered, could limit future utilisations, company carrying special rights with Annual General Meeting, or who held require the repayment of existing office at the time of the two preceding regard to control of the company.
utilisations or lead to a renegotiation Annual General Meetings and who did ofterms.
not retire at either of them, or who has Rights under the employee sharescheme In addition, there exist agreements held office with the company, other than employment or executive office, between the company and its directors As at 31st December 2010, Appleby and certain senior employees which for a continuous period of nine years or Trust Jersey Limited, as trustee of the more at the date of the meeting, shall provide for compensation for loss of Berendsen Employee Benefit Trust, office or employment due to a takeover retire from office and may offer himself held 1,965,938 shares on trust for the for reappointment by the members.
Copies of executive directors benefit of the executive directors and service contracts are available to Thecompany may by special resolution employees of the group.
A dividend remove any director before the shareholders for inspection at the waiver is in place in respect of Applebys companys registered office and at the expiration of his period of office.
shareholding and Appleby currently Theoffice of a director shall be vacated Annual General Meeting.
Further details abstains from voting the shares but it on directors service contracts are if: i he resigns or offers to resign and may, upon the recommendation of the the board resolve to accept such offer: included in the Report on directors company, accept or reject any offer remuneration which is set out on pages ii his resignation is requested by all of relating to the shares in any way it sees the other directors and all of the other 54 to 61. fit, without incurring any liability and directors are not less than three in without being required to give reasons number: iii he is or has been suffering for its decision.
In exercising its trustee from mental ill-health and the board powers Appleby may take all or any of resolves that his office be vacated: the following matters into account: Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 65 Substantial shareholdings As at 24th February 2011 the company had been notified, pursuant to the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its issued share capital: Direct No.
of indirect shares m % Silchester International Investors Limited Direct 33.96 19.9 Prudential plc Direct 22.89 13.4 Sanderson Asset Management Limited Direct 8.90 5.2 Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited Direct 6.44 3.8 Newton Investment Management Limited Direct 5.47 3.2 Share capital Authority to allot shares The resolution specifies the maximum number of shares which may be As at 24th February 2011, the companys Resolutions will be proposed to acquired being 10% of the companys issued share capital consisted of authorise the directors to allot shares issued share capital and the maximum 51,226,424 divided into 170,754,748 upto approximately two-thirds of the and minimum prices at which they ordinary shares of 30pence each companys issued ordinary share capital may be purchased.
The shareholders excluding shares held intreasury.
in accordance with guidelines issued authority granted at the 2011 Annual bythe ABI on 31st December 2010 of During the 12 months to 31st December General Meeting remains valid until the which approximately 5% may be issued 2010, 98,199 ordinary shares of next Annual General Meeting.
for cash on a non pre-emptive basis.
30pence each in the company were This additional one-third authority, If the company were to purchase any of issued in satisfaction of the exercise above the usual one-third authority, its own shares, it may consider holding ofemployee share options under the mayonly be used for rights issues.
them as treasury shares as an alternative terms of the Davis Service Group 1998 Inany three-year period, no more than to cancelling them, subject to the Share Option Plan, the Davis Service 7.5% of the issued share capital will be authority allowed by resolution number Group Savings Related Share Option issued for cash on a non pre-emptive 9, provided that the total number Scheme and the Berendsen Sharesave basis.
The two resolutions numbers of treasury shares does not at any one Plan 2006 for a total consideration 7 and 8 are set out in full in the notice time exceed 10% of the companys of 310,712. of Annual General Meeting.
No issue will issued share capital.
Companies are As at 31st December 2010, the authority be made which would effectively alter permitted to hold shares purchased granted to the company for the the control of the company without the onthe market in treasury with a view purchase of up to 17,065,500 ordinary prior approval of shareholders in general topossible re-issue at a future date, shares in the company remained in meeting.
The directors have no present asan alternative to cancelling them.
intention of exercising this authority.
Thiswould allow the company to Details of the movements in the year re-issue the shares held in treasury Purchase of own shares areset out in note 20 to the financial quickly and cost-effectively and would statements.
In certain circumstances it may be provide the company with additional advantageous for the company to flexibility in the management of Annual General Meeting purchase its own shares.
The share price on resolution number 9 will be proposed 31stDecember 2010 was 436.60 pence: The notice of the Annual General the company currently holds 1,025,000 at the April 2011 Annual General Meeting Meeting to be held at 11.00 am on to seek authority from shareholders to ordinary shares in treasury.
Thursday 28th April 2011 is being sent do so, such authority toexpire on the separately to shareholders with this The board is committed to managing date of the next following Annual report.
The venue for the meeting is the the companys capital effectively and General Meeting or adate 18 months Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton the directors keep under review the from the date of the resolution, Place, London W1J 7BQ.
option of buying back the companys whichever is the earlier.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the company will be taken into account before deciding upon this course of action.
The directors will only purchase the companys shares on the market if they believe it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 66 Directors report continued Political and charitable donations Auditors and disclosure After reviewing the above and making of information to auditors enquiries, the directors have a Financial contributions to a range reasonable expectation that the of charities and good causes during The auditors,  company and the group have adequate the year amounted to 33,222 2009: LLP, have indicated their willingness resources to continue in operational 65,152, principally to local charities to continue in office and a resolution existence for the foreseeable future.
serving the communities in which the that they may be reappointed will be Accordingly, they continue to adopt the group operates.
There were no political proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
going concern basis in preparing the donations during the year 2009: nil.
As far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Creditor payment policy Directors conflicts of interest the companys auditors are unaware.
Whilst the group does not follow any Each director has taken all the steps There are procedures in place to deal published code or standard on payment thatthey ought to have taken as a with directors conflicts of interest practice, it continues to be the groups director in order to make themselves arising under Section 175 Companies policy to agree the terms of payment aware of any relevant audit information Act 2006 and such procedures have with each of its suppliers at the and to establish that the companys operated effectively during the year.
commencement of the trading auditors are aware of that information.
relationship and to abide by those Directors responsibilities termsprovided that the supplier has Going concern performed in accordance with the The directors responsibilities for the The groups business activities, together financial statements contained within relevant terms and conditions.
Trade with the factors likely to affect its future creditor days of the company for the this Annual Report and the directors development, performance and position confirmations required under DTR 4.1.
12 year ended 31st December 2010 were are set out in the Business review on 10 days 2009: 9 days and for the are set out on page 67. pages 1 to 39.
The financial position of groups major trading companies were the group, its cash flows, liquidity By order of the board 33 days 2009: 29 days.
position and borrowing facilities are described inthe Financial review on David Lawler pages 29 to 31.
Inaddition note 17 tothe Company Secretary financial statements includes 24th February 2011 thegroups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of itsfinancial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The group has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
