Unite 35 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate governance for the year ended 31 December 2010 During the course of the year, the Company complied with the principles of best practice set out in Section 1 of theCombined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 and as subsequently amended theCombined Code.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010, the Directors have resolved that they willall retire at the Annual General Meeting and that those wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
Board of Directors The Companys corporate governance procedures provide that the full Board of Directors shall meet at least six times a year.
During 2010, there were 11 meetings of the full Board, all of which were attended by each of the Directors then appointed.
The Board receives regular reports from each of the Groups business units, but itself retains full and effective control of the Groups activities, with a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board.
In particular, the full Board sets the strategic objectives, business plan and annual budgets for the Group, with major investment decisions also requiring Board approval.
Operational responsibility is delegated to the Groups Leadership Executive.
Terms of reference have been set by the Board for its various committees and for the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The terms of reference for the Chairman and the Chief Executive are such as to clearly establish the division of responsibility between the two roles.
In addition, all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, whilst procedures are in place allowing for individual Directors to take independent legal advice.
A programme for the training of Directors has been put in place.
The current Board consists of three Executive Directors, namely Mr M C Allan Chief Executive : Mr J M Tonkiss Chief Operating Officer : and Mr J J Lister Chief Financial Officer, as well as Mr P M White Chairman, Mr N P Hall Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and three other Non-Executive Directors Messrs S R H Beevor and R S Walker and SirTim Wilson.
Each of such Directors served throughout the year, other than Sir Tim Wilson, who was appointed to the Board on 1December 2010.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any personal, business or other relationship with the Group, save for the receipt of Directors fees and interests in shares of the Company.
The Company therefore meets the requirement of the Combined Code in relation to members of the FTSE 350 that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman, is made up of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Each of the Executive Directors has a written service contract, whilst each of the Non-Executive Directors has a formal letter of engagement.
Executive Directors have rolling contracts of employment with twelve months notice periods, whilst Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders, appointed by the full Board for a term of approximately three years.
The letters of appointment relating to the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection atthe Companys registered office during normal business hours and for the 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has appointed an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee.
The terms of reference for each such committee which are published on the Companys website are reviewed annually by the relevant committee, as is the effectiveness of each such committee.
Set out below are sections describing the work of the committees in discharging their respective responsibilities.
Audit Committee During the year, the Audit Committee comprised Messrs N P Hall, S R H Beevor, R S Walker and, as from 1 December 2010, Sir Tim Wilson, all being independent Non-Executive Directors.
Mr Hall acted as Chairman of the Audit Committee throughout the year.
Mr Hall is a Chartered Accountant and was, until February 2003, finance director of Arcadia Group plc formerly The Burton Group plc.
During the year, the Audit Committee met on four occasions, all of which meetings were attended by each of the then current members of the Committee.
The Audit Committee meets with the Chief Financial Officer and with the external auditors and reviews the annual accounts and the preliminary and interim financial results announcements prior to submission to the Board.
The Audit Committee also reviews compliance with accounting standards, the scope and extent of the external audit programme and the appointment, independence and remuneration of the auditors.
The chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on matters discussed at meetings of the Audit Committee.
During the course of the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the existing internal controls in place including an operational compliance audit regime.
As a result of that review and the size of the Group, it was not considered necessary to establish an internal audit function.
However, the position is being kept under review.
Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
