Unite 06 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business review Our market Overview Since the early 1990s UNITE and the student accommodation sector as a whole have benefited from rapid growth in student numbers, driven by a combination of demographics, Government policy and international student demand.
This, coupled with the relative lack of capital available to universities to meet the housing needs created by this surge in demand, resulted in a structural demand supply imbalance in almost every university town or city.
Today this structural shortage of accommodation remains evident in many major university towns and cities and whilst UNITE does not expect the growth in student numbers to be significant over the next ten years due to a variety of factors explained below, this structural shortage and the latent demand for UK Higher Over the past three years as Education evidenced by the excess of undergraduate applications over many as 160,000 applicants available places means that demand for well managed, well located student accommodation will remain strong.
each year have been unable to secure a place meaning Student numbers grew once again in 2010, largely as a result of the Governments thatnot only is there not decision to fund an additional 10,000 undergraduate places.
Looking forward the Group expects underlying demand for UK Higher Education to remain strong, but enough accommodation resultant growth in student numbers to be limited by a combination of funding forthose who get a place, constraints, university capacity and immigration controls.
UNITE is forecasting thereare not enough places student numbers to remain flat over the next five years and therefore expects forthose that want them.
growth opportunities to be strongest in those towns and cities where the current structural shortage of accommodation remains most significant.
This is the principal reason for the Groups continued focus in London.
UNITE considers the flat growth assumption to be prudent and robust but it is also 160,000 important to acknowledge the extent of unsatisfied demand for UK university places.
Over the past three years as many as 160,000 applicants each year have applicants fail to get been unable to secure a place meaning that not only is there not enough auniversityplace accommodation for those who get a place, there are not enough places for those that want them.
Demand characteristics The Groups research and understanding of market dynamics suggests that the student demographic will continue to evolve, with more mature and part-time students applying for university places, and international student numbers remaining strong.
The increased debt burden on future students is likely to lead to changing patterns and behaviour, most obviously in terms of where students decide to study.
However, there are several factors which suggest student demand for UNITEs product will remain high, namely the continued growth in non-EU student numbers who are not affected by the funding changes and the Groups business model and market positioning, with properties located in strong university cities across the UK and a core customer base that is the least likely to be affected byincreased tuition fees.
John tonkiss Mark Allan Phil White Joe Lister Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Unite 07 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 46% of UNITEs customer base is international rising to 70% in London and, of the Groups UK customer base, over 45% come from the most affluent backgrounds.
UNITE considers that both of these market segments will prove resilient to the increasing cost of university education.
Notwithstanding the anticipated resilience of UNITEs core customer base, theGroup also sees an attractive opportunity to develop an accommodation product at a lower price point in London.
This will be focused on those London locations which are outside Zone 1 but still offer direct, fast access into CentralLondon.
Pro le of UNITE UK students % 46% of UniteS affluent customer base is from outside the UK and this figure rises to 70% in London.
46% of Unite customers fromoutsideUK Hard Moderate Comfortably Urban Wealthy pressed means o prosperity achievers UK AY09 10 UNITE AY10 11 London UNITE AY10 11 excl.
London Source: CACI Limited Supply characteristics There was limited new stock brought to the market in 2010 with UNITE delivering 1,100 new beds out of a total of approximately 5,000 across the UK.
This follows aperiod of relatively limited supply in 2008 and 2009 when approximately 9,000 beds were delivered in each year of which UNITE built a third.
Whilst there has been some increase in development activity in 2010, predominantly in London, itisdoubtful that net new supply will increase meaningfully over the next few years.
The combination of limited capital availability, a challenging planning environment and the unviable nature of many existing consented schemes creates a powerful constraint on new supply for many private providers.
Indeed, much of the increased activity in London is characterised by new entrants to the market pursuing a finite number of sites where planning consents are already in place or expected.
The Group does not see this activity increasing new supply above its existing estimates.
Furthermore, with university capital budgets under significant pressure for the foreseeable future, it is expected that only limited funding will be available for new capital projects.
Alongside this, the age of existing university stock could lead to functional obsolescence in some cases and we do not expect universities to account for net increases in accommodation supply for the foreseeable future.
Changes to funding During 2010 significant changes were announced to future funding structures for the Higher Education sector.
The outcome of the  Browne Review into university funding was a vote in favour of raising the cap ontuition fees from 3,275 to as much as 9,000, from the start of the 2012 13 academic year.
This additional revenue will go directly to universities, mitigating much of the impact of planned cuts to teaching budgets, while graduates will only start repaying the Government-provided loans for these fees when they are earning a salary of at least 21,000 per annum.
These changes build on the introduction of fees in 1998 and the subsequent increase in 2006.
UNITE has continued to monitor and respond proactively over time to the implications of these changes on the market, and believes that its growth strategy is fully aligned with the changing nature of the sector.
The policy developments have highlighted the importance of maintaining effective relationships with UK universities, and of understanding and anticipating the 21 8 8 14 9 11 27 24 29 12 12 7 26 47 45 Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
