Unite 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 the Board of Directors Phil White CBe Mark Allan Chairman Chief Executive Phil, 61, was appointed Non-Executive Mark, 38, was appointed to the role Director and Chairman Designate ofChief Executive in September 2006, ofthe Group in January 2009 and having previously served as Chief appointed Chairman in May 2009.
Financial Officer for three years.
Themajority of Phils executive career Markheld a variety of other roles in was spent in the public transport thebusiness prior to that, having joined sector, during an exciting period of theGroup in 1999.
As Chief Executive deregulation and privatisation.
He was he chairs the Groups Leadership Chief Executive of National Express Executive and has overall responsibility Group plc from 1997 to 2006, leading for the Groups performance against its the business through a period of business plan targets, whilst continuing considerable growth both in the UK to develop UNITEs growth strategy.
Phil is currently NonExecutive Chairman of Kier Group plc and Non-Executive Chairman of Lookers plc.
His experience gained in leading customer focused businesses, both in an executive and nonexecutive capacity, is invaluable to theGroup.
Joe Lister John tonkiss Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Joe, 39, joined UNITE in 2002.
He was John, 43, joined UNITE in 2001 as appointed as Chief Financial Officer in General Manager of the Groups offJanuary 2008 having held a variety of site manufacturing facility.
John joined roles including Investment Director and UNITEs Leadership Support Board in Managing Director of Livocity.
Joe is 2002 and subsequently was promoted responsible for the Groups finances to the role of Group Development and investment strategy.
In 2006, John was Financial Officer, Joe is also responsible appointed Managing Director of for the Company secretarial function UNITEs Student Hospitality UK Business and Chairs the Groups Major and, in 2007, was made UNITEs Chief Investment Approval meetings.
Operating Officer to reflect his Priortojoining UNITE, Joe qualified responsibility for strategic and asachartered accountant with tacticalbusiness operations .
throughoutthe Group Unite 31 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 nigel Hall Stuart Beevor Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director SeniorIndependent Director and andChairmanof the Chairman ofthe Audit Committee  Nigel, 55, who qualified as a Chartered Stuart, 54, was, until recently Accountant in 1980 with Price ManagingDirector of Grosvenor Waterhouse, was Group Finance FundManagement Limited and Director of Arcadia Group plc formerly amember of the Board of Grosvenor The Burton Group plc until February Group Limited, the international 2003.
He joined the Burton Group in property group from 2002 until March 1984 and was appointed to its Board 2011.
Prior to joining Grosvenor, Stuart in1997, becoming Group Finance was Managing Director at Legal and Director in November of that year.
General Property Limited, having Nigelis also Chairman of Countrywide previously held a number of roles Farmers plc and a Non-Executive dealing with development, investment, Director of Pinewood Shepperton plc property management and unitised and C&J Clark Limited.
With his funds at Norwich Union.
considerable experience of finance and operations in multi-site businesses, Stuart brings a knowledge of property Nigel provides strong leadership of the investment, property funds and investor Audit Committee.
demand that uniquely supports the Board and the business in its role as aco-investing asset manager.
Richard Walker Sir tim Wilson Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Richard, 45, was formerly Chief Tim, 61, was recently appointed Operating Officer of Carphone KnightBachelor for services to Higher Warehouse UK, with responsibility for Education and to business in the the Groups 750 UK stores, websites, 2011New Years Honours List.
He was direct sales and insurance services.
appointed Vice Chancellor of the Richard was previously Managing University of Hertfordshire in September Director of Carphone Warehouses 2003, following an academic career European retail business, operating in with Leeds Metropolitan, Cranfield and 14 countries, and UK Sales Director.
As well as serving holds a law degree from Nottingham on the Board of the Higher Education University and trained as an accountant Funding Council for England, he has with Coopers and Lybrand.
been a Board member of East of England Development Agency for six His main supporting strengths are built years and also Deputy Chair of the CBI around his operational expertise and Innovation, Science and Technology 18years of experience of having Committee.
He is Trustee of the Council the customer at the heart of every for Industry and Higher Education and decision made.
is a strong advocate of the role of universities in economic development.
He is also acknowledged as one of the leading thinkers in university business collaboration.
Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
