Unite 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate governance for the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The Audit Committee has established a formal policy with regard to the Companys appointment of the external audit firm for the supply of non-audit services.
Pursuant to that policy, differentiation is made between i work that would be inappropriate for the audit firm to perform: ii work that is clearly audit-related or required to be performed by the Companys external auditors: iii work that is often cost effectively performed by the audit firm as a result of its unique position and knowledge of the Company: and iv other work.
In relation to category i, the Audit Committee will not support the use of the audit firm for any services deemed to be incompatible with auditor independence by professional or government regulations.
For category ii work, management has discretion to use the audit firm without prior consultation with the Audit Committee, although the nature of the work and the associated fees are regularly reported to the Committee.
For category iii work, management has discretion to use the audit firm without prior consultation with the Audit Committee for any piece of work for which the individual fee does not exceed 50,000.
Where the cumulative fees for this category of work are expected to exceed the budgeted annual audit fee in any year, or an individual fee exceeds 50,000, the Chairman of the Audit Committee will be consulted.
For category iv work, management would normally review a range of possible suppliers of such services and select the most appropriate supplier.
If management identifies the audit firm as the best supplier in a specific field and also believes that such assignment would not prejudice the independence of the audit firm, then an evaluated request is made to the Audit Committee to confirm the appointment to any appointment involving fees in excess of 10,000.
The Audit Committee also reviews any potential threat to the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, including, in particular, those potential threats identified by the Auditing Practices Board in its independence guidelines.
TheCommittee determines and then reports to the Board, whether or not it is satisfied that the independence of the external auditor is not jeopardised, taking into account the external auditors own submissions to the Committee and or the Board.
During the course of the year, the non-audit services provided to the Group by the external auditor related to tax advisory and compliance matters.
Remuneration Committee During the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised Mr S R H Beevor who acted as Chairman, Mr N P Hall, Mr R S Walker and, as from 1 December 2010, Sir Tim Wilson all being independent Non-Executive Directors, together with Mr P M White.
Mr White, who is Chairman of the Board, was considered independent on his appointment to that role, in which case his membership of the Committee is in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, as amended in June 2006.
The Committee determines remuneration policy and advises the Board accordingly.
In particular, the Committee makes recommendations regarding the terms of employment of Executive Directors and senior managers, including terms of remuneration, long-term incentive plan awards and other incentives.
Mr M C Allan is invited to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee but takes no part in the discussions concerning his own remuneration and does not attend thoseparts of the meetings of the Committee that consider that issue.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 39 to44.
During the course of 2010, five meetings of the Remuneration Committee were held, all of which were attended by each ofthe then current members of the Committee.
nominations Committee During the year, the Nominations Committee was chaired by Mr P M White.
The exact composition of the Committee isvariable, provided that each meeting has a majority represented by independent Non-Executive Directors.
During the course of 2010, three meetings of the Nominations Committee were held, each of which was attended by Messrs P M White, NPHall, S R H Beevor, R S Walker and M C Allan.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on any appointment or re-appointment to the Board and at senior executive level.
It is also responsible for ensuring that plans are in place for an orderly succession of appointments to the Board and at senior management level, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board.
The process for evaluating the performance of the Executive Directors flows from the setting of the overall business strategy for the Group.
Once agreed by the Board, the Executive Directors produce divisional strategies and milestone action plans designed to deliver the agreed overall strategy.
Such strategies and plans, which are challenged and may be revised prior to being ratified by the Board, then form the basis of personal objectives that are set for each of the Executive Directors.
The performance of the Non-Executive Directors is reviewed annually by the Chairman, whilst the performance of the Chairman is considered annually by the Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman, in both cases taking account of the views of the Executive Directors.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors also on an annual basis meet to consider the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Those meetings are then followed by full Board review meetings, which are attended by all members of the Board.
