GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | 57 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the Companys policy for Executive remuneration and the precise terms of employment and remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee report is set out on pages 43 to 54.
The Committee is chaired by Mr Alan Coppin and the other members comprise Mrs Victoria Mitchell and Mr John Armitt.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
The Committee takes into consideration the recommendations of the Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director regarding the remuneration of their Executive colleagues.
The Committee met formally on four occasions during the year to April 2010 with no absences, except that Mr John Armitt was not able to attend the meeting held on 6 May 2009 due to other commitments.
No Director is involved in deciding his or her remuneration.
The Executive Directors decide the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee was primarily established to propose new appointments to the Board.
It is also responsible for succession planning.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman, Mr AW Pidgley, with Mrs Victoria Mitchell and Messrs. David Howell and John Armitt as Independent Non-executive members.
Mrs Victoria Mitchell was Chairman of the Committee until 9 September 2009, when she became Deputy Chairman of the Company.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and at such times as required to carry out the duties of the Committee.
The Committee met formally on three occasions during the year to 30 April 2010 with no absences, except that Mr John Armitt was not able to attend the meeting held on 4 February 2010 due to other commitments.
The process for identifying and recommending new appointments to the Board includes a combination of discussions and consultations, in addition to formal interviews, utilising the services of independent recruitment specialists, as appropriate.
The Nomination Committee was actively involved in the Board changes announced last year, including the appointment of Messrs. Nick Simpkin and Karl Whiteman to the Board, the first new appointments to the executive team since 2001.
The fact that both appointments were from internal candidates is evidence of the strength in depth of Berkeleys management.
Key risks and internal control The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks of the Group has been in place from the start of the financial year to the date on which the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts were approved.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in accordance with the revised Turnbull guidance issued in 2005, and includes an annual review by the Directors of the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control as part of its year-end procedures.
Internal control procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In conducting these reviews, the Board has taken into consideration the following established framework of internal controls within the Group: Clear organisational structure The Group operates through autonomous divisions and operating companies, each with its own board.
Operating company boards meet on a weekly basis and divisional boards on a monthly basis, and comprehensive information is prepared for such meetings on a standardised basis to cover all aspects of the business.
Formal reporting lines and delegated levels of authority exist within this structure and review of risk and performance occurs at multiple levels throughout both the operating companies and divisions, and the Group.
Risk assessment Risk reporting is embedded within ongoing management reporting throughout the Group.
At operating company and divisional level, Board meeting agendas and packs are structured around the key risks facing the Group.
These include sales demand risk, production risk build cost and programme, land and planning risk as well as a review of specific site risks.
In addition, there is a formalised process whereby each division produces quarterly risk and control reports that identify significant risks, the potential impact and the actions being taken to mitigate the risks.
These risk reports are reviewed and updated regularly and reviewed quarterly by the Board.
Berkeley has a variety of systems in place to address the sustainability risks associated with its operations, including a Land Acquisition Sustainability Risk Assessment Checklist, and sustainability issues are incorporated within Strategic Risk Registers for each project.
Each division has processes in place to ensure that sustainability is managed during the construction phase, which includes signing all sites up to the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
