BUSINESS REVIEW B BU USINESS REVIEW | SINESS REVIEW | MAN MANA AG GING DIRECT ING DIRECTORS REVIEW ORS REVIEW | | 11 11 Computer generated image of the initial proposals for Tideway Wharf Acquired in the year, this 5-acre site sits within the Nine Elms Opportunity Area, the largest regeneration area in Central London.
The site is adjacent to the iconic Battersea Power Station and minutes from Battersea Park.
Proposed plans include approximately 750 homes with the opportunity for a range of accommodation, sizes and ownership, underground parking, a hotel, restaurants, bars and retail spaces.
Quality areas of public realm will be created around the site to be enjoyed by residents and the local community.
The scheme is in consultation with stakeholders and a planning application is due to be submitted in 2010.
OUTLOOK After two years of correction, the housing sector has The Board is fully aware that its primary goal is gone through a period of relative stability over the to maximise long-term returns to shareholders as last year.
There are still residual imbalances from the opposed to concentrating mainly on the income financial downturn which will continue to affect the statement.
Consequently, the objective is to grow wider economy and the sector.
both earnings per share and the land bank by 10% over the next 12 months while ensuring that Berkeley Berkeley targets itself to be an added value urban retains its financial strength.
This will create a regenerator and property developer in London and meaningful and sustainable business and will allow the South East, rather than a volume housebuilder.
the skills of Berkeleys people to continue to add Its natural size has allowed Berkeley to concentrate value throughout the whole development process.
on ensuring its developments meet the demands of its customers.
Concentrating on mixed-use inner The demanding nature of this challenge should not city developments has allowed Berkeley to build be underestimated in these severely testing times up an unrivalled land bank on which the focus is but Berkeley is committed to ensuring that the Group to unlock the development value while using the remains at the vanguard of the industry and is the Groups cash resources to selectively acquire further homebuilder of choice for all of its stakeholders.
Berkeley y is well placed to ac p hieve this.
ROB PERRINS MANAGING DIRECTOR ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | BERKELEY
