8 | MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW | BUSINESS REVIEW LAND HOLDINGS At 30 April 2010, the Group including joint ventures In addition to the 28,099 plots in its land bank, controlled some 28,099 plots with an estimated Berkeley has significantly in excess of 10,000 plots in gross margin of 2,038 million.
This compares with its long-term pipeline which includes the latter phases 30,044 plots and an estimated gross margin of of Kidbrooke and Woodberry Down, strategic land and 2,014 million at 30 April 2009.
Of the total 28,099 a number of sites being worked up within St Edward plots, 27,094 plots 2009: 23,572 are owned and Homes, Berkeleys joint venture with Prudential.
These included on the balance sheet.
In addition, 935 plots plots are all of a more long-term nature: Berkeley 2009: 6,407 are contracted and 70 plots 2009: hopes they will come through into the land bank but 65 have terms agreed.
In excess of 95% of our they currently have an uncertain outcome due to holdings are on brownfield or recycled land.
planning policy or vacant possession issues.
Over the next 10 years, Berkeley envisages being able to add The movements in the land bank during the year 10,000 plots to its land bank from a combination of reflect four specific factors.
First, Berkeley has been plots coming through this pipeline and optimisation of successful in enhancing existing planning consents sites already included in the land bank.
to create approximately 600 new plots.
Secondly, Berkeley has agreed to acquire approximately 2,200 In terms of planning, Berkeley has been successful plots across some 20 new sites.
Thirdly, 320 units in obtaining new or revised planning consents on 38 across two sites previously included in the land bank of its sites during the year.
New consents include are no longer expected to be progressed and have been the next phases of the large London regeneration excluded.
Finally, the land bank has been restated to schemes at Kidbrooke and Woodberry Down and re-categorise certain sites to the long-term pipeline the St Edward Homes scheme at Charles House in where the development outcome is uncertain due to Kensington, moving these from the contracted land planning policy, viability or issues surrounding vacant bank at the start of the year into the owned land possession.
This restatement, which covers some bank at 30 April 2010.
Other new consents include 2,250 contracted plots, includes the latter phases of the Groups sites at Cambridge, Beaconsfield and Kidbrooke, which is being undertaken in partnership Yarnton Oxford : along with additional or revised with the London Borough of Greenwich, and the St consents at Royal Arsenal Riverside Woolwich, Edward Homes scheme at Green Park, Reading.
Beaufort Park Hendon, Worcester Park, Cirencester and Holborough Valley Kent.
Berkeley has also The 2,200 new plots agreed by Berkeley in the period obtained planning consent for three student schemes are across 20 sites, ranging from prime London during the year in Clapham Junction for Imperial locations in Belgravia and on the river at Battersea, College, Acton and Oxford.
to sites suited to student accommodation and more traditional sites outside London.
Really understanding St Edward Homes accounts for some 1,500 plots the local market to identify the underlying demand in the land bank across three sites.
These are: and matching scheme design and product to this are Stanmore Place, where the first sales were recorded more important than ever in these market conditions.
during the year: Charles House: and 190 Strand, The land market is competitive and Berkeley has on which a planning application has recently been been highly selective in assessing the numerous submitted.
In addition, Berkeley continues to work opportunities with which it has been presented.
with Prudential to identify further sites to which St The common theme across all the sites acquired is Edward Homes can add value and three of these that they are in excellent locations, underpinned by are in the long-term pipeline.
strong demand for new homes, and are sites where Berkeley has a vision to bring new vitality to the local community and to create added value through its development expertise.
