GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company is committed to attaining high standards of Corporate Governance in accordance with the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the 2008 Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code, and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
This report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, where applicable, describes how the Board has applied the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code.
Statement of compliance The Board considers that it complied throughout the year with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except in the following areas: Code provision A.
3.2 requires that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-executive Directors.
The Company was not in compliance with this requirement throughout the year, as from the start of the year until 9 September 2009, the Board comprised a Chairman, four Executive Directors and three independent Non-executive Directors, and from 9 September 2009, the Board comprised a Chairman, five Executive Directors and four independent Non-executive Directors.
Code provision C. 3.1 requires that the Audit Committee is comprised of at least three independent Non-executive Directors.
The Company was not in compliance with the requirement from the start of the year until 9 September 2009.
The role of the Board The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board as a whole.
The key task of the Board is to formulate strategy and to monitor the operating and financial performance of the Group in pursuit of the Groups strategic long-term objectives.
In particular these include the annual budget, share capital changes, approval of interim and annual results, treasury policy, dividend policy, shareholder distributions, Corporate Governance matters and the maintenance and review of the Groups system of internal control.
Formal Board meetings were held five times during the year under review and there were no absences.
A further meeting was scheduled for 21 April 2010, for which full Board papers had been issued, but this meeting was cancelled due to the ash cloud disruption.
In addition to the formal meetings of the whole Board, the Non-executive Directors meet with the Group Chairman in the months not covered by a Board meeting.
The Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director are invited to attend these meetings in part, to provide an update on the business activities of the Group.
The Non-executive Directors meet at least annually without the Group Chairman present, chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
Board papers and agendas are sent out in the week prior to each meeting, thus allowing sufficient time for detailed review and consideration of the documents beforehand.
In addition, the Board is supplied with comprehensive management information on a regular basis, including on a monthly basis, a detailed Group management accounts pack that reports the actual and forecast financial performance, in addition to other key performance indicators across the Group.
The Company has in place an appropriate policy which insures Directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs, which they may incur in carrying out their duties.
The Board and Directors At the date of this report the Board comprises of ten Directors: the Chairman, five Executive Directors and four independent Non-executive Directors.
As a consequence, while the Board does not currently have the balance between Executive and Non-executive Directors envisaged by the Code, Berkeley is of the opinion that the overall balance is appropriate for the effective operation of the Board.
Notwithstanding this, the Board is looking for an additional Non-executive Director of the appropriate calibre and with skills that complement the existing Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers that all the Non-executive Directors Mrs Victoria Mitchell and Messrs. David Howell, Alan Coppin and John Armitt have skills and experience complementary to the Executive Directors and offer independent judgement when required.
Brief biographies appear on pages 38 and 39.
The Group Executive Directors do not hold any Non-executive Director appointments or commitments required to be disclosed under the Combined Code.
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Managing Director are separately held and there are clear written guidelines to support the division of responsibility between them.
The Group Chairman is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board and shareholder meetings and for ensuring that each Director contributes to effective decision-making.
The Group Managing Director has day-to-day executive responsibility for the running of the Groups businesses.
His role is to develop and deliver the strategy to enable the Group to meet its objectives.
Mr David Howell, Mr Alan Coppin and Mr John Armitt were appointed to the Board as Non-executive Directors on 24 February 2004, 1 September 2006, and 1 October 2007 respectively and it is the unanimous view of the Board that they were independent throughout the year.
Mrs Victoria Mitchell was appointed to the Board as Non-executive Director on 1 May 2002 and it is the unanimous view of the Board that she was independent from 9 September 2009 when appointed Deputy Chairman, having been Chairman from 1 August 2007 up until that date.
An induction programme is provided for new Directors, which includes the provision of a comprehensive set of background information on the Group, one-to-one meetings with all Directors and key staff as well as visits to major sites.
In addition to the induction programme for new Directors, additional ongoing training has been identified as part of the Board evaluation process, which is tailored to each Director.
All Directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary and independent professional advisers, at the Companys expense, where specific expertise is required in the course of their duties.
Arrangements are also made for the Non-executive Directors to attend site visits and to meet with the Managing Directors of the operating companies independent of the Executive Directors.
