26 | TRADING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW | BUSINESS REVIEW Developing phase 2 at Royal Arsenal Riverside, Woolwich BANK FACILITIES In November 2009, the Group refinanced its bank The Board approves treasury policy and senior facilities with its long-standing relationship banks, management control day-to-day operations.
Barclays and Lloyds, putting in place a 300 million Relationships with banks and cash management facility for the next four years, a level commensurate are co-ordinated centrally.
The objectives of the with the requirements and capital structure of the treasury policy are to maintain an appropriate capital Group.
This provides certainty of available finance structure and in doing so manage the financial until November 2013 to underpin the Groups risks identified above.
The procedures for mitigation investment in land and work in progress.
In addition, of the financial risks are set out in note 23 of the the Group has 53.0 million of site specific bank consolidated financial statements.
facilities, of which 32.8 million was drawn at the OPERATING RISK year-end.
This includes the financing of a 453 unit All businesses are exposed to risk.
Indeed, alongside postgraduate student accommodation scheme at risk comes opportunity and it is how such risks Clapham Junction which is being built for Imperial are managed that determines the success of the College and financed by Santander Bank.
Groups strategy and, ultimately, its performance and FINANCIAL RISK results.
Berkeleys strategy allows management to focus on creating sustainable long-term value for its The Group finances its operations by a combination of shareholders funds, minority interest, deposits shareholders, whilst taking advantage of opportunities as they arise in the shortand medium-term.
and on account receipts and, where taken out, borrowings.
As the Groups operations are in sterling Risk management is embedded in the organisation there is no direct currency risk, and therefore the at operating company, divisional and Group levels, Groups main financial risks are primarily: with different types of risk requiring different levels and types of management response.
Liquidity risk the risk that suitable funding for the Groups activities may not be available The principal operating risks of the Group include, but are not limited to the risks as set out on page 27.
Market credit risk the risk that a counterparty will default on their contractual obligations The Internal Control section within the Corporate resulting in a loss to the Group.
The Groups Governance report on pages 55 to 59 sets out exposure to credit risk encompasses the current the Groups overall framework for internal control, assets set out in note 23 to the consolidated setting the context for the identification, control financial statements which comprise cash and and monitoring of these and other risks faced cash equivalents and trade receivables by the Group.
Market interest rate risk the risk that Group financing activities are adversely affected by fluctuation in market interest rates NICK SIMPKIN GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR BERKELEY | ANNUAL REPORT 2010
