4 | MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW | BUSINESS REVIEW Through highly selective land acquisition Berkeley uses its expertise to focus on adding value to its land holdings, creating quality new developments where our customers aspire to live.
MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW These results reflect a period of trading which has Moving into its new financial year, Berkeley will been stronger than industry observers anticipated continue to focus on its customers and the homes this time last year.
Transaction levels stabilised and places it creates.
I am delighted, therefore, to over the year and are broadly 40% below what was announce Berkeleys Vision 2020 strategy.
This is a level commensurate 2020 sets ambitious objectives for the next decade with the re-sizing of the business undertaken over across all areas of the business for the benefit of the course of the previous 12 months.
Pricing has our customers, the environment and our people.
been resilient for well located product that is right The strategy includes the significant industryfor the local market and built to a high quality, and leading commitment to meet the Building for cancellation rates are back at normal levels.
Demand Life Silver Standard on all new developments from equity-rich investors and those from overseas submitted for planning permission.
Berkeleys vision who are aided by the weakness of sterling has been for 2020 is designed to move the business and the strong, while the UK domestic market continues industry forward over the next 10 years.
We are in a to be constrained by a combination of uncertainty fantastic position, with the right people in place, to economic and political and the more prudent realise this vision.
lending criteria of banks and building societies.
With its strong balance sheet, Berkeley is in a great Maintaining our operating margin above 17% is a position to react quickly to the opportunities in the result of Berkeleys strategy where land buying is market as visibility improves once the impact of the highly selective driven by opportunity not volume change in Government is assessed by companies and and where Berkeley has the time and expertise individuals.
Essentially, Berkeley has three investment to add value to its land holdings.
In this period we choices.
These are: acquiring new land: investing in have agreed to acquire some 2,200 plots across work in progress: and returning cash to shareholders 20 sites, all in excellent locations in our operating through dividends or share buy-backs.
In this area of London and the South East where financially constrained environment, we are confident underlying demand is strong, including Belgravia, that we will find the right balance to maximise Battersea, Putney, Ascot and Wimbledon.
We have shareholder returns over the long-term.
also secured new or revised planning consents on 38 of our sites.
This further strengthens the quality of our owned land bank and underpins supply for the next three years.
The Penthouse at Sugar House BERKELEY | ANNUAL REPORT 2010
