40 | DIRECTORS REPORT | GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Directors submit their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010.
Principal activities and review of the business The Company is a UK listed holding company of a Group engaged in residential-led property development focusing on urban regeneration and mixed-use developments.
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and is quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the Chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3, the Managing Directors review on pages 4 to 21, which provides more detailed commentaries on the business during the year together with the outlook for the future, the Trading and financial review on pages 22 to 27 and the Sustainability review on pages 28 to 37.
In addition, information in respect of the financial risks of the business is set out in the Trading and Financial review on page 26.
Trading results and dividends The Groups consolidated profit after taxation for the financial year was 79,525,000 2009: 86,127,000.
The Groups joint ventures contributed losses after taxation of 261,000 2009: losses of 902,000.
No dividends were declared or paid in the financial year.
Share capital The Company had 134,857,183 ordinary shares in issue at 30 April 2010 2009: 130,859,429.
During the year, 3,997,754 ordinary shares were issued on 10 September 2009 to participants of The Berkeley Group Holdings plc 2004 b Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Movements in the Companys share capital are shown in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Of the 10% authority given at the 2009 Annual General Meeting, no share purchases have been made by the Company.
Authority will be sought from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew the 10% authority for a further year.
Information on the Groups share option schemes is set out in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
Details of the Long-Term Incentive Schemes and Long-Term Incentive Plans for key executives are set out in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 43 to 54.
Articles of Association The Articles of Association set out the basic management and administrative structure of the Company.
They regulate the internal affairs of the Company and cover such matters as the issue and transfer of shares, board and shareholder meetings, powers and duties of Directors and borrowing powers.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors can be appointed or removed by shareholders in a general meeting.
The Articles may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Copies are available by writing to the Company Secretary and are also open to inspection at Companies House.
A special resolution will be proposed at this years AGM making a number of changes to the Companys Articles of Association arising from the final phase of the implementation of the Companies Act 2006 and the implementation of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009.
Directors The Directors of the Company and their profiles are detailed on pages 38 and 39.
All of the Directors served throughout the year under review with the exception of Messrs. Simpkin and Whiteman who were both appointed to the Board on 10 September 2009.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, Messrs. Perrins, Howell and Coppin will retire from the Board by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Messrs. Simpkin and Whiteman, having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, retire from the Board under the terms of the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Directors interests in the share capital of the Company and its subsidiaries are shown in the Remuneration Committee report on page 54.
At 30 April 2010 each of the Executive Directors were deemed to have a non-beneficial interest in 3,561 2009: 662,238 ordinary shares held by the Trustees of The Berkeley Group Employee Benefit Trust.
There were no contracts of significance during, or at the end of, the financial year in which a Director of the Company is, or was, materially interested, other than those set out in note 24 to the financial statements, the contracts of employment of the Executive Directors, which are terminable within one year, and the appointment terms of the Non-executive Directors, which are renewable annually and terminable on one months notice.
Directors indemnities The Companys practice has always been to indemnify its Directors in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law, in respect of all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities, which they may incur in or about the execution of their duties to the Company, or any entity which is an associated company as defined in Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006, or as a result of duties performed by the Directors on behalf of the Company or any such associated company.
