6 | MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW | BUSINESS REVIEW HOUSING MARKET The value of Berkeleys underlying sales reservations acquiring the well located properties, developed to a has been broadly consistent across the year with high standard of quality and specification, for which the second half marginally ahead of the first.
demonstrates that the market in London and the While the UK private domestic market remains South East has stabilised following a period which, constrained by economic and political uncertainty in 2007, saw the market peak and, since 2008, and the extent to which customers are able to obtain has seen the impact of the global financial crisis.
sufficient mortgage finance, demand from equityIn this new environment, sales reservations are rich investors and those from overseas who are approximately 40% lower than what previously might aided by the weakness of sterling has been strong, have been considered a normal market.
particularly for Berkeleys Central London schemes.
Sales prices achieved in the year have been This has resulted in customers acquiring properties marginally ahead of the business plan forecasts set as an investment continuing to account for over 50% this time last year with cancellation rates at normal of underlying sales reservations.
This shows that, where customers have Berkeley has always benefited from its diversity of sufficient equity, they are seeing value and product and customer and this year has worked BERKELEY | ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW | MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW | 7 closely with the Homes & Communities Agency to secure a wide mix of affordable homes, including extra care for the elderly.
In addition, demand remains strong for quality income generating assets, such as student accommodation which is a feature of a number of the Groups developments.
In terms of inputs, build costs have also stabilised over the course of the year, having fallen broadly in line with the sales market prior to this.
The main cost pressure continues to come from planning tariffs, be these in the form of S. 106 contributions, affordable homes requirements, building regulations or other requirements.
It is important that these are aligned with the prevailing market environment to ensure Computer generated image of Charles House, that the much needed provision of new homes can Kensington St Edward Homes Planning consent be brought forward.
for the transformation of this former office site into 525 high quality apartments was received during the year ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | BERKELEY
