GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT | 41 Substantial shareholders The Company has been notified of the following interests, pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules amounting to 3% or more of the issued capital of the Company, as at 27 July 2010: Number of ordinary shares held % of issued capital Nature of holding Lloyds Banking Group plc 13,459,888 10.09% Indirect & Direct Blackrock Inc 8,492,199 6.37% Indirect Egerton Capital Ltd 7,972,525 5.98% Direct First Eagle Investment Management, LLC 7,044,245 5.28% Indirect Anthony William Pidgley 6,756,838 5.07% Direct Mirabaud Investment Management Ltd 6,136,874 4.60% Indirect Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 4,809,902 3.61% Direct Net of shares held in treasury.
Donations During the year, donations by the Group for charitable purposes in the United Kingdom amounted to 239,000 2009: 128,000.
The Group made no political contributions 2009: nil during the year.
Employment policy The Groups policy of operating through autonomous subsidiaries has ensured close consultation with employees on matters likely to affect their interests.
The Group is firmly committed to the continuation and strengthening of communication lines with all its employees.
An Equal Opportunities Policy was introduced in 2001 with the aim of ensuring that all employees, potential employees and other individuals receive equal treatment including access to employment, training and opportunity for promotion regardless of their age, colour, ethnic or national origin, marital status, nationality, religion, race, sex or sexuality.
It is the policy of the Group to support the employment of people with disabilities wherever practicable and to ensure, as far as possible, that training, career development and promotion opportunities are available to all employees.
This policy includes employees who become disabled whilst employed by the Group.
Sustainability Each year Berkeley produces a Sustainability Report to provide its stakeholders with a full and transparent account of how its sustainability strategy and policies are put into practice throughout the Group.
This year, in its ninth annual Sustainability Report, Berkeley introduces a new ten year vision for the business that will set the direction for its sustainability strategy up to 2020.
The report is structured around the four key elements of Berkeleys ten year vision: the customer experience, building greener homes, delivering sustainable communities and running a sustainable business.
Under each of these areas is a review of the likely operating environment over the next ten years, a summary of Berkeleys performance during the last year, and a strategy setting out how Berkeley will work towards achieving its vision.
Case studies on specific sustainability issues are integrated throughout the report, and summary performance data is provided against Sustainability Key Performance Indicators to track progress over time.
Once again, Berkeley has applied the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Sustainability Reporting Principles in order to give a balanced and relevant account of its sustainability performance.
For further information, please refer to Berkeleys ninth annual Sustainability Report on its website.
Health and safety The Group considers the effective management of health and safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
Accordingly, the Group Main Board continues to monitor the strategic development and audit the implementation by all divisions of their Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems to ensure that, both at Group and divisional level, they remain compliant with recognised established standards.
We remain committed to enhancing the Groups high standards through continuous improvement.
Our Health & Safety Governance Committee is responsible for setting the strategic objectives of the Group, and the Health & Safety Working Group, comprising divisional executives and managers, is responsible for delivering these objectives and reviewing progress against targets set for our established key performance indicators, reporting this quarterly to the Group Main Board.
For further information, please refer to the Sustainability review on pages 28 to 37.
In our Sustainability Report 2010, we have reported in more detail on progress made and initiatives undertaken since last year.
Essential contracts Berkeley has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
None of the arrangements is individually considered to be essential to the business of Berkeley.
Payment of creditors Each of the Groups operating companies is responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions, including terms of payment, relating to transactions with its suppliers.
This is on an individual contract basis, rather than following a standard code.
It is Group policy to abide by the agreed terms of payment where the supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions of contract.
At 30 April 2010, the Company did not have any trade creditors 2009: nil.
