Case studies Portfolio companies 50 50 AWG Infrastructure Utilities UK www.
com This investment is held by 3i Infrastructure plc.
Nature of business AWG is the parent company of Anglian Water, the fourth largest water supply and waste water company in England and Wales as measured by regulatory capital value.
The majority of the groups revenue is earned through tariffs regulated by Ofwat and linked to RPI.
The group also includes Morrison Facilities Services, a support services business focused on the local authorities and housing sectors, and a small property development business.
3i Infrastructures investment AWG has strong infrastructure characteristics, with a regulated near-monopoly position in its geographical area for the provision of water supply and sewerage treatment, stable and predictable earnings through RPI-linked tariffs and largely predictable operating costs.
Developments since initial investment 3i initially invested in AWG in 2006, taking the company private in partnership with a consortium of international investors.
Approximately half of this initial investment was then transferred to 3i Infrastructure as part of its seed portfolio at IPO.
Since then, 3i has further reduced its direct holding in AWG through a sale to the consortium members, in which 3i Infrastructure plc also participated, increasing its holding in AWG from 9% to 10.3%.
3i holds a small residual holding in AWG of 0.3%.
Current trading AWG continues to perform well operationally.
For the year ending 31 March 2010, EBITDA for the group had increased by 7.1% over the prior year.
The core water business, Anglian Water, was ranked in the top two places in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment for the third year running.
In November 2009, Ofwat published its Final Determination, setting out price limits and capital expenditure allowances for the period from 2010 to 2015.
The outcome of the Final Determination was slightly more favourable than the proposals set out in the Draft Determination, and confirmed the position of Anglian Water as among the most efficient of the water supply and waste water companies.
AWG complies with the Walker Code and its report and accounts are available on www.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 51 51 - 56 Risk Review of risks 52 Risk factors 54 Risk governance framework 56 A description of our risk management framework, key risks and our approach to risk mitigation.
