Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 59 The focus for our CR development this year has been on 3i as an investor.
We have further strengthened our investment process and worked more closely with our portfolio companies to understand in more detail how they manage CR.
Kevin Dunn Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Our approach 3is approach to CR, both as an investor and a company, is commercially driven An active approach to CR means more to 3i than simply retaining our licence to operate or reducing risk We believe that our approach to CR provides genuine competitive advantage and helps maximise long-term returns We also think it is important to review our approach to CR every year and to keep innovating in this important area Our values We believe that the highest standard of integrity is essential in business.
In all our activities, we aim to: be commercial and fair respect the needs of shareholders, investors, our people and the companies in which we invest maintain our integrity and professionalism strive for continual improvement and innovation The following information illustrates our commitment to CR and provides detail on our CR performance.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility 60 60 A new Group-wide CR policy was developed and Corporate responsibility rolled out across our investment business during the year.
The main features of this new policy, to which as an investor all employees have online access, include: 3is approach to CR in its a single, short policy document with a clear overall investment activities must corporate goal, supplemented by a set of broad aspirations and commitments: been seen in the context of a set of new investment procedures for all stages in 3is business model described the investment process fundraising, investment, growth and realisation: on pages 16 to 17.
This approach a series of guidance notes for investment teams, to CR is embedded in our covering key issues and sectors, with links to case investment processes and is an studies, international norms and standards and information about specific emerging markets: and important aspect of how we clear arrangements for policy governance and approach investing.
CR in our investment activity The policy, together with revised procedures, employee training and a new CR web-based portal, was designed During the year, we significantly updated our global to provide 3i employees with a clear framework, as well CR investment policies.
These provide guidance and as the tools to think about and manage issues relating to procedures for our investment teams to help them CR throughout the investment process.
appraise CR issues in the companies in which we invest.
Additionally, we conducted a review of a number of our CR in our portfolio largest portfolio companies to improve our During the year, a project was conducted to assess how understanding of how they manage CR in their 3is portfolio companies are managing the most relevant businesses.
CR issues for their company.
A sample of investments As an investor, we view CR from two perspectives: across a range of sectors, geographies and business lines opportunity and risk.
We believe that an active approach was as part of the initial review.
to CR has the potential to bring a wide variety of The portfolio review was designed to benchmark business benefits to our portfolio companies.
how companies in the portfolio are managing their The most significant CR risks arising from our most relevant CR issues.
The key issues that were investment activity are likely to relate to environmental, benchmarked were environment, climate change, labour ethical, governance and social issues.
Failure to identify issues, human rights, business ethics and corruption, and or manage these risks effectively not only has the finally, transparency.
Each of these issues was assessed potential to undermine the success of our portfolio for materiality and level of engagement and a summary companies, but also might compromise 3is reputation.
analysis prepared for each company.
Identifying and managing these risks is therefore an The benchmarking exercise also considered the strength important part of managing risk for 3i and doing so of the policies and systems that the company had in successfully has the potential to increase the value and place to manage these issues as well as the strength of attractiveness of our portfolio companies to others.
A Group-wide review of our business needs and This project, through engagement with portfolio policies in relation to CR was conducted in 2008. companies and 3i investment executives, has: This review identified the need for further development of our policy and accompanying operational procedures.
increased awareness within 3i and within the This need was driven by several factors, including companies of material CR issues: increased globalisation, 3is own international growth, produced more examples of best CR practice that as well as a recognition that public expectations were can be used by other portfolio companies: and, growing at a time when trust in the financial services sector was coming under greater scrutiny.
highlighted key risks and opportunities to strengthen portfolio companies CR policies and processes.
3i intends to build on the work in this project and broaden and deepen its engagement with portfolio companies on CR issues.
B B Bus us usi i in n fines es ess s s r r re e ev v vie ie iew w w P11-44 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 61 Summary of 3i CR policy Corporate responsibility As a public and international company, 3i is committed as a company to putting its core values into effect by investing responsibly and encouraging responsible business 3i has been a member of the conduct among its portfolio companies.
Our policy and procedures are designed to help employees Dow Jones Sustainability World understand and manage the impact they and Index DJSI since 2002 and our portfolio companies have on society and the environment, including any relevant ethical issues.
the Business in the Community 3i has set itself the overall goal of being a top performer Corporate Responsibility Index in CR in our industry and a positive influence for since 2003.
3i has also been sustainable social and environmental practices across its international investment portfolio.
reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project for the past two years.
Human rights Respect the protection of international human rights and avoid complicity in human rights violations.
In 2009, 3i again participated in the annual Business in 2.
Labour workplace rights the Communitys BitC Corporate Responsibility Index Uphold the right to freedom of association and and were included in BitCs Top 100 Companies that collective bargaining: abolish child labour: eliminate Count.
In particular, the integration of our CR principles forced and compulsory labour: and end employment and management into our investment processes were discrimination.
The environment Take a cautious and responsible approach to the environment: promote compliance with environmental law, improvement in management standards and the sustainable management of natural resources: and As a private equity business with fewer than 500 help combat climate change by supporting the employees world-wide, 3i has a relatively small footprint development of products and services that are on many CR issues.
However, we recognise that our environmentally beneficial.
sustained success and our reputation for being a good corporate citizen means taking our corporate 4.
Avoid corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery, upholding compliance standards and integrity Being focused on the mid market, operating and complying with relevant anti-fraud and moneyinternationally, and as one of the few publicly listed laundering regulations.
private equity firms, 3i is differentiated within our industry and has been actively involved in the evolution We see these aspirations as going beyond good of the CR agenda for many years.
Indeed, 3i was a corporate governance and compliance with local and founder member of Business in the Community over other law.
The policy is not just concerned with doing 25 years ago.
no harm or ethical business practices, but impinges on Throughout our history we have been actively involved issues of wider trust and corporate reputation, which in supporting the development of the industry through are critically important in the new global climate where its formal associations and other activity.
Our current there is greater public mistrust of the financial sector.
Management Committee contains a former chairman of the BVCA, as well as a former chairman of the EVCA.
New procedures have been adopted based on a 3i is compliant with the Walker Guidelines on disclosure simple CR materiality test for all investments, and a for private equity firms and their portfolio companies.
requirement for employees to demonstrate, throughout More detailed information on 3is approach to the life of the investment through to exit, that they transparency can be found in our online Reporting centre.
have taken account of the issues and understand the value, opportunities and risks involved.
By encouraging In this section, we provide commentary and detailed corporate learning and the sharing of good practice, information on the Groups two key non-financial we believe this process will be self-reinforcing.
performance measures our employee engagement and direct environmental impact.
Many other aspects of how we manage our CR, the roles and responsibilities, staff training and diversity, health and safety, procurement etc, are covered in detail in the CR section of www.
com and in the full CR report in our online Reporting centre.
transparency 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010
