Corporate responsibility 62 62 3i global operations Employee engagement Breakdown of emissions by source % Employee survey Premises 49.0 3i regularly surveys its staff to measure employee Business travel 48.3 engagement, to understand how they feel about topical Company owned vehicles 2.6 issues within the Company, as well as to give all staff Other 0.1 the opportunity to provide confidential feedback.
The method of survey alternates each year between a comprehensive telephone survey and a web-based poll.
Core questions are included each time to evaluate how our performance is changing year on year.
Following last years web-based survey, a comprehensive telephone poll survey was conducted Reported emissions for the year to 31 March 2010 this year by Ipsos MORI, which was open to all staff.
were 15% lower than the previous year at 7232 CO2e It was conducted in January and February 2010. t yr.
This decrease is largely explained by our work in The previous comprehensive survey was held in 2008. this area, particularly reducing energy usage and improving our data capture techniques.
The climate The response rate for the 2010 survey was high change impact assessment table outlines this amount with 96% of employees participating in the survey, as a percentage of each emission type.
significantly greater than last years web-based poll in 2009 56%.
3is web-based polls traditionally achieve In the forthcoming year, we will continue to endeavour lower response rates than telephone surveys 2008: to reduce our energy use and have set targets to help us 92%.
The 2010 poll was conducted following a highly achieve this which can be found on 3is CR pages at turbulent time in our markets and for the company, www.
with staff numbers falling from 739 at 31 March 2008 to 488 at 31 March 2010.
Results of the 2010 employee survey The results for this key non-financial performance Measuring employee engagement and giving measure were encouraging in that the overall employee employees an opportunity to give feedback is a key engagement score was stable at 74% 2008: 83% objective for 3i.
Every second year, 3i employees over the previous year.
Advocacy, which has traditionally world-wide take part in a confidential telephone been high at 3i, remained so at 82%, although it was survey conducted by Ipsos MORI.
In the intervening lower than in 2008 90%.
81% of staff taking part said years, as in 2009, staff are given the chance to give that they were proud to work for 3i.
The survey also feedback via an electronic questionnaire as part of highlighted some areas for improvement, including the an internally run process.
communication of strategy and organisational change.
The results of the survey were communicated to staff in Highlights March 2010 and a number of actions have been taken A response rate of 96% as a result.
An employee engagement score of 74% Environment 81% of staff are proud to work for 3i As a financial services business employing less than High employee advocacy, with 82% of those 500 employees world-wide, 3is direct environmental surveyed saying they would speak highly of 3i impact is relatively low.
High commitment to helping 3i achieve Our environmental priorities are carbon emissions and its objectives 94% waste.
In 2007, the Board set an objective to be carbon Areas for improvement neutral by 2010.
To achieve this we have improved the measurement and modelling of our carbon emissions, As with any survey of this nature, there were a reduced the energy intensity of our operations and number of detailed or specific issues relating to invested in carbon offsets.
We have chosen to offset particular parts of the business our emissions by purchasing European Union Emissions Only 57% of employees feel valued and recognised Allowances and retiring them via UK Government for the work that they do assured offsetting.
Qualitative feedback also suggested that there was In 2009 10, we worked with a specialist adviser, the room to improve communication of strategy Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management ECCM, to evaluate our greenhouse gas emissions.
We also refined Action our modelling to include updated UK government CO2 The results were communicated to all staff in March equivalent CO2e emissions factors, most notably the CO2 factor for UK grid electricity generation.
All issues relating to specific parts of the business This information has improved our understanding, have been communicated and are being followed up control and reporting of emissions.
Our increased commitment to communication with staff will address the other areas for improvement 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 63 63-88 Governance Board of Directors and Management Committee 64 Statutory and corporate governance information 66 Directors remuneration report 80 Profiles of our Board and Management Committee, statutory and corporate governance information, together with our Directors remuneration report.
