3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 7 Investment Advisers strategy 3i Infrastructures overall objective is to provide shareholders with a total return of 12% per annum, to be achieved over the long term.
Within this overall objective the Company targets an annual distribution yield of 5% of opening net asset value.
In advising the Company on delivering this overall objective, the Investment Adviser adopts a three-pronged strategy: i clear geographical focus: ii targeted sector approach: and iii diversification along the asset lifecycle.
Clear geographical focus The Investment Adviser has identified Europe, India and North America as the most attractive regions for investment.
UK & Continental Europe India North America Mature assets in the utilities sector Indian government estimates investment Legacy of underinvestment with stable regulatory regimes of $450 billion by 2012 Limited but growing private sector role Variety of opportunities across roads, 3i India Infrastructure Fund focused on four Opportunities to refurbish existing assets rail, sea and air transport sectors: power, roads, ports and airports in transport, utilities and midstream energy Increasing focus on social infrastructure Early-stage greenfield developments Potential to become the worlds due to public sector budget constraints Opportunity for private equity returns largest infrastructure market from infrastructure The factors underpinning the Investment Advisers focus on these three regions include stable legal frameworks providing clarity on asset ownership, favourable competitive environments and strong macroeconomic fundamentals.
The diversification of 3i Infrastructures current portfolio by geography is shown on page 11.
The Company aims to limit emerging markets exposure to no more than 20% of net assets.
This exposure is focused through the Companys commitment to the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
3i Infrastructure plc 8 Annual report and accounts 2010 Investment Advisers review continued Targeted sector approach The Investment Adviser focuses on three main sectors which can deliver suitable returns and that are supported by strong market fundamentals: Social Infrastructure, Utilities and Transport.
Social Infrastructure Utilities Transport Primary and Government Power generation Waste processing Airports Toll roads secondary PFI accommodation Energy Water Ports Rail and bus Public Private Healthcare transmission Communication Ferries Partnerships Education Electricity and networks PPP gas distribution Through this sector focus, 3i Infrastructure aims to build a portfolio of asset-intensive businesses, providing essential services over the long term, often on a regulated basis, or with a significant component of contracted revenues.
While these three sectors have different market dynamics and are subject to varying degrees of market GDP risk, they all share the fundamental characteristics of the infrastructure asset class.
As shown on page 11, 3i Infrastructures current portfolio is already well diversified on a sector basis.
Diversification along the asset lifecycle The Investment Adviser targets investment opportunities throughout the asset lifecycle, to build a portfolio with a balance of yield and capital growth.
Delivering the 12% total return objective over the long term and a 5% annual distribution yield requires investing in a portfolio of assets that generate a robust yield as well as attractive capital growth.
3i Infrastructures current portfolio is invested across a range of asset maturities, from mature, typically high-yielding assets, to early-stage development projects through the exposure to the 3i India Infrastructure Fund, which typically provide a lower yield but higher potential for capital growth.
Early stage construction Operational growth Mature steady state Greenfield projects Buy-and-build portfolios Corporate acquisitions New-build PFI PPP Privatisations Steady state operations Accessing the most attractive deal flow Optimising the financial structure Focus on cash yield and value growth Managing development risk Robust asset management Aligning management with investors interests Capital growth Yield
