3i Infrastructure plc 14 Annual report and accounts 2010 Investment Advisers review continued The discount rates used for valuing the other Discounted cash flow Portfolio valuation assets within the portfolio were not changed, and discount rates with the exception of a slight reduction for methodology Over two thirds of the portfolio was valued Soma held within the 3i India Infrastructure on a DCF basis.
The weighted average Summary of valuation Fund, as a result of progress achieved in the discount rate applied at 31 March 2010 was methodology construction phase of some of the projects 12.5% 31 March 2009: 13.8%, deriving Investment valuations are calculated at the in its portfolio.
from a range of 8.2% an operational PFI half year and at the financial year end by the asset to 18.0% an asset in the 3i India Investment Adviser and then reviewed and Other unquoted valuations Infrastructure Fund.
Chart 5 shows the approved by the Board.
Investments are The Companys investment in the 3i India movement in the weighted average discount reported at the Directors estimate of fair Infrastructure Fund was valued as the rate applied to the portfolio in each sixvalue at the reporting date.
The valuation Companys share of net assets held by month period since inception.
principles used are based on International the Fund.
Of the underlying investments Private Equity and Venture Capital IPEV of the Fund, Adani Power is valued on a The discount rate applied to each investment valuation guidelines, generally using a mark-to-market basis using closing bid prices is reviewed at each valuation date.
The rate discounted cash flow DCF methodology, and the other two on a DCF basis, with the selected reflects the risk inherent in the which the Board considers to be the most exception of Soma, part of which is valued business, taking into account movements appropriate valuation methodology for using comparable earnings multiples derived in risk-free rates of return in the relevant unquoted infrastructure equity investments.
country and in relevant risk premia.
Where the DCF methodology is used, the Junior debt portfolio The reduction in the discount rate compared resulting valuation is sense-checked against The Companys investment in the junior debt to March 2009 was attributable principally to a valuation derived from other valuation portfolio was valued using bid prices at 31 the change in valuation methodology used benchmarks relevant to the particular March 2010 provided by third-party brokers.
for Adani Power held within the 3i India investment, including for example: Infrastructure Fund, which, having achieved earnings multiples a successful IPO in August, is now valued on a recent transactions mark-to-market basis.
Adani was previously quoted market comparables valued on a DCF basis, using a discount rate regulated asset base multiples towards the top end of the range.
The other main contributing factors to the change are the acquisition of Elgin, which is valued using a discount rate towards the bottom of the indicated range, and the provision taken against the valuation of T2C, which had been valued using a discount rate above the weighted average.
