3i Infrastructure plc 32 Annual report and accounts 2010 Returns and Risk continued One subsidiary of the Company, 3i Primary Basis of preparation Review report Infrastructure 2005-06 LP, which holds the Throughout the Investment Advisers review, Review report to the shareholders investment in Alpha Schools, has investing the Review of investments and Returns of 3i Infrastructure plc.
partners which are entitled to 3.75% of share sections, the Investment Adviser has of profits, once certain cash hurdle criteria Introduction presented the Companys net asset value and are met.
Amounts due to this limited We have reviewed the accompanying financial results to show the return on a pro partnership are treated as a minority interest Summary of total return on an investment forma investment basis.
This information is on a consolidated basis but are accrued as basis see Table 4 for the year ended in addition to the consolidated financial an expense in the investment basis.
31 March 2010 and the Summary balance statements as shown on pages 47 to 69, 3i Infrastructure holds two wholly-owned sheet on an investment basis see Table 5 as required under International Financial subsidiaries, Oystercatcher Luxco 1 S. r. l. as at 31 March 2010 of 3i Infrastructure plc, Reporting Standards IFRS.
The pro forma and Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. which are prepared in accordance with the investment basis presentation provides an Oystercatcher Luxco 1 and Oystercatcher accounting treatment detailed in the Basis alternative representation of the Companys to fund the minority investment into three of preparation section of the Returns and net asset value, shows the Companys cash subsidiaries of Oiltanking GmbH.
External Risk section of the Annual report.
These utilisation for investment and differentiates borrowings were made by Oystercatcher to statements are the responsibility of the between non-recourse borrowings held Directors of the Company.
Our responsibility partly fund the investments.
These borrowings within asset specific acquisition companies is to express a conclusion on these are non-recourse to 3i Infrastructure.
Under and borrowings which may be made at the statements based on our review.
IFRS, the results and balance sheet of Company level.
The investment basis Oystercatcher Luxco 1 and Oystercatcher accounts for majority investments and This report is made solely to the shareholders subsidiaries are required to be consolidated subsidiaries formed specifically for investment of 3i Infrastructure plc.
Our review work has into 3i Infrastructures financial statements on purposes in the same way as minority been undertaken so that we might state to a line-by-line basis.
In the investment basis investments, by determining a fair value the shareholders those matters we are presentation Oystercatcher is not consolidated for the investment, and therefore does not required to state to them in a review report but is accounted for as a portfolio asset held consolidate these entities line-by-line as and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent for investment purposes and is fair valued is required under IFRS.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume accordingly.
responsibility to anyone other than the Company, Several adjustments were made in order to for our review work or for this report.
The Company invests in 3i India Infrastructure show returns on an investment basis, the Holdings Limited through 3i India Infrastructure main adjustments being: Scope of review Fund A LP, a limited partnership in which the We conducted our review in accordance 3i Infrastructure holds 68.5% of 3i Osprey LP, Company is the sole investor.
This limited with the International Standard on Review the vehicle through which it holds its partnership has not been consolidated under Engagements 2410.
A review consists of investment in AWG.
3i Infrastructure is the investment basis and is treated as an making enquiries, primarily of persons required under IFRS to consolidate the results investment, and is fair valued accordingly.
responsible for financial and accounting and balance sheet of this limited partnership matters, and applying analytical and other into its financial statements on a line-by-line review procedures.
The remaining 31.5% of this entity less in scope than an audit conducted in is held by 3i Group and other third parties.
accordance with International Standards on In the investment basis presentation, Auditing and consequently does not enable 3i Infrastructure has recognised only its us to obtain assurance that we would share of the income and balance sheet of 3i become aware of all significant matters that Osprey LP.
This adjustment has the effect of might be identified in an audit.
Accordingly, eliminating the minority interest entitlement we do not express an audit opinion.
shown on the statement of comprehensive income and the balance sheet on an IFRS basis.
Conclusion Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Summary of total return and the Summary balance sheet set out above are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Basis of preparation set out in the Returns and Risk section on page 32 of the Annual report.
Ernst & Young LLP Jersey 5 May 2010 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 33 Governance
