3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 19 Description below par, delivering attractive equity-like Junior debt 3i Infrastructure invested in a portfolio of returns to maturity and strong levels of junior debt positions in core infrastructure cash yield.
portfolio businesses, with leading positions in the Developments in the year markets in which they operate.
Market prices were stable during the first Viridian operates both regulated and part of the year but then rose steadily up to unregulated businesses within the Irish the year end.
Income from the portfolio was energy market, managing power transmission, reduced compared to the previous financial distribution and supply infrastructure, as well year due to falls in LIBOR, but the unrealised as a power generation business and a business value movement for the year has been offering power-related services to the relatively strong.
Based on the valuation at power industry.
31 March 2010, the annualised yield on the portfolio averaged 5.8%, while the expected NGW Arqiva is the leading owner and operator yield to maturity was 13.9% on valuation.
of national broadcast infrastructure supporting The average remaining maturity of the television, radio and wireless communication portfolio at 31 March 2010 was 4.5 years.
Investment analysis in the UK.
The Company took the opportunity in TDF is the leading provider of broadcast December 2009 to realise its small holding 117.5m transmission infrastructure and services and Cost in one facility in ABP, at an attractive uplift telecommunications infrastructure in France, to both cost and carrying value.
The reported financial performance of each 123.7m Thames Water is the UKs largest water and Current value of the investments within the debt portfolio wastewater services company, operating is monitored by the Investment Adviser across London and the Thames Valley.
and has been in line with expectations, Investment rationale with all the underlying companies performing Further investment in the year 5.2m 3i Infrastructures strategy has been to satisfactorily.
Divestment in the year 2.2m acquire a portfolio of junior debt investments 1 For further details on the valuation Income in the year 7.7m in core infrastructure businesses at prices 2 movements within the Junior debt Asset total return in the year 36.5m portfolio, please see Table 2 on page 13.
Valuation basis Quoted debt 1 Includes a 0.5 million realised gain.
