3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 37 Board of Directors Peter Sedgwick Philip Austin Non-executive Director, Non-executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Between 2000 and 2006, member of the Spent most of his career in banking with management committee and a Vice President HSBC in the UK and Jersey and from 1997 of the European Investment Bank EIB, to 2001, was Deputy Chief Executive of one of the largest multinational lending the banks business in the Offshore Islands.
He was also a In 2001, he became the founding CEO of director of the European Investment Fund Jersey Finance Ltd, the body set up as a joint from 2002 to 2006.
Before the EIB, he venture between the Government of Jersey was a career HM Treasury civil servant in and its Finance Industry, to represent and the UK.
Also sits on the boards of two of 3i promote the Industry at home and abroad.
Infrastructure plcs Luxembourg subsidiaries, In 2006, he joined Equity Trust where he had 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings S. r. l. direct responsibility for Jersey, Guernsey and and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. He Switzerland as well as being a Member of the became a trustee and director of Dyslexia Group Executive Committee.
He retired from Institute Limited trading as Dyslexia Action Equity Trust at the end of 2009.
Aged 66. the Chartered Institute of Bankers and Fellow of the Institute of Management.
Sir John Collins Paul Waller Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Sir John Collins was previously Chairman of Managing Partner, Funds, at 3i Group, with DSG International plc, National Power Limited, specific responsibility for fundraising and and Shell UK plc.
He was a non executive managing 3i Groups global relationships with director of Rothschild Continuation Holdings the fund investor community.
Member of AG, and The Peninsular and Oriental Navigation the 3i Group management committee, Company plc.
He has also served as Chairman director of 3i Investments and chair of the of the Advisory Committee on Business and 3i Group investment committee.
Previously the Environment, Chairman of the DTIs a director and chairman of the European Energy Advisory Panel, Chairman of the DTI Private Equity & Venture Capital Association DEFRAs Sustainable Energy Policy Advisory and chairman of the Investor Relations Board, President of the Energy Institute and Committee.
Paul Waller is a 3i Group as a Governor of Wellington College.
Steven Wilderspin Non-executive Charlotte Valeur Director, Chairman of Audit Committee Non-executive Director Principal of Wilderspin Independent Governance, Founded Brook Street Partners in 2003, a which provides independent directorship consultancy advising investment management services, since April 2007.
He was previously companies on marketing and capital raising, a director of fund administrator Maples Finance investor positioning and product development.
He has served on a number Through Global Governance Group, founded of private equity, property and hedge fund in 2009, Brook Street Partners also advises boards as well as the boards of special purpose investment management companies and companies engaged in structured finance institutional investors on governance best transactions.
Before that, from 1997, he practice and conducts board evaluations for acted as Head of Accounting at Perpetual the boards of investment funds.
Previously Fund Management Jersey Limited.
Qualified headed up institutional fixed income sales Chartered Accountant.
desks at SG Warburg, BNP Paribas, Socit Aged 41.
Danish national, resident in Jersey.
