3i Infrastructure plc 22 Annual report and accounts 2010 Description The Elgin portfolio is largely operational, Elgin Elgin Infrastructure Limited Elgin holds delivering immediate yield.
In Robertson, a portfolio of PFI project investments, in the Company is partnering with a wellwhich Robertson Group Limited Robertson established player in the PFI market, with retains a 50.1% holding.
Robertson is a a good reputation for delivery, and whose private company with activities covering development activities may bring future construction, timber products, PFI projects investment opportunities for the Company.
Developments in the year The Elgin portfolio comprises five schools 3i Infrastructure purchased a 49.9% holding projects and 11 community healthcare schemes, in Elgin in January 2010.
The asset is performing all but one of which are fully operational.
in line with the investment case.
Investment rationale The investment in Elgin delivers on the Companys expressed intention of increasing its investment in social infrastructure assets Investment analysis 2 following the sale of I.
Exposure to social infrastructure is helpful 38.5m in providing the Companys portfolio with Cost lower risk, index-linked cash flows, which are counterweights to some of 3i Infrastructures higher risk investments, for example those 38.7m Current value in the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
Equity interest 49.9% 1 Capital return in the year 0.6m Income in the year 2.0m Asset total return in the year 2.2m Valuation basis DCF 1 The original investment was 39.1 million.
Capital of 0.6 million was returned in the year.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 23 Description Developments in the year Octagon Octagon is a concession company under a Octagon continues to perform well financially 35-year PFI contract to build, operate and and operationally.
There have been no maintain the Norfolk and Norwich University performance deductions by the NHS Trust Hospital.
Construction of the hospital was in the year.
Octagon receives The National Patient Safety Agencys Patient RPI-linked payments from the NHS Trust to Environment Action Team awarded the cover services and buildings maintenance, hospital the top excellent rating in all three which are subject to performance deductions categories of assessment: catering, cleanliness, for service failures and unavailability.
Octagon and privacy and dignity.
Octagons subcontractors subcontracts the provision of facilities have worked with the NHS Trust to reduce services to Serco.
the incidence of MRSA and C difficile and the Investment rationale hospital now has one of the lowest infection Octagon is a social infrastructure investment rates in the country.
In March 2010, the Care in a mature asset providing the Company Quality Commission announced that the Trust with a stable, long-term income stream would be awarded an unconditional licence with RPI linkage.
under the Health and Social Care Act 2008, Investment analysis which introduced a new, tougher system of regulation of standards in the NHS.
20.2m Cost 28.8m Current value Equity interest 36.8% Income in the year 2.1m Asset total return in the year 4.9m Valuation basis DCF 3i Infrastructure plc 24 Annual report and accounts 2010 2 l 2 2 Infrastructure Investors LP I owned a company through which BIIF LP owns I.
Investment analysis portfolio of equity and subordinated debt The loan notes are serviced by cash flows 2 investments in over 80 PFI projects.
In upstreamed from I post senior debt service.
28.2m January 2009 3i Infrastructure sold its stake Cost Under the terms of the loan notes, no equity 2 in I to Barclays Integrated Infrastructure dividends can be paid by BIIF IssuerCo Limited Fund LP BIIF LP, receiving part of the whilst payments of interest or principal consideration in the form of loan notes with 30.4m are due and outstanding on the loan notes.
Current value 3i Infrastructure is accorded information The loan notes are unsecured, bear a fixed rights similar to those of a senior lender, 8% annual interest rate part cash pay and which allows the Company to monitor are redeemable over the period to 2018.
2 Equity interest N A the performance of I and the ongoing 2 1 Further investment in the year 2.2m During the year, the Company accrued recoverability of the loan notes.
I continues Income in the year 2.2m interest of 2.2 million from this investment, to perform broadly in line with projections Asset total return in the year 2.2m which was capitalised.
The issuer of the loan at the time of the sale in January 2009.
Valuation basis Cost notes is BIIF IssuerCo Limited, a holding 1 Relates to capitalised interest.
Alpha Schools Description Investment rationale Investment analysis Alpha Schools is a concession company under Alpha Schools is a social infrastructure a 30-year PFI contract to build, operate and investment in a portfolio of operational 9.1m maintain 11 new schools on 10 sites in the assets providing the Company with a stable, Cost Highland region of Scotland.
Construction is long-term revenue stream with RPIX linkage.
substantially complete and all schools are Developments in the year operational.
All schools are operating successfully and 16.2m Current value operational performance has been good throughout the year.
The remaining external works are nearing completion as planned.
3i Infrastructure holds its investment in Alpha Equity interest 50.0% Further investment in the year 1.5m Schools through Northern Infrastructure Income in the year 1.6m Investments LLP.
In July 2009, 3i Infrastructure Asset total return in the year 4.3m paid a third party 1.5 million to acquire its Valuation basis DCF indirect financial interest in Alpha and to buy it out of its services contract.
T2C Description Developments in the year Investment analysis Thermal Conversion Compound T2C is a A provision was taken against the value of special purpose company established to build, T2C, which was valued at nil at 31 March 6.5m operate and maintain a waste-to-energy 2010, due principally to further delays in the Cost plant on an industrial park near Frankfurt, completion of construction.
The plant will generate steam and significant progress was made both in power from refuse-derived fuels RDF.
construction and cold commissioning of the nil Construction is subcontracted to Ebara, plant, but first fire is now not expected until Current value a Japanese environmental technology the second quarter of 2010 and the plant is [0] developer and provider, using proven expected to be fully operational in the third technology.
Also, the economic downturn has management, operation and maintenance led to a significant reduction in the available Equity interest 16.7% services to Infraserv GmbH & Co. Hchst KG volume and market price of RDF in Germany.
1 Asset total return in the year 7.3 m ISH, which manages the industrial park T2C management is working closely with Valuation basis DCF where T2C is located.
T2C has contracted RDF suppliers to secure the RDF necessary 1 Includes a 0.2 million exchange loss.
long-term revenues under a 15-year to test and operate the plant in 2010 at fixed-price take-or-pay contract with ISH, acceptable prices.
These issues mean that a with an upwards only price review after restructuring of T2Cs financing arrangements 10 years.
will be necessary, and discussions are ongoing.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 25 Returns and Risk
