3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 9 Investment Advisers approach The Investment Adviser provides the Company with a premium origination network, a rigorous investment process and market-leading portfolio management.
Premium market access and origination The Investment Adviser offers premium market access to the Company and its investors, leveraging the resource of its three main infrastructure hubs of London, Mumbai and New York, as well as the wider resources of 3i Group.
The Investment Adviser focuses on building proprietary knowledge and networks in target sectors and geographies, which helps efficient investment selection.
Comprehensive market access generates a pipeline of investment opportunities, representing a high proportion of the deal opportunities in the market.
Rigorous investment approach The Investment Adviser has a rigorous approach to the assessment of investment opportunities, ensuring that only the most attractive investments are taken through initial screening.
The Investment Adviser undertakes rigorous due diligence on each opportunity before it is submitted to the Board for approval.
Consideration of corporate responsibility issues is embedded as a mandatory part of the investment process.
Best-in-class portfolio management Portfolio management is a key priority for the Investment Adviser, as it believes this is a core area for adding value.
A dedicated portfolio management team works with the boards and management teams of portfolio companies to deliver improvements in operational performance, and it monitors performance to ensure that any issues are identified and acted upon in a timely fashion.
The Companys policy is to obtain board representation where equity stakes are held.
At least one member of the investment advisory team usually attends Board meetings of equity investments held by the Company.
For more information Profile of senior members of the k investment advisory team: Page 16 3i Infrastructure plc 10 Annual report and accounts 2010 Investment Advisers review continued Secondly, the macroeconomic backdrop is Opportunities from the private sector Market and increasingly positive.
There are signs that the are also improving.
With asset valuations recovery is gaining momentum, sustained by stabilising and the decline in GDP largely opportunities continued monetary and fiscal stimulus in many priced in, we are seeing that corporates are Conditions for investment countries, which is now starting to feed through now more willing to transact.
Large Despite some evidence of economic recovery, to a pick-up in demand and consumption.
corporations or banks are seeking to divest conditions for investing in many asset classes, non-core assets as they restructure their including infrastructure, were difficult over Opportunities balance sheets and policy drivers continue to the past year.
Significant market volatility While infrastructure assets have been more underpin activity in the renewables and social resulted in a disconnect between public resilient in the downturn, macroeconomic infrastructure space.
Larger deals are viable market valuations and private market price growth will have a positive impact across given improvements in the debt markets.
expectations, which in turn resulted in higher the asset class, and in particular on more completion risk and depressed transaction pro-cyclical sectors such as transportation, Competitive environment volumes in the infrastructure market.
where we are likely to see more opportunities.
The competitive environment remains A gradual increase in inflation will also have a relatively benign after the market shake-up In line with most other investors, we adopted positive impact on some infrastructure assets.
of 2008 09, when many established a cautious approach to investment during the and emerging competitors exited the year.
The only new investment completed Public sector budgetary constraints should infrastructure investment market.
There are during the year an investment in Elgin, a result in governments focusing increasingly still significant undrawn funds in the market, portfolio of UK PFI assets was negotiated on attracting more private capital into raised mostly in 2007 08, available for bilaterally.
Here the counterparty was well infrastructure investment.
However, there remain high known to the Investment Adviser and the have pressing needs to invest in new barriers to entry posed by the increasing Company through a previous investment.
infrastructure, or to upgrade existing importance of experienced investors and infrastructure to support the recovery and We believe that the market environment for operational understanding.
longer-term economic growth, as well as to infrastructure investment is improving in 2010 fulfil essential social needs.
We also expect The pipeline of investments is stronger than and should lead to an increase in overall that many governments, as is well publicised last year, and with valuations stabilising, transaction volumes.
already in some cases, will be forced to completion risk is subsiding.
We will maintain Firstly, we believe asset prices are stabilising, privatise some infrastructure assets.
our rigorous investment approach, focusing both in the private and the quoted market, only on opportunities that contribute to the where market volatility has subsided delivery of the Companys objectives in the considerably relative to the first three long term.
