3i Infrastructure plc 38 Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance continued Advisory arrangements Other significant service Directors report 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, arrangements This section of the Directors report contains a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group plc In addition to the arrangements described statutory and corporate governance 3i Group acts as Investment Adviser to above, 3i plc and 3i Investments, in relation information for the year to 31 March 2010 3i Infrastructure through its infrastructure to certain regulatory services, have been the year.
The investment advisory appointed by the Company to provide team provides advice to the Company on Principal activity support services to the Group, including the origination and completion of new 3i Infrastructure is a closed-ended investment treasury and accounting services, investor investments, on the realisation of investments, company that invests in infrastructure relations and other back office support services.
on funding requirements, as well as on the businesses and assets.
The Directors do not Mourant & Co.
Secretaries Limited have management of the investment portfolio.
anticipate any change in the principal activity been appointed as the Administrator and The Company has an exclusivity arrangement of the Company in the foreseeable future.
Company Secretary to the Company.
with the Investment Adviser that originally The Companys investment policy is set out lasted for an initial period ending on the earlier on page 70. Business review of March 2012 or the full investment of the Observing the FSAs Disclosure and Regulation IPO proceeds.
As part of the Placing and Transparency Rules require the Company 3i Infrastructure is incorporated in Jersey Open Offer in July 2008, the terms of the to set out in this report a fair review of the and is regulated as a collective investment agreement were amended so that the business of the Company during the financial fund under the Collective Investment Funds second part covers the full investment of the year ended 31 March 2010, including a Jersey Law 1988.
IPO proceeds and the equity proceeds raised description of the principal risks and through the Placing and Open Offer and also uncertainties facing the Company and an Results and dividends include the original cost of any disposal analysis of the position of the Companys The financial statements of the Company proceeds from the investment portfolio business at the end of the financial year, and its subsidiaries together referred to realised up to 12 months from the admission known as a Business review.
as the Group for the year appear on of new shares issued pursuant to the Placing pages 47 to 69.
The information that fulfils the current and Open Offer.
Business review requirements can be found Total comprehensive income for the year Under the agreement with the Investment on the following pages of this document attributable to equity holders of the parent Adviser, the appointment of the Investment which are incorporated into this report was 81.2 million 2009: 79.1 million.
Adviser may, inter alia, be terminated by by reference: An interim dividend of 2.2p 2009: 2.1p per either the Company or the Investment share in respect of the year to 31 March 2010 a fair review of the Companys business, Adviser giving the other not less than 12 was paid on 11 December 2009. see page 2: months notice in writing provided however The Directors recommend a final dividend that neither party may give such notice a description of the principal risks facing of 3.3p 2009: 3.2p per share be paid during the first four years of the Investment the Company, see page 30: in respect of the year to 31 March 2010 Advisers appointment, save that such 12 to shareholders on the register at the close the development and performance of months notice may be given at any time if of business on 28 May 2010. the Companys business during the year, the Investment Adviser has ceased to be a see page 27: Operations member of 3i Group, or with immediate The Company has a non-executive Board of effect by either party giving the other the position of the Companys business Directors and no employees.
The Board acts written notice in the event of the insolvency at the end of the year, see page 28: as the Companys investment committee or material or persistent breach of the financial key performance indicators, and is responsible for the determination and agreements terms by the other party.
The see page 26: supervision of the investment policy of the Investment Adviser may also terminate the Company and for the approval of investment other key indicators, see page 2: agreement on two months notice given opportunities sourced by the Investment within two months of a change of control main trends and factors likely to affect Adviser.
The Board also supervises the of the Company.
the future development, performance and monitoring of existing investments and position of the Company, see page 10: 3i Group was among the subscribers to approve divestments and further financing 3i Infrastructures IPO and to the subsequent of portfolio assets.
environmental matters and policy, including Placing and Open Offer and currently owns the impact of the Companys business on 33.2% of the equity in the Company.
the environment, see page 34: Fee arrangements and the amount payable references to, and additional explanations to 3i plc a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group of, amounts included in the Companys for the year are set out in Note 20 Related annual accounts, see page 26. parties on page 67.
The Directors believe that the continued appointment of the Investment Adviser on the terms set out on page 68 is in the interest of shareholders, based on the performance of the Investment Adviser in the past year.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 39 Directors interests In accordance with the Articles of Association, Risk management objectives Directors interests in the shares of the at the AGM to be held on 6 July 2010: A description of the risk management Company as at 31 March 2010 are objectives and policies is included in Note 11 i Charlotte Valeur, having been appointed shown below: to the financial statements and in the Risk as a Director since the AGM in 2009, will section on pages 30 to 31.
Directors interests retire and, being eligible, will offer herself for election: Share capital Ordinary shares Warrants Ordinary shares ii Paul Waller, as a non-independent The issued share capital of the Company as at Peter Sedgwick 49,653 Director nominated by 3i Group, will retire 30 April 2010 was 811,082,581 ordinary and, being eligible, will offer himself Philip Austin 10,000 shares 2009: 811,082,081.
Sir John Collins 19,215 in the number of ordinary shares outstanding 1 iii Steven Wilderspin will retire by rotation, Charlotte Valeur is attributable to the exercise of 500 warrants and, being eligible, will offer himself for Paul Waller 231,424 in March 2010. re-election.
Steven Wilderspin 10,000 Warrants The Boards recommendation for the election 1 Appointed as Director on 29 September 2009.
Under the IPO, for every 10 shares purchased, or re-election of Directors is set out in the one warrant was issued.
Each warrant entitles Notice of AGM.
In the period from 1 April 2010 to 30 April the holder to subscribe for one ordinary share 2010, there were no changes in the interests at 1.00 at any time from 13 September Directors indemnities of each Director.
During the year, The Companys Articles of Association 500 warrants were converted into shares.
Directors authority to buy-back shares provide that, subject to the provisions of the The Company did not purchase any shares Statutes, every Director of the Company shall At 31 March 2010 there were 70,550,480 for cancellation during the year.
The current be indemnified out of the assets of the warrants remaining in issue.
No additional authority of the Company to make market Company against all liabilities and expenses warrants were issued during the year.
purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued incurred by him in the actual or purported Major interests in ordinary shares ordinary share capital expires on 6 July 2010. execution or discharge of his duties.
Notifications of the following voting The Company will seek to renew such Statutes here refers to the Companies interests in the Companys ordinary share authority until the end of the Annual General Jersey Law 1991 and every other statute, capital had been received by the Company Meeting AGM in 2011.
Any buy-back of regulation or order for the time being in force as at 30 April 2010. ordinary shares will be made subject to Jersey concerning companies registered under the law and the making and timing of any Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The Company Interests in ordinary shares buybacks will be at the absolute discretion of has entered into indemnity agreements for the the Directors.
Such purchases will also only be benefit of its Directors and these remain in 1 Number of 1 made in accordance with the Listing Rules force at the date of this report.
ordinary shares 1 as at 30 April of the FSA which provide that the price 1 % 2010 paid must not be more than 5% above the 2 3i Group plc 33.33 270,309,907 average middle market quotations for the ordinary shares for the five business days BT Pension before the shares are purchased.
Scheme Trustees Directors re-election Limited 12.33 100,000,000 The Companys Articles of Association Norges Bank 4.94 40,088,768 provide for: Newton a Directors to retire at the first AGM after Investment their appointment by the Board and Management for the number nearest to, but not Limited 3.53 28,668,518 exceeding, one-third of the remaining 1 Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote.
Directors to retire by rotation at each 2 3i Group plc held 33.3% of the issued share capital AGM: and of 3i Infrastructure as per the last official notification.
Since then, the percentage of the issued share capital b all Directors to retire at least every held by 3i Group has declined to 33.2%.
Paul Waller, as a non-independent Director, is required to retire each year.
Subject to the Articles of Association, retiring Directors are eligible for reappointment.
3i Infrastructure plc 40 Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance continued In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and The Company has considerable liquid financial Statement of Directors Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm resources and a strong investment portfolio.
responsibilities to the best of their knowledge that: As a consequence, the Directors believe The Directors are responsible for preparing that the Group is well placed to manage its the Annual Report and the financial statements a the financial statements, prepared in business risks successfully despite the current in accordance with applicable law and accordance with applicable accounting uncertain economic outlook.
standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position After making enquiries, the Directors have Jersey Company law requires the Directors to and profit or loss of the Company and of a reasonable expectation that the Company prepare financial statements for each financial the Group taken as a whole: and has adequate resources to continue in period in accordance with any generally operational existence for the foreseeable accepted accounting principles.
The financial b the Directors report includes a fair review future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt statements of the Company are required by of the development and performance the going concern basis in preparing the law to give a true and fair view of the state of of the business and the position of the annual report and accounts.
affairs of the Company at the period end and Company and of the Group taken as a of the profit or loss of the Company for the whole, together with a description of By order of the Board period then ended.
In preparing these the principal risks and uncertainties faced Authorised signatory financial statements, the Directors should: by the Company.
Secretaries Limited select suitable accounting policies and then The Directors of the Company and their Company Secretary apply them consistently: functions are listed on page 37.
5 May 2010 Registered Office: make judgments and estimates that are Going concern 22 Grenville Street reasonable and prudent: The Companys business activities, together St Helier, Jersey with the factors likely to affect its future specify which generally accepted Channel Islands JE4 8PX development, performance and position are accounting principles have been adopted set out in the Investment Advisers review in their preparation: and on pages 5 to 16 and in the financial prepare the financial statements on the statements and related notes on pages going concern basis unless it is 47 to 69.
The financial position of the inappropriate to presume that the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position Company will continue in business.
and borrowing facilities are described in the financial statements and related notes The Directors are responsible for keeping on pages 47 to 69.
In addition, Note 11 accounting records which are sufficient to to the financial statements includes the show and explain its transactions and are Companys objectives, policies and processes such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy for managing its capital, its financial risk at any time the financial position of the management objectives, details of its financial Company and enable them to ensure that instruments and hedging activities, and its the financial statements prepared by the exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Company comply with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In addition, these financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards and reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been used in their preparation.
