3i Infrastructure plc 6 Annual report and accounts 2010 The infrastructure asset class Investing in risk return spectrum infrastructure The infrastructure asset class offers the possibility of diversifying investments across The infrastructure asset class the risk return spectrum.
As shown in the key characteristics diagram below, returns typically range Infrastructure assets generally have a strong between 8% and 15% or greater, depending market position, often operating within on the risks associated with the investment.
regulated markets, or with revenues underpinned by strong, long-term contracts.
Infrastructure assets can be described as About the Investment essential, either because they support Adviser economic activity and economic growth, 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, such as utilities or transport infrastructure, a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group plc or because they support important social 3i Group, acts as investment adviser functions, such as education or healthcare the Investment Adviser to the Company facilities.
Infrastructure assets are typically through its infrastructure investment characterised by the following features: team the investment advisory team.
The pipeline of investment Strong market positions The investment advisory team provides opportunities is stronger advice to the Company on the origination Capital-intensive businesses than last year.
With substantial and completion of new investments, on the Some degree of inflation linkage liquidity to invest and premium realisation of investments and on funding market access through the Low cyclical volatility requirements, as well as on the management Investment Adviser, the of the investment portfolio.
Predictable, income-oriented returns Company is optimally when operational The investment advisory team is managed positioned to capitalise on as a separate business line within 3i Group Potential for capital growth and operates from hubs in London, Mumbai improved market conditions.
Infrastructure assets typically have only a low and New York.
All investment professionals Cressida Hogg correlation with other asset classes, including have significant experience in investing in, or Managing Partner, equities and fixed income.
The quality and advising on, infrastructure or private equity Infrastructure, 3i Investments predictability of cash flows tends to result assets.
The investment advisory team can also in attractive distributions to shareholders.
draw on 3i Groups network of investment professionals, based in 13 countries, to originate infrastructure investments.
3i Group was among the subscribers to 3i Infrastructures Initial Public Offering and subsequent Placing and Open Offer and currently owns 33.2% of the equity in the Company.
Risk return spectrum Social infrastructure Core infrastructure Hybrid infrastructure Returns 8-12% 10-16% 15% 10-15% Characteristics High inflation correlation Low volume market GDP risk Private equity risk characteristics i. e. higher market volume risk and Mainly government-backed Quasi monopolies, concessions with higher GDP correlation revenue streams regulatory protection or long-term contracts Operational expertise in managing Lower risk return profile with strong the assets more important yield when fully operational Asset backed, with low volatility across economic cycles Examples Operational PFI PPP projects Transport assets, such as motorway Investments with higher market concessions, ports and airports operational risk Hospitals Regulated utility companies, including Infrastructure businesses in Schools water, electricity and gas networks developing countries Government accommodation Renewable energy projects with contracted revenue streams
