3i Infrastructure plc 16 Annual report and accounts 2010 Profile of senior members of the investment advisory team Cressida Hogg Neil King Managing Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Cressida co-founded 3i Groups Infrastructure Neil has responsibility for the investment advisory business with Michael Queen in 2005.
She took teams investment origination and appraisal over the role of Managing Partner from Michael in activities in Europe and North America.
He has January 2009 following his appointment as CEO worked on most of the current investments and of 3i Group.
Cressida is responsible for managing has had a leading role in ensuring a consistent the investment advisory team and leads the approach to infrastructure investment across all advisory relationship with the independent Board offices.
Neil joined 3i Group in 2005, bringing with of 3i Infrastructure.
Cressida oversees all aspects him more than 15 years of experience in the of 3i Groups infrastructure investment business, infrastructure market, including from roles at including investment appraisal, portfolio management Innisfree, WestLB and Barclays Capital.
She also represents the Companys interests by sitting on the board of AWG.
Cressida has 16 years investment experience with 3i Group, having previously worked in the UK growth and buyout businesses.
Phil White Girish Baliga Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Phil has overall responsibility for the management Girish jointly leads 3i Groups infrastructure of 3i Infrastructures investment portfolio.
In this investment business in India with Samir Palod.
role he works closely with the management teams He is responsible for making and managing of the businesses in which 3i Infrastructure invests.
investments on behalf of the 3i India Infrastructure He sits on the boards of several portfolio companies Fund, in which 3i Infrastructure has a strategic including AWG and Oiltanking.
Girish joined 3i Group in 2005, and brought of investment, advisory and financing experience with him extensive investment experience from to this role, including from roles at Macquarie, previous roles at Chryscapital and JPMorgan WestLB and Barclays.
Phil is a member of Partners.
Girish serves on the board of several 3i Groups Corporate Responsibility Committee.
companies held within the 3i India Infrastructure Fund, including Soma Enterprise Limited and Krishnapatnam Port Company Limited.
Samir Palod Stephen Halliwell Partner, Infrastructure CFO, Infrastructure Samir jointly leads 3i Groups investment business Stephen is CFO for 3i Groups infrastructure in India with Girish Baliga.
He joined 3i Groups investment business.
He manages the operational, Growth Capital business in Mumbai in 2005, financial and reporting requirements for the before transferring to the infrastructure advisory infrastructure business within 3i Group.
He has worked on infrastructure was previously Head of Financial Planning and investments for 3i Group such as Mundra Port.
Analysis in 3i Groups Finance Team.
During the Prior to joining 3i Group, Samir worked for 10 years financial year, Stephen has been managing certain with Citigroups banking and investment banking responsibilities of the 3i Group Finance Director, arms in India and also has experience from roles who has been on maternity leave.
at Asian Capital Partners and Arthur Andersen.
Stuart Howard Anil Ahuja Interim CFO, Infrastructure Managing Partner, Asia Stuart joined 3i Group in 2001 and held Anil focuses on 3i Groups businesses in Asia, positions within the audit, risk, operations and including the development of 3i Groups Indian finance functions before taking on the role of business.
As such he works closely with Cressida, Operations Director for the Quoted Private Girish and Samir, and is involved in all investments Equity business line, which he held until March made by the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
He is currently acting as interim CFO for joining 3i Group in 2005, Anil worked at JPMorgan the infrastructure business line, as temporary Partners Asia, overseeing the investments in the cover for Stephen Halliwell.
Prior to joining 3i, Indian market, and at Citibank Mumbai.
Anil Stuart worked at Credit Agricole Indosuez currently serves on the boards of several of and qualified as a chartered accountant with 3i Groups investments in India.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 17 Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc 18 Annual report and accounts 2010 Description Developments in the year AWG Anglian Water Group Limited AWG is AWG continues to perform well operationally.
the parent company of Anglian Water, the For the year ending 31 March 2010, EBITDA fourth largest water supply and wastewater for the group had increased by 7.1% over the company in England and Wales as measured prior year.
Anglian Water was ranked in the by regulatory capital value.
The majority of top two places in Ofwats Overall Performance the groups revenue is earned through tariffs Assessment for the third year running.
regulated by Ofwat and linked to RPI.
The In November 2009, Ofwat published its Final group also includes Morrison Facilities Services, Determination, setting out price limits and a support services business focused on the capital expenditure allowances for the period local authority and social housing sectors, from 2010 to 2015.
The outcome of the and a small property development business.
Final Determination was more favourable The investment is held through 3i Osprey LP, than the proposals set out in the Draft an intermediary limited partnership that is Determination, and confirmed Anglian Waters Investment analysis managed separately by 3i Investments and position as among the most efficient of the in which 3i Group also has a small interest.
water supply and wastewater companies.
Investment rationale In July 2009, 3i Infrastructure invested 161.9m Cost AWG has strong infrastructure characteristics, 23.4 million to acquire an additional 1.3% with a regulated near-monopoly position in its interest in AWG from 3i Group.
In February geographical area for the provision of water 2010 AWG redeemed senior preference 193.6m supply and sewerage treatment, stable and shares issued to 3i Infrastructure in March Current value predictable earnings through RPI-linked tariffs 2009 with a face value of 11.8 million.
and largely predictable operating costs.
AWG complies with the Walker Code and its report and accounts are available on Equity interest 10.3% www.
com Further investment in the year 23.4m Capital return in the year 11.8m 1 Income in the year 9.7m Asset total return in the year 28.8m Valuation basis DCF 1 Includes a 0.9 million realised value gain.
The value on a consolidated IFRS basis is 282.6 million.
