Global stretch, local activation BRITISH ISLES CONTINENTAL EUROPE AMERICAS Aberdeen Head office Amsterdam Philadelphia Edinburgh Brussels So Paulo Glasgow Budapest Toronto Jersey Copenhagen London Frankfurt Philadelphia is our hub for North Geneva America and includes fixed income and The British Isles are our home market Helsinki US equity teams.
We manage almost accounting for 29% of our clients by Luxembourg 30 billion on behalf of US clients AuM, some 51 billion.
The city of Milan and have developed a strong platform Aberdeen is our headquarters where we Oslo on which to service institutional and locate many Group functions including Paris wholesale channels.
finance, information management Stockholm In the last year, we opened new offices and human resources.
London, our St Petersburg in Brazil and Canada.
The So Paulo largest office by number of staff, is the Zurich and Toronto offices were opened in investment centre for UK and European October and November respectively.
equity, fixed income and alternative Our presence across Continental investment strategy teams.
Edinburgh Europe has grown significantly over is the investment centre for our global the last two years.
The acquisition of equity team, some of the alternative certain parts of Credit Suisse in 2009 investment managers, as well as the bolstered our local presence in various base of company secretaries for the UK European countries including Milan closed end funds.
Edinburgh is also the and Paris.
Continental Europe accounts base for our global e-marketing resource.
Amsterdam is the key marketing office for the Dutch pensions market and also European property clients.
The Frankfurt office was opened in January 2007 to develop our business with German institutions.
The Nordic region is the base of operations for much of our global property capability.
Luxembourg is the domicile for the Aberdeen Global fund range.
8 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Middle eAst And AfRicA AsiA PAcific AustRAliA the Middle east and Africa are Bangkok Melbourne important sources of institutional Hong Kong Sydney funds and we have a strong client base Kuala Lumpur which we service from london.
We Shanghai the Group's Australian operation currently manage over 15 billion of Singapore accounts for over 10 billion AuM and assets for institutional and sovereign Taipei has a sizeable presence in this relatively wealth entities in those regions.
Tokyo sophisticated retirement savings market.
Our funds in Australia offer local the Asian headquarters of the investors a comprehensive choice of Group is in singapore and is home domestic, regional, global and emerging to most of our Asian fund managers market investments.
Additionally, we covering the main asset classes as manage a range of specialist mandates well as substantial marketing, client in fixed income and equities and an servicing and administrative functions.
investment company that is listed Other full service offices are in Hong on the Australian stock exchange.
Kong, Kuala lumpur and Bangkok.
We also have research and client servicing in north Asia.
Asian clients account for 11 billion of AuM and our investment in Asian securities, both equities and fixed income, is a core competence for the group.
We know global markets from the local level As a group, we have the scale to provide upwards, drawing on over 1,800 staff, across global coverage of financial markets: 31 offices in 24 countries.
yet we are small enough to focus on each and every portfolio decision.
We believe our focus, size and approach enable us to provide effective asset management and close-knit teams, clear investment processes superior client service.
and flat structures are important to us.
Our teams champion original thinking and We seek to grow our clients assets in a way knowledge, so investment decisions are based that is manageable and sustainable over the only on our own research.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 Equities Bottom-up investment style, emphasising company fundamentals Team approach, with asset managers based in the regions where we invest Low portfolio turnover, buying stocks and holding them for the long term First-hand research is central to our process No investment without interviewing the companys management first Aberdeens mainstream equity process dates from the early 1990s and we believe its advantage lies in the consistency of its approach, irrespective of market conditions.
From the company visits and analysis carried out regionally, through to portfolio construction decisions, we adopt a team approach.
Cross-coverage of securities locally ensures objectivity: we avoid cultivating star managers.
Diversification at the stock level is our main control of risk.
We aim to add value by capitalising on original research and in avoiding fashions.
We see equity risk in terms of investing in a poor quality company, or overpaying for a good one.
Active management Long-term focus We aim to add value by identifying good quality Our mainstream strategies are simple: we buy and hold, add stocks, defined chiefly in terms of management and on price dips and take profits on price rises.
This reduces business model, which are attractively priced.
Good transaction costs and keeps portfolios focused.
We rarely stockpicking is the key to our performance.
We downplay pursue short-term returns for mainstream equity strategies, benchmarks in portfolio construction since these albeit for specialist portfolios activity may be more dynamic.
provide little clue to future performance.
Our asset managers avoid businesses that we do not understand Team approach or those with discriminatory shareholder structures.
We employ over 140 equity investment professionals globally.
Portfolio decisions are made collectively, and we avoid Proprietary research cultivating star fund managers.
Cross-coverage of securities Our mainstream equity managers always visit companies also increases objectivity and lessens reliance on individuals.
before investing, making thousands of visits annually to existing and prospective holdings.
Every contact is documented in detail.
If a security fails our screens, we will not own it, irrespective of its index weight.
Equity investment process Equities breakdown US Asia Pacific Company visit note Risk 2.9bn 25.4bn controls UK 2.9bn STEP STEP STEP 1 2 3 Quality Aberdeen Price Portfolio Global Pass or fail?
universe Cheap or construction 16.8bn expensive Emerging Europe markets Potential Monitor Watchlist 1.4bn 22.7bn revisit review Total 72.1bn 2009: 46.0bn As at 30 September 2010 10 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Asia Asset Managements latest survey revealed that assets sourced or raised in the Asia-Pacific region ex-Australia by the asset management industry totalled more than $2.0 trillion, up nearly 40% from 2009.
In June 2010, Aberdeen ranked 16th by AuM in the top twenty asset managers in the region with institutional assets under management in Asia making up 22% of our total global AuM.
Source: Asia Asset Management Sept 2010 Fund Manager Survey.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Fixed income Active management, operating globally, in a transparent and accountable structure, within a risk framework Multiple sources of added value improve the risk-return profile Specialist teams working independently within their area of expertise Local presence in London, Philadelphia, Singapore and Sydney Strong derivatives capability to assist implementation of both active and liability matching strategies We believe outperformance should be generated within a risk framework, adding value through multiple uncorrelated sources to create natural diversification.
As such, our fixed income structure comprises independent alpha teams who are charged with generating investment ideas and outperformance in their own area of specialisation, with their investment universes being as unconstrained as possible.
Our global product team is responsible for capturing all these investment ideas into specific client portfolios, working within individual client portfolio guidelines.
Team members meet to discuss portfolios, but are also in continual discussion with the alpha teams to ensure that the best decisions of these teams are implemented across all mandates.
Active management Team approach We aim to add value by exploiting market inefficiencies in We employ over 130 investment professionals across our interest rates, currency, investment grade credit, emerging teams.
They invest within clearly delineated parameters, market debt and high yield.
We have dedicated portfolio with defined reporting lines.
Our team structure is based on managers and analysts in the three main time zones.
operate as close-knit teams, with investment decision-making devolved to specialists, based on their knowledge Diverse solutions and expertise.
Many clients are moving to higher performance or core plus mandates.
Another trend is the move away from marketFlexible and disciplined investment process based indices and the use of liability driven benchmarks.
We Our investment structure enables us not only to aim to deliver performance across the full range of our fixed follow a disciplined investment process but also to be income capabilities.
We also use derivatives, such as interest flexible to manage portfolios for a wide variety of client rate and credit default swaps, to add value and also to match requirements.
This may range from strategies which liability exposures.
employ multiple sources of uncorrelated returns to those that are focused on a particular specialist area.
Fixed income investment process Fixed income breakdown 1 2 Asia Pacific US Portfolio manager Product team 7.2bn 11.5bn Agree client risk Sets client Convertibles and return investment 0.3bn High yield requirements strategy 0.7bn Currency overlay 0.6bn Evaluating risk UK Emerging at every step markets 10.8bn 4 3 3.2bn Product Alpha team teams European Global Risk budgeting, Idea generation 4.4bn 6.4bn review and in an unconstrained oversight universe Total 45.1bn 2009: 51.7bn As at 30 September 2010 12 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Aberdeen Asset Management is Australia's largest manager of domestic infl ation linked bonds, managing some A$4.7 billion for a range of institutional clients in a domestic bond market valued at A$146 billion.
Infl ation linked bonds, or TIPS as Treasury based notes are known in the United States, are securities whose principal increases at the same rate as the consumer price index.
These securities are attractive to institutional investors whose liabilities increase with infl ation.
Source: Morningstar, InvestorSupermarket Market Wrap: June Qtr 2010.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 s n o i t c a s n a r T r e n l T a o t e t i e n t i s c o a s e n n A l s t e s h i p Property An active property investment manager Unrivalled local presence in key international markets Separate accounts and collective funds, including funds-of-funds Disciplined investment process, supported by research on the ground Team approach, with managers based in the regions where we invest Active management, top-class research, local presence and a rigorous investment process are the means by which we add value to property investment.
We offer a wide range of well-structured vehicles that provide strong risk-adjusted returns and a choice of geographic and sector allocations.
In addition to funds holding direct property, we have pioneered the development of funds of property funds, with exposure to Continental Europe and Asia.
This team invests in third party funds, not in direct property and its clients are exclusively institutional investors.
Their philosophy focuses on creating alpha and not on general market exposure.
Active management Structured investment process Our understanding of the factors that drive returns stems Our proven investment process links the three essential from our local presence and our dedicated research capability.
disciplines of allocation, selection and asset management.
We A unique feature of property is the value that can be added apply it rigorously to all property sectors and geographies.
by active asset management, and selecting assets with this Our principle is to combine advanced top-down research with potential enables a skilful investment manager to create alpha a pragmatic, but structured, bottom-up approach from our and outperform the market.
The former focuses on managing beta, or portfolio risk, the latter on creating alpha.
Local presence Delivering risk-adjusted returns Active property investment requires a local presence.
We have expanded in Europes heartland and, through our Singapore We aim to help our institutional clients achieve well office, into Asia.
We now number over 300 professionals based diversified property exposure by delivering superior riskin 14 countries.
This unrivalled local reach is essential to our adjusted returns through funds that offer a clear choice of understanding of local markets and our commitment to local geographic or sectoral exposure.
With our advanced portfolio decision making.
modelling techniques, we provide an understanding of the risk of different property investments and their place in multiasset portfolios.
Property investment process Property breakdown Europe direct Asia indirect 4.2bn 0.6bn Europe indirect Forecasts Investment Investment 1.3bn & relative UK indirect strategy plan pricing 0.2bn Global direct 2.9bn UK direct 5.7bn Nordics direct Allocation 6.8bn Selection Management Total 21.7bn 2009: 22.6bn As at 30 September 2010 14 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 m a n A a s g s e e t m e n t w e i v e R According to the influential Europroperty INREV Annual Survey 2010, Aberdeen is now the fourth largest property asset manager in Europe.
This survey shows that Aberdeen is now the largest property manager in Europe that is not owned by a bank or a life assurer.
And in a year where many managers in the top ten have seen their assets under management fall, the report reveals that Aberdeen bucked the trends by growing its AuM over the year.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Alternative investment strategies Active management of diversified multi-asset portfolios, multi-manager funds and funds of hedge funds Bottom-up and proprietary research are the cornerstone of our investment process No investment in any asset is made without first interviewing management Continual improvement to risk management controls, as superior methodologies emerge Team-based approach with managers based in London, Edinburgh, Paris and Philadelphia, with access to all of the groups skill sets worldwide Our new fund of hedge funds and multi-manager capabilities enhance and complement Aberdeens traditional skills in multiasset investing.
Our aim is to provide client portfolios and funds that diversify and control risk while optimising returns, whether using in-house capabilities or those of third party managers.
A range of passive fund solutions is also available, according to client need.
Active management Risk management Our multi-asset team builds portfolios by investing in Our risk management controls are both specific to asset securities that have been researched and selected by our classes and characterised by our institutional clients own risk specialist asset class teams in-house, while our multi-manager appetites, their agreed risk budgets and any other mandate and fund of hedge fund teams research and invest in highlyconstraints.
While the strength of our investment decisionskilled third party manager funds.
making process is predominantly qualitative, in our fund of hedge funds and multi-manager teams we also draw on a number of quantitative inputs to help guide our investment A focus on long-term investing decision making.
In multi-manager funds, we aim to add value by identifying and building strong relationships with those managers which Proprietary research we believe will excel at providing risk-adjusted performance.
This approach mirrors our mainstream equity investment First-hand analysis is a central tenet to Aberdeen as an process, which is based on regular company visits with investment manager.
Despite the differences of our alternative management.
In multi-asset portfolios and the balanced asset capabilities, our stock and manager selection processes element of multi-manager products, we also employ topshare the key values of our mainstream investment processes, down processes to aid superior portfolio construction and namely due diligence, repeated investment meetings to verify our decisions and a disciplined attention to risk control.
Alternatives investment process Alternative strategies breakdown 1 2 Fund of private equity Multi manager Investment research Due diligence funds 10.0bn Quality and Operational 0.8bn repeatability and legal Fund of hedge funds 5 3.9bn Monitoring Continual evaluation 4 3 Multi asset Indexed equities 7.4bn Investment Portfolio 7.0bn committee optimisation Oversight and governance Asset allocation Total 29.1bn 2009: 12.4bn As at 30 September 2010 16 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 This year we consolidated our various multi asset, multi manager and fund of funds teams into a new group, known as Alternative Investment Strategies.
The team, enlarged by Januarys acquisition of the former RBS fund of hedge fund business, is now one of the largest multi-manager businesses in the industry and includes over 60 investment professionals worldwide.
Source: Financial Times Towers Watson, June 2010.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 Aberdeen has signed a four year agreement which will see Aberdeen be the title sponsor of the Dad Vail Regatta until 2013, the events 75th Anniversary.
Aberdeens support has helped to ensure that this prestigious Regatta remains in the heart of Philadelphia.
The British American Business Council awarded Aberdeen its sixth Building a Better Future Award for our commitment to the City of Philadelphia.
18 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
