Management board Gordon Brough Gary Marshall Global Head of Legal Head of Americas Gordon joined Aberdeen in February 2009 to head up the Gary was appointed head of the Americas in January 2010.
Group's legal function having previously been the partner He is chief executive of Aberdeen Asset Management Inc in responsible for the Group's affairs at Maclay Murray & Spens the US and president of Aberdeen's US mutual fund range, LLP.
Prior to its merger with Maclays, Gordon had helped Aberdeen Funds.
Gary joined Aberdeen via the acquisition of found specialist law firm, The City Law Partnership.
Gordon is Prolific Financial Management in 1997 and has had experience qualified as a lawyer in both Scots and English law.
in many aspects of Aberdeen's operations, having been based in London and Edinburgh prior to moving to the US.
He graduated with a BSc Hons in Actuarial Mathematics and Kerry Christie Statistics from Heriot Watt University in Edinburgh and is a Global Head of Human Resources qualified actuary.
Kerry is global head of human resources and was appointed to the Group management board in 2010.
She joined Aberdeen in March 2000 and was appointed head of human resources Charles McKenzie in October 2003.
Kerry graduated from Robert Gordon Deputy Head of Fixed Income University with a BA in Public Administration and holds a Charles joined Aberdeen via the acquisition of Deutsche postgraduate Diploma in Personnel Management.
Asset Managements London and Philadelphia fixed income businesses in 2005.
Charles was head of UK fixed income at Deutsche Asset Management in London which he joined in Chris Ellyatt Head of Distribution 1993.
Previously, Charles worked at Global Asset Management Chris is group head of distribution, overseeing business as a fixed income portfolio manager.
Charles graduated with a development, client service and marketing staff in our offices BSc from Southampton University and a MBA in Finance from worldwide.
He joined Aberdeen in 2002, initially based in London City University Business School.
the Singapore office before moving to London in 2003.
Chris has over 20 years experience in financial services sales and Anne Richards marketing, having worked previously for HSBC, James Capel Chief Investment Officer and Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
Chris was educated in Hong Anne is chief investment officer and head of alternative Kong and the UK, and holds a MSc in Development Studies investment strategies.
She is also head of the EMEA region.
from the University of London.
Anne was chief investment officer and joint managing director of Edinburgh Fund Managers, which was acquired by Aberdeen Ken Fry in 2003.
Prior to joining EFM, Anne worked for Merrill Lynch Chief Operating Officer Investment Managers.
Anne graduated in Electronics and Ken Fry graduated from the University of Essex with a BA in Electrical Engineering from the University of Edinburgh and Computer Science and joined Aberdeen with the acquisition has a MBA from Insead.
of Fredericks Place Holdings in 1989 as Group IT manager.
He was appointed to the Group management board in 2006 as Andrew Smith chief technology officer and to his current role in 2008.
Global Head of Property Andrew Smith is global head of property.
Andrew joined Paul Griffiths Aberdeen in 2002 from Henderson Global Investors.
His Global Head of Fixed Income property career began at Pearl Assurance plc, where he Paul is the global head of fixed income having joined Aberdeen established one of the industrys first institutional property in July 2009 via the acquisition of the Credit Suisse Asset research teams.
The business subsequently became part of Management business, where he was chief investment officer Henderson Global Investors.
Andrew graduated with a BA in and global head of fixed income.
Paul previously held a similar Geography from the University of Birmingham.
role at AXA Investment Managers, as well as being its UK chief executive officer.
Paul graduated with a BSc in Physics from Hugh Young the University of York.
Global Head of Equities Hugh is managing director of Aberdeen Asset Management Rod MacRae Asia Limited, the Groups regional headquarters, and is also Group Head of Risk group head of equities.
He founded Singapore based Aberdeen Rod is responsible for UK and global risk including internal audit, Asia in 1992, having been recruited in 1985 to manage Asian regulatory compliance, legal services, business and investment Equities from London.
Hugh graduated with a BA in Politics risk and serves as chairman of the Group risk management from Exeter University.
Rod joined Aberdeen in 2003, following the acquisition of Edinburgh Fund Managers.
Rod graduated with a MA in Economics from the University of Edinburgh and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39
