Europe and the UK Regulation We see Continental Europe as a prime area of growth, in A key driver for developments in our industry in recent years wholesale and retail as well as institutional channels.
This has been the huge number of changes proposed in legislation is because of relatively deep pools of savings that may not and regulation as policymakers and regulators around the have been efficiently deployed, which coincides with our now world attempt to grapple with the consequences of banking established offices taking root.
Retirement fund shortfalls will failure and the credit crunch.
The speed of such changes is, if put pressure on providers to raise returns.
anything, increasing and in the next few years the industry will Saying all this, Europes distribution structures still appear be at least, partly shaped by them.
In the UK, for instance, we are facing the impact of the retail distribution review RDR, in tight thanks to the prevailing bancassurance model, although Europe the implementation of UCITS IV from 1 July 2011, and uncertainties circle the banking sector with capital pressures the introduction of the Alternative Investment Funds Directive from regulatory changes that may have begun to favour AIFM from January 2013. independent managers.
Switzerland led the way for gross fund sales for Aberdeen Global, our cross-border Luxembourg range, The EU's AIFM Directive, which has been a subject of much attracting over 250 million in net sales during September.
controversy between different member states for the last 18 The Aberdeen Global range saw over 1.2 billion of net inflows months has just been adopted by the European Parliament.
in the month, with strong fresh demand from Sweden, France Two of the most contentious issues were in the marketing of funds and liability of the depositaries.
A passport allowing and Germany, behind Switzerlands pole position.
authorised fund managers whether based in or outside The UK market saw us consolidate our strength in key funds, the EU to market funds to professional investors in the EU rather than lead to any new developments, although we will come in to force at a future date, likely to be in 2015. have enjoyed support in the key wholesale channels.
Overall Existing national private placement rules in relation to non-EU the UK industry has bounced back from knocks to its larger funds can continue until at least 2018 but will be subject to additional conditions.
Every fund must have a depositary.
reputation as an international financial centre.
There continues Depositaries will have strict liability where they delegate their to be considerable debate over the impact of the proposed functions subject to certain exceptions.
Despite being hugely AIFM directive from Brussels see opposite.
In the UK, where detailed and complex in some ways, the Directive still does we have experimented most with short media bursts and sitenot paint the full picture of EU regulation of alternative fund buying we promoted emerging market equity fund and global managers.
Practically every section of the Directive provides equity, raising over 800 million into the OEIC range.
"for the Commission or the new European Securities and Markets Authority ""ESMA"" to produce rules that will further Closed end funds in the UK have also seen considerable new explain what that section of the Directive means in practice."
Alongside the launch of Aberdeen Latin American So, while fund managers can be relatively certain of the basic Income Fund, a further 100 million was raised by the issue of rules that will govern their regulation in the EU, the devil - as always - will be in the detail.
Elsewhere, local regulations are also tightening with the UK Assets by client domicile seeing the implementation of the RDR from 31 December 2012.
This review has a number of noble aims including the Middle East & Africa Europe ex UK introduction of a more transparent and fairer charging system.
15.7bn 61.2bn Managers seem uncertain as to whether the regulation will result in a proliferation of different share classes for funds and whether by responding in different ways they will be exposed Asia pacific 21.4bn to greater regulatory risk and uncertainty.
The FSA expect to see a fall in fund managers annual management charges.
These regulatory changes will contribute however to more detailed segmentation strategies by asset managers.
Likewise, distributors are expected to become more concentrated, which Americas may have both positive and adverse effects depending upon 29.5bn business models.
UK 50.9bn The IMF's recent report on global financial stability underscores a need for a new regulatory and institutional landscape to ensure financial stability.
"The report urges a Total 178.7bn 2009: 146.2bn As at 30 September 2010 reform agenda for the financial sector, beyond the banking industry, that addresses ""systemic risks generated by individual Source: Aberdeen Asset Management."
"firms and collective behaviour""."
Regulatory changes can therefore only be expected to increase in the coming years.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED new shares from existing investment trusts.
We also continued Where we recorded net flows, this was largely on the strength to win industry awards for our investor communications of our standing with a handful of key distributors, such as in our investment trust business, both online, for the sixth insurers.
In Japan, our institutional partnership with Mitsubishi consecutive year and also for our retail magazine, the Bulletin.
is progressing well and it will be interesting to see how this In the pension funds arena, where some of our core clients relationship can now be developed to include retail products have left after poor bond performance, we were pleased such as Asian fixed income given an inherently fickle market.
that our UK Pension Intelligence programme won the Best In due course we anticipate equities making way for fixed Trustee Education provider award from Engaged Investor income and in time, property as a focus for new business.
Magazine, testament to the effort the team has been placing This has been a long planned development - and is a timely in defending this business channel.
one, given the global demand for yield.
Our Singapore-based Asia and Australia Asian fixed income team won its first segregated accounts We once again had a strong year in the region.
In Australia the Sydney office has integrated equities rebounded along with economies, thanks in part well and, though there have been continued outflows from to loose global money.
As our international equity funds, we have worked hard to a result we are now one of the largest managers of Asia ex develop due recognition for our investment process and Japan securities globally with $18.7bn under management.
Next year we must gather assets.
Our size, however, has put pressure on us to allocate any remaining capacity judiciously, with an eye to not just fees but servicing costs.
But while AuM has increased thanks to global institutional interest, local retail buying stayed quiet for much of the period amid a preference for global income products.
Indeed, having been in Asia for almost 20 years we can say domestic growth continues to be attractive because of rising wealth creation, more liquid local markets, regulatory encouragement and exogenous factors such as the migration of private bank money from Switzerland to the city states of Singapore and Hong Kong.
But it is as easy to exaggerate growth rates as to underestimate competition and the obstacles of informal barriers to market growth.
28 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Pensions Intelligence, a UK initiative led by Aberdeen to support trustees, won the award for Best Trustee Education Provider at the Engaged Investor Awards for the second year running this year.
Aberdeen partnered with the University of Edinburgh Business School to provide a series of educational seminars which aim to increase pension schemes understanding of their market.
Topics are driven by the delegates and cover key fi financial, regulatory and administrative issues.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Outlook Financial objectives As investors, the most profound global change we face is the Our objective is to deliver long-term shareholder value erosion of traditional distinctions between developed and by pursuing a strategy that involves organic growth developing economies.
In the West, the risks of deflation are supplemented, at appropriate times in the business cycle, still prevalent, particularly in the US where nominal GDP by selective acquisitions.
Having successfully completed growth has slowed more significantly than real GDP.
Private two acquisitions in the last 18 months which each bring consumption in the form of both spending and investment additional distribution relationships, we are focused on is still weak.
US policymakers are therefore turning to further growing organically for the foreseeable future.
Our principal monetary easing to depress bond yields, push investors into aims are to grow the recurring revenues that can be generated risk assets and so create a renewed 'wealth effect'.
But easing from the assets under our management and to maintain an may backfire.
Apart from the questionable willingness of banks efficient cost base from which to service this business, thus to lend and consumers' ability to borrow, money is going generating sustainable profits and cashflows.
The level of net instead to the developing world where economies are doing new business flows is a key driver of the growth in revenues fine but their ability to absorb inflows is finite.
Such collateral effects may seem small.
Yet today's imbalances Acquisitions mean currencies have become a critical element of investor We completed the acquisition of the fund of alternatives returns.
In the past year the yen has touched a 15-year high and long only multi manager business from Royal Bank of against the dollar: many emerging market currencies, such as Scotland in late January 2010 and have made good progress the Brazilian real hit new peaks, the Australian dollar is worth in integrating these activities into the wider Group and the same as the US dollar, and the Euro is appreciating, further introducing these new capabilities to our clients.
endangering recovery in an area where the banking system Taken with the Credit Suisse acquisition which we completed is suspect.
No wonder capital controls are being increasingly in June 2009, we now have a broader platform from which enacted across the developing world.
to build further organic growth: progress to date has been In the short term, we believe liquidity will support all markets.
encouraging and we look forward to continuing this trend in But for bonds frankly policy has become experimental.
High the months and years to come.
yield markets are better protected.
Equities, meanwhile, have We also increased the scale of our US mutual fund offering by more room to perform because companies have managed merging some funds previously managed by Bank of Hawaii their costs in this cycle.
Whether top line sales growth can into the Aberdeen range.
be maintained is the open question: in emerging markets Review of results prospects are more elevated, but so are valuations.
Global markets have remained somewhat volatile during For our industry all this may suggest renewed volatility, which the year under review, albeit at higher levels than prevailed will test investors' appetite for risk.
The Groups AuM has grown as a consequence, it may be a case too of 'to the victor the spoils' in terms of boosted by acquisition activity and net new business won.
having the right products at the right time.
Our efforts in the Changes in AuM are summarised in the following table: past few years have been directed at meeting investor needs across a range of strategies.
We can present a more coherent bn front than ever before: not only in product choice but in terms At 30 September 2009 146.2 of where and to whom we sell.
Net new business flows 2.6 Corporate transactions 12.4 Markets and performance 17.5 At 30 September 2010 178.7 Against this background, income has grown steadily throughout the year and operating costs have been carefully controlled: the results for the year to 30 September 2010 therefore disclose a 147% increase in underlying profit before taxation to 210.0 million.
Overall net new business flows have returned to positive territory, with an improving trend experienced throughout the year.
30 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 At the gross level, new business flows have grown very Revenue for the year increased by 51% to 638.2 million, strongly, delivering 46.6 billion of new AuM during the year while underlying operating expenses grew by 28% to 416.3 2009: 19.1 billion.
We have continued to experience a million: operating profit consequently grew by 132% to higher than normal level of withdrawals and redemptions, 221.9 million.
Net finance costs amounted to 11.9 million principally from our fixed income business, rate of outflow 2009: 10.6 million, resulting in an underlying profit before declined as the year progressed.
Outflows for the year were taxation of 210.0 million, a 147% increase on 2009.
44.0 billion, against 29.2 billion reported for 2009.
As a Revenues have improved as a consequence of higher result, net new business flows turned positive for the year at market levels and investment performance: this has been 2.6 billion 2009: -10.7 billion.
A further 1.9 billion of supplemented by including a full year of the ex-Credit Suisse new mandates had been awarded at 30 September 2010 for business and by the addition of the ex-RBS business from which the funding was not received from clients until after 29 January.
Cost growth has been carefully controlled, at a the year end.
much lower rate than increases in income, resulting in a much We anticipate continued healthy net inflows into equities as improved operating margin of 34.8% 2009: 22.7%.
we continue to see strong appetite for our global equities and Underlying earnings per share, which takes account of the global emerging markets products: the latter remains closed increased number of shares in issue as well as the change in to new segregated business as we seek to manage the quality profits, improved by 110% to 13.3p per share on a diluted basis.
and flow rate of assets we take on.
Exceptional expenses of 19.5 million were incurred during Fixed income performance has recovered strongly, but we the first half of the financial year.
The largest element, believe that some further outflows may still be experienced 12.5 million, represented the final element of the Credit until the three year performance numbers recover towards Suisse transition and migration of systems.
A further 6.1 benchmark during 2011. million was charged in respect of the acceleration of lease With fee margins on equities being considerably higher than costs as we moved to a larger London office following this on fixed income, the effect on revenues is strongly positive.
We also recorded a charge of 1.6 million for the costs of the RBS acquisition, accounting regulations Consistent with the approach we have adopted in previous no longer permitting such costs to be recognised as part years, this business review discusses the results on the basis of the cost of acquisition.
During the second half year we of presentation adopted for management purposes, which have reversed 1.3 million of provisions which are no longer separates exceptional items, amortisation and impairment required and the full year charge for exceptional items has from the underlying revenues and costs which drive the therefore reduced to 18.2 million.
The Board believes that discussing the results in this way will provide more helpful information to investors, and the Group income statement on page 73 has been presented in a manner which enables this distinction.
Summary of results for 2010 Underlying Reclassifications IFRS m m m Revenue 638.2 638.2 Operating expenses 416.3 84.4 500.7 Operating profit 221.9 84.4 137.5 Net finance costs 11.9 11.9 Profit before taxation 210.0 84.4 125.6 Tax expense 40.4 22.1 18.3 Profit after taxation 169.6 62.3 107.3 Exceptional items 18.2 18.2 Amortisation & impairment of intangible assets 66.2 66.2 Tax on exceptional items, amortisation & impairment 22.1 22.1 Profit for the year 107.3 107.3 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Key performance indicators 2010 2009 2008 Change in underlying profit before taxation 147% -10% 1% Change in underlying EPS diluted 110% -30% -19% Operating margin 34.8% 22.7% 23.2% Conversion of operating profit to cashflow 115% 83% 106% Gross new business funded in year 46.6bn 19.1bn 21.8bn Net new business funded in year 2.6bn -10.7bn 1.0bn New business awarded but not funded at year end 1.9bn 3.9bn 1.9bn rates than the UK corporation tax rate of 28%.
The effective Financial review tax rate is expected to increase slightly going forward, to Revenue around 20%, as the Groups profits from Europe grow.
Revenue increased by 51% to 638.2 million, with increased performance fee income being a welcome reward for Earnings per share consistently good investment performance: yet the major part As discussed above, the Board believes that the most of the growth came once again from recurring management appropriate measure of the Groups profitability is the fees which, at 94% of total revenues 2009: 98%, provide underlying EPS number, which excludes from its calculation a high quality base on which to build.
Approximately 82 exceptional costs, exceptional income and gains and the million 19% of the increase is due to the new business amortisation and impairment charges on intangible assets.
On added by the Credit Suisse and RBS acquisitions, with 136 this measure the Groups underlying diluted EPS has increased million 32% due to organic growth.
Operating expenses Coupon on 7.9% perpetual subordinated capital securities Overall, operating expenses have grown by 90.1 million The coupon payable on these securities, which were issued 28%, of which approximately 40 million 12% is due to in 2007 to introduce additional flexibility to the capital the Credit Suisse and RBS acquisitions.
Organic growth in structure, is fully deductible for UK tax purposes, so that the costs of 50 million 16% has been at a considerably lower post-tax cost is approximately 5.7% pa.
This is considerably rate than the growth in revenues.
less than the cost of ordinary share capital, currently estimated at around 10.4% pa.
Earlier this year we obtained Operating profit and margin confirmation that the FSA would not object to our converting Underlying operating profit for 2010 was 132% higher these securities into non-cumulative preference shares, as we at 221.9 million, representing an operating margin of are entitled to do under their terms of issue: we have chosen 34.8% 2009: 22.7%.
While the impetus for this margin not to proceed with conversion at this time but we will keep improvement was provided in the final quarter of the last this under review.
financial year, the margin achieved this year has been delivered by further improvements in the average revenue Dividends yielded by our assets under management while keeping close An interim dividend of 3.2p per share was paid to ordinary control of operating costs.
shareholders in June 2010 and the Board is recommending payment of a final dividend of 3.8p per share, resulting in Net finance costs a total payment for 2010 of 7.0p, a 17% increase on 2009.
The main elements of net finance costs are interest paid on This dividend is covered approximately 1.9 times by recurring the bonds issued by the Group and on bank borrowings drawn earnings per share and is fully covered by diluted earnings per from time to time, less interest earned on cash balances.
Net share, stated after amortisation and exceptional items.
finance costs have increased slightly, from 10.6 million in 2009 to 11.9 million this year.
In cash terms net finance Cashflow costs are largely unchanged last year.
The year to 30 September 2010 has seen extremely strong cashflow, with operating profit of 221.9 million turned into Tax 255.0 million of operating cashflow, a conversion rate of The effective tax rate, defined as the tax charge divided by 115% 2009: 83%.
The Groups cashflow performance over profit before taxation, was 19.2% in 2010.
This relatively low the last three years is set out in the following table.
rate is achieved because significant elements of the Groups profits are earned in jurisdictions which charge tax at lower 32 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Cash flow performance 2010 2009 2008 m m m Operating cashflow before interest and tax 255.0 79.6 106.3 Interest and tax paid 26.9 37.3 27.4 Cashflow from operating activities after interest and tax 228.1 42.3 78.9 Maintenance capital expenditure 6.5 6.8 3.0 Dividends and coupons paid 90.6 61.5 55.0 Recurring free cashflow 131.0 26.0 20.9 Exceptional costs and gains 15.5 25.3 10.2 Acquisitions and disposals 73.3 19.9 202.3 Debt drawn repaid 90.9 31.8 98.2 Issue of share capital 115.8 0.8 95.2 Purchase of own shares 2.2 0.3 Exchange fluctuations 4.5 0.3 Movement in cash and cash equivalents 69.4 0.7 1.5 Financial position Total equity increased by 162.9 million to 1,184.9 million at 30 September 2010.
The main components of this increase were as follows: Changes in equity m Profit for the year 107.3 Net expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income 12.9 Issue of equity 115.8 Preference dividends paid 2.7 Coupon paid on perpetual capital securities 14.7 Ordinary dividends paid 67.5 Equity component of convertible bond issue 6.4 Movement in minority interest 6.6 Release from reserves to match charge for share-based payments in Income Statement 26.8 Purchase of own shares 2.2 Increase in total equity 162.9 Net borrowings at 30 September 2010 were 7.7 million, At the year end the Group had access to 75 million of equivalent to a gearing ratio of 0.6% of total equity 2009: committed but undrawn bank facilities and an overdraft 17.1%.
During the year we issued a new 90 million facility, also undrawn, of 15 million, in addition to cash convertible bond and used the proceeds to repay bank debt, resources of 150.8 million.
These facilities are used for the and we have subsequently repaid all remaining bank debt management of working capital requirements including the from operating cashflow.
The holders of 35.9 million of the provision of seed capital to enable fund launches.
The Groups convertible preference share units decided to exercise their liquidity position is therefore very robust and we will renew rights to convert their holdings to ordinary shares, further these facilities in an appropriate manner as we move forward.
strengthening the Groups core capital position.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Pension deficits Interest rate risk The net deficit on the Groups legacy defined benefit pension We finance our activities from a combination of equity, schemes has increased slightly to 35.0 million at 30 including perpetual capital securities and preference shares, September 2010, compared to a net deficit of 33.4 million and debt.
Coupon payments on the perpetual capital securities at the previous year end.
Assets held by the schemes have and preference dividends are payable, at the discretion of increased by 15.2 million during the year as markets have the Board, at fixed rates.
Bank borrowings under the Groups improved: however, the value attributed to the liabilities of multi-currency revolving credit facilities are drawn in the the schemes has increased by 15.8 million.
In estimating the desired currency at variable interest rates.
Interest on the liabilities, we are required by IAS 19 to use a discount rate US dollar subordinated loan is charged at a fixed rate for calculated by reference to the yield on AA-rated corporate five years from the date of issue, July 2006.
The discount rate used this year is 5.0%, compared to bonds issued in December 2009 bear interest at a fixed rate 5.5% in 2009 and, as a result, the present value of the future throughout their five year life.
The Board believes that the cashflows which comprise the liabilities of the schemes has balance between floating rate and fixed rate borrowings is increased.
The Groups ongoing cash contribution to these appropriate to the Groups business needs and will continue schemes is approximately 5.9 million per annum, and there to monitor this position on a regular basis.
is no expectation of any material change in this figure in the Liquidity risk near term.
The Group's approach to managing liquidity risk is to ensure, Capital increases as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity The principal element of capital issued during the year was to meet its liabilities when due under both normal and the issue to finance the acquisition of certain businesses stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or from Royal Bank of Scotland: 90 million new ordinary shares risking damage to the Group's reputation.
Details of the bank were issued at a price of 132p per share.
The value of this facilities available to the Group are provided in note 27.
The issue was 115.8 million, net of expenses.
39 million new headroom between available facilities and amounts drawn is ordinary shares were issued on the conversion of 35.9 substantial, and will be maintained at a healthy level in future, million of the 6.75% convertible preference share units and using committed borrowing facilities where necessary to a further 170,800 new ordinary shares were issued pursuant supplement cash resources retained by the Group.
to the exercise of share options by employees.
The Company Credit risk also issued 12 million new shares to the Groups Employee We face credit risk as a result of counter party exposure.
We Benefits Trust to enable vesting of deferred shares awarded as monitor the credit worthiness of our major counter parties.
part of 2006 and 2008 variable remuneration.
This includes actively monitoring credit ratings from rating agencies at the banks where we deposit cash.
Risk management Foreign currency risk Principal risks and uncertainties Revenues are earned principally from fees which are calculated In common with many businesses, the Group is exposed to on the basis of the value of AuM managed for clients and a range of risks.
Some of these risks are an inherent part of many mandates include investments valued in currencies the business, such as taking investment decisions on behalf other than sterling.
Fluctuations in the rates at which overseas of clients and our energies are focused on managing this currencies are convertible to sterling can therefore affect the risk, as opposed to eliminating it.
The Group is also subject value of the Groups revenues on an ongoing basis.
The fact to regulatory and compliance risk which we actively seek to that we operate on a global basis, with offices in a number of manage.
An update on emerging regulatory risks is given on countries worldwide, means that a proportion of operating page 27.
The management of risk is embedded in the culture costs is also incurred in foreign currencies and interest on of the Group and the way we conduct our business.
This is the Groups $125 million subordinated debt and coupons on managed at an executive level through the risk management the 7.9% perpetual capital securities is incurred in US dollars.
committee which, together with the risk, compliance and Variations in the sterling value of these operating costs and internal audit departments, is responsible for overseeing interest cost will, to an extent, offset any similar impact of the implementation of our risk strategies: this involves the fluctuating exchange rates on revenues and the Board has provision of regular reports to the Audit Committee, Risk therefore decided that it is not appropriate to undertake any Committee and the Board.
In order to mitigate risk, the Group specific hedging of the Group's US dollar exposure.
manages risk in a variety of ways depending on the nature of the risk and the areas of potential impact.
The key risks for the Group include: 34 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Fair value of financial instruments Employee risk We operate internationally and the Group's most important As explained in note 29 to the accounts, there is no material resource is its staff.
Their knowledge and abilities are central difference between the book value and fair value of financial to meeting clients needs and expectations.
Retention of key instruments as at 30 September 2010. staff is vitally important in maintaining this focus on client Client relationships service.
The Groups team-based approach to investment Our relationships with clients are fundamental to our management is considered to be a key mitigant of employee business.
Our client relations teams keep in regular contact risk, and the Group seeks to further reduce dependence on with them to ensure that we address their changing needs.
key staff through its graduate recruitment programme and More widely, we aim to provide a high level of information to the provision of ongoing training and development courses.
our customers, through a variety of means.
Appropriate incentive packages are in place to encourage and reward strong performance.
Investment performance risk The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from Business continuity risk management fees which are calculated on the basis of the We have an obligation to ensure that the business can operate at all times.
We have continuity plans which are tested value of AuM from time to time.
The value of AuM will be regularly.
Our main back office is outsourced to third parties.
affected by general movements, positive or negative, in the We monitor these providers closely.
We also have offsite markets in which the assets are invested but, more specifically, back up for our systems in place to cover each of the Groups will be affected by the actual investment performance principal operating sites.
We are insured in the event of loss of achieved by the asset managers.
Our investment performance revenue through business interruption.
will, from time to time and measured over various time periods, exceed or lag general market or benchmark Project risk performance - referred to as relative performance.
We We are reliant on the smooth and efficient delivery of key deliberately adopt a long term investment style, founded on projects and manage the risks involved in these through a robust investment process which involves detailed research a clearly defined process which is overseen by a senior of individual stocks, both before and following investment.
This Group projects committee ensures prioritisation and allocation of resources across Group projects.
This investment style is designed to deliver superior returns over the longer term but it may result in below benchmark returns in periods when markets generally are driven forward by positive and often shorter term sentiment.
We seek to mitigate this risk by ensuring that both clients and investment consultants are kept fully aware of the nature of our investment philosophy and by openly discussing the drivers of such performance, supported by relevant analysis of the components of performance, and comparing this with benchmark performance.
Martin Gilbert Bill Rattray Chief Executive Finance Director Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35
