Corporate governance report The Company has complied throughout the year with the Giles Weaver joined the Board in November 2000 and provisions set out in section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on was appointed chairman of the recently formed risk Corporate Governance the Code.
We have also considered committee.
To enable refreshment of the Board in an the recently published UK Corporate Governance Code and orderly fashion, Giles has agreed to remain on the Board are working to ensure full compliance with its provisions until the conclusion of the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
during the forthcoming financial year.
This report describes Taking into consideration his independence of character and Aberdeens corporate governance arrangements, explaining judgement, his asset management background and other how we have applied the principles of the Code.
relevant external experience, the Board reiterates its view that Giles remains an independent non-executive director.
The Board Donald Waters will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Donald stepped The Board currently comprises the chairman, eight nondown as chairman of the audit committee after the executive directors and three executive directors.
Gerhard release of the 2010 interim results, but agreed to remain Fusenig was appointed on 8 October 2009, Kenichi Miyanaga as a member of the committee in order to provide on 26 November 2009 and Jim Pettigrew on 23 April 2010: continuity and support to the new chairman, Jim all other members of the Board served throughout the year.
Taking into consideration his independence of The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate, character and judgement, the Board reiterates its view clearly defined and have been approved by the Board.
The that Donald remains an independent non-executive.
chairman, Roger Cornick, is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board and for shareholder relations, while The Board expects to make further appointments at the chief executive, Martin Gilbert, is responsible for the appropriate intervals so that an appropriate balance is day to day management of the Group.
Donald Waters, who maintained between independent, executive and representative has continued to serve as the senior independent director board members.
The Board has conducted a thorough throughout the year, will retire from the Board following the evaluation of its effectiveness, undertaken by an external conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 20 January consultant, and further details are provided later in this report.
2011 and will be succeeded in that role by Anita Frew.
The Board confirms that it has considered and authorised any In considering director independence, the Board has taken conflicts or potential conflicts of interest in accordance with into consideration the guidance provided by the Code and the Company's existing procedures and has also implemented also more recently by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
specific guidelines to address any potential conflicts that Of the non-executive directors, two have been appointed may arise in the future.
The Board has specifically considered by shareholders and are therefore not considered to be the other appointments held by directors, details of which independent.
The Board, having given thorough consideration are contained in their biographies found on pages 36 to to the matter, considers the other six non-executive 38 and has confirmed that it believes that each is able directors to be independent, notwithstanding the fact that to devote sufficient time to fulfil the duties required of three will have served on the Board for more than nine them under the terms of their letters of engagement.
years by the time of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The Board met eight times during the year to review financial As reported last year, the Board has given careful performance and strategy and to follow a formal schedule of consideration to its structure and its balance and decided that matters reserved for its decision, which includes the setting it would not be in the best interests of the Company, or its of Company goals, objectives, budgets and other plans.
shareholders, to lose three non-executive directors in the same Comprehensive board papers, comprising an agenda and year and we therefore decided to refresh Board membership in formal reports and briefing papers, are sent to directors in an orderly manner.
Jim Pettigrew, who was appointed during advance of each meeting.
Throughout their period in office, the year, has succeeded Donald Waters as chairman of the directors are continually updated, by means of written and audit committee.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind has decided to step oral reports from senior executives and external advisers, on down as chairman of the remuneration committee following the Groups business and the competitive and regulatory the conclusion of the 2011 Annual General Meeting and will environments in which it operates, as well as on legal, be succeeded by Simon Troughton, who joined the Board environmental, social, governance and other relevant matters.
Sir Malcolm will continue to serve on the Board and as a member of the remuneration committee until the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Sir Malcolm continues to act as a member of the Board with a high degree of independence of character and judgement and the Board considers that Sir Malcolm remains an independent director.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED In addition to its formal business, the Board received a Maximum possible Meetings number of briefings and presentations from senior executives, attendance attended local management and external advisers covering a wide Roger Cornick 8 8 range of topics relevant to the Groups business.
The Board Donald Waters 8 8 also has a policy of making periodic visits to the Groups key overseas offices in order to meet local management and Anita Frew 8 8 clients and to obtain an understanding of the local business Sir Malcolm Rifkind 8 8 environment.
The Board visited the Helsinki, Philadelphia and Giles Weaver 8 8 Singapore offices during the year.
Certain directors have also Martin Gilbert 8 8 visited other overseas offices on an individual basis during the year in order to meet with local management and staff.
Bill Rattray 8 8 All directors have access to independent professional advice, Andrew Laing 8 8 if required, at the Companys expense, as well as to the Simon Troughton 8 8 advice and services of the company secretary.
New directors Gerhard Fusenig 8 7 appointed to the Board receive a full, formal and tailored induction, which includes meetings with relevant members Kenichi Miyanaga 7 7 of senior management, in order to help them gain a detailed Jim Pettigrew 4 4 understanding of the Group and its activities.
During the year under review, three new non-executive directors undertook induction training.
The training plan provided the Performance evaluation new directors with a wide range of data, including copies of A formal process has been established, led by the chairman, previous meeting papers and other governance information, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its such as the current strategy and details of the companies' appointed committees and each director, to ensure that they processes and procedures.
The training plan also offered continue to act effectively and efficiently and to fulfil their the opportunity to meet with members of the Board and respective duties, and to identify any training requirements.
the executive in order to better understand their roles.
The Board appointed an external consultant, Trust Associates The company secretary, under the direction of the chairman, is Limited, to carry out this years review.
The consultant responsible for facilitating this induction programme, ensuring used questionnaires, held interviews with each director good information flow between the Board, its committees and attended one of the scheduled Board meetings.
Trust and management and assisting with directors continuing Associates Limited followed this up with discussions with the professional development needs.
Directors are also advised, at Board and committee chairmen to discuss the results and the time of their appointment, of the legal and other duties thereafter, presented their recommendations to the Board.
The and obligations arising from the role of director of a listed results have been analysed and were discussed at subsequent company and are reminded of these duties and obligations meetings of the committees and of the Board, as well as in on a regular basis.
individual discussions between the chairman and each director.
Directors are required to seek election at the first Annual The non-executive directors also met without the chairman General Meeting following their appointment and all directors present to discuss the results of the evaluation of the have previously submitted themselves for re-election by chairmans performance, having taken into consideration shareholders at intervals of no more than three years.
In the views of the executive directors, and the results of this line with the guidance contained within the UK Corporate meeting were subsequently discussed between the senior Governance Code, all directors will now offer themselves for independent director and the chairman.
Details of the attendance of individual non-executive directors held a meeting without the executive directors are shown in the table below: directors present at which executive directors performance was discussed.
54 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 other members of the Board and thereafter they were also Board committees interviewed and approved by the FSA prior to being appointed.
The Board has appointed the following committees to assist in the execution of its duties.
All committees operate on written The committee met on five occasions during the year and terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and which details of the attendance of individual members are shown in are available on the Companys website, and the chairman of the table below: each committee reports to each meeting of the Board.
Each Maximum possible Meetings of the committees is authorised to obtain, at the Companys attendance attended expense, external legal or other professional advice to assist Roger Cornick 5 5 in the performance of its duties.
Only the members of each committee are entitled to attend its meetings but others, such Anita Frew 3 3 as senior management and external advisers, may be invited Simon Troughton 3 3 to attend, as appropriate.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind 2 2 Current membership of the committees is shown in the Donald Waters 2 2 directors biographies on pages 36 to 38.
The composition of these committees is reviewed annually, taking into consideration the recommendations of the nominations Audit committee committee.
The audit committee is chaired by Jim Pettigrew, who joined the committee on 28 April 2010 and who succeeded Donald Nominations committee Waters as chairman on 4 May 2010.
He is supported by three The nominations committee is chaired by Roger Cornick and independent non-executive directors, Anita Frew, Donald he is supported by two independent non-executive directors, Waters and Giles Weaver.
Anita and Giles each served on the Anita Frew and Simon Troughton, who were appointed as committee throughout the year.
The Board is satisfied that members of this committee during the year, replacing Sir all of the committees members have recent and relevant Malcolm Rifkind and Donald Waters.
commercial and financial knowledge and experience to satisfy the provisions of the Code, by virtue of their having The committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size held various executive and non-executive roles in investment and composition of the Board and for recommending new management and business management.
Additionally, Jim directors for appointment to the Board.
The Board as a whole Pettigrew, Donald Waters and Giles Weaver are chartered has responsibility for the appointment of new directors and accountants.
for nominating them for election by shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
The committee is The committees role is to assist the Board in discharging also responsible for considering and making recommendations its duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal to the Board on succession planning for directors and other control and risk management, and the appointment senior executives.
and remuneration of independent external auditors.
The committee is also responsible for reviewing the scope and During the year, the committee reviewed the proposals for results of audit work and its cost effectiveness, and the rotation and re-election of directors at the Annual General independence and objectivity of the auditors.
In order to Meeting: considered and made recommendations to the Board ensure the objectivity and independence of the auditors, the for the appointment of three new directors: discussed the committee has approved a comprehensive policy to regulate results of the annual performance evaluation exercise: noted the provision of non-audit services by the Groups external the satisfactory operations of the committee and reviewed its auditors.
The policy provides details of the types of service terms of reference.
which are and are not permitted and those which require As has been reported, three new non-executive directors the explicit prior approval of the committee.
Permitted were appointed in the year under review.
Two of these, non-audit services include: the provision of tax compliance Gerhard Fusenig and Kenichi Miyanaga, are not independent services: the provision of certain recruitment services: and and were appointed at the request of the Companys two acting as reporting accountant in appropriate circumstances, major shareholders, Credit Suisse and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust provided there is no element of valuation work involved.
The and Banking Corporation, respectively.
In respect of the provision of tax advisory services, due diligence transaction appointment of Jim Pettigrew, the committee appointed an services and litigation services may be permitted with the external search consultant and provided a full specification committees prior approval.
The provision of internal audit of the skill set required from a new appointee.
In addition, services, valuation work and any other activity that may give all three new non-executive directors were interviewed rise to any possibility of self-review are not permitted under by the members of the the nominations committee and Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED any circumstance.
The committee also has responsibility for from the chairman of the risk committee providing an update reviewing the Companys arrangements on whistle blowing, on matters relevant to the audit committee of those issues ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place for considered by the risk committee.
employees to be able to raise, in confidence, matters of The committee carried out a review of the effectiveness of the possible impropriety, with suitable subsequent follow-up external audit process in the year under review and considered action.
the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc.
The review covered During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, all aspects of the global audit service including, amongst other under its terms of reference, by: factors, the quality of the staff, the expertise, the resources and independence of KPMG Audit Plc.
The committee also a reviewing the Groups draft 2009 financial statements took into consideration the levels of fees paid for the global and 2010 interim results statement prior to discussion services provided by the auditors.
Consideration was also and approval by the Board, and reviewing the external given to the likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditor from auditors reports thereon: the market and, it was noted that there were no contractual b reviewing the continuing appropriateness of the Group's obligations which would restrict the choice of alternative accounting policies: auditor.
The committee agreed that it was appropriate to recommend to the Board that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed c reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the as auditors for a further year and, accordingly a resolution will Groups 2010 financial statements, receiving and be put to shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting reviewing confirmations of auditor independence and recommending their reappointment.
approving the terms of engagement and proposed fees for the 2010 audit: Details of the attendance of the individual members of the committee during the year are shown in the table below: d making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to shareholders to approve the re-appointment Maximum possible Meetings of the external auditor: attendance attended Donald Waters 4 4 e reviewing managements annual report on the Groups system of internal control and its effectiveness, reporting Anita Frew 4 4 to the Board on the results of this review and receiving Giles Weaver 4 4 regular updates on key risks and controls: Jim Pettigrew 2 2 f reviewing the internal audit department terms of reference, its work programme and regular reports on its work during the year: Remuneration committee The remuneration committee is chaired by Sir Malcolm Rifkind g receiving reports from the Group's head of risk: and and he is supported by three independent non-executive h reviewing the committees terms of reference, carrying directors, Anita Frew, Simon Troughton and Giles Weaver.
All out an annual performance evaluation exercise and members of the committee served throughout the year.
Sir noting the satisfactory operation of the committee.
Malcolm Rifkind will step down as chairman of the committee The committee receives regular reports from the Groups after the conclusion of the 2011 Annual General Meeting external and internal auditors and can, and does, request and will be succeeded by Simon Troughton.
Sir Malcolm has supplementary reports from management to enable it to agreed to continue as a member of the committee.
fulfil its duties under its terms of reference.
The committee The role of the committee is to monitor, review and make met four times during the year, with representatives of senior recommendations to the Board on the Groups remuneration management and KPMG Audit Plc in attendance at each policy, as set out in the report on pages 43 to 52, and to make meeting.
During the year under review, a risk committee recommendations to the Board on the remuneration packages was established to monitor all aspects of the Groups risks.
of the executive directors and other senior employees of the The risk committee is scheduled to hold four meetings per Group.
The committee is also responsible for approving the annum, three of which are to be held on the same days as design of all share incentive plans and for recommending their the meetings of the audit committee, in order to facilitate approval by the Board and by shareholders.
The remuneration appropriate interaction between the two committees.
To committee held ten meetings during the year and details of assist in this interaction, a standing agenda item for the the attendance of the individual members of the committee meetings of the audit committee is to receive an oral report 56 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 are shown in the table below.
In addition, and in accordance Maximum possible Meetings with the requirements of its terms of reference, the members attendance attended of the committee were also consulted on a range of issues Giles Weaver 1 1 during the year, including specific matters related to both Anita Frew 1 1 recruitment and redundancy.
The committee also received updates from the Executive and from the external advisors, Gerhard Fusenig 1 PwC, on a range of relevant topics, including the proposals in Jim Pettigrew 1 1 respect of the introduction of the FSA Remuneration Code.
Maximum possible Meetings Management board attendance attended The operational management of the Group is delegated by Sir Malcolm Rifkind 10 10 the Board to the management board which comprises the executive directors and other heads of department.
Brief Anita Frew 10 10 biographies of its members are provided on page 39.
The Giles Weaver 10 10 management board meets three times each month, has specific Simon Troughton 10 10 terms of reference which have been approved by the Board and has responsibility for implementing the Boards strategy.
Risk Committee Relationships with shareholders Following a review of the Companys corporate governance The Company places great importance on communication arrangements, it was agreed that it would be in the with investors and aims to keep shareholders informed shareholders' and the Company's best interests to establish a by means of regular communication with institutional separate risk committee to review and monitor all aspects of shareholders, analysts and the financial press throughout the the Groups risks.
This committee held its inaugural meeting year.
Annual and interim reports and interim management in July, with a further meeting being held shortly after the statements are widely distributed to other parties who year end.
The committee is chaired by Giles Weaver and he may have an interest in the Groups performance and these is supported by Anita Frew and Jim Pettigrew, each of whom documents, together with copies of investor presentations, are independent non-executives: Gerhard Fusenig was also are also made available on the Companys website.
The appointed to this committee on its formation but, in order to chief executive and finance director make regular reports to comply with the terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board on investor relations and on specific discussions Gerhard, a non independent non-executive director, stepped with major shareholders and the Board receives copies of down from membership after the year end.
all research published on the Company.
Private investors are The committee operates under formal terms of reference and encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which is scheduled to hold four meetings in each year.
Three of the they have an opportunity to ask questions.
audit committee's meetings are held on the same day as the The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all risk committee, in order to facilitate appropriate interaction directors, and the chairmen of each of the Board committees between the two committees.
are available to answer questions.
The senior independent The committee has oversight of the risk management director is always available to shareholders if they have framework and, more specifically, the effectiveness of concerns which contact through the normal channels of risk management, governance and compliance activity chairman, chief executive or finance director has failed within the Group.
The committee will also advise the to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Board on considerations and processes relevant to setting The Company continues to offer major shareholders the the risk appetite and related tolerances.
In addition, the opportunity to meet any or all of the chairman, the senior committee has a responsibility to review the implementation independent director and any new directors.
The Group will of appropriate procedures to identify and control all continue its policy of announcing the number of proxy votes fundamental operational, financial, reputation and regulatory cast on resolutions at the Annual General Meeting and any risks within the Group.
The committee has appointed PwC other general meetings.
to provide independent technical support and advice to the committee and to assist in the development of the risk management framework.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED include procedures for reporting any control failings or Internal control weaknesses to the appropriate level of management The Board recognises the importance of a sound risk together with the details of corrective action.
management solution to safeguard company and client assets, protect the interests of shareholders and stakeholders, and Responsibility lies with the risk management committee, meet its responsibilities as a UK listed and regulated fund operating under terms of reference approved by the Board and management group.
chaired by the group head of risk, for embedding the system of controls within the day-to-day operations of the Group Consequently, the Board and management, have taken steps and maintaining a strong control culture which emphasises to build and continually improve an effective risk management clear management accountabilities.
The committee drives framework and are committed to ensuring that it is embedded the process of reporting and monitoring critical risks, issues within the business and monitored up to Board level.
In and high priority projects.
It serves to reconcile the key risks particular, the audit committee and the recently established and issues identified by the business with those raised by risk committee support the Board in discharging its oversight the Groups monitoring functions and provides assurance duties with regard to internal control, risk management to the Board that risks and issues are adequately escalated and capital adequacy.
In addition, these committees have and managed.
responsibility for ensuring the Group strategy is informed by and aligned with the Boards risk appetite, as set forth in a Membership of the committee comprises executive directors formal Board statement.
The audit committee is responsible and senior management from all business functions.
The for ensuring appropriate internal controls are in place for the committee meetings are also attended by the heads of the financial reporting processes.
The audit committee monitors primary monitoring functions which sit within the risk division the risks and associated controls over the financial reporting and comprise the following: processes, which include those in respect of the consolidation The compliance department reviews the effectiveness of processes.
The financial reporting controls are monitored and controls that ensure compliance with regulatory maintained through the use of internal control frameworks requirements in each jurisdiction in which the Group which address key financial reporting risks, including risks operates.
arising from changes in the business or accounting standards.
Effectiveness is assessed through quarterly self-certification The legal department is responsible for ensuring that the and independent testing of the controls.
The integrity of Group complies with statutory requirements globally.
the Companys external reporting is further supported by a The business risk department is responsible for the number of processes and steps to provide the assurance over management and oversight of both operational risk and the completeness and accuracy of the content, including counterparty risk.
internal management reviews: external verification: reviews by the audit committee and by the board of directors.
The investment risk department covers the risk profiles within the various investment strategies with the The risk management framework includes a sound system of exception of the property portfolios which are managed internal controls that is designed to: by specialist resource within that function.
identify and appraise all risks related to achieving the The internal audit department reviews the effectiveness Groups objectives including all business, operational, of all controls, either by reviewing the methods and reputational, financial and regulatory risks: findings of the other independent monitoring functions, manage and control risk appropriately rather than or by directly auditing the controls operated by eliminate it: management.
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against The heads of these functions each report to the group head material misstatement or loss: of risk who, in turn, reports to the chief executive and also attends and reports at meetings of the board of directors, the ensure the appropriate internal controls are embedded risk and the audit committees.
The head of internal audit, within the business processes and form part of the however, reports to the audit committee and has unrestricted Groups culture which emphasises clear management access to the chairman of the audit committee.
responsibility and accountabilities: respond quickly to evolving risks within the Group and the external business environment: and 58 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of Managing CSR at Aberdeen internal controls and the ongoing management of significant The Group CSR programme begins with and is driven by the matters.
Various reports addressing the effectiveness and Board of directors.
This senior level commitment is invaluable embedding of the risk management framework and system for helping make CSR a focal point for the business.
Assisting of internal controls are regularly submitted to the Board or to the Board is the CSR steering committee which comprises the one of the Board committees.
The Board is also responsible heads for each of the seven pillar areas: corporate governance, for the internal capital adequacy assessment process, a responsible investing, the environment, people and human document required by the UK regulator, which summarises rights, health and safety, supplier issues, and community the risk management framework and regulatory capital charitable activities.
The steering committee meets regularly requirements of the UK regulated entities.
A year end annual and reports to the Board on all aspects of the Group's risk control report is reported to the Board summarising the activities in these areas.
control environment and oversight framework reported during The Group has adopted an embryonic approach to the the year.
Identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups development of the CSR pillars by establishing each pillar significant risks is an ongoing process, which is in accordance within the UK first before expanding to the other regions.
with the Turnbull guidance and which is regularly reviewed All regions are collaborating to establish best practice and by the Board and has been in place throughout the year to consistency in the Group's approach.
30 September 2010 and up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
The CSR programme will expand over the next year and the Group will continue to engage with stakeholders on these Corporate responsibility issues.
In particular, targets are being delivered and KPIs for the most significant CSR activities across each of the As part of the Groups corporate responsibility, the Board regions.
The Group aims to include these KPIs in the 2010 takes account of the significance of environmental, social 2011 reporting information and these will help the Group to and governance ESG matters that are of importance to realise continuous improvement in the CSR programme.
Primary responsibility for these matters rests with Andrew Laing, the deputy chief executive, however reporting to the Board will come from a number of sources Stewardship including the Group risk division via the Groups automated The Group invests for its clients portfolios in companies risk management framework.
The Board has identified and globally and actively seeks to invest in those companies assessed the significant ESG risks to the Groups short and with sound corporate governance practices.
The Group long-term value, as well as the opportunities to enhance value is committed to exercising responsible ownership with that may arise from an appropriate response.
a conviction that companies adopting best practices in corporate governance will be more successful in their core The Board confirms that it has received sufficient information activities and deliver enhanced returns to shareholders.
The to make this assessment and that account is taken of the ESG Group complies with the principles of the UK Stewardship matters in the induction and training of directors.
The Board is Code and full details on how it discharges its stewardship of the opinion that the Group has effective systems in place responsibilities are set out on the Group website.
for managing and mitigating significant risks which, where relevant, incorporate performance management systems and The Group's corporate governance principles provide a appropriate remuneration incentives.
framework for investment analysis, engagement and proxy voting for investee companies worldwide and are set out on As previously stated, the most important ESG matters of the Group's website.
The Group recognises its obligation to relevance to the Group are employee retention and client monitor its investee companies and to participate actively relationships.
The Board has received specific reports from in the corporate governance process.
In the Group's active the executive on each of these matters, identifying the equity business, corporate governance and engagement risks and the issues and have taken steps to ensure that are key components of the investment process.
A review of they are managed in an appropriate manner.
In addition, it the corporate governance practices of a potential investee is recognised that the Groups activities do have an impact company is part of the initial screening process and an on the environment and the Group remains committed investment will only be made after meeting with the to minimising waste and using energy efficiently, thus management team.
After investing in a company, regular aiming to reduce the negative impact of our operations on meetings are held with management to discuss strategic, the environment.
Full details are contained in the Group's operational and governance matters.
Engagement is therefore Corporate Social Responsibility CSR report, which is available embedded in the investment process which is reinforced with on the Group's website and on the CSR website, at all voting decisions being taken by the Group's investment www.
The Group endeavours to exercise proxy votes at Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED all shareholder meetings where authorised to so by clients Health and safety and periodically reports on its proxy voting decisions, The Group continues to recognise that the maintenance of engagement activities and findings to clients who request high standards of health & safety management is imperative that information.
Details of the proxy voting decisions taken to ensure the welfare of its employees and external visitors.
at shareholder meetings of investee companies are posted In order to comply with health and safety regulations regular on the Group website.
external training is provided to key members of staff with all other staff receiving in-house training.
The Group is also The Group also provides socially responsible investment committed to improving and building on this and to that end services to meet the demand from clients who want their have developed the health and safety section on the internal investments to reflect an ethical bias.
During the year database and have expanded the training provided as part of under review, the Group engaged in dialogue with over 150 the induction process.
companies to improve our understanding of their ESG issues.
Environment People The Group's environment committee is responsible The Group has over 1,800 employees worldwide and for coordinating all environmental activities across the recognises that their involvement is key to the future success business and reporting to the CSR steering committee.
The people and human rights committee Since September 2009, the environment committee, comprises representatives from each of the Group's business which is headed by the global head of infrastructure, has regions and ensures that the policies and procedures reflect made impressive progress towards improving the Groups best practice in each of the countries in which the Group environmental performance.
Global policies, including those on employment and equal opportunities are detailed on the Group's website at The Group rewrote its environmental policy in November www.
2008 and has been proactive in communicating this with staff, stakeholders, suppliers, contractors and the public.
The Equal opportunities Group has put in place systems, procedures, objectives, and monitoring programmes to help it work within the parameters The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities, set out in its policy.
both for existing employees and for new applicants, and seeks to ensure that the workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, The Group has developed an environmental management the diversity of the many communities in which the system EMS which was initially based in the UK, aligned to Group operates.
It is the Groups policy to give full and fair BS EN ISO 14001:2004.
This has helped provide a framework consideration to applications for employment from disabled for all its environmental initiatives already in place.
The persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and development of the EMS has given the Group a greater abilities.
For the purposes of training, career development and understanding of the actual and potential impact of the promotion, disabled employees, including anyone who may Group operations and activities, both locally and globally.
become disabled during the course of his or her employment, During the year, the Group has rolled out its EMS to all of the are treated on equal terms with other employees.
The Group regions in which it operates.
The Group's aim is to achieve operates a zero tolerance policy to harassment and bullying.
the highest possible standards for its operations, while Details of the Groups equal opportunities policy is available considering the differences across the regions of the world in on the Companys website and this policy is supplemented which it operates.
by specific policies that reflect local employment legislation and expectations.
To support this and facilitate the implementation of initiatives locally, the Group has established regional environmental committees in the UK, USA, Asia, and Australia.
Through the development of the Group's EMS, a broad range of objectives has been set relating to: waste management: energy utilities: business travel: facilities, suppliers and contractors: and other business considerations.
The Group's initiatives and objectives have been implemented at both global and regional levels and are communicated to staff through the committees and through a regular environmental newsletter.
60 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Energy consumption Travel Building on the Group's work in previous years, reducing the The Group now monitors business travel and this information energy intensity of its operations is a key objective within is being used to inform the development of a business case the EMS.
In addition to estimating the carbon footprint for for investment in technologies such as video conferencing and the Group's UK offices, the Group has undertaken a number teleconferencing in its UK, Philadelphia and Singapore offices.
of initiatives to reduce its energy consumption.
For example, The Group has also implemented a cycle to work scheme for during the reporting period, the Group has trialled and its UK based staff.
implemented software to ensure that, where possible, all PCs are switched off outside of business hours.
Carbon management The Group's move to a new London office took place during This is a key priority within the Group's EMS and it has the year under review, hence it is not possible to compare calculated its carbon footprint for its UK operations.
The like-for-like energy consumption with previous years data.
Group monitors its scope 1 direct emissions resulting However, the Group has worked to calculate the CO 2 from activities within its control, and its scope 2 indirect emissions from its UK office network, and the Group has emissions from electricity, heat or steam purchased and used.
estimated its scope 1 and 2 emissions for the period to be 4.23 tonnes CO per FTE.
As in previous years, the Group has 2 Water consumption submitted information on its CO emissions to the Carbon 2 Disclosure Project and, this year, has also registered under The Group recognises the importance of water conservation, the Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy and, in the past, has established a number of initiatives to Efficiency Scheme.
encourage this, including the use of sensors in taps and reduced flow mechanisms.
The Group will continue to work Data for the reporting year on electricity consumption at to ensure that all offices have proactive measures in place to Bow Bells House, the Group's new London office, is now reduce water consumption on an ongoing basis.
The Group available, meaning that it is possible to compare this with the does not have access to data on water consumption across all equivalent information for the Group's old premises at Bow its offices due, primarily, to shared occupancy.
In previous years, the Group has reported on total energy consumption for Bow Churchyard, however it is not yet Waste possible to provide this information for Bow Bells House due to the way in which the gas usage is re-charged by the landlord.
The Group undertook a review of waste disposal arrangements across its UK sites to identify the potential for improvements The graph below demonstrates that although the Group's and ensure consistency in its approach to waste management.
overall electricity consumption has increased as a result of the A number of recycling and monitoring initiations have been move to these larger premises, a small decrease is shown when set up to look to reduce waste.
the respective staffing levels are taken into consideration.
London office electricity consumption Mwh Total electricity consumption Electricity consumption per employee 3000 7 2500 6 5 2000 4 1500 3 1000 2 500 1 0 0 2008 2009 2009 2010 Bow Churchyard Bow Bells House Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Aberdeen was one of five financial services organisations Key Performance Indicators to join forces with Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh to The Group has generated environmental KPIs, for its UK establish the UKs first Financial Risk Academy.
The academy business, using a base year of 2009.
In subsequent years, it will will focus on quantitative risk management, a specialist area be possible to report against this baseline and, where additional that is coming under increased scrutiny by governments, monitoring procedures have been put in place, provide a further national and international regulators, and the public as a breakdown and comparison of different facilities.
consequence of the global financial crisis.
Variable 2009 Absolute figure Relative figure Aberdeen was awarded the Charities Aid Foundation Bronze Carbon footprint 4.23 tonnes Award for its Give as You Earn GAYE scheme in the UK.
UK offices 2,990 tonnes CO CO FTE Through GAYE, Aberdeen offers to match all charitable 2 2 contributions made by employees up to a maximum of Carbon footprint 2.93 tonnes 1,000 per month.
business travel 2,093 tonnes CO CO FTE 2 2 General waste As previously reported, the Group has committed a further A to landfill 9.51 tonnes 29.8 Kg FTE 500,000 to fund the Aberdeen Asset Management Charitable Trust which will seek to formalise the work of the charity Paper card A committee and co-ordinate charitable giving across the Group.
recycled 15.2 tonnes 47.7 Kg FTE A Other recyclables 2.1 tonnes 6.7 Kg FTE A Due to the Group's move to a new London office, information on waste is only included for the Edinburgh, and Queens Terrace and Union Plaza Aberdeen offices.
Community and charity Aberdeen recognises the value of giving back to the communities in which it operates around the world.
The Group concentrates its efforts on smaller charities focused on children, health and supporting older people.
The Group endeavours to engage locally with the communities in which it operates, to maintain a number of national charity relationships and to increase its contribution to international development.
Support can be either financial or in the provision of time or resource.
Throughout the Group, Aberdeen encourages employees personal charitable activities and are delighted to have supported employees' efforts, be it in sporting challenges or by providing time in charitable work.
62 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
