77089 ASCOT TxtV9 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 26 01 2011 15:23 Page 7 Managers Report Introduction Small UK quoted companies performed well in 2010, with the RBS Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index excluding Investment Companies RBS HGSC XIC or the benchmark securing a total return of 28.5%.
A good close to the year took the benchmark above its previous peak in total return terms, which was set on 1 June 2007.
Large companies, as measured by the FTSE All-Share, achieved a 14.5% total return.
ASCoTs NAV total return was 26.6%, higher than that of large companies but below that of the benchmark.
The strong gains enjoyed by equity markets over the past two years have been driven by three factors.
Early 2009 witnessed a powerful relief rally.
The valuations of a significant number of UK businesses reflected the risk of bankruptcy.
However, a series of rights issues served to recapitalise these companies and, by extending the investment horizon, to breathe life into their valuations.
Despite this rally, corporate profits continued to decline through most of 2009 as revenues came under recessionary pressure.
However, management teams reacted promptly with deep restructuring programmes.
Thus, when revenues troughed late in 2009 and began to grow again in 2010, margins recovered sharply, allowing a surprising number of businesses to exceed their previous peak profit levels in 2010 a remarkable feat when viewed in the context of the global financial crisis.
Concurrently, monetary policy has remained extremely accommodative and indeed has proceeded to embrace the unconventional measures termed as quantitative easing.
As central banks have made direct purchases of government debt, bond yields have moved downwards: in the UK, for example, ten year gilt yields declined from 4.0% to 3.4% over the course of 2010.
With government bond yields forming the risk free basis of the discount rates used to value equities, equity valuations may be considered to have benefited.
Investment Background However, the year under review was punctuated by bouts of concern about the sustainability of recovery, notably in May and June, when the RBS HGSC XIC declined by 10%.
Some of the challenges confronting equity markets are described in the following paragraphs.
Western economies have depended on emerging markets in general and China in particular as sources of demand growth through recession and the initial stages of recovery.
However, this reliance on economic imbalances can play both ways.
Inflationary pressures in the emerging world are manifest in renewed commodity price rises.
Of course, higher commodity prices apply too to Western economies, which would also be affected should policymakers in the emerging world move to quell the threat of inflation.
Moving forward, Chinas commitment to its mercantilist growth agenda will be pivotal.
In contrast to the inflationary issues in emerging markets, the focus in the developed world has been on the robustness of recovery and the risk of the notorious double-dip.
In the US, the recovery has seen GDP return close to its peak level at the end of 2007.
Nevertheless, there is concern about pressures on the US consumer sector, which has driven recoveries from earlier recessions.
News on housing and employment has been mixed and has generated considerable short term stockmarket noise.
However, the extension of the Bush administrations tax cuts provides some relief and, clich though it is, writing off the US consumer is dangerous.
Europe has been the frequent focus of worries, with first Greece and then Ireland raising questions about the viability of the single currency.
The markets were still digesting the implications of the Irish bail-out as the year drew to a close, but it is difficult to believe that sovereign debt concerns in the euro zone will be confined to 2010 or to Greece and Ireland.
It is not all bad news, however: the export led economies of Northern Europe notably Germany are together much larger than the troubled PIGS and are benefiting from the euros 7% decline against the dollar in 2010.
In common with many Western economies, with the notable exception to date of the US, the UK has embraced fiscal austerity.
Indeed, the coalition governments plans for public sector retrenchment are among the most drastic yet announced.
This has polarised opinion among economists, including members of the Bank of Englands Monetary Policy Committee, between those who see a looming inflationary threat in persistently high CPI data and those who identify lingering deflationary forces undermining the recovery.
It is too early to judge the merits of the coalitions experiment.
However, the 7 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 26 01 2011 15:23 Page 8 Managers Report key to its success lies in the ability of the corporate sector to take up the strain as the public sector deficit narrows.
In this, the consumer sector may be seen as the wild card: its proclivity to save will be influenced by its perceptions of the success of present economic policy.
Fortunately, the UKs corporate sector is in remarkably good shape, a characteristic shared with other Western economies.
British non-financial companies have in aggregate generated cash, since the first quarter of 2002.
Thus, businesses on the whole were well prepared for the downturn.
And balance sheets have been further strengthened by cost cutting actions and the subsequent pick-up in profitability.
However, companies have not yet proved willing to translate their financial wellbeing into the meaningful pick-up in investment that will ease the economys reliance on the public sector and sustain overall economic growth.
Private sector investment has recovered from its recessionary nadir but remains well below its levels in the years leading up to the credit crunch.
So management teams now find themselves with an intriguing question what to do with their robust balance sheets.
From the point of view of an equity investor, this is not an unpleasant conundrum.
Investment Performance ASCoTs 26.6% NAV total return in 2010 was below the 28.5% achieved by its benchmark.
This result continues a frustrating period of relative performance that can be traced back to 2005.
The following paragraphs provide some explanation for 2010s performance and also draw out themes that help put the longer term into context.
The concluding section of the report, Investment Outlook, then seeks to outline why your Managers believe that the portfolio is well positioned to generate an improvement in relative performance over the next five years.
Your Managers have consistently adhered to a value investment style over the past 20 years.
As a consequence, there have been periods, most notoriously during the TMT boom at the turn of the century, in which relative performance was poor, but overall this value philosophy has assisted ASCoTs returns.
The last five years, including 2010, have been extremely adverse for the value style, favouring instead growth and momentum investors.
This has been less headline-grabbing than was the case during the TMT boom, but research conducted by the London Business School suggests that the current bear market for value stocks has been as deep and more prolonged.
This research shows that value stocks within the RBS HGSC XIC under-performed the benchmark as a whole by 10.8 percentage points in 2010 and by 34.0 percentage points over the last five years.
Though not insurmountable through good stock selection, this has represented a major headwind to the value investor.
A related impact is that of size.
It may seem strange for a small cap manager to alight on this influence, but the RBS HGSC XIC, which represents the bottom 10% of the total market capitalisation of the UK stockmarket, now takes in a significant portion of the FTSE 250 index.
Indeed, with the largest company in the benchmark boasting a market capitalisation of 1.3bn, mid cap companies account for over 72% of the total value of the RBS HGSC XIC.
In contrast, ASCoTs portfolio has moved steadily more underweight the FTSE 250 component of the benchmark over the past five years to the extent that its exposure stood at 44% at the end of 2010.
This has proved ill-timed: the FTSE 250 has outstripped the FTSE SmallCap by 58% over the past five years, including out-performance of 12% in 2010.
There are several factors that may have contributed to the substantially better returns from the larger small companies.
A precise quantification is difficult but your Managers maintain that they have not had to compromise in terms of fundamentals, such as growth and profitability, when investing in the smaller small companies.
The more significant influence has been on a technical level.
Mid caps have benefited from rising trading volumes and stockmarket liquidity over the past decade, as hedge funds and long-only managers sought to diversify risk within portfolios dominated by larger companies.
In this process, smaller small companies were left behind, exaggerating the customary discount that reflects their lower liquidity.
It is this widening discount, which amounted to 20% on a forward PE basis at the end of the year, that your Managers have been seeking to exploit in reallocating capital from larger small companies to smaller small companies.
8 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 26 01 2011 15:23 Page 9 Managers Report The following table is an attribution analysis, setting out the various contributions to ASCoTs relative NAV performance through 2010.
For the twelve months ended 31 December 2010 Basis Points Stock selection 255 Based on mid-prices } Sector selection 41 Attributable to the portfolio of investments after transaction costs of 54 basis points 296 Movement in mid to bid price spread 18 Cash gearing 171 Purchase of Ordinary Shares 9 Management fee charged 82 Other expenses 8 Total attribution based on bid-prices 188 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total attribution is the difference between the total return of the net asset value and the Benchmark Index i. e. net asset value 26.61%: Benchmark Index 28.49%: difference is 1.88% being 188 basis points.
Overall sector selection made a small negative contribution to relative performance.
One of the stockmarkets strongest themes over recent years, and one that has intensified during the recovery phase, has been the out-performance of businesses with high exposure to emerging markets, which continued to grow while the developed markets languished.
This trend has benefited the commodity sectors and capital goods companies.
The portfolio was under-weight in commodity sectors: the companies available within the benchmark often have valuations that are highly dependent on the resilience of underlying commodity prices and, at an early stage of development, tend to consume cash.
Compensating for this positioning was the portfolios large over-weighting in capital goods, which benefit from similar demand drivers but which also boast more attractive cash dynamics.
However, the stockmarkets fondness for this emerging markets trade opened up sizeable valuation differentials with domestically oriented businesses.
Consistent with their value investment disciplines, your Managers therefore moved capital into sectors such as Media and General Retailers through the year.
Stock selection made a negative contribution.
This impact should be assessed within the context of the comment on investment style made above.
Within each sector, your Managers value investment philosophy tends to drive capital into stocks sitting on lower valuations.
This does not mean that the quality of the underlying business or its growth prospects are ignored.
It does mean that in the trade-off of value and growth, your Managers will, as they always have, emphasise the former.
However, the stockmarket, as already described, has preferred those businesses with higher growth profiles in the current environment of economic uncertainty: i. e. genuine growth has attracted a scarcity premium.
This dynamic has exaggerated the value stretch within the benchmark: the relatively narrow band of companies perceived to have reliable growth prospects has seen its premium to the apparently dreary majority expand.
The strong absolute returns from ASCoTs portfolio meant that its gearing enhanced NAV performance over 2010.
While many of the companies in which ASCoT invests might be described as out of fashion for the present mood of the stockmarket, their underlying performance has been robust, consistent with the benefits of economic recovery and rapid cost cutting previously described.
A demonstration of this fundamental progress is the portfolios dividend experience in 2010.
The following table classifies ASCoTs 88 investee companies at the year end by their most recent dividend action: Band Nil IPOs Down Flat 0-10% 10-20% 20% No.
of holdings 15 33 23 16 11 17 The Nil category includes those companies that did not pay a dividend in 2010.
Six of these can be termed structural nil payers, typically technology businesses at a relatively early stage of development.
The other nine may be considered cyclical nil payers that will come back to the dividend register once 9 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 26 01 2011 15:23 Page 10 Managers Report their profits recover.
This latter phenomenon is relevant to the wider small company universe and can have a meaningful effect on aggregate reported dividend growth.
Of the three holdings in the IPO category, two are expected to go on to pay dividends.
Three companies cut their dividends, which is not an abnormal incidence even in steadier economic conditions.
The positive aspect of the analysis is the number of companies in the three right hand columns: 44 companies chose to increase their dividends, some by a significant amount.
Going into recession, your Managers emphasised the tactic of being paid to wait for the eventual upturn: a sustainable dividend yield can provide some compensation in periods of difficult trading.
In the event, 2009 turned out to be the worst for dividends in the RBS HGSC XIC s history.
ASCoTs portfolio fared less badly, but there were nevertheless some disappointing dividend decisions.
The turnaround encapsulated in the preceding analysis is therefore welcome and is indicative of the rapid cost reductions implemented by management teams last year.
The dividend recovery has come earlier than your Managers had expected at the start of 2010 and is clearly supportive of ASCoTs income account.
As described previously, the corporate sector in the UK is in a relatively healthy position, with strong cash flows and balance sheets.
These are characteristics that are shared by the small company universe and by ASCoTs portfolio, and that no doubt assisted company boards in deciding to increase dividends.
Entering 2011, almost 40% of the portfolio was invested in companies with net cash on their balance sheets at the end of 2010.
This positioning hindered relative returns in 2009 as many highly geared businesses enjoyed a powerful bounce in their share prices.
However, in 2010 the impact of balance sheet structure was less pronounced and, indeed, the share prices of several of the indebted businesses that performed so strongly in 2009 slipped back.
Moving forward, your Managers are retaining the portfolios bias to strong balance sheets.
This is less for defensive reasons and more as a result of the stockmarkets current reluctance to look beyond the extremely low returns from cash.
Crucially, cash affords businesses a degree of competitive advantage over rivals still focused on balance sheet repair and also gives flexibility to make acquisitions or return capital to shareholders.
It is not your Managers preference to see substantial balances of net cash reside on balance sheets indefinitely: pressure will mount to deploy cash in a profitable fashion for shareholders.
M&A activity within the RBS HGSC XIC in 2010 picked up from the depressed levels of 2009, but, with 16 deals completed, was still some way short of the 50 per annum average over the preceding five years.
However, the average deal size rose markedly and, entering 2011, a number of deals were awaiting completion.
Echoing previous cycles, the predators have included large American companies, which typically trade on higher valuations than their smaller UK peers and, at the current time, benefit from the weakness of sterling.
The conditions for a further recovery in M&A and fide-equitisation in general are in place.
As already noted, companies are under pressure to utilise their strong balance sheets.
Moreover, the gap between the cost of debt and the cost of equity is wide: at the end of 2010, the BBB sterling 5- 7 year corporate bond yield stood at 5%, whereas the portfolios prospective ratio of pre tax and interest profit to enterprise value was 13%.
Valuations within the small company universe are attractive, particularly down the scale of market capitalisations.
This has led to often exaggerated bid premiums to prevailing stockmarket valuations but it has also invited some opportunistic approaches.
So, while the scope for more M&A ought to be of relative advantage to ASCoT as it has been in the past, your Managers are mindful of balancing the short term fillip from acquisitions to relative performance against the intrinsic value of the underlying businesses.
Investment Outlook From a top down perspective, it is not difficult to identify a series of challenges to the current recovery in developed economies.
The process of deleveraging already underway is inherently deflationary.
Policy makers thus confront a tricky balancing act as demand from the public sector is reduced and the willingness of the private sector to take up the slack is still unclear.
Complicating matters is the experiment with the unconventional tool of quantitative easing, whose effectiveness is compromised by a transmission mechanism, the banking system, whose focus remains on balance sheet repair.
Furthermore, unlike previous recoveries, there is the emerging markets dimension: China in particular has played a crucial role in fostering recovery to date and will remain a key influence on demand in Western economies.
Intriguingly, in the face of these challenges, 2010 drew to a close with a series of more positive economic data releases in the US.
These coincided with renewed strength in industrial commodity prices and with a marked change in sentiment within major government bond markets.
For illustration, ten year treasury yields 10 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 26 01 2011 15:23 Page 11 Managers Report in the US, which had declined steadily through most of the year, rose from 2.4% to 3.3% through the fourth quarter.
The majority of this increase was driven by higher real yields, rather than by expectations of increased inflation, which can be interpreted as an indication of stronger real economic growth.
While such a development perhaps says more about where bond yields themselves had got to, the implications for equities are more positive: the increase in the risk free rate is offset by the prospect of a more robust outlook for growth.
However, it is helpful to bear in mind that ASCoT invests in businesses rather than economies.
The corporate sectors in many developed markets are in robust health, both in absolute terms and relative to the other parts of the economy.
This is certainly the case in the UK and, most relevantly, in the small company universe.
The range of companies available to ASCoT during this upturn is very different from those that populated the benchmark in the recovery from the recession in the early 1990s.
The intervening hollowingout of UK industry has left a collection of survivors with international-facing businesses: roughly half of the revenues generated by portfolio companies in 2010 came from outside the UK.
The corporate sector is in a fascinating position.
In simple terms, it has two choices.
The first, no doubt favoured by policy makers, is to take the strain from the public sector, using their balance sheets and cash flows to invest for future growth.
The second is to sit tight, enjoying the current period of margin expansion, allowing balance sheets to strengthen further and participating, one way or the other, in renewed fideequitisation.
While the merits of these can be debated, perhaps the most important point is that companies do have a choice: either scenario could be supportive of good returns for equity investors.
Of course, the probability of good returns is enhanced by attractive starting valuations.
ASCoTs portfolio would seem well positioned, as the table below suggests.
31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Characteristics ASCoT Benchmark ASCoT Benchmark Number of companies 88 430 87 448 Weighted average market capitalisation 424m 696m 368m 619m Price earnings ratio historic 11.8x 13.7x 8.1x 11.2x Dividend yield historic 2.5% 2.4% 3.2% 2.7% Dividend cover historic 3.4x 3.0x 3.9x 3.3x ASCoTs portfolio ended the year on a historic dividend yield of 2.5%.
The decline from last years 3.2% was driven by a rise in the portfolios value over the twelve months and by trading activity.
Working in the opposite direction was the positive dividend experience described previously.
The outlook for continued growth in dividends is supported by the return of cyclical nil payers to the dividend register and by the portfolios dividend cover of 3.4x, which is almost 40% above the average over ASCoTs 20 year life.
The historic PE ratio was 14% below that of the RBS HGSC XIC at the end of the year.
This compares with an average discount over ASCoTs history of 8%.
In absolute terms, ASCoTs PE of 11.8x compares with a 20 year average of 13.0x and, given that profits are still recovering, might be considered low at this stage of the cycle.
However, with the presently low levels of return from cash, PE ratios struggle to capture the crucial cash dynamic previously described in this report.
The EV EBITA i. e. enterprise value to profit before interest, tax and amortisation, which is your Managers key valuation metric in the investment process, adds some colour.
Actual Forecast Forecast EV EBITA 2009 2010 2011 ASCoT 9.8x 9.2x 7.7x The table above sets out the EV EBITA progression for the year end portfolio.
There are two factors driving the decline in the ratio: first, profits are expected to grow: and, second, the enterprise value is anticipated to decline as retained cash flows reduce debt or increase cash.
These low valuations, underpinned as they are by strong cash generation at present levels of profitability, might offer some downside protection in the event of a deterioration in trading conditions, or if, indeed, growth forecasts simply prove too ambitious.
However, low absolute and relative valuations have not necessarily served ASCoT well over recent years.
The key question is what can translate these attractive valuations into improved relative investment performance 11 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 26 01 2011 15:23 Page 12 Managers Report going forward.
Though timing is near impossible to call, your Managers identify three factors worthy of consideration.
As described in the Investment Performance section of this report, the influences of style and size have acted as headwinds to ASCoTs relative performance over the last five years.
This is unusual in a longer term context, as the following analysis, based on data from the London Business School, demonstrates: Total return pa 5 years 10 years 20 years Since 1955 RBS HGSC 7.5% 7.8% 11.1% 15.5% Value component 1.8% 11.1% 13.3% 19.4% Small component 5.0% 8.6% 11.3% 17.4% Extended HGSC XIC from 1980 & HGSC for prior dates In terms of both depth and duration, the present bear market for value stocks and small stocks within the benchmark is without precedent over the last 55 years.
Your Managers biased as they are by their value investment philosophy contend that over the medium term the odds are that the present style and size headwinds will swing to become tailwinds.
Through the recession, profits growth naturally became more difficult to find.
The valuations of companies capable of consistent growth therefore attained a scarcity premium.
This premium has been sustained through the early stages of recovery as markets have continued to fret about the fragility of the upturn and the threat of a double-dip.
If, however, the recovery holds, the need to pay up for growth might reasonably be considered to diminish.
This might be accompanied by a lengthening of the markets investment horizon, easing the present extreme aversion to perceived illiquidity and focusing attention on neglected smaller small companies.
In these circumstances, cheaper and smaller stocks might enjoy a re-rating.
Through the mid 1990s, the stockmarkets focus was on large companies that were getting larger through mega mergers.
Small companies as a consequence languished.
The trigger that set off a twelve year period of out-performance by the RBS HGSC XIC was M&A: with stockmarket investors reluctant to venture into the small company world, other corporates and private equity houses stepped up to exploit the valuation opportunities.
And, as noted previously, the conditions for a renewed phase of M&A would appear to be in place.
Ultimately, the precise catalyst for a change in the stockmarkets appetites is difficult to identify in advance.
For your Managers, as value investors, the key point is that the portfolio is demonstrably cheap in relation both to its own history and to the benchmark.
This value advantage has been achieved by investing in a collection of sound and profitable businesses that have been overlooked owing to their size or inability to generate serial upgrades to their earnings estimates.
Thus, in your Managers judgement, there has been little compromise in terms of the quality required in securing the portfolios valuation characteristics.
The investment principles by which the portfolio has been constructed are essentially the same as those that have driven ASCoTs successful long term record.
While relative performance more recently has been disappointing, your Managers are confident that these principles are the basis for an improvement in ASCoTs fortunes in coming years.
Aberforth Partners LLP Managers 26 January 2011 12
