David Stevens, Admiral Group Chief Operating Offi cer, reports on the UK car insurance market.
UK Car Insurance David Stevens, CBE market review Chief Operating Offi cer I am told that in surfi ng slang, a double-up reassurance is that we gained our highest ever rank occurs when two waves combine to create an extra in the Sunday Times Best Companies to Work For powerful wave.
In 2010, Admiral enjoyed a pumpin 2011 survey.
We came ninth, up from sixteenth in double-up, a high adrenalin combination of 2010. continued rapid growth in sales via price comparison The rapid growth of the business in 2010 fed and a dramatic hike in car insurance prices.
through to the bottom line.
Theres a strong link The ghastliness of the market results on 2009 at between customer numbers and ancillary revenues, 123% combined, the exhaustion of material reserve so a record number of policyholders led to our cushions for most players and the lack of investment highest ever level of ancillary income 142 million.
income led some smaller competitors to exit and Higher volumes and higher average premium per most bigger ones to increase rates dramatically policy 8% on an earned basis, 16% on a written during 2010.
HSBC closed down their largely broker basis helped us to our lowest ever expense ratio, business with a valedictory combined ratio of over and to a record underwriting profi t of 53 million.
200%, and RBSI fi nally put their broker-distributed The time lag between our increases in average book of private motor out of its misery with the written premiums translating into higher average withdrawal of NIG.
The pain wasnt limited to earned premiums, and our conservative approach broker-sourced business.
Quinn, the higher to early year reserving means that the profi t impact premium direct specialist, went into administration of an improving claims ratio is yet to impact fully in March.
More importantly, the bigger players our reported profi ts.
concluded enough was enough and pushed through Ultimately, waves always break the rate of growth a series of rate increases.
Overall new business in price comparison sales will slow, the cycle will prices rose by well over 30%, and some segments, always turn.
Some of our competitors will rely on notably younger drivers, saw increases of over 50%.
the market-wide cyclical turn to fl oat them back to Our challenge throughout the year was to handle marginal, and probably temporary, profi tability, but the resulting fl ood of new business that came our others may have used the shock of recent losses as way, despite our own rapid, if slightly lagging, price a catalyst to reinvent themselves as leaner, cleverer increases.
Our own rates rose by just over 25% competitors.
Our own challenge will be twofold.
across new business and renewals during the year.
Firstly, to be as effi cient, as nimble and as pleasant a place to work while insuring one in every ten The number of vehicles insured by Admiral rose by cars in the UK, as we were when we only insured 32% during 2010.
That sort of growth carries risks one in every twenty.
The second will be to spot in any business, but particularly in an insurance the next wave a-coming and line up the board business.
Admiral employed 800 more people at in preparation.
the end of the year than at the beginning itself a joy in these diffi cult economic times.
By year end, over a third of our staff had been with us for less than a year.
It is a tribute to the quality and enthusiasm of our managers, from team managers upwards, and of those new recruits, that the business has coped so well with this very substantial increase in its size.
An increase in our customer retention ratios, 32% despite the substantial year-on-year rate increases, and a further reduction in the average time taken to The number of UK settle a claim are two examples of the measures vehicles insured that reassure us that these new staff are reinforcing, by Admiral rose by and not diluting, our success.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 15
