Keith James, OBE 66 Chief Operating Offi cer Non-Executive Director David is a founder Director of Admiral.
Initially the Keith was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Marketing Director, he was appointed Director December 2002.
He is Chairman of the Nominations responsible for pricing in 1995 and claims and pricing Committee and is also the independent Chairman of in 1999.
He was appointed as Chief Operating Offi cer Admiral Insurance Company Limited and Inspop.
He joined Admiral in 1991 from McKinsey & Limited.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Julian Co. where he worked in the Financial Interest Group, Hodge Bank Limited and Hodge Life Assurance London offi ce.
Prior to working for McKinsey & Co, Company Limited and is Non-Executive Chairman of he worked for Cadbury Schweppes in the United International Greetings plc.
He is a solicitor and was Kingdom and the United States.
David has an MBA the Chairman of Eversheds LLP from June 1995 to from INSEAD.
David was awarded a CBE in 2010 for April 2004.
He was a Non-Executive Director of Bank services to business and the community in Wales.
of Wales plc between 1988 and 2001 and AXA Insurance Company Limited between 1992 and 2000.
Lucy Kellaway 51 Keith was awarded an OBE in 2005 for services to Non-Executive Director business and the community in Wales.
Lucy joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in September 2006.
She is the management columnist 10.
John Sussens 65 on the Financial Times and author of various books.
Non-Executive Director In 20 years on the FT she has been oil correspondent, John was appointed the Senior Independent a Lex columnist and Brussels correspondent.
Non-Executive Director in August 2004, and is Lucy also joined the Nominations Committee on Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is also appointment to the Board.
a Non-Executive Director of Cookson plc and Anglo & Overseas Trust Plc.
He was the Group Managing 6.
Manfred Aldag 60 Director of Misys plc between 1998 and May 2004 Non-Executive Director having been on the Board of the Company since 1989.
Manfred was appointed a Non-Executive Director Prior to joining Misys, he was Manufacturing Director of the Company in 2003 as a representative of at JC Bamford Excavators Limited.
He graduated from the University of Executive Director at Chubb plc between 2001 and Essen and has a degree in Economics Business 2003.
He has worked for Munich Re since September 1981 and is currently 11.
Colin Holmes 45 the Chief Executive Manager responsible for United Non-Executive Director Kingdom Ireland.
Colin was appointed a Non-Executive Director in December 2010 and joined the Audit and 7.
Margaret Johnson 52 Remuneration Committees upon appointment.
Non-Executive Director Colin is a Chartered Management Accountant and Margaret was appointed Non-Executive Director of has over 20 years of fi financial, commercial and the Company in September 2006.
She is currently operational experience gained through a number of Group CEO of the international advertising agency executive positions within Tesco plc.
Until recently, he Leagas Delaney and has been with that Company for was Tescos UK Commercial Director for Fresh Foods the past 14 years.
Margaret joined the Groups Audit and a member of the Group Executive Committee of and Remuneration Committees on appointment to Tesco plc.
Colin has also been an independent the Board.
Non-Executive Director on the Board of Bovis Homes Group plc since 2006 and Chairman of their 8.
Martin Jackson 62 Remuneration Committee since 2008.
Non-Executive Director Martin was appointed Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in August 2004.
He was the Group Finance Director of Friends Provident plc between 2001 and 2003 and Friends Provident Life Offi ce between 1999 and 2001.
Prior to that he was the Group Finance Director at London & Manchester Group plc from 1992 to 1998, up to the date of its acquisition by Friends Provident Life Offi ce.
Martin is also a Non-Executive Director of IG Group Holdings plc, Homeserve Membership Limited and Rothesay Life Limited.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Key: Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member Nominations Committee member Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 35 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and the Charitable and political donations audited fi financial statements for the year ended During the year the Group donated 168,000 2009: 31December 2010.
147,000 to various local and national charities.
The Group has never made political donations.
Refer to Business review the Business review for further details.
The Company is the holding Company for the Admiral Group of companies.
The Groups principal Employee policies activity continues to be the selling and Detailed information on the Groups employment administration of private motor insurance and practices is set out in the business review.
Group purchases appropriate liability insurance for all staff and Directors.
The information that fulfi ls the requirements of the Business review, as required by Section 417 of the Creditor payment policy Companies Act 2006, and which should be treated It is the policy of the Group to pay all purchase as forming part of this report by reference are invoices by their due date, and appropriate quality included in the following sections of the measures are in place to monitor and encourage Annual Report: this.
At the end of the year outstanding invoices represented 16 days purchases 2009: 15.
Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Contractual arrangements Business review The Group considers its co-insurance and reinsurance contracts, as described in the Business Group results and dividends review section on page 12, to be essential to The profi t for the year, after tax but before dividends, the running of the Groups business.
No other amounted to 193.6 million 2009: 156.9 million.
contractual arrangements are considered to The Directors declared and paid dividends of be essential.
164.7 million during 2010 2009: 142.4 million Additional information for shareholders refer to note 13 for further details.
Where not provided previously in this Directors The Directors have declared a fi final dividend report, the following provides the additional of 95.3 million 35.5 pence per share, payable information required for shareholders as a result of on 10June 2011. the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK law.
Share capital Refer to the Business review for the disclosure At 31 December 2010, the Companys issued share of substantial shareholdings in accordance with capital comprised a single class of shares referred Chapter 5 of the Transparency and Disclosure rules.
Details of the share capital and shares issued during the year can be found in Financial Instruments note 26.
The objectives and policies for managing risks in relation to fi financial instruments held by the Group On a show of hands at a general meeting of the are set out in note 17 to the fi financial statements.
Company every holder of shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a Directors and their interests poll, every member present in person or by proxy The present Directors of the Company are shown on and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every pages 34 and 35 of this report, whilst Directors ordinary share held.
The notice of the general interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 51 and 52.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 36 meeting specifi es deadlines for exercising voting Appointments of Directors rights either by proxy notice or present in person The Companys Articles of Association the or by proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed Articles give the Directors power to appoint and at general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference of and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation the Nomination Committee, any appointment must to each resolution are announced at the Annual be recommended by the Nominations Committee General Meeting AGM and published on the for approval by the Board of Directors.
The Articles Companys website after the meeting.
also require Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the fi first AGM following There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary appointment and all Directors who held offi ce at shares in the Company other than: the time of the two preceding AGMs, to submit certain restrictions may from time to time be themselves for re-election.
imposed by laws and regulations for example, However, in accordance with the requirement under insider trading laws : and the UK Corporate Governance Code for annual pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial election of Directors and best practice guidance Services Authority whereby certain employees that has been issued, all Directors will submit of the Company require the approval of the themselves for re-election at the Groups AGM on Company to deal in the Companys securities 6May 2011.
The Company has not purchased any of its own Articles of Association shares during the period.
The Articles may only be amended by special There are no agreements between the Company resolution of the shareholders.
and its Directors or employees providing for Power of the Directors compensation for loss of offi ce or employment The Directors are responsible for managing the whether through resignation, purported business of the Company and may exercise all redundancy or otherwise that occurs because powers of the Company subject to the provisions of of a takeover bid.
relevant statutes, to any directions given by special There are a number of agreements that alter resolution and to the Companys Memorandum and or terminate upon a change of control of the Articles.
The Articles for example, contain specifi c Company following a takeover bid, such as provisions and restrictions concerning the commercial contracts.
None is considered to be Companys power to borrow money.
Powers signifi cant in terms of their impact on the business relating to the issuing of new shares are also of the Group as a whole except for the long-term included in the Articles and such authorities are co-insurance agreement in place with Great Lakes renewed by shareholders at the AGM each year.
Details relating to this Annual General Meeting agreement are contained in the business review.
It is proposed that the next AGM be held at Cardiff Power to issue shares City Hall, Cathays Park, Cardiff CF10 3ND on Friday At the last AGM, held on 28April2010, authority 6 May 2011 at 3.00pm, notice of which will be sent was given to the Directors to allot unissued relevant to shareholders with the Annual Report.
securities in the Company up to a maximum of an Directors responsibilities amount equivalent to one third of the shares in The Directors are responsible for preparing the issue.
This authority expires on the date of the AGM Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company to be held on 6May 2011 and the Directors will fi financial statements, in accordance with applicable seek to renew this authority for the following year.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting Company law requires the Directors to prepare granted authority to the Directors to allot equity Group and Parent Company fi financial statements for securities in the Company up to a maximum of 5% each fi financial year.
Under that law they are required of the issued share capital of the Company for to prepare the Group fi financial statements in cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions accordance with International Financial Reporting of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority also Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and expires on the date of the AGM to be held on applicable law and have elected to prepare the 6May2011 and the Directors will seek to renew this Parent Company fi financial statements in accordance authority for the following year.
with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 37
