com celebrates launch of pet insurance Comparison with hot dogs for all staff.
What we do In the UK In Europe Confused.
com is an insurance and fi financial We have three price comparison businesses services comparison website operating outside the UK: Operating in the UK, the site allows consumers In Spain, Rastreator launched in 2009 offers to compare a range of general insurance and comparison on motor, home, motorcycle and fi financial services products across price and policy life insurance benefi ts LeLynx in France launched January 2010 Confuseds income is primarily generated via offers comparison on a similar range of products commissions paid by the product provider on the Chiarezza in Italy launched February 2010 sale of an insurance policy or fi financial product currently offers comparison on motor Confused is one of the UKs leading car and insurance only home insurance comparison websites Price Comparison Strategy UK Europe Confuseds strategy is to become the comparison A key part of the Groups overall strategy is website of choice in the UK for fi financial products, to exploit its UK expertise in insurance and and to maximise the value to the business of price comparison and expand this overseas each customer relationship To date we have targeted three markets Spain, France, Italy, and we now have comparison websites alongside car insurers operational in these markets Success in delivering against the strategy is measured against a large number of key performance indicators which are common across the UK and international businesses.
These include quote volumes, conversion rates, sales volumes, income per sale, revenue per customer and cost per sale.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 21 Business review continued ed Launch in France Admirals second Non-UK Price... and in Italy too Comparison site LeLynx launches Chiarezza, Admirals Italian Price Comparison site in France on 18 January 2010. launches shortly afterwards in February 2010.
Price Comparison Operating expenses were broadly fl at at just under 55 million, meaning Confused delivered an Financial Performance operating profi t of 16.9 million, one third lower Non-GAAP format income statement than 2009s result.
As a consequence of fl at m 2008 2009 2010 expenses and falling revenue, the operating margin percentage fell to 23.5% from 32.0%.
Revenue: Motor 52.9 62.2 59.6 Non-UK Price Comparison Other 13.2 18.3 16.1 Rastreator Total 66.1 80.5 75.7 Having launched in March 2009, Rastreator completed its fi first full year of operation in 2009.
Operating expenses 40.5 55.6 63.6 Revenue totalled 3.3 million, and the loss of 1.0 Operating profi t 25.6 24.9 12.1 million represented an encouraging result after just 22 months in business.
com profi t 25.6 25.7 16.9 Non-UK Price Comparison loss 0.8 4.8 Rastreator increased the range of products on which it offers comparison during 2010, and now 25.6 24.9 12.1 provides quotes on motor, motorcycle, home and UK Price Comparison Confused.
Motor insurance leads account for In 2010, Confused endured its toughest year since over 90% of Rastreators total revenue.
launch, recording falls in market share, revenue LeLynx & Chiarezza and operating profi t. UK price comparison remains Having traded for less than a full year at the end of a fi ercely competitive market, with substantial 2010, fi gures for these two new operations are not amounts spent on advertising by the four main yet signifi cant.
Combined revenue was around 0.6 incumbents.
Chief Financial Offi cer Kevin Chidwick, million, and the two businesses made an aggregate who has Board responsibility for Confused, loss of 3.8 million as they developed market comments further on the market and Confuseds presence through advertising.
Further detail will position within it in his review see opposite.
be provided as the businesses become more Revenue at Confused fell by around 10% to 71.8 signifi cant.
The key cause was Regulatory environment: a disappointing media campaign during the Confused is regulated by the UK FSA as an year which led to falls in market share in motor insurance intermediary and is subject to all relevant and home insurance comparison.
Revenue from mediation rules, including those on solvency capital.
products other than motor insurance totalled 15.9 million 2009: 18.3 million, 22% of the The European operations are all structured as total 2009: 23%.
branches of UK companies, with the UK insurance intermediary permission passported into Europe.
Confused revenue m and profi t % 80 80% 60 60% 40 40% 20 20% 0 0% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Motor insurance revenue Other revenue Operating profit Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 22 Kevin Chidwick, Admiral Group Chief Financial Offi cer, answers some frequently asked questions about our UK Price Comparison business.
com Kevin Chidwick, review Chief Financial Offi cer Q: How did Confused do in 2010?
of our advertising is important, but in the long term Confused had a tough time in 2010.
The main story it is more important that we consistently deliver of the year was the success of our competitors TV a product which gives customers a compelling campaigns and the disappointing results from our reason to use Confused.
That comes from providing own.
The meerkat Compare the Market and the a comparison service that gives customers a opera singer Go Compare both delivered well for comprehensive range of very competitive prices their respective companies, whilst at the same time for the products they want to compare.
And it we rolled out arguably our least successful TV is also about providing a customer experience campaign since Confused began.
We pulled the that is straightforward, quick, and easy to use.
campaign in the middle of the year once the results We are very focused on the quality of the customer became apparent, but by then the damage had experience with the Confused website.
Towards the end of the year a new a number of initiatives in place to improve that advertising campaign was working better and we process and we hope our customers will notice enter 2011 in better shape than we were at this time the difference.
We are also actively working on last year.
improving the competitiveness of the prices our Less than 10 years ago, Confused pretty much customers see when they get their quotes and created the car insurance price comparison market also the breadth of providers on the panels.
and so it was inevitable that its very high market share and margins would be reduced as new Q: How are non-car insurance products performing players came in.
And indeed, this is what has for Confused?
happened in the last couple of years.
But it is a source of disappointment that we lost as much The revenue from products other than car insurance share as we did and we have to hold our hands up is typically around 20-25% of Confuseds total and concede that at least some of that was of our income, and they remain pretty stable at this level.
The main contributors are home insurance, other insurance lines and energy products.
Profi ts fell from 25.7 million in 2009 to 16.9 million in 2010.
Margins declined as it became more expensive to get customers and we saw our market Q: How is the new marketing campaign doing?
share of car insurance price comparison drop It is early days, but so far so good.
We are from 27% to 23% during the course of the year.
encouraged by the results since the new Confused advertising campaign launched at the end of last Q: Is Confused still losing market share?
year, but it is still too early to say whether it will be truly successful or not.
Towards the end of the year it appeared that Confuseds share of car insurance sales was holding It is fair to say that 2010 has been a tough year steady.
It is not rising, but it has at least stopped for Confused.
But the business remains profi table falling.
But price comparison customers are with good margins and a signifi cant position in its demanding and can switch between price market.
It provides a great service for millions of comparison sites easily, so it is a hard battle to hold customers every year and is a well known and well on to or to win customers.
The quality and appeal liked brand.
It is an important part of the Admiral Group and has, I believe, with good management and some luck, a great future.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 23
