This can be related to a document, Reporting key environmental performance indicators, taking into account the ABIs system or a procedural problem.
Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure The role of the Complaint Prevention Coordinator and guidance provided by the Department for is to investigate whether a suggestion can be Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra successfully incorporated into or used to change business processes that may be the cause of The main source of the Groups carbon emissions is the consumption of electricity and gas in its complaints.
There are large variations in the consumption Another aspect of complaint analysis is identifying between offi ces mainly due to the age and the training needs and general standards of customer extent of control the Company can exert over the service.
Using complaints, we can identify human purchase of electricity that can be exerted.
errors and gaps in knowledge.
In addition to ensuring individual feedback is given, we analyse The Groups carbon emission, electricity gas consumption, waste recycling and water this information and identify trends or patterns which require improvement on a wider scale.
consumption are all reported in the full Corporate Responsibility report available on the Groups Charitable and Community corporate website admiralgroup.
co. uk Admiral plays a positive role in the community through charitable fundraising and encouraging The Facilities Department continues to discuss methods of reducing energy consumption within employees to engage with local community partners.
We promote payroll giving and provide the UK locations with the Carbon Trust.
A number matched funding for eligible employee initiatives.
of initiatives taken in 2010 have resulted in the lower energy consumption per square metre of Our charity and community programme focuses on offi ce space during 2010.
In addition more sites serving the communities near our offi ce locations in will be purchasing Green electricity in 2011.
Cardiff, Swansea and Newport and since 2007 our We continued to encourage recycling where overseas locations.
The Admiral Community Chest is a fund set up by the Company to provide possible and each fl oor has an environmental fi financial support to employees and their families representative tasked with increasing the levels of recycling and awareness.
directly involved with local charities and organisations.
Challenges for 2011 More information on how Admiral supports local We noted that during 2010 the Group faced a continual challenge to recruit, train, motivate charities and the communities in which its employees live can be found on the Groups and retain employees across its whole business.
This challenge was made all the more signifi cant corporate website, admiralgroup.
as volumes surpassed those budgeted for.
Planning Environment tools within the business allowed the senior The Group is committed to: management team to react to the growth, Raising and maintaining employee awareness of, increasing recruitment and training during 2010. and ensuring that everyone is actively engaged The feedback from employees to both the internal in, activities to reduce the impact of the Groups staff survey and The Sunday Times 100 Best operations on the environment Companies to Work For award during 2010 has Measuring, monitoring and reporting on the key been extremely positive.
We must continue to aspects of the Groups environmental ensure that Admiral remains a great place to work performance and regularly reviewing progress in 2011. to reduce the amount of resources consumed per employee Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 33 The Admiral Group Board 1.
Alastair Lyons, CBE 57 Chairman Alastair was appointed Chairman of the Company in July 2000.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Serco, Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes, Senior Independent Director at the Phoenix Group, and a Non-Executive Director of the Towergate Insurance Group.
He has previously been Chief Executive of the National Provident Institution and of the National & Provincial Building Society, Managing Director of the 3.
Insurance Division of Abbey National plc, and Director of Corporate Projects at National Westminster Bank plc.
Alastair was also a NonExecutive Director for the Department for Transport and the Department for Work and Pensions.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, he was awarded a CBE in the 2001 Birthday Honours for services to social security.
Henry Engelhardt, CBE 53 Chief Executive Offi cer Henry is a founder Director of Admiral and was recruited by the Brockbank Group in 1991 to set up the Admiral business.
He was part of the management team that led the MBO in 1999.
Prior to joining Admiral, he was Marketing and Sales Manager for Churchill Insurance.
He has substantial experience in direct response fi financial services in the United 7.
Kingdom, United States and France.
Henry was awarded an honorary CBE in April 2008 for services to business in Wales.
Kevin Chidwick 47 Chief Financial Offi cer Kevin is responsible for fi finance, compliance, legal and investments as well as the subsidiary Confused.
He joined Admiral in 2005, becoming Chief Financial Offi cer in September 2006.
Kevin has been in UK fi financial services for over 25 years.
He has held a number of senior roles in other insurance organisations including Finance Director positions at Engage Mutual Assurance and Cigna UK.
He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Certifi ed Accountants and has an MBA from the London Business School.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 34
