Corporate governance 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Other statutory information This section contains additional information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the Annual Report and Accounts.
There are a number of legal and regulatory To decide who can attend or vote at a general Shares.
Where the Default Shares represent requirements with which BGGroup must meeting and how many votes can be cast, the 0.25% or more of the existing shares of a comply, such as the Companies Act 2006 notice of the meeting must give a time by class, the Directors can, at their absolute theAct, Listing Rules and Disclosure and which people must be entered on the Register discretion, by notice to the shareholder, direct Transparency Rules, which are addressed in in order to be entitled to attend or vote at a that a any dividend or other money which this section.
This time must not be more than would otherwise be payable on the Default 48hours before the time fixed for the meeting Shares shall be retained by the Company Shareholders and for this purpose no account shall be taken without any liability to pay interest when Incorporation and constitution of any part of a day that is not a working day.
that dividend or money is finally paid to the BGGroup plc is domiciled in England and Unless the Articles say otherwise, the only shareholder, and or b the shareholder will incorporated in England & Wales under people who can attend or vote at general not be allowed to choose to receive shares in Company Number 3690065.
The Companys meetings or exercise any other right conferred place of dividends, and or c no transfer of share capital consists of ordinary shares with by being a shareholder in relation to general any of the shares held by the shareholder anominal value of 10p each.
meetings, are shareholders who have paid the willbe registered unless one of the provisos company all calls, and all other sums, relating specified above is satisfied.
BGGroup plcs Articles of Association the to their shares that are due at the time of Articles are available on the Companys themeeting.
This applies both to attending a Variation of rights website at www.
com meeting personally and to attending by proxy If the Companys share capital is split into or corporate representative.
different classes of shares, subject to the Annual General Meeting relevant English law and unless the Articles or The Annual General Meeting AGM will be Restrictions on shareholders rights rights attaching to any class of shares provide held at 11.30 am on Thursday 12 May 2011 If a shareholder has been properly served with otherwise, the special rights attaching to any atthe Royal Berkshire Conference Centre, a notice under Section 793 of the Act requiring ofthese classes can be varied or abrogated Madejski Stadium, Reading RG2 0FL.
The information about interests in shares, and has asprovided by those rights or approved by a Notice of AGM togetherwith an explanation failed to supply such information within special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the proposed resolutions is set out on 14 days of the notice, then subject to the of that class.
Alternatively, the holders of at pages 150 to 155.
A summary of the business Articles and unless the Directors otherwise least 75% of the existing shares of the class by carried out at the AGM will be published on decide the shareholder is not for so long as the nominal value can give their consent in writing.
default continues entitled to attend or vote at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other Alteration of share capital Substantial shareholders right in relation to a meeting as holder of any The shareholders can by ordinary resolution a At 11 March 2011, the following voting interests shares held by the shareholder in default.
Any consolidate, or consolidate and then divide, all in the ordinary share capital of the Company, person who acquires shares in relation to which or any of the Companys share capital into new disclosable under the Disclosure and a default has occurred Default Shares is shares of a larger nominal amount than the Transparency Rules, had been notified to subject to the same restrictions unless: existing shares, and b divide some or all theDirectors: ofthe Companys share capital into shares the transfer was an approved transfer pursuant thatare of a smaller nominal value than Legal and General Group plc to a takeover or one which, to the Directors theexisting shares.
This is subject to any and or its subsidiaries 150 859 675 4.45% satisfaction, is a bona fide sale to a person restrictions under the Act and all other laws unconnected with the shareholder: or and regulations applying to the Company.
The BlackRock Inc and or resolution may provide that, as between the itssubsidiaries 239 185 375 7.06% the transfer was by a shareholder who was holders of the divided shares, different rights not himself in default in supplying the and restrictions that the Company can apply Voting rights information required by the notice and a the tonew shares may apply to all or any of the When a shareholder is entitled to attend a transfer is of only part of his holding, and b different divided shares.
The Company may general meeting and vote, where there is a the transfer is accompanied by a certificate in reduce its share capital by special resolution poll, subject to any special rights or restrictions a form satisfactory to the Directors stating confirmed by the court in accordance with attaching to any class of shares, if he is entitled that, after due and careful enquiries, the Section 641 of the Act and subject to its to be present and to vote, he has one vote for shareholder is satisfied that none of the Articles.
In accordance with Section 690 every share that he holds.
shares included in the transfer are Default www.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 73 oftheAct, the Company may purchase its refusal, together with reasons for the refusal, Winding up ownshares including any redeemable shares as soon as practicable and in any event within If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, subject to Chapter 4 of the Act and the two months after the date on which the with the authority of a special resolution and Articles.
However, if the Company has existing Company receives the transfer in the case of any other sanction required by relevant law, shares that are admitted to the Official List ashare in certificated form or the instruction divide among the shareholders all or part of ofthe UK Listing Authority and that are from the operator of the relevant system the assets of the Company or transfer any convertible into equity shares, then the including CREST, in the case of a share in partof the assets to trustees on trust for the Company can only buy back equity shares of uncertificated form.
No past or present that class if either the terms of issue of the shareholder can be compelled to accept any convertible shares permit the Company to Share capital shares or other property under the Articles buyback equity shares or the buy back, or In order to enable the Company to return valueto that carries a liability.
agreement to buy back, has been approved by shareholders, the Company was given authority aspecial resolution passed by such holders.
at the 2010 AGM to make market purchases of Research and development upto 337 609 096 of its own ordinary 10p shares The Act requires the Directors report to Rights of foreign shareholders ata maximum price per share of 105% of the stateany activities in the field of research There are no limitations imposed by the average middle market closing price of the shares anddevelopment undertaken by the Company.
relevant English law or the Articles on the for the five trading days prior to the relevant The Company currently has no significant rights to own securities, including the rights purchase.
This authority will expire at the activities to report upon.
See note 3 on page 95 ofnon-resident or foreign shareholders to hold conclusion of the 2011 AGM and approval from for research and development expenditure or exercise voting rights on the securities.
shareholders willbe sought at that meeting to included in the income statement.
renew theauthority for a further year.
For Notification of the acquisition or disposal further information and details of shares issued Branches ofmajor shareholdings duringthe year, see note 24 on page 122.
BGGroup, through various subsidiaries, has Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency established branches in a number of different Rules requires disclosure to the issuer by a Dividends countries in which the business operates.
holders of shares with voting rights attached, The shareholders can declare final dividends b those entitled to exercise voting rights, and byordinary resolution.
No dividend can exceed Employees c those holding financial instruments that the amount recommended by the Directors.
Employees are informed about significant result in a right to acquire shares with voting No interim dividend shall be paid on shares business issues and BGGroups performance rights already in issue, when their interests that carry deferred or non-preferred rights if, using electronic mail, webcasts, the Groups reach, exceed, or fall below 3%, and every at the time of payment, any preferential intranet and in-house publications, as well as percentage point above 3%.
Unless the rights DVDs and briefing meetings at each business attaching to shares or the terms of any shares location.
When appropriate, consultation Transfer of shares provide otherwise, dividends are paid based withemployee and union representatives also Unless otherwise provided in the Articles onthe amounts that have been paid up on takes place.
orthe terms of issue of any shares, any theshares in the relevant period.
shareholder may transfer any or all of his The Group takes the issues of equality and shares.
The Directors may refuse to register The Directors can recommend that the diversity seriously and encourages its partners atransfer of shares in certificated form shareholders pass an ordinary resolution todirect to do likewise.
By using the talent and skills thatare not fully paid-up or otherwise in all or part of a dividend to be paid bydistributing available in all groups and communities in the accordance with the Articles.
However, if any specific assets.
The Directors must give effect to countries in which it operates, the Group is of those shares have been admitted to the such a resolution.
If a dividend has not been able to build a strong foundation for the Official List of the UK Listing Authority, the claimed for one year, the Directors may invest lasting success of its business.
This is achieved Directors cannot refuse to register a transfer the dividend or use itin some other way for the by using appropriate recruitment and selection ifthis would stop dealings in the shares from benefit of the Company until the dividend is techniques, ensuring equality of employment taking place on an open and proper basis.
Any dividend that has not been claimed opportunities and equal access to If the Directors decide not to register a for 12 years may be forfeited and belong to the development opportunities.
transfer, they must notify the person to whom Company, ifthe Directors so decide.
the shares were to be transferred of the BG Group www.
com A year of delivery Corporate governance 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Other Statutory information continued The Group is also committed to providing a It is possible that the Republic of Kazakhstan In exercising the power to authorise conflicts work environment free from harassment and may claim to have a right to acquire the or potential conflicts of interest, the Board has discrimination.
This commitment is included Groups interest in the Final Petroleum Sharing adopted the guidelines issued by the GC100 inthe Groups Human Resources Policy, which Agreement governing the operation of the the Association of General Counsel and is available on the BGGroup website.
The Karachaganak oil and gas condensate field Company Secretaries of the FTSE 100, and Group remains committed to the full and BGGroup 32.5% or the shares in the company appropriate procedures have been put in place fairtreatment of people with disabilities holding that interest in the event of a change to ensure that all Directors notify BGGroup inrelation to job applications, training, of control of BGGroup following a takeover bid.
of any situation where they have, or could promotion and career development.
Every have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, effort is made to find appropriate alternative As at 31 December 2010, BG Energy or possibly could conflict, with the Groups jobs for those who are unable to continue in HoldingsLimited had bilateral, committed, interests.
Once notified, all such matters are their existing job because of disability.
The multi-currency revolving borrowing facilities considered by the Nominations Committee Group encourages its partners to take a similar with anumber of its relationship banks in an and an appropriate recommendation is made approach to these issues where Group Policies aggregate amount of $3 520 million.
All are to the Board on whether or not to authorise are not able to be implemented directly.
When taken together, such matters, and, if so, on what terms.
The these facilities are significant to the ongoing Board believes that these procedures are Employees are encouraged to become liquidity of the Group and repayment or operating effectively.
shareholders in the Company and many cancellation of any or all of them may be participate in BGGroups share plans.
demanded upon a change of control of Indemnities and insurance BGGroup.
BGGroup maintains liability insurance for Community itsDirectors and officers.
The Directors, Donations No other agreements that take effect, alter Company Secretary and members of the Group During 2010, BGGroup donated around orterminate upon a change of control of Executive Committee have also been granted $607000 to registered charities in the UK.
BGGroup following a takeover bid are aqualifying third-party indemnity, under More information on the Groups social considered to be significant in terms of their Section 234 of the Act, which remains in performance and social investment activities potential impact on the business of the Group force.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor can be found in the 2010 Sustainability Report, as a whole.
insurance provides cover in the event that the available online at www.
com indemnified individual is proved to have acted sustainability Essential contracts or other fraudulently or dishonestly.
arrangements The Groups policy is not to make donations for Given the scope and diversity of BGGroups Directors borrowing powers political purposes.
In 2010, no donations were activities, BGGroup does not consider that it So far as the Companies Acts as defined in made in any EU member state for political has contractual or other arrangements which section 2 of the Act allow, the Directors can purposes, as defined in Section 364 of the Act.
areessential to the business of BGGroup and exercise all the powers of the Company to a which are required to be disclosed pursuant borrow money, b issue debentures and other Suppliers toSection 417 5 c of the Act.
securities, and c give any form of guarantee BGGroup aims to adopt fair payment practices or security for any debt, liability or obligation in line with each country in which itoperates Directors of the Company or of any third party.
and aims to pay all its creditors promptly and Conflicts of interest in accordance with contractual and other legal From 1 October 2008, the Directors became The Directors must limit the Borrowings as obligations.
It is the Groups policy to agree the subject to a statutory duty under the Act to defined in the Articles of the Company and payment terms with eachsupplier at the start avoid a situation where they have, or could exercise all voting and other rights or powers of business and toensure that they are aware have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, of control exercisable by the Company in of the terms ofpayment.
The Group had 19 or possibly could conflict, with the Companys relation to its subsidiary undertakings, so as to days purchases outstanding at 31 December interests.
The Act allows directors of public ensure that the total amount of all Borrowings 2010 2009 19 days based on the average daily companies to authorise conflicts and potential by the Group outstanding at any time will amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
conflicts where appropriate, if the articles of notexceed twice the Adjusted Total of Capital association contain a provision to this effect.
and Reserves as defined in the Articles Significant contracts The Act also allows the articles to contain atsuch time.
This limit may be exceeded if change of control other provisions for dealing with directors theCompanys consent has been given in There are a number of agreements that take conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
advanceby an ordinary resolution passed effect, alter or terminate upon a change of At the 2008 AGM, revisedArticles that atageneral meeting.
control of BGGroup following a takeover bid.
Under the agreement governing the Groups Certain safeguards apply when the Directors equity investment in Companhia fide Gs consider whether to authorise a conflict or fide So Paulo Comgs, inthe event of a potential conflict.
Firstly, only Directors change of control of BGGroup following whohave no interest in the matter being a takeover bid, Shell Gas B. V. has the right considered are able to take the relevant to acquire the Groups equity in Comgs decision, and secondly, in taking any decision, at market value.
In addition, in the event of the Directors must act in a way that they achange of control affecting BGGroup, the consider, in good faith, will be most likely to So Paulo State gas regulator, ARSESP, may promote the Companys success.
In addition, require such change of control to be approved the Directors are able to impose limits or by themin order to avoid breach of the conditions when giving such authorisation, Comgs concession agreement.
ifthey think this is appropriate.
com BG Group A year of delivery
