Business review 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The way we work BGGroups Business Principles set out the Groups corestandards of ethical conduct.
They also define the Groups responsibilities to its people, to communities andtothe environment.
CONDUCT OUR PEOPLE Business Principles BGGroup has zero tolerance for corruption Business Principles and supports the objectives of UK bribery We act with integrity, fairness and legislation.
In 2010, the Group established the We treat people with fairness, respect transparency.
Ethical Conduct Compliance Unit ECCU to anddecency.
help manage ethical risk, enhance the Groups We comply with legal, regulatory We help employees develop their potential.
run the BGGroup Speak Up whistleblower We believe that all injuries are preventable.
We do not tolerate corruption in any form, reportingservice.
We provide healthy, safe and secure whether direct or indirect.
Speak Up enables employees and third parties Our investment criteria take account of such as contractors and members of the public economic returns, environmental impacts, People to report concerns in confidence and, if they social consequences and human rights.
As at 31 December 2010, BGGroup employed prefer, anonymously via an independent external atotal of 6 238 people drawn from more than High standards of corporate governance provider.
Each report is investigated fully and 75 nationalities, the majority of whom work areintegral to the way we manage all investigations are monitored by the ECCU.
During 2010, 151 cases were reported under the Resources Policy that supports equality Speak Up Policy 2009 125 cases.
into 24 cases in the year resulted in actions BGGroup believes that the manner in which against individuals, employees or contractors a company achieves its objectives matters BGGroup seeks to provide attractive career ranging from training, disciplinary action from asmuch as the outcome.
A business goal opportunities, with a formal review of each formal warnings up to and including dismissal, delivered with integrity and transparency employees development every year and contract termination or other appropriate action.
issignificantly more likely to create value support for career mobility across the global over the long term compared with workforce, where feasible.
During the year, approaches that do not conform to 646employees were on assignments outside the highest ethical standards.
The employee turnoverrate for 2010 was 11% 2009 7%.
Theincrease in turnover mainly relates to restructuring of the Groups portfolio, including the disposal of Power Generation assets.
The BGGroup Ethical Conduct Policy not make political donations for or on behalf stipulates that individuals working for or on of BGGroup: behalf of the Group must: avoid any real or perceived conflict ofinterest: not give or receive bribes of any kind, including facilitation payments: conduct appropriate due diligence prior toentering into third-party business follow rules and limits when giving or relationships: and receiving third-party gifts or hospitality: seek to influence joint venture partners follow rules governing the hosting and contractors to implement adequate ofpublicofficials: policies and procedures to prevent bribery and promote high ethical standards.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 41 Further information Further information on BGGroups performance and approach to sustainability can be found in the Sustainability Report at www.
com sustainability BGGroup believes that no company can achieve lasting success without ethical integrity, responsible environmental stewardship and the development of positive and enduring relationships with the people, communities and organisations affected by its activities.
BGGroup therefore believes that compliance with its Business Principles isa prerequisite for sustainable long-term performance and value creation for its shareholders.
The Business Principles are at the core of the Groups commitment tosustainability.
That commitment is overseen at Board level by the Sustainability Committee, details of which are set out on page 57.
Safety During 2010, BGGroup launched a The GWRMT is focused on: As the Chief Executive explains on page 11, safety newpictogram-based approach to is BGGroups highest priority.
The Group does communicating the BGGroup Life Savers operational risk management, with a not accept the notion that attention to critical safety rules to employees and particular focus on contractor execution safety requires financial performance to be contractors.
This industry innovation ofsafety-critical well engineering activities: compromised.
BGGroup believes that all recognises the need for simple and intuitive incorporation of key learnings from the accidents are preventable, andits goal is safety messaging which is effective in BPMacondo blow-out into BGGroup zero injuries across all of itsoperations.
technical Standards, where necessary: BGGroup also began to implement a As noted in the Key performance indicators contractor safety management programme participation in industry working groups on page 16, BGGroup continues to make intended to enhance compliance with todevelop new and more effective well progress in reducing the number of people BGGroup safety standards among the capping and oil spill containment injured on its work sites each year.
However, Groups diverse third-party workforce.
infrastructure and techniques: and any number higher than zero remains engagement with policymakers and unacceptable and ofgreat concern: as the BGGroup continues to analyse the regulators regarding industry legislation Chief Executives statement notes on page 11, implications of the blow-out on the andregulation.
regrettably two contractors died while BPMacondo well in the Gulf of Mexico.
performing services onbehalf of BGGroup TheGroup has established a dedicated, during 2010. cross-functional Group Well Risk Management Team GWRMT which is led For many years, all BGGroups operated atSenior Vice President level and overseen facilities have been required to operate under directly by the Group Executive Committee, the terms of a Safety Case.
This is a detailed with regular updates to the BGGroup Board.
technical rule book, specific to each work site, which evaluates relevant major accident safety risks and sets out the standards of design, operation and maintenance required toreduce operating risks to a level as low as reasonably practicable.
Examples of BGGroup Life Savers pictograms The BGGroup Health, Safety, Security intervenes to stop unsafe acts by others: andEnvironment HSSE Policy includes reports promptly all incidents, near-miss acommitment to provide employees incidents or potential hazards: and andcontractors with a safe working environment.
The Policy also requires seeks guidance if requested to carry thateach member of the workforce: outactivities for which they have not BG07P01 beentrained.
takes appropriate care of themselves and others at all times: The Policy is communicated across the Groups operations worldwide and is supported by plans work to ensure the safe delivery of awide range oftraining programmes and activities for which they are responsible: task-specific safetyStandards.
stops work immediately if the job becomesunsafe: BG Group BG Group www.
com A year of delivery Business review 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The way we work continued SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT Business Principles Social Performance activities begin with a Business Principles socio-economic baseline assessment.
This We work to ensure that neighbouring gathers quantitative and qualitative data on We make a positive contribution to communities benefit from our presence arange of factors, including health, education, theprotection of the environment.
employment, natural resource use and access We go beyond compliance with local toinfrastructure.
The baseline assessment then We listen to neighbouring communities environmental regulation to meet informs business decisions to enhance benefits andtake account of their interests.
for and avoid or mitigate potential risks to We support human rights within our areas the communities involved.
We reduce to the minimum practicable ofinfluence.
anyadverse effects of our operations on Human rights theenvironment.
Many of BGGroups operations are located BGGroup supports the principles of the inareas with complex social, developmental Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Climate change is an issue of critical global and economic challenges.
The BGGroup TheGroup is a signatory to the United Nations concern.
The challenge for society is to meet SocialPerformance governance framework Global Compact UNGC and to the Voluntary growing energy needs while managing the and Standard sets out how the Group aims Principles on Security and Human Rights.
growth of, and ultimately reducing, tocontribute to the socio-economic greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
Although development agenda of its host communities non-hydrocarbon energy sources are growing and governments.
in scale and significance, they currently meet only a small proportion of overall global In 2010, BGGroup completed the first phase energy demand.
Fossil fuels are expected to of implementation of the Standard across all continue to meet most of the worlds energy Group-operated businesses, which included needs in the near and medium-term future.
developing country-specific social performance plans, training relevant Carbon dioxide emissions from natural managers and employees and recruiting gascombustion are on average 22% lower theappropriate specialists at local level.
than emissions from oil use and 40% lower thancoal.
The BGGroup Human Rights Policy includes assess risk appropriately and ensure that The BGGroup Environmental Standard commitments to: public and private security providers addresses areas including: workingfor or on behalf of BGGroup act in accordance with the Voluntary conduct their operations with respect air and water quality, based on EU, UK, Principles on Security and Human Rights forhuman rights: and andUSstandards: where the Groups operations are located in assess and manage human rights risks GHG management: areas ofconflict or where there is a high risk intheGroups supply chain.
of human rights violations: the use of best available techniques  impacts : oil spill preparedness: www.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 43 GHG emissions: by source BGGroup therefore believes that natural Water management mt CO e gas the predominant resource within the There can be significant water management 2 Groupsportfolio has avital role in helping requirements associated with hydrocarbon 10 tomeet growing global energy needs while extraction, particularly with unconventional 8 also contributing to strategies to limit resources such as coal seam gas CSG and GHGemissions.
6 4 BGGroup seeks to reduce to a practicable CSG production at BGGroups QGC Pty Ltd 2 minimum the GHG emissions from its QGC subsidiary in Australia extracts saline operations.
In 2010, operations directly under water trapped within the coals which must be 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 the Groups control emitted 8.0 million treated before use in local agriculture or for tonnescarbon dioxide equivalent mtCO e, industry or community supplies.
The Group has 2 Venting Fuel use Electricity generation an8% decrease on 2009 levels.
CO e emissions received environmental approval for the project 2 Flaring Distribution losses on anequity-share basis, including operations from Stateand Federal regulatory authorities Under BG Group control.
Excludes system fugitive losses of no more where BGGroup is an investor butnot and is preparing detailed environmental than 19 000 tonnes CO e per annum 2 operator, were 12% lower year-on-year protection plans, including a programme of at12.2mtCO e. aquifer monitoring to ensure thelong-term 2 sustainability of groundwater supplies.
The In 2007, BGGroup committed to a sustainable Group is also working with a local water provider At the end of 2010, 69% 2009 86% of reduction in its GHG emissions of one million regarding effective re-use of produced water.
operated interests were certified to tonnes by 2012 compared with a no-action International Environmental Management case based on the emission levels estimated by By contrast, shale gas production requires Standard ISO 14001.
The year-on-year 2012 without CO e reduction measures.
As at largevolumes of water to be injected into the decrease in the operated assets with 2 31 December 2010, BGGroup had achieved a sub-surface to fracture or frac the shales and ISO14001 certification is mainly due sustainable GHG reduction of approximately release natural gas.
BGGroups US shale gas tochanges in the portfolio, including the 769 000 tonnes and is on track to meet its joint venture actively seeks ways to minimise acquisition of two uncertified businesses in 2012target.
BGGroup continues to work towards wherever feasible, by re-using waste water full ISO 14001 certification of all itsmajor produced by other industrial users, such as pulp operated businesses.
Typically, the fracing process takes place several thousands of feet below the level of freshwater aquifers and well bores are lined resource use and waste management: with steel casing and cement to maintain integrity and protect aquifer quality.
noise pollution: contaminated land: and During the year, BGGroup appointed Halcrow Group Limited, a major international biodiversity.
water consultancy, to conduct a review of water-related operational requirements across theGroups portfolio.
The results from that review will inform further development ofthe Groups strategic approach to water efficiency and water risk management.
com A year of delivery Cidade fide Angra Dos Reis floating production, storage andoffloading FPSO vessel, Santos Basin, Brazil More information is available in the Operating review on page 20.
Find out more online at www.
com Corporate governance Directors report: 46 Board of Directors 48 Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary Corporate governance 50 Corporate governance 58 Remuneration report Introducing the Board of 72 Other statutory information Directors and senior 75 Directors statement of responsibility management.
Our approach to corporate governance and remuneration.
