Business review 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Our strategy and business The business strategy supporting GLOBAL GAS MAJOR BGGroups investment proposition CONNECT GAS TO SECURE COMPETITIVELY isconsistent and proven.
The Group HIGH-VALUE MARKETS PRICED RESOURCES identifies high-value markets that Build and access markets Equity reserves Serve customers Contracted resources provide opportunities for growth and finds competitively priced resources SKILLS TO SUCCEED ACROSS THE GAS CHAIN tosupply those markets.
GLOBAL GAS MAJOR CONNECT GAS TO HIGH-VALUE MARKETS Investment proposition Flexible portfolio BGGroups investment proposition is that it is an internationally diversified, Rather than a global market for gas, there are many local and integrated energy business with a specialism in gas, and with an objective regional gas markets, each with different characteristics.
As a global to deliver rates of growth that are a multiple of the industry average.
The gas major, BG Group is able to capture value across an array of vehicle for delivering this investment proposition is a clear, effective and markets by leveraging its gas chain skills, its customer relationships resilient global gas strategy, founded on a deep understanding of the and its extensive and flexible supply portfolio.
Groups focus markets and abroad set of customer relationships.
The Groups flexible liquefied natural gas LNG portfolio enables Track record ittorespond to market opportunities as these arise, and stands in BG Group has achieved a strong total operating profit trajectory contrast with traditional long-term bilateral LNG supply contracts since1997, with a compound annual growth rate CAGR of 29% that do not offer the same degree of flexibility.
Inconjunction with this growth, the Group has achieved significant shareholder returns, with a five-fold increase in the share Multiple options price since the second demerger in 2000.
BGGroups flexible LNG model has enabled the Group to establish a diverse set of customer relationships based on the Groups ability to Total operating profit tailor supply to customer needs, free of project-specific constraints $m and delivery timing.
12 000 CAGR 29% 1997-2010 The Group works multiple customer and supply propositions in 10 000 parallel a virtuous circle of markets then supply, or supply then 8 000 markets with optimisation at each step.
6 000 4 000 2 000 0 1997 2000 2003 2006 2009 2010 F or a reconciliation between business performance and totalresults, see note 2 on page 91 and note 10 on page 106.
LNG contracted volumes BG GROUP BUSINESS PRINCIPLES mtpa 30 BG Group believes that no company can achieve lasting success without ethical integrity, responsible environmental stewardship 20 and the development of positive and enduring relationships with the people, communities and organisations affected by its activities.
10 BGGroup therefore believes that compliance with its Business Principles is an essential prerequisite for sustainable long-term 0 2010 2015 2020 performance and value creation for its shareholders.
QCLNG Train 3 New supply potential For more information on Future volumes are at 2011 reference conditions, see page 146.
The way we work turn to page 40 www.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 13 Competitive advantages BGGroup possesses a distinctive set of competitive advantages.
The Gas market Excellent pipeline Flexible LNG focus of projects business Group has a focus on gas markets and is a leader in international gas marketing.
This is underpinned by a strong andbalanced portfolio of both markets and low-cost resources, which itself is supported by Gas marketing Fast-track Leading BGGroups track record as a leader inexploration.
This has sustained leader developer explorer growth in the Groups long-life reserves and resources base, which is monetised through a pipeline of economically robust projects.
BGGroup has also demonstrated its ability to fast-track complex projects while Strong, balanced Top-quartile Long-life reserves maintaining an industry top-quartile cost performance.
portfolio cost performance and resources SECURE COMPETITIVELY SKILLS TO SUCCEED ACROSS PRICED RESOURCES THE GAS CHAIN Exploration leader Skills for success BGGroup is one of the global leaders in exploration among itstop BGGroup has the skills to identify, commercialise and connect 30peers.
Since 1997, the Group has participated in thediscovery tomarkets the long-life, competitively priced resources that are the of13giant fields.
Over that period, the Groups totalreserves and foundation of sustainable value creation.
This is underpinned by the resources have grown from 3.6 billion barrels of oilequivalent boe Groups strength in working safely and sustainably in a wide variety to 16.2 billion boe equivalent to around one billion boe of resources ofoffshore and onshore environments.
Over the last decade, BG Group hassustained a 400% reserves replacement rate by exploration.
TheGroup has 69 years ofproduction at 2010 levels.
BGGroups exploration portfolio covers more than 200 prospects and leads, across a range of play types, and around 70% of those resources are ininvestment-grade countries.
Production growth BG Groups focus is primarily on organic growth, creating Prospect inventory opportunities from exploration and midstream downstream net risked resources of 3.7 billion boe business development activities.
The strong production growth profile established as a result of that focus has been augmented byanumber of acquisitions, including in Australia and the USA.
Australia Egypt Exploration, appraisal andbusiness development activities following Tanzania Thailand acquisition have increased reserves and resources and created value.
USA UK China Brazil Cost-competitive Norway Other In an industry involving commodity products, low-cost operations area key source of sustainable advantage.
BG Group has a continuous focus on maintaining competitive cost levels with industry top-quartile performance.
BG Group peer group includes super-majors and US and European integrated majors.
