Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 75 Statement of disclosure of information Statement of Directors responsibilities A copy of the Financial statements of the toauditors for preparing the Financial statements Company is placed on the BGGroup website.
As required by Sections 418 and 419 of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the The work carried out by the auditors does not Act, each of the Directors has approved this Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration involve consideration of the maintenance of report and confirmed that, so far as they are report and the Financial statements in the BGGroup website and, accordingly, the aware, there is no relevant audit information accordance with applicable law and regulations.
auditors accept no responsibility for any being information needed by the auditors changes that may have occurred to the inconnection with preparing their audit The Act requires the Directors to prepare Financial statements since they were initially report of which the Companys auditors are Financial statements for each financial year.
unaware, and they have taken all the steps Under the Act, the Directors have prepared the that they ought to have taken as a Director Group and the parent Company Financial Legislation in the UK governing the inorder to make themselves aware of any statements in accordance with International preparation and dissemination of Financial relevant audit information and to establish Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as statements may differ from legislation in that the Companys auditors are aware of adopted bythe European Union and as applied other jurisdictions.
in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
TheFinancial statements are required by law Pursuant to Rule 4.1.
12 of the Disclosure and Financial to give a true and fair view of the state of Transparency Rules, each of the Directors, the Results and dividend affairs of the Group and the Company and of names and functions of whom are set out on For the year ended 31 December 2010, the profit orloss of the Group for that period.
pages 46 to 47, confirms that to the best of his the total profit for the Group before tax was or her knowledge: $5730m 2009 $5 955m.
A final dividend of The Directors consider that, in preparing the 11.78cents per ordinary share is proposed 2009 Financial statements on pages 79 to 141, the the Group Financial statements, which have 10.43 cents, making a total dividend for 2010 of Company has used appropriate accounting been prepared in accordance with IFRS as 21.60 cents 2009 19.63 cents.
Theresults are policies consistently applied and supported adopted by the European Union, give a true dealt with more fully in the Financial statements byreasonable and prudent judgments and and fair view ofthe assets, liabilities, financial on pages 79 to 141 and summarised in the estimates, and all applicable accounting position and profit of the Group: and Financial review on pages 27 to 33. standards have been followed.
The Company the management report represented by the has complied with UK disclosure requirements Directors report on pages 2 to 75 includes The trustees of the BGGroup New Employees in this Report in order to present a consistent afair review of the development and Share Trust, the BGGroup plc Employee picture to all shareholders.
performance of the business and the position ShareTrust and the BGGroup Share Incentive of the Group, together with a description of Plan have waived their right to receive The Directors have responsibility for ensuring theprincipal risks and uncertainties that the dividends over 173 029, 414 and 3 102 ordinary that the Company keeps accounting records Group faces.
that disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and of the By order of the Board Going concern Group and that enable them to ensure that BGGroups business activities, together with theFinancial statements and the Directors Frank Chapman factors likely to affect its future development, Remuneration report comply with the Act and, Chief Executive performance and position, are set out in the as regards the Group Financial statements, Business review on pages 4 to 43.
The financial Article 4 of the International Accounting Ashley Almanza position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity Standard Regulations.
Chief Financial Officer position and borrowing facilities: and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for The Directors have general responsibility for 11 March 2011 managing capital, are described on pages 27 taking such steps as are reasonably open to to33.
Financial risk management objectives: them to safeguard the assets of the Group Registered Office: details of financial instruments and hedging andto prevent and detect fraud and other 100 Thames Valley Park Drive activities: and exposures to credit risk and irregularities, and have adopted a control Reading liquidity risk are described in note 20, page 118 framework for application across the Group.
The Directors consider that the Groups United Kingdom business activities and financial resources The Directors, having prepared the Financial ensure that it is well placed to manage its statements, have asked the auditors to take Registered in England & Wales No.
whatever steps and to undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate The Directors are satisfied that the Groups forthe purposes of enabling them to give their and the Companys activities are sustainable audit report.
The Directors confirm that the for the foreseeable future, and that the Audit Committee continues to review the business is a going concern and the Financial adequacy of the system of internal control statements have therefore been prepared on adopted by the Group.
com A year of delivery Coal seam gas processing plant, near Chinchilla, Queensland, Australia More information is available in the Operating review on page 20.
Find out more online at www.
com Financial statements Financial statements 78 Independent auditors report 79 Principal accounting policies Financial statements, notes 83 Primary statements and other key data.
83 Consolidated income statement 84 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 85 Balance sheets 87 Statements of changes in equity 88 Cash flow statements 89 Notes to the accounts 132 Supplementary information gas and oil unaudited 139 Historical production unaudited 140 Five-year financial summary unaudited
