Corporate governance 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Board of Directors Sir Robert Wilson KCMG Frank Chapman Ashley Almanza Martin Houston Chairman age 67 Chief Executive age 57 Chief Financial Officer and Executive Executive Director and Executive Vice Director age 47 President & Managing Director, Appointed Chairman in January 2004, Appointed Chief Executive in Americas and Global LNG age 53 having been a Non-Executive Director October 2000, having been appointed Appointed to the Board of BG Group as since September 2002. to the Board in February 1997.
Chief Financial Officer in August 2002.
Appointed to the Board in February 2009.
Skills and experience: Most of Roberts Skills and experience: Frank joined Skills and experience: Ashley joined British Skills and experience: Martin joined career was with Rio Tinto where he British Gas plc in November 1996 as Gas plc in 1993 and has held a number British Gas plc in 1983 and was appointed became chief executive in 1991 and then Managing Director, Exploration and of key management roles in BG Group, BGGroup Executive Vice President in executive chairman from 1997 until his Production.
He is an engineer and has including Group Finance Director, seeing the 2000.
Based in Houston and London, he retirement in 2003.
From 2003 to 2009, worked in the oil and gas industry for Group through the fide-merger of Lattice in is responsible for the Groups activities in he was non-executive chairman of 36 years.
Prior to joining the Group, he 2000.
He is currently responsible for Group the Americas and for the Groups global The Economist Group.
spent a total of 22 years with Royal Dutch finance, tax, treasury, investor relations, liquefied natural gas LNG activities.
mergers and acquisitions, internal audit and Martin has gained extensive international External appointments: Robert is secretariat.
He is a chartered accountant experience from a wide variety of currently senior independent director External appointments: No external with a MBA from London Business School.
technical, commercial and management ofGlaxoSmithKline plc.
Ashley was, until 2010, the chairman of the roles and has played a leading role in Committee membership: Committee membership: Hundred Group of Finance Directors.
developing the Groups LNG business.
Chairmans Chairmans He is a fellow of the Geological Society External appointments: Member of the Finance Finance of London and a Companion of the Advisory Board for the Centre for Business Nominations Group Executive Institution of Gas Engineers.
Remuneration Sustainability External appointments: No external Sustainability Committee membership: director appointments.
Group Executive Chairmans Committee membership: Finance Group Executive Sustainability Fabio Barbosa Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director designate age 50 Fabio was appointed to the Board in March 2011 as Chief Financial Officer and will stand for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Skills and experience: Fabio was, until June 2010, the chief financial officer at the Brazilian mining company Vale SA, Sir David Manning GCMG CVO the largest private sector company in Non-Executive Director age 61 Latin America and the second-largest Appointed as a Non-Executive Director metals and mining company in the world inJuly 2008. by market capitalisation.
Prior to joining Vale in 2002, he spent seven years in the Skills and experience: David was Brazilian Ministry of Finance, rising to the a member of the Foreign and role of national treasury secretary.
He is Commonwealth Office for 35 years, a former adviser to one of the executive serving in Warsaw, New Delhi, Paris, directors of the World Bank.
Moscow, Tel Aviv and Brussels.
He retired from the Diplomatic Service in 2008 after External appointments: No external four years as British ambassador to the director appointments.
David has previously been Committee membership: a non-executive director of Lloyds Banking Group Executive Group plc.
External appointments: David is a non-executive director of Lockheed Martin UK Holdings Ltd, and is also a trustee of Turner Contemporary, a director of Gatehouse Advisory Partners and a nominated member of the Council of Lloyds of London.
Jrgen Dormann Committee membership: Non-Executive Director age 71 Nominations Jrgen Dormann retired as a Director on 31 December 2010.
He was appointed in June 2005 Sustainability andserved on the Remuneration and Sustainability Committees.
Committee Chairman To 31 March 2011 With effect from 31 March 2011 With effect from 3 March 2011 www.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 47 Baroness Hogg Peter Backhouse Dr John Hood Caio Koch-Weser Non-Executive Director age 64 Non-Executive Director age 59 Non-Executive Director age 59 Non-Executive Director age 66 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in Appointed as Non-Executive Director inJanuary 2005.
April 2007. inNovember 2010. her as Senior Independent Director from Skills and experience: Peter is a former Skills and experience: John was Skills and experience: Caio was German 1January 2009. executive vice president of refining & vice-chancellor of the University of Oxford deputy minister of finance state secretary Skills and experience: Sarah is a former marketing at BP plc.
Prior to this, he was from 2004 until September 2009.
His responsibilities head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit, chief executive of BP Oil Europe, and formerly vice-chancellor of the University included international finance G-7 Deputy, with the rank of second permanent head of UK North Sea oil development.
of Auckland and a member of the Growth European economic and financial affairs, secretary from 1990 to 1995, and has He gained considerable experience and Innovation Advisory Board and the as well as capital markets, banking and extensive experience of business, in international LNG and natural gas Enterprise Council of the Prime Minister of insurance.
He was also chairman of the government and the media.
Until 2010, development, latterly as head of BPs New Zealand.
Hehas also been a director of Supervisory Board of the German Federal shewas chairman of 3i Group plc and has UKgas business.
a number of New Zealand-based companies, Financial Supervisory Authority BaFin.
been a non-executive director of several including the Fonterra Co-operative Group External appointments: Peter is a member From 1973 to 1999, Caio was with the other FTSE 100 companies.
Ltd and ASB Bank Limited, a subsidiary ofthe of the advisory board of Carlyle Riverstone World Bank in Washington where he Commonwealth Bank of Australia, and was Key external appointments: Sarah is Energy Partners, a US private equity fund.
worked on Latin America, China, the chairman of Tonkin & Taylor Ltd. chairman of the Financial Reporting Council Middle East and Africa, and held a number Committee membership: and Frontier Economics Limited and was External appointments: John is currently of high-level positions, in particular Audit appointed to the governments Treasury non-executive chairman of Matakina serving as managing director operations Sustainability Board in December 2010.
In February 2011, Technology Ltd in New Zealand and and member of the executive committee.
she was appointed as a non-executive president and chief executive officer of the He is a German and Brazilian national, director of the John Lewis Partnership.
He was appointed a born in Brazil.
Sheisa member of the Panel of Takeovers non-executive director ofStudy Group Pty External appointments: Caio is and Mergers and a senior adviser to the Limited in January 2011. vice-chairman of Deutsche Bank Group.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Audit Sustainability Audit Remuneration Nominations Sustainability Remuneration Mark Seligman Lord Sharman Patrick Thomas Philippe Varin Non-Executive Director age 55 Non-Executive Director age 68 Non-Executive Director age 53 Non-Executive Director age 58 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director inDecember 2009. inOctober 2000. inDecember 2010. inMay 2006.
Skills and experience: A chartered Skills and experience: A chartered Skills and experience: Prior to joining the Skills and experience: Until April 2009, accountant, Mark has held senior roles at accountant, Colin was chairman of KPMG Bayer Group in 2006, Patrick spent seven Philippe had spent six years as chief Barclays fide Zoete Wedd and SG Warburg International from 1997 to 1999, having years with the Huntsman Corporation, a executive of Corus, during which time & Co Ltd.
He is a former chairman of UK been senior partner since 1994.
US chemicals company, latterly in the role he led the merger with Tata Steel, India Investment Banking at Credit Suisse and of corporate executive vice president of in 2007.
Prior to this, Philippe spent External appointments: Colin is is a former member of the banks Global Huntsman Matlin Patterson.
25years with the Pechiney Group, most non-executive chairman of Aviva plc and a Investment Banking Executive Board.
latterly as senior executive vice president non-executive director of Reed Elsevier plc.
Patrick gained 20 years experience with of the aluminium sector and a member External appointments: Mark is currently ICI Pharmaceuticals and Agrochemicals, Committee membership: ofPechineys executive committee.
a senior adviser to Credit Suisse.
He is where he held a number of positions Audit a non-executive director of G4S plc and including regional director for Europe, External appointments: Philippe was Nominations serves as an alternate member of the Africa and the Middle East and was appointed chairman of the managing Panel of Takeovers and Mergers and is also global chief executive officer of ICI board of PSA Peugeot Citroen in June 2009. chairman of the Industrial Development Polyurethanes between 1997 and 1999.
Committee membership: Advisory Board and a member of the Key external appointments: Patrick has Audit Regional Growth Fund advisory panel.
been chief executive officer of Bayer Remuneration Committee membership: MaterialScience AG, part of the Bayer Audit Group, since 2007.
He is also chairman of Sustainability the Oxford University Business Economics Programme Board, the advisory board of the European Institute for Industrial Leadership and the World Chlorine Council.
Committee membership: Audit BG Group www.
