Corporate governance 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary Frank Chapman Ashley Almanza Martin Houston Fabio Barbosa Chief Executive age 57 Chief Financial Officer age 47 Executive Director and Executive Chief Financial Officer designate Vice President & Managing Director, age 50 Americas and Global LNG age 53 Membership of Group Executive Membership of Group Executive Membership of Group Executive Committees: Committees: Committees: Exploration & Appraisal Investment Group Performance Investment Group Performance Energy Trading and Credit Risk The Group Executive Committee GEC, In addition to the GEC, the following sub-committees focus Investment Committee on particular aspects of the Groups business: Chairman Ashley Almanza, Chief Financial Officer chaired by the Chief Executive, comprises the The Committee considers and, where appropriate, approves Executive Directors of BGGroup, together Energy Trading & Credit Risk Committee merger, acquisition and disposal transactions and other with the executives shown on these pages.
Chairman John ODriscoll, Head of Tax and Treasury investment decisions, with the exception of exploration The Committee approves the Group-level risk management The GEC has primary authority for the andappraisal business development transactions.
principles and policies that provide the framework for effective day-to-day management of the Groups risk management of energy trading activities.
In addition, the Group Performance Committee operations, within the agreed limits set by Committee provides assurance to the GEC that there is an Chairman Jrn Berget, Executive Vice President & Managing theBoard.
TheCommittee is responsible effective framework for the management of price and credit Director, BG Advance risks associated with oil, gas and LNG trading, commodity price The Committee reviews and monitors Group performance formonitoring strategic risk, operational hedging and credit risks outside of the trading business.
with the overall aim of driving long-term performance.
management of the Group and health, safety, Akeyrole of the Committee is the promotion of the transfer security and environment HSSE strategy.
Exploration & Appraisal Committee of knowledge and best practice across the Group.
Chairman Frank Chapman, Chief Executive The Committee formulates the Groups exploration and Reserves Committee appraisal strategy and is responsible for planning and Chairman Jrn Berget, Executive Vice President & Managing setting objectives and priorities to deliver that strategy.
In Director, BG Advance addition, the Committee approves funding for exploration The Committee approves amendments to reserves policy, and appraisal.
It reports annually to the Audit Committee on the reserves process and reviews and challenges Governance Committee BG Groups proposed reserves and resources estimates.
Chairman Keith Hubber, Company Secretary The main purpose of the Committee is to oversee the effectiveness of BGGroups governance, business risk and assurance processes, to approve Group Standards, to oversee the implementation of all other parts of the Internal Control Framework, and to ensure that there is an effective process for the identification, management and escalation of risk.
Committee Chairman With effect from 31 March 2011 www.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 49 Jrn Berget Robert Booker Chris Finlayson Sir John Grant KCMG Executive Vice President & Managing Executive Vice President, Human Executive Vice President & Managing Executive Vice President, Policy and Director, BG Advance age 58 Resources age 44 Director, Europe and Central Asia Corporate Affairs age 56 age 54 Skills and experience: Jrn joined Skills and experience: Prior to joining Skills and experience: John joined BGGroup in November 2004 from Royal BGGroup in 2006, Robert worked as a Skills and experience: Chris joined BGGroup in September 2009, having been Dutch Shell plc and brings over 30 years senior HR consultant for Ernst & Young BGGroup in August 2010.
Formerly, he president, BHP Billiton Europe since 2007. international experience in the oil and and Mercer Human Resource Consulting worked for Royal Dutch Shell plc for over Before then, he had been a member of gas industry, covering all aspects of the in the UK and Canada.
He is a chartered 33 years, during which time he gained the Diplomatic Service, holding posts in exploration and production business, with accountant and holds a Masters in extensive technical and commercial Stockholm, Moscow and Brussels, where assignments in Europe, the Gulf, the Far Finance from London Business School.
experience in the oil and gas industry he was the UKs permanent representative East, South America and the USA.
He was appointed to his current position ina variety of international settings to the European Union forfour years.
in February 2009, having previously been andbusinesses.
He is responsible for the following Group He is responsible for government and General Manager, Performance & Reward.
functions: HSSE: geology & geophysics: He is responsible for the Groups activities public affairs, communications, social petroleum engineering: engineering: Robert is responsible for all matters across Europe and Central Asia.
operations: well engineering: contracts relating to human resources strategy Membership of Group Executive Membership of Group Executive & procurement: and strategy & portfolio and policy.
BG Advance is responsible Group Performance Investment for exploration, capital projects and IT Exploration & Appraisal Governance & technology, and provides the Group with technical and commercial assurance and services including resourcing and development of staff capabilities.
Membership of Group Executive Committees: Exploration & Appraisal Investment Group Performance Reserves Sami Iskander Catherine Tanna Graham Vinter Keith Hubber Executive Vice President & Managing Executive Vice President & Managing General Counsel age 55 Company Secretary age 46 Director, Africa, Middle East and Asia Director, Australia age 49 Skills and experience: Graham joined Skills and experience: Keith is a qualified age 45 Skills and experience: Catherine joined BGGroup as General Counsel in lawyer.
Before joining BGGroup in 2001, Skills and experience: Prior to joining BG Group in March 2009.
Prior to this, he spent he worked as a corporate lawyer in private BGGroup in 2008, Sami spent his career she worked for Royal Dutch Shell plc 27 years with the international law firm, practice inboth Bristol and London.
with Schlumberger Limited and fulfilled where she gained extensive LNG, gas Allen & Overy LLP where he was a partner Prior to becoming Company Secretary in a number of key leadership roles with transmission and power distribution for just under 20 years and was global November 2007, he held a number of roles them, the most recent as president experience, and before that she worked in head of projects from 1996 to 2007. within the Groups Legal Department and of Schlumbergers worldwide drilling several exploration and production roles Grahams experience includes advising acted as General Counsel from May to and measurements business based in with BHP Petroleum.
She is a qualified onenergy transactions in Europe, the November 2007, having previously been Houston.
He was appointed to his current solicitor in Australia and England.
Middle East, Asia and elsewhere.
Chief Counsel, Corporate from July 2004. position in July 2009, having previously Based in Brisbane, Catherine is responsible He is responsible for the legal affairs As Company Secretary, he is responsible been Senior Vice President, Operations for the Groups activities in Australia.
for advising the Board, through the and Developments in BG Advance.
Membership of Group Executive Membership of Group Executive Chairman, on all governance matters.
Sami is responsible for the Groups Committees: Committees: All Directors have access to the advice and activities across Africa, Investment services of the Company Secretary, who Group Performance the Middle East and Asia.
Governance is responsible for ensuring that Board Membership of Group Executive procedures are complied with.
Committees: Membership of Group Executive Group Performance Committees: Governance BG Group www.
