8 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Asset Allocation Investment We increased our exposure to several of our favoured global equity markets over the period by investing a total of 290 million in a risk-controlled manner.
Our strategy was to take Review advantage of longer-term opportunities in companies we identified as being undervalued through our fundamental research and assessment of current stock valuations.
Our largest additional allocation was 120 million to companies in Asia, based on our view that Asias future growth will not be hindered by the debt burdens faced by other economies.
80 million was allocated to income generating holdings in the UK.
We added 30 million to US equities as we considered valuations to be attractive and 40 million to European equities, in view of their favourable valuations and dividend outlook.
We also took the opportunity to initiate several investments in non-Asian emerging markets by investing a total of 20 million into Brazil, Mexico, Turkey and Russia.
At the year end, UK listed companies accounted for 40% of our quoted equity portfolio.
Much of our UK exposure is through multinational companies which generate a large proportion of their revenues overseas, often in the faster growing economies of Asia.
The chart on the next page shows that on a Revenue Profile basis, only 9% of the revenues of the companies we hold in the portfolio are generated in the UK.
Contrastingly, whilst only 18% of our portfolio is directly invested in Asian and other emerging markets, 37% of company revenues are derived from these higher growth areas.
We believe that, by investing in this way, we gain a more balanced exposure to the higher growth opportunities available in emerging markets.
At our final Asset Allocation Committee meeting of the year, we concluded that, while we may see short-term volatility in markets, the outlook over the medium term is positive and therefore the current risk profile, level of gearing and equity allocation remain appropriate.
Performance of Major Equity Indices Sterling 31 Jan 05 100 % 170 160 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 Jan 05 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 FTSE All-World Developed Europe Ex UK Index FTSE All-World Index FTSE All-Share Index TOPIX 1000 Index S&P 500 Index Source: FactSet Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 9 Income The global recession has resulted in the yield of the FTSE AllUK 40% World Index falling by 40% over the course of the financial North America 27% year, from 4.15% to 2.49%.
Total dividend payments have Geographic Europe 15% been reduced by over 20% over the same period.
In the UK, Distribution Pan Asia 17% we have seen a swathe of dividend cuts by companies most Emerging Markets 1% exposed to the economic recession.
Indeed, a recent report suggests that total corporate dividend payments suffered a reduction of 10 billion, or 15%, in 2009, compared to the previous year.
Source: Alliance Trust Against this backdrop, we have placed great emphasis on the sustainability of dividends in our investment selection process.
Many of the defensive growth holdings we have retained in our portfolio have been able to increase their UK 9% dividend payouts.
North America 31% Revenue Europe 23% Generation Investment Team Pan Asia 23% Emerging Markets 14% Teamwork and communication are foundations of our investment function.
The centralisation of our investment team in Scotland was completed during the year and the move to our new headquarters in Dundee has greatly Source: Alliance Trust improved the flow of information and ideas.
Our Edinburgh The regional weightings differ from those shown on pages 12 to 17 because in this office enables our investment managers to attend a greater analysis the global portfolio is allocated on the basis of where the holdings are listed.
number of company and analyst meetings.
Investment Activity Our investment team benefits from the macro-economic input of our Economics Research Centre, an in-house team Our investment process focuses on the identification of high of economists.
They provide proprietary analysis of global quality companies which are expected to deliver superior and regional economic trends, which has been a positive long-term capital and income growth.
At the beginning influence on our asset allocation decision making during the of the year, our portfolio emphasised defensive growth extreme conditions of the last two years.
companies as we sought to maintain a low risk profile in the uncertain economic and market environment.
In March, We believe that the stability of our investment team and the risk appetite of investors changed suddenly, and share average length of service give us a competitive advantage.
prices of some of the companies which formerly had been Each of our regional teams is headed by an individual with regarded as among those most likely to fail, rose strongly.
They have managed Whereas our performance benefited last year from not portfolios across political, economic and market cycles.
holding the weakest of the UK banking stocks, our returns We have continued to enhance our investment capabilities lagged over the following months through not participating by recruiting specific expertise.
Notably, we have appointed in the dramatic share price rally in these same stocks.
a team of Fixed Income specialists, who will help us to Throughout the market volatility of the year, we have maintain our progressive dividend policy.
Their experience remained consistent to our investment approach, seeking and expertise in corporate credit analysis will also strengthen to hold only those companies which we believe are our equity investment selection process.
strong and will provide sustainable long-term returns rather than short-term gains.
Our portfolio reviews on the following pages provide examples of these stocks.
We have enhanced our risk framework and are paying due attention to good corporate governance practice in our portfolio holdings.
We have gradually altered the bias of our regional portfolios towards a more balanced approach through the addition of some cyclical stocks.
In terms of sector exposure, as the year progressed we have increased our holdings in more economically sensitive sectors, such as Technology, Industrials, Oil & Gas and Financials.
We have reduced our holdings in more defensive areas such as Utilities and Telecommunications.
This has been an ongoing theme over the period as our conviction in longer-term global economic recovery has grown.
