10 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Investment Portfolio Information Top 20 holdings as at 31 January 2010 Value % of quoted Stock Sector m equities HSBC Banks 78.0 3.3 BP Oil & Gas Producers 74.1 3.1 Royal Dutch Shell Oil & Gas Producers 55.2 2.3 Rio Tinto Mining 51.4 2.2 BHP Billiton Mining 50.9 2.1 British American Tobacco Tobacco 41.0 1.7 InterOil Oil & Gas Producers 39.6 1.7 Prudential Life Insurance 36.4 1.5 New York Community Bancorp Banks 35.0 1.5 Scottish & Southern Energy Electricity 34.1 1.4 Vodafone Mobile Telecommunications 32.8 1.4 Philip Morris Tobacco 32.5 1.4 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 31.5 1.3 Diageo Beverages 31.0 1.3 Suncor Energy Oil & Gas Producers 30.7 1.3 Diamond Offshore Drilling Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution 30.1 1.3 Republic Services Support Services 28.1 1.2 Tesco Food & Drug Retailers 27.2 1.1 Reckitt Benckiser Household Goods & Home Construction 25.9 1.1 Amdocs Software & Computer Services 25.8 1.1 A full list of companies in which we invest can be found on our website www.
We began the year with large holdings in to rescue a financial system that was close to collapse.
As the oil majors, BP and Shell, having conviction in their it became evident that these policies were achieving their commitment to maintain dividend policy and in the strength shorter-term aims, equity markets rallied sharply.
Many of of their underlying businesses.
This was rewarded with good the UK companies which performed most strongly through capital and income returns over the year.
As our confidence the March April recovery were among those whose share in the broader market increased we also added to smaller prices had experienced the greatest falls over the previous oil companies such as Tullow and BG Group, and to oil twelve months.
We considered many of them still to have service companies such as Petrofac and Wood Group.
a challenging long-term outlook and little dividend payout We increased our mining holdings over the year through prospects.
We did not hold these types of companies, as the purchase of new holdings in Rio Tinto and Xstrata as they do not meet our long-term, quality investing criteria.
additions to our existing holding in BHP Billiton.
Holdings As a result our returns lagged the markets rapid recovery of engineering companies serving mineral and oil markets in the spring.
were also purchased: we increased our investments in Weir In the course of the year, we rationalised the number of Group and Rotork and added a new holding in IMI.
our UK holdings by combining the former UK Large Cap The portfolios current key themes are centred around well and UK Mid Cap portfolios to create a single UK portfolio.
positioned multinational companies where growth is not We reduced the defensive bias in the portfolio to focus on solely reliant on the UK economy.
Asian growth, oil and companies with international businesses which, in particular, minerals and quality, well-financed companies are our main are benefiting from Asian growth.
We have also increased focus.
We have holdings in several high quality multi national our oil and mineral holdings and our exposure to broader businesses based in, and managed from, the UKcompanies economic growth, while retaining a minimal exposure to UK such as Tesco, Reckitt Benckiser, British American discretionary consumer spending Tobacco, and Diageo.
We added to our low weighting in banks by purchasing a The domestic UK economy is facing a number of large holding in HSBC.
HSBC has a strong capital position, challenges this year.
Our stock selection process aims to is exiting most of its North American activities and is wellidentify companies with diverse market exposure, both positioned to benefit from Asian growth.
geographically and industrially, whose prospects are driven more by global than domestic forces.
FTSE All Share Index Top ten investments Value at % of Name Sector 31 1 10 m Portfolio HSBC Banks 78.0 8.6 BP Oil & Gas Producers 74.1 8.1 Royal Dutch Shell Oil & Gas Producers 55.2 6.1 Rio Tinto Mining 45.9 5.0 BHP Billiton Mining 42.0 4.6 British American Tobacco Tobacco 41.0 4.5 Vodafone Mobile Telecommunications 32.8 3.6 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 31.5 3.5 Scottish & Southern Energy Electricity 29.2 3.2 Tesco Food & Drug Retailers 27.2 3.0 Investments are held either directly by the Company or through the Companys investment in the Alliance Trust Courtesy of Tesco UK Equity Income Fund.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 13 North America Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2010 North American Benchmark Relative Portfolio Index Performance 22.9% 23.0% 0.0% % of Quoted Equities: Jan10 22% | Jan09 26% Extraordinary policy measures implemented in early 2009 holding at year end.
We are looking for further positive prevented the severe US economic recession turning into developments at the company this year.
depression and breathed life back into stock markets.
Canada remains a significant investment area for us.
Canada is During an investment research trip to the US in March, regarded as one of the soundest economies of the G8 group.
the overwhelming feeling was of how cheap stocks then The housing market has picked up sharply and employment is appeared to be: and so it has proved.
In general, our Canadian holdings performed well aggressive cost cutting, greatly reduced capital spending over the year.
An important development was the merger of and strong cash flow generation from inventory reductions Petro-Canada with Suncor to create the premier oil sands has helped to maintain US corporate profitability at company in North America.
Investor appetite for risk has We sold Ultra Petroleum as there has been a large returned and, encouraged by ample liquidity, stock markets increase in potential gas supply with the development have risen strongly.
In its place, we purchased a holding in Investing during these extreme conditions has proved a Enterprise Product Partners, a gas gathering pipeline challenging task.
We started the year with a highly defensive and processing company.
Overall we remain overweight in portfolio, largely consisting of companies we believed to energy as we think global demand will continue to grow be of high quality, with strong businesses, brands, balance and supply growth is still constrained.
As the market began to recover, led We also introduced a new investment in Polycom, a leader by sectors and companies often among the worst performing in video conferencing, and increased our investment in over the previous twelve months, our portfolio performance FLIR, a thermal image camera company.
More recently, the attractions of higher quality We expect the coming year to be rather volatile as companies and more defensive sectors have been sought by investors worry about regulatory reform and the removal of investors and our relative performance has improved.
In the main, we remain heartened by A holding that has performed particularly well throughout the number of quality companies with attractive prospects the year is InterOil.
Highly successful test drilling results on reasonable valuations that are to be found in North in Papua New Guinea revealed what may prove to be America, exemplified by our additions during the year to significant gas resources.
This, along with agreement with long-term investments, Republic Services, New York the Papua New Guinea government to develop a liquefied Community Bank and Amdocs.
natural gas facility, has helped InterOil become our largest FTSE All Cap North America Index Top ten investments Courtesy of Republic Services Value at % of Name Sector 31 1 10 m Portfolio InterOil Oil & Gas Producers 35.7 6.9 New York Community Bancorp Banks 28.2 5.4 Philip Morris Tobacco 26.4 5.1 Suncor Energy Oil & Gas Producers 24.9 4.8 Abbott Laboratories Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 23.1 4.5 Diamond Offshore Drilling Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution 22.7 4.4 American Tower Technology Hardware & Equipment 21.4 4.1 Republic Services Support Services 20.4 3.9 Amdocs Software & Computer Services 19.1 3.7 Canadian Pacific Railway Industrial Transportation 19.0 3.7 Investments are held either directly by the Company or through the Companys investment in the Alliance Trust North American Equity Fund.
14 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Europe Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2010 European Benchmark Relative Portfolio Index Performance 32.9% 30.9% 1.6% % of Quoted Equities: Jan10 12% | Jan09 12% European markets confounded many expectations with have a strong business model, attractive valuations and solid strong rises over the year.
This positive outcome masks balance sheets.
A good example of this is our holding in the a roller coaster ride during the year, which left many Swiss watch manufacturer, Swatch.
In the early part of the investors wrong-footed.
Our relative outperformance of the year, when companies with consumer and emerging market benchmark index is pleasing in such volatile markets.
exposure were sold down aggressively, we reappraised our holding in Swatch and concluded that the shares were As we entered 2009, general expectations were that trading on an attractive valuation, that the company had European growth would hold up better than in the US a high level of cash on the balance sheet and held a good and UK and that European economies would be relatively long-term competitive position in its industry.
We used the immune from the travails of the global credit problems.
share price weakness to add to our existing holding and These expectations were quickly proved to be wrong.
For have been rewarded as the share price has risen strongly example, the powerhouse of Europe, Germany, collapsed during the year.
into recession on the back of plummeting exports.
We sold our holding in National Bank of Greece in the first Markets were rescued in March by the announcement quarter of the year, as we had serious concerns about the of credible bank rescue plans in the UK and US and the longer term stability of the Greek economy and used the rapid recovery in Asian economies arising from the huge proceeds to purchase a holding in Deutsche Bank.
Other stimulus measures such as car subsidy schemes also proved effective.
As the year We increased our weighting in financials by adding to progressed, company earnings reports were often better existing holdings and by buying the insurance group than analysts expectations, driven by aggressive cost Zurich and the investment bank Credit Suisse.
This helped to sustain the market rally.
reduced our telecommunications exposure with the sale of Deutsche Telekom and increased our healthcare holdings Among the best performing companies were those whose by adding the French pharmaceutical company Sanofi, as share prices had suffered most in the downturn.
These well as the French eyewear company Essilor.
included highly-indebted companies, industrial cyclicals and financials.
The speed with which these risky assets were Valuations in European markets remain attractive but, as the re-priced was breathtaking.
issue of sovereign debt in Europe returns to centre stage, another volatile year is in prospect.
In this volatile environment, we remained true to our longterm philosophy of holding companies which we believe FTSE All-World Developed Europe Ex UK Index Top ten investments Value at % of Name Sector 31 1 10 m Portfolio Nestl Food Producers 16.3 5.7 Total Oil & Gas Producers 14.9 5.2 Deutsche Post Industrial Transportation 14.6 5.1 Swatch Group Personal Goods 14.6 5.1 Anheuser-Busch InBev Beverages 13.3 4.7 Holcim Construction & Materials 13.0 4.6 BNP Paribas Banks 12.5 4.4 Siemens General Industrials 12.5 4.4 Banco Santander Banks 12.2 4.3 Zurich Financial Services Nonlife Insurance 11.2 3.9 Investments are held either directly by the Company or through the Companys investment in the Alliance Trust Courtesy of Essilor European Equity Fund.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 15 Pan Asia Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2010 Pan Asia Benchmark Relative Portfolio Index Performance 33.5% 42.9% 6.6% % of Quoted Equities: Jan10 14% | Jan09 9% In the second quarter of the year, we restructured the The one economy, and market, which has lagged this portfolio by combining our Japanese and Asia Pacific recovery has been Japan, largely due to weak domestic holdings to create a unified Pan Asia portfolio.
While the demand, the reappearance of deflation concerns and an portfolio underperformed during the period, since the appreciation of the Yen.
Aggressive cost cutting and a portfolio was combined the team has generated a return of pick up in external demand is now leading to a strong 21.0% against a benchmark return of 22.1%.
This allows recovery in profits for many Japanese companies in the a concentration of ideas and resources within the Asian manufacturing and exporting sectors.
As a result of this team, focusing on the region as a whole.
The Asian region is recovery, corporate profits in Japan in 2010 are expected highly interdependent and our investment approach, which to grow faster than for the Asia Pacific region as a whole.
In covers sectors and stocks across the whole region, provides addition, valuations in Japan are now at very low levels and a more balanced portfolio and enables a dynamic allocation hence on a medium-term view, Japan is looking relatively across the region.
We have, therefore, moved to reduce significantly our large underweight position in Japan.
The additions The Asia Pacific holdings lagged the strong markets to Japanese holdings have been in the industrial and experienced early in the year due to a high weighting in technology sectors where earnings growth is highest.
We defensive, high cash flow generating stocks, in areas such have added to existing positions in Keyence industrial, as telecommunications, utilities and tobacco.
With the Rohm and Tokyo Electron technology.
introduction of Japan to the Pan Asian portfolio, these overall weightings were reduced and the exposure to higher quality, We still retain overweight positions in China, India and economically sensitive stocks increased.
We also increased Indonesia through the addition of CNOOC and Dongfang the weighting in higher growth emerging markets.
Electric China, ICICI Bank and Hero Hondo India and Bank Rakyat and Semen Gresik Indonesia.
The recovery in economic growth in Asia, and particularly in China, has, over recent months, shown clear signs From 1 2 09 to 30 4 09 weighted composite of FTSE All Cap Japan Index and FTSE All Cap Asia Pacific excl Japan.
From 1 5 09 to of broadening away from one driven by government 31 1 10 the FTSE All-World Asia Pacific Index.
stimulus to include more sustainable areas such as domestic consumption and exports.
This has led to a strong rebound in corporate profits which has supported the rally in equity markets through 2009.
Top ten investments Value at % of Name Sector 31 1 10 m Portfolio Toyota Motor Automobiles & Parts 14.8 4.4 Samsung Electronics Technology Hardware & Equipment 14.6 4.3 BHP Billiton Mining 14.0 4.1 Hon Hai Precision Industry Electronic & Electrical Equipment 12.9 3.8 Infosys Technologies Software & Computer Services 12.0 3.5 Mitsui Support Services 11.5 3.4 Westpac Banking Banks 11.4 3.4 Nidec Electronic & Electrical Equipment 11.3 3.3 CNOOC Oil & Gas Producers 10.5 3.1 China Life Insurance China Life Insurance 10.2 3.0 Investments listed are held either directly by the Company or through the Companys investments in the Premier Courtesy of BHP Billiton Alliance Trust Asian Pacific Equity Fund and the Premier Alliance Trust Japan Equity Fund.
16 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Global Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2010 Global Benchmark Relative Portfolio Index Performance 18.0% 28.4% 8.1% % of Quoted Equities: Jan10 13% | Jan09 13% We established a Global Equity portfolio in late 2008 We have increased technology and industrial holdings.
to emphasise our high conviction, favoured long-term Cisco, Polycom and Canon reflect our expectation that, investments.
Most of the holdings are selected from the in developed markets, corporate demand will rebound this regional portfolios of the Trust.
The portfolio focuses year after a devastating decline straddling parts of 2008 and primarily on non-UK listed companies to increase the 2009.
We continue to focus on well-managed companies Trusts regional diversification.
with strong cash flows, attractive returns on capital and competitive market positions.
Twelve months ago, fear ruled global stock markets.
We began the year managing a portfolio of higherEnergy and resources sectors are truly global in nature.
No yielding companies with dependable cash flows which matter where an oil or mining company is based, prices had performed well during the credit crisis.
As global are driven by global demand and supply.
With a choice markets began to recover in March and April, the markets of quality names across all regions, among our favoured performance was dominated by extreme rebounds in riskier investments are Tullow UK, CNOOC China and BHP assets particularly in financials, resource companies and UK listed.
We also continue to invest in global growth emerging markets, areas in which we were underweight.
companies such as the Swiss company Syngenta.
As with our regional portfolios, much of the relative In emerging markets, we believe that the case for long-term, underperformance of the portfolios capital returns occurred structural growth in domestic consumption in Brazil is as at that time.
attractive as that in Asia.
Our global portfolio is able to invest Operating transparency has improved across the globe, and in this theme both directly, through companies such as Po it is now possible to value companies based on normalised, fide Acar, one of Brazils largest operators of hypermarkets, through-the-cycle earnings.
Those earnings are likely to be and indirectly through global operators such as the Spanish lower than during the previous cycle, as Western economies companies Telefnica and Santander.
have been seriously damaged by the past decades FTSE All-World Index excesses.
Earnings visibility has improved and our research is identifying many companies which we consider good value, despite significant rebounds in the past year.
This is particularly true of financials, where banks such as Credit Suisse are very attractive on normalised earnings, which we expect to be achieved in 2011 or 2012.
Top ten investments Value at % of Name Sector 31 1 10 m Portfolio Cisco Systems Technology Hardware & Equipment 9.4 3.1 Prudential Life Insurance 9.4 3.1 Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 9.2 3.0 BHP Billiton Mining 8.9 2.9 Syngenta Chemicals 8.2 2.7 Accenture Support Services 7.9 2.6 Western Union Support Services 7.9 2.6 Republic Services Support Services 7.7 2.5 Intel Technology Hardware & Equipment 7.7 2.5 Diamond Offshore Drilling Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution 7.4 2.4 Courtesy of Syngenta Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 17 Emerging Markets % of Net Assets: Jan10 1% | Jan09 nil A small Emerging Markets portfolio was initiated in Courtesy of Rosneft December which enables us to consolidate our exposure in existing holdings across the emerging Asian countries of India, Indonesia, China and Taiwan, while expanding into developing countries, such as Brazil, Mexico, Turkey and Russia.
In these areas, we have invested in a range of sectors such as Russian oil Rosneft, Brazilian iron ore Vale, Brazilian motorways CCR and telecommunications Vivo in Brazil and MTS in Russia.
Top ten investments Value at % of Country Name Sector 31 1 10 m Portfolio of Listing Hon Hai Precision Industry Electronic & Electrical Equipment 1.0 5.3 Taiwan CNOOC Oil & Gas Producers 1.0 5.0 Hong Kong China Life Insurance China Life Insurance 0.9 5.0 China Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Banks 0.9 4.9 China Trkiye Garanti Bankasi Banks 0.9 4.6 Turkey Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Technology Hardware & Equipment 0.8 4.4 Taiwan ICICI Bank Banks 0.8 4.2 India Rosneft Oil & Gas Producers 0.8 4.2 Russia Companhia Vale do Rio Doce Industrial Metals & Mining 0.8 4.1 Brazil Fibria Celulose Forestry & Paper 0.7 3.7 Brazil 18 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Private Equity Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2010 Private Equity Portfolio 17.3% % of Net Assets: Jan10 3% | Jan09 3% Our Private Equity business, Alliance Trust Equity Partners, UK 45% had a good year with strong performance in the quoted Pan EU 36% private equity portfolio and a continued build up of its Current Fund Nordics 11% focused fund commitment program during the year.
The Commitments DACH Germany performance was driven by a narrowing of discounts to NAV by Geography Austria Switzerland 6% in our holdings as private equity valuations stabilised.
We Other Europe 2% have utilised the strong performance in the quoted private equity portfolio to fund partially the drawdowns from the private equity funds to which we have made long-term commitments.
operate in lower to mid market funds in Western Europe The quoted private equity portfolio was valued at 19.0 have a strong track record and a stable team million at the year end, compared to 16.1 million twelve months ago, after 10.3 million of net realisations.
The provide a consistent approach with a growth and total committed to private equity funds and co-investments operational bias as at 31 January 2010 was 227.7 million, of which only During the year, we added two new commitments to 62.4 million had been invested.
Net drawdowns on private funds - a mid-market Pan European Fund and a lower to equity funds in 2009 were 24.5 million, while 1.1 million mid-market Germanic region fund.
These commitments was added to direct investments.
The undrawn element will add to the diversification at a geographic, sector, stage and allow our fund managers to take advantage of the upturn company level of the portfolio we are building.
in market conditions over the medium term.
These residual undrawn commitments will be drawn down over the next We have built strong relationships with our selected five to ten years, during which time realisations should fund managers, as evidenced by our positions on their occur, leaving the net exposure to private equity assets funds advisory boards, with a view to future potential cobelow the headline commitment level.
As the fund managers make investments over time the Alliance Trust Equity Partners has built its reputation as a portfolio will continue to become more representative of the research led, proactive and thorough Private Equity fund current investment strategy.
investor across Europe with a focus on fund managers which: Top ten investments Ending Market % of Name Value m Portfolio Fleming Family Private Equity Vehicle 8.1 10.1 Eurazeo 7.1 8.8 Standard Life European Private Equity Trust 6.7 8.3 The Alcuin 2007 Fund 6.1 7.6 Climate Change Capital Private Equity 5.9 7.3 Electra Private Equity 5.3 6.5 Impax New Energy Investors 5.1 6.3 August Equity Partners II A 5.1 6.3 Silverfleet Capital Partners 4.9 6.1 The Alcuin 2008 Fund 4.4 5.4 Courtesy of Lab901 Investments are held directly by the Company or through limited partnerships set up for the purpose of holding these investments.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 19 Fixed Income and Other Assets Fixed Income and Other Assets Fixed Income and Other Assets 2.9% % of Net Assets: Jan10 4% | Jan09 5% The Fixed Income portfolio consists of preference shares dollar.
Gas prices have now recovered from their lows of and bonds issued by companies in the UK banking and 2009: a sustained recovery is dependent upon demand and insurance sectors.
The strong rebound in the share prices a function of economic growth in the US.
of UK financial companies in the year was reflected in the We also invest a small proportion of our assets in collective capital value of our preference share portfolio, which rose funds in areas which we believe will enhance the overall to 17.5 million from 13.7 million a year ago.
Interest returns of the portfolio but in which we do not have direct income from our preference share holdings totalled 1.5 expertise.
Within these holdings, Impax Environmental million, producing an income return of over 8.9% at year Markets PLC, which invests in technology-based systems, end values.
products and services in environmental markets, performed Income from our US mineral rights fell from 2.2 million well, as did Ashmore Global Opportunities Limited, which last year to 1.6 million.
US average gas prices fell by 56% benefited from the recovery in global emerging markets.
over the year while Sterling strengthened against the US Property Property Portfolio 6.2% % of Net Assets: Jan10 2% | Jan09 3% Our direct property portfolio provided gross rental income our property at 11 12 Hanover Street, London for 13.7m, of 4.1 million, a return of 6.3% net of costs.
The direct which reflects a net initial yield of 4.2%.
We will continue property portfolio was valued at 51.6 million at the year to manage the remaining properties in the portfolio to end, having disposed of 125 George Street, Edinburgh in maximise income returns, until such time as they are January for 9.6m.
Shortly after the year end, we also sold considered appropriate for disposal.
Investments Value as at Name 31 1 10 m 11 12 Hanover Street, London 13.7 Edinburgh House, 4 North St Andrew Street, Edinburgh 11.9 Kings Court, 12 King Street, Leeds 9.9 Climate Change Property Fund 6.5 Monteith House, 11 George Square, Glasgow 6.1 6-10 Frederick Street, Edinburgh 6.0 107 George Street, Edinburgh 4.0 Partly occupied by Alliance Trust PLC.
