Board of Directors Jacques Nasser Marius Kloppers AO, BBus, Hon DT, 62 BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 48 Chairman and independent non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer and executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since January Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since 2006.
Mr Kloppers was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 6 June 2006.
Appointed Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited 1 October 2007.
He was appointed Group President Non-Ferrous and BHP Billiton Plc from 31 March 2010.
Mr Nasser is retiring Materials and executive Director in January 2006 and was previously and standing for re-election in 2010.
Mr Kloppers was elected in 2006 and last re-elected in 2009.
Following a 33-year career with Ford in various leadership positions in Europe, Australia, Asia, South America and the US, Marius Kloppers has extensive knowledge of the mining industry Jacques Nasser served as a member of the Board of Directors and and of BHP Billitons operations.
Active in the mining and resources as President and Chief Executive Officer of Ford Motor Company industry since 1993, he was appointed Chief Commercial Officer in from 1998 to 2001.
He has more than 30 years experience December 2003.
He was previously Chief Marketing Officer, Group in large-scale global businesses.
He is currently a non-executive Executive of Billiton Plc, Chief Executive of Samancor Manganese director of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and a non-executive and held various positions at Billiton Aluminium, including Chief advisory partner of One Equity Partners JPMorgan Chase & Cos Operating Officer and General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
Alan Boeckmann Malcolm Broomhead BE Electrical Eng, 62 MBA, BE, FIE Aus, FAusIMM, FAIM, MICE UK, FAICD, 58 Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Sustainability Committee Appointed a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Appointed a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc in September 2008.
Mr Boeckmann was elected at the 2008 Annual with effect from 31 March 2010 and will stand for election at the General Meetings.
Alan Boeckmann is currently Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Malcolm Broomhead was Managing Director and Chief Executive of Fluor Corporation, USA, having originally joined Fluor in 1974.
Officer of Orica Limited from 2001 until September 2005, where Mr Boeckmann has extensive experience in running large-scale he oversaw a strongly performing global business that controlled international industrial companies and experience in the oil and interests in more than 45 countries.
Prior to joining Orica, gas industry.
He has global experience in engineering, procurement, Mr Broomhead held a number of senior positions at North Limited, construction, maintenance and project management across a range including Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer and prior of industries, including resources and petroleum.
to that, held senior management positions with Halcrow UK, MIM Holdings, Peko Wallsend and Industrial Equity.
Mr Broomhead has extensive experience in running industrial and mining companies with a global footprint and broad global experience in project development in many of the countries in which BHP Billiton operates.
Malcolm Broomhead is currently non-executive Chairman of Asciano Limited and a non-executive director of Coates Group Holdings Pty Ltd. 28 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2010 John Buchanan Carlos Cordeiro BSc, MSc Hons 1, PhD, 67 AB, MBA, 54 Senior Independent Director, BHP Billiton Plc Independent non-executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since February Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2005.
Mr Cordeiro was last re-elected in 2009.
Dr Buchanan has been designated as the Senior Independent Carlos Cordeiro brings to the Board more than 30 years experience Director of BHP Billiton Plc since his appointment.
He was last in providing strategic and financial advice to corporations, financial re-elected in 2008 and is retiring and standing for re-election in 2010. institutions and governments around the world.
He was previously Educated at Auckland, Oxford and Harvard, John Buchanan has Partner and Managing Director of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
He is broad international business experience gained in large and a non-executive advisory director of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc complex international businesses.
He has substantial experience and non-executive Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia.
in the petroleum industry and knowledge of the international investor community.
He has held various leadership roles in strategic, financial, operational and marketing positions, including executive experience in different countries.
He is a former executive director and Group Chief Financial Officer of BP, serving on the BP Board for six years.
John Buchanan is currently Chairman of Smith & Nephew Plc, Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce UK and Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc.
David Crawford Carolyn Hewson AO, BComm, LLB, FCA, FCPA, FAICD, 66 AO, BEc Hons, MA Econ, FAICD, 55 Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee Member of the Risk and Audit Committee Director of BHP Limited since May 1994.
Director of Appointed a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001. with effect from 31 March 2010 and will stand for election at the Mr Crawford was last re-elected in 2009 and, in accordance with 2010 Annual General Meetings.
the Groups policy described under Tenure in section 5.3.
5 of the Carolyn Hewson is a former investment banker and has over 25 years Annual Report, is retiring and standing for re-election in 2010. experience in the finance sector.
Ms Hewson was previously an David Crawford has extensive experience in risk management executive director of Schroders Australia Limited and has extensive and business reorganisation.
He has acted as a consultant, financial markets, risk management and investment management scheme manager, receiver and manager and liquidator to very expertise.
Carolyn Hewson is a non-executive director of Stockland large and complex groups of companies.
He was previously Corporation Limited, Westpac Banking Corporation, BT Investment Australian National Chairman of KPMG, Chartered Accountants.
Management Limited and previously served as a director The Board has nominated Mr Crawford as the audit committee on the boards of AMP Limited, CSR Limited, AGL Energy Limited, financial expert for the purposes of the US Securities and Exchange the Australian Gas Light Company, South Australia Water and the Commission Rules and is satisfied that he has recent and relevant Economic Development Board of South Australia.
She has current financial experience for the purposes of the UK Financial Services board or advisory roles with Nanosonics Limited, the Australian Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Charities Fund and the Neurosurgical Research Foundation.
He is Chairman of Lend Lease Corporation Limited and of Fosters Group Limited.
BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2010 | 29 Wayne Murdy Keith Rumble BSc Business Administration, CPA, 66 BSc, MSc Geology, 56 Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Member of the Risk and Audit Committee Member of the Sustainability Committee Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Appointed a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc in 18 June 2009.
Mr Rumble was elected at the 2008 Annual General Meetings and will retire and stand for re-election in 2010.
Wayne Murdy served as the Chief Executive Officer of Newmont Mining Corporation from January 2001 to June 2007 and Chairman Keith Rumble was previously Chief Executive Officer of SUN Mining, of Newmont from January 2002 to December 2007.
His background a wholly owned entity of the SUN Group, a principal investor and is in finance and accounting where he gained comprehensive private equity fund manager in Russia, India and other emerging experience in the financial management of mining, oil and gas and transforming markets.
He has over 30 years experience in companies during his career with Getty Oil, Apache Corporation the resources industry, specifically in titanium and platinum mining, and Newmont.
Wayne Murdy is also a former Chairman of the and is a former Chief Executive Officer of Impala Platinum Pty Ltd International Council on Mining and Metals, a former director and former Chief Executive Officer of Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium Inc. of the US National Mining Association and a former member of He began his career at Richards Bay Minerals in 1980 and held the Manufacturing Council of the US Department of Commerce.
various management positions before becoming Chief Executive He is a non-executive director of Weyerhaeuser Company and Officer in 1996.
Keith Rumble is a non-executive director of of Qwest Communications International Inc.
John Schubert Jane McAloon BCh Eng, PhD Chem Eng, FIEAust, FTSE, 67 BEc Hons, LLB, GDipGov, FCIS, 46 Independent non-executive Director Group Company Secretary Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Jane McAloon was appointed Group Company Secretary in July 2007 Member of the Remuneration Committee and joined the BHP Billiton Group in September 2006 as Company Member of the Nomination Committee Secretary for BHP Billiton Limited.
Director of BHP Limited since June 2000 and a Director Prior to joining BHP Billiton, Jane McAloon held the position of of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Company Secretary and Group Manager External and Regulatory Dr Schubert was last re-elected in 2008 and in accordance with Services in the Australian Gas Light Company.
She previously held the Groups policy described under Tenure in section 5.3.
5 of various Australian State and Commonwealth government positions, the Annual Report, is retiring and standing for re-election in 2010. including Director General of the NSW Ministry of Energy and Utilities John Schubert has considerable experience in the international and Deputy Director General for the NSW Cabinet Office, as well oil industry, including at Chief Executive Officer level.
He has as working in private legal practice.
She is a Fellow of the Institute had executive mining and financial responsibilities and was of Chartered Secretaries.
Chief Executive Officer of Pioneer International Limited for six years, where he operated in the building materials industry in 16 countries.
He has experience in mergers, acquisitions and divestments, project analysis and management.
He was previously Chairman and Managing Director of Esso Australia Limited and President of the Business Council of Australia.
John Schubert is a non-executive director of Qantas Airways Limited.
