An unchanged strategy Chief Executive Officers Report into line with how the rest of our portfolio is priced globally and moves us closer to achieving our stated objective of market By operating at full capacity whenever possible and prices for all of our commodities.
staying focused on eliminating low value activities, More broadly, prices for our products recovered during the year we maintained our low-cost position and our ability driven by demand in China and restocking in the Organisation to generate robust cash flows.
for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD countries.
While government stimulus measures generally supported a gradual return to normalised global trade, the improvement in the developed economies was from a low base.
We believe that the recovery momentum of the major economies will remain uncertain as the impact of fiscal and monetary stimuli fades.
Therefore, we are still cautious in our short-term view of the economy.
In the longer term, we are encouraged by the fundamentals underpinning sustained growth in China and India, which will continue to drive a strong demand for our products.
This, along with our strong balance sheet, supports our capacity for future Financial year 2010 was a year that presented a broad mix growth.
We have extensive experience operating in emerging of challenges and achievements.
Despite continued volatility resource regions and we have the capability to capture additional and ongoing uncertainty across the global economy, BHP Billiton opportunities as they arise.
delivered a strong operational and financial performance.
Our disciplined approach to capital deployment has enabled It is our consistent and long-term strategy of focusing on BHP Billiton to both invest in the expansion of high-quality a portfolio of upstream, tier one, low-cost assets diversified assets and further diversify our portfolio by commodity, by commodity, market and geography that underpinned market and geography, consistent with our unchanged strategy.
our ability to overcome the challenges during the year.
I am The acquisition of Athabasca Potash earlier this year ensures encouraged by the Groups performance, which is testament our Group has access to more than 14,000 square kilometres to our focus on creating shareholder value in the long term.
of prospective exploration ground in the world-class We are a leading global resources company and our successes Saskatchewan potash basin.
Our all-cash bid to acquire Potash and achievements are significant.
However, we cannot say Corporation of Saskatchewan, the worlds largest integrated we are truly successful until we eliminate fatalities and serious fertiliser company and worlds largest producer of potash by injuries in our workplace.
capacity, is consistent with our strategy and is a natural fit with This year we continued to make progress in reducing the number BHP Billitons greenfield land holdings in Canada.
This acquisition of injuries, though we did not meet our targets.
It is with great represents an acceleration of our entry into the fertiliser industry.
sadness that I report to you that five of our colleagues lost their This, plus the delivery of five major capital projects, is evidence lives at work during the year and I personally extend my of our growth capabilities.
condolences to the families and friends of those individuals.
However, we only earn the right to grow this business if we can This is a stark reminder that we must lead in a way that ensures do it safely, in an environmentally sound manner and in a way a safe workplace, and we can only do this by creating operating that demonstrates our unqualified commitment to working discipline and simplifying the way we work.
I believe it is worth reiterating that safe growth with strong leadership and I cannot emphasise enough underpinned by demonstrating our Charter values can only how important this is to me personally and to our Group.
be achieved through leadership commitment and operating I am pleased to announce that BHP Billiton operations this discipline.
I want to take this opportunity to sincerely thank year delivered solid results, with annual production records our employees and contractors and other stakeholders for achieved in our Iron Ore and Petroleum businesses.
In Iron Ore, their efforts in responding to the accountabilities articulated this marked the tenth consecutive annual production record, in our operating model.
and for Petroleum, it was the third consecutive production Our Company has a clear strategy for growing our value, within record.
Our long-life, low-cost expandable assets provide a disciplined framework, and using prudent decision-making.
our Company with the capacity to continue to deliver and Who and what we are today is the product of the vision and strengthen our position in a range of markets.
efforts of previous management teams in executing a consistent By operating at full capacity whenever possible and staying strategy.
It is our responsibility to not only preserve, but enhance focused on eliminating low value activities, we maintained our and increase the value of that legacy.
low-cost position and our ability to generate robust cash flows.
Of significant note in FY2010 was the move from annually negotiated benchmark prices in metallurgical coal and iron ore to shorter-term reference pricing.
We have long advocated a move to a more transparent pricing regime and will actively Marius Kloppers support the development of a wider traded market in these commodities.
This move brings metallurgical coal and iron ore Chief Executive Officer 6 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2010 We must earn the right to grow, by growing safely.
Safe growth can only be achieved through leadership commitment and operating discipline.
BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2010 | 7 Our strategy is to focus on low-cost, world-class, expandable and export-oriented operations diversified across markets and geographic regions.
