Our strategy delivers Chairmans Review New Brunswick, Canada, and our intention is to establish a global potash business based in Canada.
We have unique assets that are critical to the Important governance developments occurred in the UK, growth of the worlds developing economies, US and Australia during the year responding to the challenges and a geographic and commodity spread that of the global recession.
We support the changes, particularly reduces risk and optimises opportunity.
the emphasis on ensuring Boards comprise Directors with the collective set of essential skills and experience to govern the Group supported by robust succession planning and performance evaluation.
As part of our Board succession, Carolyn Hewson and Malcolm Broomhead joined the Board in March 2010.
Together they bring deep experience in industrial and resource companies, financial markets and investment risk management.
During the year, Don Argus, Paul Anderson, Gail fide Planque, David Jenkins and David Morgan retired from the Board.
We thank each of them for their contribution, particularly former Chairman Don Argus AC.
I am pleased to report that in a difficult global economic and We have always believed that corporate governance and financial environment, BHP Billiton continued to perform well executive remuneration practices are critical issues for any and strengthened its strategic and financial position.
We support the need for While the global economic outlook has improved, the recovery simplified and transparent executive remuneration reporting, remains fragile.
Despite a near-term slowing in China, we and these have been key influences on the structure of our continue to believe that the fundamentals driving Asian growth remuneration report this year.
It is clear to the Board that the long-term outlook Our Remuneration Committee reviewed the Groups Long Term for BHP Billiton is strong.
We have unique assets that are Incentive Plan for our most senior executives.
The plan was critical to the growth of the worlds developing economies, originally introduced in 2004 and, given the changes in the and a geographic and commodity spread that reduces risk global environment, the Committee believed a review was and optimises opportunity.
We consulted widely with our shareholders as During the year, your Chief Executive, Marius Kloppers, and well as governance advisers.
As a result, we continue to believe his team focused on delivering strong production and cost that the duration of our five-year, long-term plan is appropriate.
performance as well as investing in new growth opportunities.
However, we also believe it is important to change some design Our strategy is clear and remains unchanged since 2001. elements as the plan produced highly leveraged outcomes not We focus on large, long-life, low-cost, upstream, high-quality reflective of our business strategy.
This is a matter on which assets, diversified by commodity, geography and markets.
we will seek shareholder approval.
This strategy means more predictable business performance One thing that has impressed me since the time I started as over time which, in turn, underpins the creation of value for a Director in 2006 has been the quality of BHP Billiton people our shareholders, customers, employees and, importantly, throughout the Group.
In resources, as in many other industries, the communities in which we operate.
results are not only a function of the quality of the assets but The execution of our strategy resulted in a profit from the quality of the people operating and managing those assets.
operations, excluding exceptional items, of US$19.7 billion Marius is a talented Chief Executive and he has developed a an increase of 8.3 per cent.
Net operating cash flows were strong and diverse team with a depth of talent to support him.
US$17.9 billion, US$7.7 billion of which was reinvested in On your behalf, the Board would like to thank everyone involved new growth projects.
In addition, the Board increased dividends with our Company for the contribution they have made in this by 6.1 per cent to 87 cents per share, in line with our progressive challenging year.
Finally, since becoming Chairman this year after the retirement While the Board is pleased with these results, our progress of Don Argus, I have had the privilege of meeting many of our in the critical area of safety is still below expectation.
This is a rewarding part We continued to reduce the number of workplace injuries, of my role and I look forward to meeting many more of you over however five people lost their lives at our operations this the coming years.
This is clearly unacceptable and a tragedy for their families, friends and colleagues.
In August 2010, we announced a fully funded takeover of Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan.
The proposed acquisition meets our criteria of developing quality long-life assets using our existing mining skills to gain a leading position Jacques Nasser AO in the growing world market for fertiliser.
We are committed Chairman to being a strong corporate citizen in Saskatchewan and 4 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2010 In a difficult global environment we continued to perform well, strengthening our position.
