Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Performance Business review: Amlin France and Re Europe 37 Business review Amlin Re Europe W e believe that a focused and well capitalised European reinsurer will provide a strong partner for European brokers and clients.
Pictured left to right: Christian Bieri Chief Underwriting Officer, Andrea Manella Head UK, Switzerland, South Africa & Italy, Carl Maeder Head Germany & Austria, Marc Dejardin Head France, Benelux & Maghreb, Gregoire Mauchamp Chief Philippe Regazzoni Finance Officer, Philippe Regazzoni Chief Executive Chief Executive Amlin AG was established in 2010 as an part of 2010.
The new business started 2011 independently capitalised, full service well with approximately 150 clients, around 250 2010 Highlights reinsurance operation with the objective programmes, and 65.6 million of gross written Amlin Re Europe launched in of providing European reinsurance buyers, premium.
This was ahead of expectation and especially small and mid-sized companies, represents a well diversified initial portfolio.
October 2010 with a meaningful alternative for high quality The Amlin Re Europe team is headed by Philippe Strong Zurich based reinsurance capacity.
After a decade of Regazzoni, CEO of Amlin AG, and formerly reinsurance team recruited by consolidation in the European reinsurance CEO of Swiss Re UK.
At the end of 2010 the market and recent turbulence in global financial end of 2010 with substantial team comprised a staff of 23, including 10 markets, reinsurance buyers are increasingly experience in the European underwriters mainly recruited from other major looking to diversify their insurance risk and to reinsurance markets European reinsurers.
These underwriters have spread their counterparty risk.
long-standing experience of the European market Encouraging broker and client Solvency II is further expected to increase demand and the skills to underwrite all major non-life response to Amlin Re Europes for reinsurance as it is the most accessible source reinsurance classes and products.
strong business proposition of extra capital for small and mid-sized insurers Amlin Re Europe will focus on non-life treaty who may need to source additional capital.
Also, reinsurance for European insurance companies.
Initial underwriting ahead of it is expected to reinforce the desire to spread A key objective is to be a preferred reinsurance business plan at 66 million.
This presents an attractive partner for brokers, although in line with market opportunity for a new and strongly capitalised practice in Continental Europe, the Zurich entrant to offer improved choice to existing operation will conduct both brokered and direct European cedants.
Over a four to five year timescale the In October 2010 Amlin Bermuda Limited was objective is to acquire around a 1% share of the redomiciled from Bermuda to Switzerland and overall European reinsurance market, equating a new Zurich-based Swiss company named to approximately 400 million of gross written Amlin AG was created.
The progress towards this goal will of Amlin Bermuda now trade as a Bermudato a degree depend on market conditions.
based branch of Amlin AG and the Zurich-based The business mix is expected to comprise underwriting unit trades as Amlin Re Europe.
proportional and non-proportional reinsurance Capitalised at $1.4 billion and with excellent business, with the majority in property and ratings, Amlin AG will be a leading reinsurer casualty and some special lines business, in the European market in terms of financial mainly marine and engineering.
The portfolio strength, and will also benefit from Amlins will include some catastrophe exposures as existing broker relationships and reputation part of an overall client and market approach.
We believe that continuity in client relationships Amlin Re Europe commenced underwriting and a clear and transparent underwriting approach in October 2010, having received approvals offer an excellent value proposition for clients in from the Swiss Financial Market Authority and this segment.
A key feature of Amlin Re Europes the Bermuda Monetary Authority.
As much approach will be a focus on developing close European reinsurance business is renewed at relationships with clients, as well as delivering 1 January, little business was written in the latter Amlins first-class service standards.
