Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Performance Risk management 41 Focus on Solvency II Solvency II presents a significant oppor tunity Progress in 2010 to improve cross-cycle earnings quality by Completed QIS5 exercise further enhancing our risk management and Enhanced risk management framework capital efficiency.
In 2010 we made good Expanded DFA model into Solvency II compliant Internal Model progress towards Solvency II compliance and remain focused on optimising potential Drove wider use of Internal Model within business business benefits through our Target Developed further our aggregate and catastrophe Operating Model.
Richard Hextall, Programme Sponsor Solvency II is an EU directive aimed at Effective management of risk and capital is a key understanding of the risk profile of each class overhauling the regulation of life and non-life strategic priority.
The risk framework currently and assisting underwriting management in insurers.
The key objective of Solvency II is being embedded as part of the Target Operating understanding the balance between risk and to introduce a more risk-based approach to Model will further enhance definition of the risk reward for each class.
regulation, with strong incentives for firms to standards and risk tolerances which guide our Other important achievements during the year assess their own capital requirements internally.
day-to-day business processes and ensure that included the development of an improved and The directive goes beyond existing regulation we do not breach our risk appetite.
consistent governance structure across the by aiming to instil a high standard of risk We will calculate economic capital for the complete Group and Group policies to support international management and governance within each insurer.
spectrum of risks identified by our risk framework, expansion.
A Group-wide management Implementation is scheduled for 2013 although ensuring that our capital requirement reflects our information framework has developed.
transitional provisions are now being considered.
risk profile and enabling capital to be allocated and returns measured on a risk adjusted basis.
Amlins approach 2011 Priorities Under Solvency II, there are two prescribed Progress during 2010 methods for assessing an insurers regulatory Business embedding of 2010 During 2010 Amlin completed the important capital requirements using either a standard pilots group wide pre-application preparation for Solvency II formula set by the regulator or an Internal on schedule.
We made significant progress Continue embedding Internal Model specific to that insurer which is subject to with the development of the Target Operating Model uses regulatory approval.
We believe that obtaining Model, embedding various aspects of the approval for Amlins Internal Model will give the Prepare for Internal Model application Model into the day to day operation of the business greater capital flexibility and competitive business, such as improved reporting tools, advantage over insurers operating under the Implement improved group-wide using output from the Model for the business standard formula.
Embedding its use in our aggregate risk management tool kit planning process and in defining risk appetite decision making will improve risk management and tolerances and measuring activity against Embed new capital allocation tool.
and lead to enhanced risk adjusted returns.
This development is providing improved Amlin has invested in developing its own capital model using Dynamic Financial Analysis DFA, which has been operational for several years.
Operation of the internal model We are focused on using the DFA model within the business, recognising that judgement should continue to play a major part in our decision Actuarial analysis and judgement making.
This will help with Solvency II compliance and should also allow significant benefits to be extracted for the business.
To help to provide a vision for wider Solvency II compliance, beyond use of the DFA model, Internal model management agreed a Target Operating Model at the start of the Solvency II programme.
The Target Operating Model is business focused and designed to protect our successful underwriting culture.
By further embedding actuarial analysis and a more formal risk management process into Amlins operations it will reinforce risk, return and Data and Data and capital management at the heart of our decision reconciliation reconciliation making.
It assists Amlin in three key areas: Assessment of capital requirements Assessment of risk appetite and tolerances Informing and challenging key business Business strategy and risk governance decisions such as reinsurance purchasing.
Expert analysis and judgement Underwriting activities Investment activities Expert analysis and judgement
