4 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 10 reasons to invest in Amlin Amlin is a specialist insurer and reinsurer with a proven and scalable business model which has delivered outstanding performance for shareholders across the insurance cycle.
Key elements of this model are: 1.
Breadth and depth of underwriting expertise 3.
Dynamic management of investment risk 6.
Strong franchise with first class client service 7.
Cross cycle track record of outperformance Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Overview Investment proposition 5 Profit focused underwriting Amlins underwriting approach is highly disciplined and focused on gross underwriting profitability before investment income and reinsurance across the insurance cycle, rather than on premium income or market share.
This approach is underpinned by incentive structures which reward underwriters for both short and long term profitability.
Amlin Group weighted average combined ratio 76% 20062010 Steve Williams Leading Class Underwriter Motor Fleet, Amlin UK Breadth and depth of underwriting expertise The skill and experience of our underwriters is critical to achieving outstanding performance.
Amlin has strength in depth across an underwriting portfolio that spans more than 30 classes from commercial motor to catastrophe reinsurance, led by more than 110 senior underwriters in 2010.
Average turnover of senior underwriters 4.5% 20062010 John Brown Leading Class Underwriter Commercial Property, Amlin London 6 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Wealth of industry experience Amlins underwriters are supported by a team of seasoned professionals across all disciplines including claims, investments, risk management, actuarial, catastrophe modelling and finance.
Many of Amlins key people, including 45% of the Executive team, have been with Amlin since its formation in 1998.
Amlins ability to attract high calibre recruits has further enhanced this experienced and stable employee base.
Senior managers average years of 22 industry experience David Harris Managing Director Amlin Underwriting Limited Active capital management Understanding and managing the level of capital required, adjusting the level of equity and debt employed across the cycle to enhance returns and support growth and returning surplus cash to shareholders are key aspects of our active and flexible approach to capital management.
This approach has allowed us to generate an average return on equity of 24.7% over the past five years.
Cash returned 1 to shareholders 593.7m 20062010 1 Including 2010 final dividend Steve McMurray Finance Director Amlin Underwriting Limited Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Overview Investment proposition 7 Dynamic management of investment risk Driven by risk appetite rather than a target return, Amlins disciplined and responsive approach to investment management has delivered consistently robust returns, even through recent financial market turbulence.
Simple average % outperformance of peer group investment 1.1% return over last 6 years Jayne Styles Chief Investment Officer Strong franchise with first class client service Amlins Vision is to be the global reference point for quality in each of our markets.
The strength of our franchise is based on access to expert underwriters and speed of response combined with fair, timely and equitable claims settlement.
Our long-standing relationships with brokers and clients are reflected in the consistently high retention levels of renewal business achieved by all Amlins businesses.
Group 2010 86% retention ratio David Turner Head of Claims Amlin London 8 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Effective risk management Amlin has developed a sustainable enterprise risk management process within our business model, enabling us to manage risk effectively and optimise returns for the risks we take.
The risk management framework is overseen by a dedicated team of professionals who provide assurance and challenge to management.
This capability will be important under Solvency II regulation.
Average net claims 47% ratio 20062010 Phil Ellis Group Actuary A diverse and balanced portfolio Amlins portfolio balances high margin but volatile catastrophe underwriting with lower margin and less volatile business.
This enhances quality of earnings and capital efficiency, as well as offering a broad range of opportunities for growth in different territories and classes of business.
Major classes of 30 business written Alan Godfrey Catastrophe Modelling Manager Amlin London Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Overview Investment proposition 9 Well positioned for growth Amlin has substantial underwriting franchises with excellent broker relationships and excellent ratings in Lloyds, Bermuda and Continental Europe, as well as newer businesses in Switzerland and Singapore.
With a strong capital position, all these businesses are well positioned for further growth.
Amlins balance sheet strength provides the scope to expand rapidly when market conditions are favourable and the ability to take advantage of suitable acquisition opportunities.
Net tangible 1.5bn assets 2010 Richard Hextall Group Finance Director Cross cycle track record of outperformance Amlins business model is focused on delivering an average return on equity of at least 15% across the insurance cycle through a diverse and profitable underwriting portfolio, active capital management and optimised investment returns.
Over the past five years we have delivered a weighted average return on equity of 24.7% and cumulative profit after tax of 1.4 billion.
The business is well positioned to continue this outperformance through further profitable growth.
Total shareholder 205% return 20062010 Kevin Allchorne Head of Reinsurance Amlin London 10 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 A market leading performance Amlins strong record of financial performance is the product of a sound core business and consistent delivery against our strategy.
Return of capital Active capital management is crucial to delivering our objective of a cross cycle 1 return on equity in excess of 15%.
We recognise that at certain points in the underwriting cycle the Group will hold equity capital in excess of our forecast capital requirements.
In the absence of opportunities to deploy this capital 593.7m at attractive rates of return we look to return excess capital to shareholders.
Since 2006, through a combination of a progressive dividend strategy, special dividend and B share issue, we have returned 593.7 million.
We have also repurchased 27.6 million of capital through share buy backs.
1 Including 2010 final dividend pence 40 22.4 35 30 25 23.0 20 8.0 20.0 17.0 15 15.0 12.0 10 5 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Key Ordinary dividend per share Special dividend per share B share issue equivalent per share Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Overview Investment proposition 11 Total shareholder return Over five years, strong share price growth and healthy dividends mean Amlin has delivered one ofthe highest total shareholder returns in the global non-life insurance industry.
Peer Groups 205% European AXA, Hannover Re, Munich Re, RSA, Scor, Swiss Re, ZFS North America Bermuda Ace, AIG, Argo Group, Chubb, Everest Re, IPC, Markel Corp, Max Re, Odyssey Re, Partner Re, Renaissance Re, Transatlantic, Travelers, WhiteMountains, WR Berkley, XL Capital Lloyds Beazley, Brit, Catlin, Chaucer, Hardy, Hiscox, Novae % 200 150 100 50 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Key Amlin Lloyds European North America Bermuda
