Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Overview Group overview 15 Global offices Amlins global offices are the underwriting and operational centres for our businesses.
The majority of Amlins business is sourced through independent insurance brokers, who provide a global distribution network for Amlins diverse business lines.
2 4 1 5 3 6 7 1 4 Amlin London Amlin Bermuda Amlin London operates through Syndicate 2001 Amlin Bermuda writes mainly reinsurance at Lloyds.
It is organised into four business units: business.
Direct business sourced from brokers Reinsurance, Property & Casualty, Marine and accounted for 65% of Amlin Bermudas revenue Aviation, writing more than 30 classes of business in 2010.
In addition Amlin Bermuda underwrites and providing a diverse portfolio of risks.
quota share reinsurance of Syndicate 2001.
More information: page 28 More information: page 32 2 5 Amlin UK Amlin Corporate Insurance Amlin UK is our UK commercial insurance Amlin Corporate Insurance is a leading provider business, operating through Syndicate 2001. of marine, commercial property and liability It is a leader in fleet motor business and also insurance in the Benelux region.
It has offices in underwrites a range of other commercial lines Amstelveen, Rotterdam, Brussels and Antwerp.
sourced through both retail and wholesale More information: page 34 brokers and other distribution channels.
Amlin UK is based in Chelmsford with 6 Amlin Re Europe regional offices in Basingstoke, Manchester, Amlin Re Europe was established in Zurich in Norwich and Nottingham.
2010 to underwrite non-life treaty reinsurance More information: page 30 business for insurers in the Continental European market.
3 Amlin France More information: page 37 Amlin France was formed in 2010 from the merger of Anglo French Underwriters and 7 Amlin Singapore ACI France.
It is the largest approved Lloyds Amlin Singapore operates as part of Amlin coverholder in France and is focused on SME London through the Lloyds Asia platform specialty business, underwriting through both and is focused on specialty business.
Amlin France is based in Paris with an office in Lyon.
