12 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Consistent Vision with a strategy for growth Our strategy is centred on delivering long-term value to shareholders.
We employ our Vision, to be the global reference point for quality in each of our markets, to give strategic focus and drive operational performance.
Underpinning our Vision are the strategic priorities that we believe we must deliver to be successful.
Shareholder value 15% cross cycle return on equity Profitable trading throughout the insurance cycle Our Vision for 2010 2015 is to be the global reference point for quality in each of our markets First class Measured A culture Effective risk client service expansion and employment Profit focused management based on of core practices that underwriting which optimises a thorough businesses make Amlin excellence returns for the understanding and geographic the place risks we take of their needs footprint to work Risk Financial Underwriting Clients Operations People management management Business focus Strategic priorities Our Vision Financial targets Our goal Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Overview Our Vision 13 Vision Last year, we reviewed the Vision and strategy The diversity of the business has been 2008 were initial steps in this direction and the acquisition of ACI in 2009 was a material step for the Group which had been established in fundamental to our financial and operating 2005.
We concluded that, with minor changes, it performance in recent years and also provides forward.
During 2010, we focused on the integration of ACI and the start up of Amlin continues to provide a robust framework for the the balance to allow our catastrophe business delivery of shareholder value.
The core objective to grow.
We continue to focus on ways in which Re Europe.
of this strategy remains achieving a cross cycle we can develop our non-catastrophe business, The cycle management focus of our Vision is return on equity of at least 15%.
We believe that generated via alternative platforms and in crucial as we move forward in challenging market there is a positive correlation between profitable different geographies.
Amlin Re Europe will conditions.
Our underwriting discipline underpins growth and the price to book multiple and hence contribute to that diversity, giving the Group Amlins record of robust cross cycle performance.
We intend to deliver access to the substantial Continental European The business is well positioned to generate significant growth over the insurance cycle through reinsurance market and over time developing significant growth when the trading environment expansion of the platforms and markets in which another diverse business stream.
The continued is favourable, but equally well placed to continue Amlin operates.
growth of Amlin UK as market conditions improve, to perform in soft market conditions, where and following recent strategic investment, will the diversity of the portfolio continues to offer A key aspect of our strategy is the focus on also expand our non-catastrophe earnings.
maintaining a balance between catastrophe and opportunities for selective expansion.
As the We continue to invest in our underwriting and cycle turns, we have the people and the capital non-catastrophe exposures within our portfolio, marketing capabilities to develop our business.
together with a broad spread of risk by geography in place to grow significantly.
We aim for the mean expected Growth through acquisition is a key element profitability of our total business to offset claims of our plans as we believe that organic growth after reinsurance in the event of any of the alone is less likely to deliver the diversity, quality extreme catastrophe scenarios to which the and scale of growth targeted over our strategic Groups catastrophe underwriting is exposed.
Investments in the UK and France in Strategic priorities for 2011 The Groups priorities represent the key 2.
Measured expansion of our core benchmarks against which we will measure our businesses and geographic footprint Ensure delivery of adequate underwriting progress in 2011.
Other related or business returns against allocated capital Complete the establishment of Amlin area specific objectives are recognised in the Re Europe Develop a Group Underwriting Function remainder of this report.
to drive best practice across the Group Identify and evaluate acquisition opportunities Our current focus is on: in target markets Further develop our capability to monitor underwriting quality across a broader Continued optimisation of the core business Analyse growth opportunities and enhance geographical base.
Further alignment of the business and operations with Solvency II requirements 3.
A culture and employment practices Completion of the integration of ACI, and optimises returns for the risks we take that make Amlin the place to work continued performance improvement of its Move towards our Solvency II target Embed Amlin Values across the marine business.
First class client ser vice based on a Implement a consistent risk management Implement changes to performance related framework and risk assessment processes thorough understanding of their needs remuneration across all Group businesses across the Group.
and market trends Develop proposals for Global Talent Management.
Deliver the platform replacement programme for ACI in accordance with integration plans Further develop the Amlin brand and maximise the return from marketing initiatives Continued investment in resource and infrastructure to support the Groups expansion.
