34 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Business review Amlin Corporate Insurance During 2010 we made good progress towards full integration with Amlin and with re-underwriting our marine portfolio.
I am confident that we are building a firm foundation for improved future performance.
Patrick Coene Chief Executive Business development ACIs liability and fleet accounts continued to Key performance indicators perform satisfactorily in competitive market During 2010 the main focus for ACI remained the conditions.
The property book suffered from continued re-underwriting of underperforming Gross written premium soft prices and some weather related events, parts of the marine portfolio together with principally windstorm Xynthia, summer storms managing the separation from the Fortis and floods in Belgium, the biggest for over sixty 768.2m Group and full integration with Amlin.
years, leading to a reduction in profitability.
2009: 236.1m since acquisition The re-underwriting made considerable progress The integration of ACI into the Amlin Group during 2010 although there remains more work and the management of the separation from to be done in 2011.
Our marine business in Combined ratio the Fortis Group are discussed in more detail Rotterdam, which accounts for 85% of ACIs pp.
This major project continued to make marine gross written premium, was the main substantial demands on ACIs management 104% focus of attention in 2009 and the first half of resource during the year.
The re-underwriting of the international team was strengthened by the recruitment hull account, approximately 40% of ACIs total of a Chief Risk Officer and a Chief Operating marine premiums in 2010 continued and the Retention ratio Officer and further investment was made in loss ratio on this account has improved as a establishing a local human resources presence result.
Re-underwriting of the Rotterdam cargo and strengthening the local finance team.
84% account approximately 29% of ACIs total marine premiums in 2010 had been hampered in 2009 Work on the Platform Replacement Programme to replace ACIs legacy systems continues to by insufficient staff, the complexity and size of the book, and some longer term agreements.
progress well and the project target remains to migrate ACIs underwriting onto Amlins existing The team was brought up to strength in 2010 and IT platform in mid-2011.
much of the portfolio was re-underwritten during the year, although increased competition in the Significant progress was also made in implementing cargo market meant that a significant amount of key aspects of Amlins underwriting, financial business was declined due to inadequate pricing.
For underwriting these include tracking of rate movements on In Antwerp, ACI underwrites a much smaller ACIs portfolio and greater individual underwriter portfolio which is predominantly commodity cargo accountability, supported by line guides, peer business approximately 13% of ACIs total marine review and other controls already employed premium in 2010 with a relatively small number elsewhere in the Group.
Underwriter incentives of large clients.
During 2010, as claims developed have also been brought more into line with on business written from 2008 to 2010, worse the profit-focused structures in Amlins other than anticipated performance was recognised businesses for 2011.
On the marine portfolio, and the business required significant repricing.
measures were put in place for sharing of relevant Good progress has been made, with re-rating and pricing and market information between the improved loss prevention measures achieved on a London and ACI marine teams and to ensure number of key accounts in the second half of the a consistent response to brokers on new marine year.
This reflects the long-standing relationships business opportunities.
between ACI and these key clients and their recognition of the expertise and high standard of In risk management, ACI was brought into the service provided by ACI in this specialised sector Groups Solvency II programme and work begun of the market.
to bring reserving into line with Amlins approach.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Performance Business review: Amlin Corporate Insurance 35 2010 Highlights Pictured left to right: Jaap Gispen Rotterdam marine business showing signs of improvement following Executive Vice President Marine re-underwriting Rudy Benmerijda Executive Vice President Action taken to address poor performance of Antwerp portfolio Belgium Nicholas Harvey Sound performance from fleet and liability business despite tough Chief Risk Officer market conditions Herman Kreulen Chief Operating Officer Property result affected by weather related claims and large risk losses Patrick Coene Chief Executive Officer Management team strengthened with new Chief Risk Officer and Michiel Vervliet Chief Operating Officer Executive Vice President the Netherlands Key aspects of Amlins underwriting, financial and risk management practices adopted Platform Replacement Programme on track for implementation in mid-2011.
With ACIs principal markets remaining soft The reduction reflects the non-renewal events affecting the Belgian property book.
during the year, efforts were focused on the of approximately 71 million of business, The Antwerp account also performed poorly existing underwriting portfolios and less on predominantly in marine classes, in line with with a number of large claims incurred in the new business development.
However, client the identified re-underwriting strategy.
Prior period reserve releases service remained a priority across the business was partially offset by 43.5 million of income were 49.6 million 2009 from acquisition: and the initially positive reaction of clients and from the Raets Marine agency account, which 19.0 million.
brokers to ACIs acquisition by Amlin in 2009 was regained at the end of 2009 following The expense ratio was 28% 2009: 24% reflecting was borne out by a retention ratio of 84% and Amlins acquisition of ACI.
the increase in costs associated with operating approximately 41 million of new business Rate movements were broadly flat relative to outside the Fortis Group, and strengthening the written during the year.
risk, finance and operations functions.
business through a broad spread of brokers and intermediaries.
Approximately 45% of its 2010 The combined ratio was 104% 2009 from business was obtained from the largest global acquisition: 96%.
The claims ratio of 76% brokers, Aon, Marsh and Willis and the balance 2009 from acquisition: 72% is disappointing produced through national and regional brokers.
given the effort that has been deployed to improve performance.
However, ACI incurred Underwriting performance approximately 13 million of claims from natural Gross written premium was 768.2 million catastrophe activity with 6.3 million of marine claims caused by the Chilean earthquake, 2009 from acquisition: 236.1 million.
On a like for like basis, the underlying reduction largely from damage to shipbuilding yards, and 6.6 million of large losses from weather related in gross written premium was 37.7 million.
Amlin Corporate Insurance 2010 GWP Amlin Corporate Insurance 2010 GWP by class by broker 3% 8% 25% 15% 55% 56% 13% 18% 7% Marine insurance 56% Fleet other motor 8% Aon 25% Willis 7% Property insurance 18% Captives 3% Marsh 13% Other 55% Liability 15%
