Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Performance Financial management 53 Outlook Amlins 1 January reinsurance renewals, which In the UK, we saw an improving rating trend for Rating environment account for approximately 40.6% of reinsurance fleet motor at the end of 2010 following a more The rating environment in which our businesses business expected to be written for the year, competitive market than expected earlier in the are operating remains varied which, given the showed reinsurance rates down by 3.2% for Amlin year.
This was reflected in an overall rate increase diversity of our business across classes and London and 4.4% for Amlin Bermuda.
Margins of 7.4% for fleet motor in January.
In motor platforms, provides us with the opportunity to after these modest reductions remain attractive, fleet, as elsewhere in the UK commercial market continue to allocate capacity where margins are particularly for US catastrophe business, and there is increasing evidence of financial distress most attractive.
Amlin again retained strong support from brokers as competitors withdraw or reduce capacity on This is illustrated at 1 January 2011 renewals.
The on more competitive placements.
With similar trends in the overall Amlin portfolio saw a fall in rates of 1.3% personal lines market exacerbated by the impact For the US property and casualty and aviation on renewal.
Underlying, the reinsurance accounts of the severe winter weather in 2010, we expect sectors the return potential remains unattractive of London and Bermuda saw an average renewal to see improvement in pricing for UK commercial despite poor market returns.
Property and rate reduction of 3.7% but the UK fleet motor lines in 2011. casualty business in Continental Europe also account had a rate increase of 7.4%.
However, remains competitive with both local and rate movements do not provide the whole picture.
Loss activity multinational insurers competing fiercely for For example, our reinsurance accounts are under As always the level of natural catastrophe market share in the sectors where ACI and pricing pressure but continue to offer strong activity in the year will influence our financial Amlin France operate.
Competition has been margin potential.
We are therefore likely to seek to performance and the future rating environment.
heightened by lower demand in many classes hold our position.
By contrast, the UK fleet motor The beginning of 2011 has continued with the as a result of the economic slowdown.
Given account rate increase is from the bottom of the active pattern that we saw last year.
Australia the abundance of capacity in these markets, pricing cycle and after a period of retrenchment, was battered by cyclone activity, bringing heavy an upturn in pricing seems unlikely in the short we expect to materially increase our underwriting flooding to Southern Queensland and cyclone term.
However ACIs property and casualty if the upward pricing trend continues.
These events are performance remains solid and a disciplined likely to fall within our normal expectations for It is therefore important to consider the various approach will through time provide a different natural catastrophe activity.
The Christchurch business units separately in order to get a trend to a market that has lost discipline.
In these earthquake in February 2011 is a major complete picture of our trading outlook.
sectors of the market, this discipline is often catastrophe loss with current insured loss the factor that ensures survival and prosperity Reinsurance pricing overall is softening under the estimates ranging from NZ$5 billion to NZ$11.5 through the trough of the cycle.
weight of surplus capacity following two benign 2 billion.
At this stage, it is difficult to quantify the years for US catastrophe claims.
The major The marine market offers better prospects for potential claims arising from this earthquake, earthquakes of 2010 caused an immediate uplift selective underwriting.
Rates for our London which is exacerbated by its occurrence in the to regional pricing in the loss affected areas, but business were relatively stable and ACI at the same city as the 2010 event.
While we would we do not anticipate any broader market impact 1 January renewals achieved a 2.5% rate increase.
expect a material level of claims, it is important in 2011.
While newsworthy, the impact of the The re-underwriting process for Rotterdam and to recognise that they will not necessarily be Australian floods at the end of 2010 and at the Antwerp continued, which should also lead to proportionate to the claims incurred for the start of 2011, look likely to be modest events for an improvement in performance.
While it is September earthquake.
This is partly due to reinsurers.
However, as we have observed before, disappointing to report that a significant amount damage overlapping and also due to the nonthe reinsurance market has been disciplined of business that was deemed by the team in proportional nature of reinsurance contracts and in recent years and this was evidenced in Rotterdam to be unsatisfactorily priced was their finite financial limits.
1 2010 by nearly $12 billion of capital returned ultimately lost, the historic performance to shareholders through share buybacks and of the business renewed was significantly dividends across the industry, a trend we expect better.
Following the Deepwater Horizon oil to see continued in 2011. spill, there are good opportunities to expand our energy underwriting.
1 Guy Carpenter: Global Reinsurance Outlook, 10 Jan 2011 2 AIR, Feb 2011 54 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Outlook continued Investment markets Benefiting from diversity, investments and new initiatives Our investment performance has in recent years been a differentiator against our peers.
Our The trading environment in 2011 is likely to approach has been risk focused and flexible.
In be unsupportive for general organic growth.
volatile markets this has allowed us to continue However we will find attractive opportunities to make a strong absolute contribution to the where pricing has reacted to loss experience, business.
The economic background to 2011 such as in energy and fleet motor.
appears to be more positive than we have seen In addition we can achieve growth by disciplined in recent years.
While there may be some further and selective underwriting, particularly where we volatility, for example from the European debt have made investment in new people or through crisis, the outlook for economic growth in the US acquisitions.
For example, the expansion in the and much of Europe as well as in the developing UK property book achieved in 2010 resulted from world, appears good.
This should prove beneficial previous investments in the underwriting and for equities and we increased our equity claims teams, enhanced marketing and small weighting to 8% in December 2010. acquisitions which have positioned the Group However, we expect that our overall return for well.
We expect to continue to take advantage of 2011 will be held back by low yields on our bond niche acquisition opportunities such as J R Clare portfolios and low interest rates which limit the and Lead Yacht, acquired in respectively January returns on cash and cash equivalents.
In addition, and February 2011. if interest rates rise faster than the market expects Amlin Re Europe got off to a very strong start this will further subdue the investment returns at 1 January renewals, writing 65.6 million of from bonds in 2011 although this will also naturally gross premium.
This confirmed client and broker lead to better prospects into the medium term.
support for their proposition as a high quality We will review our risk appetite against returns long term business partner in the European on offer but do not believe that we will be able reinsurance market and augers well for the future to substantially improve returns without taking development of this new venture.
launch was assisted by Amlins higher profile in Europe following the acquisition of ACI and the Summary continued development of Amlin France.
We are In a more challenging underwriting environment mindful of the weak rating environment in this Amlins underwriting discipline and broad market and do not expect to record a substantial portfolio should ensure that we continue to contribution to profit in the current year.
However, generate healthy underwriting returns.
We the longer term growth prospects offered by this expect to remain in a lower investment return business and the build up of a modest footprint environment but our proactive approach to gives us great flexibility to pursue opportunities as investments will seek to optimise that return this market improves through time.
We are confident of being able to trade successfully through this stage of the pricing cycle and are in a strong position to grow when conditions are more appropriate.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Governance 55 Governance This section explains our approach to corporate governance with key developments during the year, together with profiles of our Board Directors Contents 56 Board of directors 58 Directors report 60 Board corporate governance statement 70 Nomination Committee report 71 Audit Committee report 73 Corporate responsibility 75 Investor relations 76 Directors remuneration report 88 Statement of directors responsibilities
