Chief Executive Officers statement continued Investment philosophy and process Top-down macro Liquidity-driven driven process P roprietary investment approach Preference for liquid instruments, unchanged since inception of flagship enabling us to execute changes in emerging markets external debt fund strategy in a prompt and efficient EMLIP in 1992 manner: particularly important during periods of quickly changing fundamentals S trong focus on political, economic, financial and technical dynamics as Accept illiquidity only where value and well as behaviour of local issuers, risk managed by tight limits domestic and international investors and Maximise Ashmore Derivatives may be used where permitted policy-makers.
Skill set different from for local access, hedging, efficient that required in developed markets.
advantage portfolio management and occasionally Willingness to pay as critical as ability credit risk enhancement R igorous analysis of global and local macroeconomics and currency dynamics to manage portfolio risk Dedicated to emerging markets H ighly adaptive and flexible forwardlooking scenario planning: unlike Depth, breadth and experience traditional approaches based on numbers, diversification and longevity modelling past performance and or of people and themes statistics which miss structural shifts Relationships investors, investees, contacts Scale of firm size and variety of Active capital sources management Investment philosophy process, active, liquidity focus Performance track record of alpha generation across themes and cycles Risk, legal and operational Portfolio managers are involved in the management focused on minimising full cycle of an investment: analysis, transactional risks execution, monitoring, management Combination of global and local asset andexit management resources A focus on diversification and risk management while aiming to avoid alpha dilution Index-aware, not index-driven: indices can be a relevant yardstick for measurement and analysis of our performance but do not play a primary role in portfolio construction Allows us to react fast in periods of rapidly changing market conditions and benefit from information asymmetries Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 10 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 01 11 12 27 28 48 49 88 Although the problem of home country bias in investment will never be completely eliminated as it has strong tribal roots, it is at its weakest in the developed world after crisis and in recovery mode.
Hence, this is a strong current positive for Ashmore as our continued and consistent message receives a broader hearing.
However, an even stronger positive is that our growth target market for capital flows Performance fees Net management fees is from the emerging markets themselves, and so when these investors exhibit home country bias, we will be there to encourage it and channel it into their own markets 52.5m 2009 183.2m 2009 and away from the developed world.
In summary, we believe we are steadily better positioned in emerging 82.9m 189.9m markets investing and well set to deal with the greater competition that a growing investable universe inevitably brings.
Ourinvestment and business thesis to thank everyone for their efforts which to have stronger near-term performance, remains on track and we look forward to contributed to the achievement of our and it is one of our more favoured themes.
developing it further in the coming year.
good results this year for both our fund We believe equity markets will be held investors and our shareholders.
back somewhat by the outlook for equity Mark Coombs in low growth developed world markets, Chief Executive Officer and as fundamental investors take time to For Employees increase their weightings to the emerging please see page 40 markets until they finally see the impact of domestic growth.
Special situations Outlook assets within our portfolio continue to see In the new financial year, unaudited increased realisations from investments annual performance fees for the funds made in 2004-2006 at attractive premia to with performance years ended 31 August historic valuations.
Weexpect more over 2010 were 43.5 million August 2009: the next couple of years as strategies reach 5.1million which will be recognised in maturity as usual at this time in the cycle.
the financial year ended 30 June 2011.
In terms of asset raising, the last The opportunities for investment year has seen an increase in the levels of continue to be good across our investment AuM sourced from the emerging markets themes although probably in a lower themselves and their largest sources of absolute return world than the last year in capital ie central banks reserve managers, the more liquid markets.
External and local governments and sovereign wealth currency debt benefit from the ongoing managers, and this is a trend we expect recognition by investors of the relative to continue.
It is likely that over the longattractiveness of sovereign emerging term the local currency asset class will market issuers over their developed be of steadily increasing focus to these world counterparts.
Recent local currency institutions and Ashmore continues to volatility simply means that it is a traders pride itself on gaining early, direct access market for the moment and we are happy to trading in the local market instruments to adjust for that, whilst in the medium directly for both the globally and locally term we expect continued euro weakness managed funds we provide.
Our local and the structural decline of the dollar custodial network and hence ability to to strengthen the case for investing in invest without complete dependence emerging market currencies.
Meanwhile on international bank balance sheets currency nervousness and overstated is another benefit of diversification in predictions of near-term emerging markets which we invest significant time.
We will inflation, without proper recognition of continue this focus as we continue to see improved policy management by local this asset class growing over time to be our monetary authorities, will provide great biggest volume theme.
The steps taken opportunities to add local currency bonds in the past year toward enhancing and and interest rate exposure in the coming broadening the distribution of Ashmores year.
Corporate debt and equities both funds will continue, and we expect to benefit from the strong fundamentals of undertake further product development many of the emerging markets companies, and organisational alignment to develop with steady growth of both debt and a greater proportion of business from equity issuance creating deeper markets the retail distribution channel, alongside and more scope to add capital.
Of these our established institutional business two themes, we expect corporate debt development team.
Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 11 Business review A detailed account of the Groups activities and their financial impact Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 12 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 01 11 12 27 28 48 49 88 New funds and accounts The year saw a marked increase in the level of new funds launched from earlier years in terms of both number and levels of AuM.
In the public funds category 14funds were launched including 8 subfunds of the Ashmore SICAV within the external debt theme Sovereign Investment Grade Debt Fund, Sovereign Debt Fund : local currency theme Emerging Markets The Group recorded an operating profit Local Markets Fund, Local Currency Bond Fund : corporate debt theme Investment beforetax for the year ended 30 June 2010 Grade Corporate Debt Fund, Corporate Debt Fund : and equity theme Equity of 209.3 million FY2008 09: 150.6 million, Fund, Equity Select Fund.
The Ashmore giving rise to an operating margin of 73 per cent SICAV 3 and Ashmore Institutional MultiStrategy Fund were launched within the FY2008 09: 74 per cent : a profit before tax of multi-strategy theme.
In real estate the Ashmore Russian Real Estate Recovery 217.2 million FY2008 09: 159.8 million : and Fund and Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund.
TheAshmore Greater China a profit after tax of 160.6 million FY2008 09: Fund focusing on equities and fixed income 115.5 million.
The financial results are analysed investing principally within the domestic Chinese market utilising the QFII quota further below.
and a local currency fund managed by our Brazilian local asset management subsidiary.
Additionally 10 new segregated and dual-branded mandates were won in the period within the external Other notable gross subscriptions Assets under management and debt, local currency, special situations, on a smaller scale were those into the fundflows multi-strategy and local currency hedging corporate debt theme, as investors Gross subscriptions in the year increased overlaystrategies.
appetite for this asset class began to significantly from the previous period to a gather momentum through the year, level of US$11.3 billion, these subscriptions and at the end of the year, into a new being received almost equally between segregated mandate in the special the first and second half concentrated situations theme.
particularly in the first and fourth Gross redemptions declined quarters.
Subscriptions were weighted sharply to US$3.7 billion and in line with predominantly to the most liquid themes, our statement at the interims, these external debt and local currency as well continue to arise principally from clients as currency hedging overlay.
The majority continued needs for liquidity.
Often, of subscriptions were into segregated these are undertaken by clients through mandates with a number of further a rebalancing process following periods subscriptions from existing clients.
of strong emerging market performance relative to other asset classes.
Year ended 30 June 2010 Year ended 30 June 2009 US$bn US$bn Opening AuM 24.9 37.5 Gross subscriptions 11.3 3.8 Gross redemptions 3.7 11.3 Net subscriptions redemptions 7.6 7.5 Performance 2.8 5.1 Closing AuM 35.3 24.9 Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 13
