Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 01 11 12 27 28 48 49 88 Board of Directors The Hon.
Michael Benson, Graeme Dell, Jonathan Asquith, Non-executive Chairman Age 67 Group Finance Director Age 44 Non-executive Director Age 53 Michael was appointed to the Board Graeme Dell was appointed to the Board Jonathan Asquith joined the Board on as non-executive Chairman on 3 July as Group Finance Director in December 1September 2008 and is Chairman of 2006.
He is Chairman of the Companys 2007.
Prior to joining Ashmore Graeme the remuneration committee.
Michael began was Group Finance Director of Evolution formerly Vice Chairman of Schroders plc his career in the City in 1963 and, after a Group plc from 2001 to 2007, where he and held the position of Chief Financial series of senior positions in the investment had group-wide responsibility for finance, Officer between 2002 and 2007.
Prior to management industry, was, from 2002 to operations, technology, compliance, risk that he worked for Morgan Grenfell and March 2005, Chairman of Invesco and Vice and HR which included playing a significant was appointed as Chief Financial Officer Chairman of Amvescap plc.
Prior to that role in the foundation and development of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell in 1995 and he was CEO of Invesco Global 1997-2002. of Evolutions Chinese securities business.
Heis Michael is a non-executive Director of Graeme previously worked for Deutsche also a non-executive Director of AXA Border Asset Management Limited, is a Bank and Goldman Sachs in a range UKPLC and of AXA Investment Managers Trustee of the North Yorkshire Community of business management, finance and and a member of the Finance and Audit Foundation and is the Director of the York operations roles both in Europe and in Asia committees of the Tate galleries.
Graeme qualified as a chartered A, N, R N, R accountant with Coopers & Lybrand and is a graduate of Hertford College, Oxford Melda Donnelly, University.
Mark Coombs, Non-executive Director Age 60 Chief Executive Officer Age 50 Melda Donnelly joined the Ashmore Group Nick Land, Mark Coombs was appointed a Director plc Board as a non-executive Director in Senior Independent non-executive on the incorporation of the Company in July 2009, and is also a member of the Director Age 62 December 1998, and has served as its audit committee.
Melda is an Australian Nick Land was appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Officer since then.
He held citizen and a chartered accountant.
She Senior Independent non-executive Director a number of positions at Australia and is the Founder and Chairperson of the and Chairman of the audit committee on New Zealand Banking Group ANZ and Centre for Investor Education.
He is a qualified accountant led Ashmores buyout from ANZ in early directorships include Development Fund and was a partner of Ernst & Young LLP 1999.
He is Co-Chair of EMTA, thetrade Pty Ltd and Deputy Chairperson of from 1978 to June 2006 and its Chairman association for emerging markets, having Victorian Funds Management Corporation.
Nickis a nonbeen on the Board since 1993.
Mark has Ms Donnellys past investment experience executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell plc, an MA in Law from Cambridge University.
includes being CEO of Queensland BBA Aviation plc, Alliance Boots GmbH Investment Corporation, Deputy Managing and Vodafone Group plc and a trustee Director of ANZ Funds Management of the Vodafone Group Foundation.
and Managing Director of ANZ Trustees.
Heis a member of the Finance and Audit Sheis currently a member of the Advisory committees of the National Gallery and committee of the Oxford University Centre is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of for Ageing.
A A, N, R Key to membership of committees A Audit N Nominations R Remuneration Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 29
