Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE 2.
Andrew Moss 13 Chairman Age 68 Group chief executive Age 53 Appointed to the Board in January 2005 and Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Joined became chairman in January 2006.
Currently as group finance director and became group chief executive in July 2007.
Previously an independent non-executive director of BG director of finance, risk management and Group plc oil and gas and Reed Elsevier plc publishing.
Former chairman of Aegis Group operations at Lloyds of London insurance plc media services and KPMG International and formerly held a number of senior management positions at HSBC plc banking.
Former deputy chairman of Group 4 Securicor plc and former chairman of Member of the Corporate Responsibility and Securicor plc security services, former Nomination committees and member of the member of the supervisory board of ABN supervisory board of Delta Lloyd N. V. AMRO Holding N. V. banking and a former independent non-executive director of Young & Co. s Brewery plc hospitality and AEA Technology plc commercial technology.
Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee and member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Governance 95 Performance review Aviva plc Board of directors continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 3.
Richard Karl Goeltz executive director and vice-chairman of Chief financial officer Age 45 Senior independent non-executive Tate & Lyle plc agricultural industrial and a director Age 68 Appointed to the Board in February 2010 as non-executive director of S A Spadel N. V. food Appointed to the Board in May 2004. chief financial officer.
Previously group chief and beverages.
Chairman of the Corporate Currently a non-executive director of the financial officer and group chief operating Responsibility Committee and member of the officer at Willis Group Holdings Limited Warnaco Group, Inc. clothing, the New Remuneration Committee.
Germany Fund investment trust, the Central insurance broking.
Formerly group financial Europe and Russia Fund investment trust, 11.
Leslie Van fide Walle controller of RSA Insurance Group plc Independent non-executive director the European Equity Fund investment trust insurance and finance and claims director, Age 54 UK general insurance of AXA Insurance and a member of the Council and Court of Appointed to the Board in May 2009.
Governors of The London School of Economics insurance.
He also held a number of senior Currently chairman of SIG plc construction and Political Science.
Former vice-chairman and management positions at GE Capital financial products, non-executive director of DCC plc chief financial officer of American Express services and specialised in corporate finance business support and La Seda fide Barcelona, and investigations at Grant Thornton Company financial services and director and S. A. plastic packaging.
Formerly chief chief financial officer of NatWest Group plc professional services.
Member of the executive officer of Rexam plc packaging, banking.
Former non-executive director of supervisory board of Delta Lloyd N. V. executive vice-president of retail for oil Delta Air Lines, Inc. transport and Federal 4.
Mark Hodges products and head of oil products, a division Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Executive director Age 45 of Shell Europe, Royal Dutch Shell plc and nonMac financial services and a former member of Appointed to the Board in June 2008.
Joined executive director of Aegis Group plc media the Accounting Standards Board UK.
Member Norwich Union in January 1991 and held a services.
Formerly held a number of senior of the Audit and Nomination committees.
number of senior roles within the finance management positions with Cadbury function before becoming finance director of 8.
Euleen Goh Schweppes plc consumer goods and United Independent non-executive director Norwich Union Insurance in 1998, managing Biscuits Limited consumer goods.
Member of Age 55 director of Norwich Union General Insurance the Remuneration and Risk committees.
Appointed to the Board in January 2009. in 2005 and chief executive of Norwich Union Currently non-executive director of DBS Group 12.
Russell Walls Life, the Groups long-term savings business in Independent non-executive director Holdings Ltd, DBS Bank Limited banking, the UK, in 2006.
Appointed chief executive of Age 67 Singapore Airlines Limited aviation, Singapore Aviva UK, comprising Aviva UK Life formerly Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Exchange Limited and the Singapore Chinese Norwich Union Life, and Aviva UK General Currently non-executive director of Signet Girls School.
Chairman of the Accounting Insurance formerly Norwich Union Insurance, Jewelers Limited retail, treasurer and trustee Standards Council of Singapore and the the Groups insurance and motoring services of The British Red Cross and a member of the Singapore International Foundation.
Former business in the UK, in January 2010.
Finance Commission of the International chief executive officer of Standard Chartered Federation of the Red Cross.
Igal Mayer Bank in Singapore banking.
Member of the finance director of BAA plc transport, Executive director Age 49 Audit and Corporate Responsibility committees.
Appointed to the Board in January 2011.
Wellcome plc pharmaceuticals and Coats 9.
Michael Hawker AM Joined the Group in May 1989 as assistant Viyella plc textiles.
Former senior independent Independent non-executive director vice-president controller of Canadian General non-executive director of Stagecoach Group Age 51 Insurance Group.
Formerly chief executive of plc transport and Hilton Group plc leisure Appointed to the Board in January 2010.
Aviva North America, chief executive of Aviva and a former non-executive director of Delphic Currently a non-executive director of UK General Insurance and chief executive Diagnostics Limited medical, and the Mersey Macquarie Bank Limited, Macquarie Group officer, chief financial officer and executive Docks and Harbour Company transport.
Limited banking and Australian Rugby Union, vice-president of Aviva Canada.
Previously Chairman of the Audit Committee and a Chairman of the George Institute and a finance director of Norwich Union Insurance member of the Nomination and Risk committees.
member of the Advisory Council at General and managing director, London Markets, for Enterprise Management Services International 13.
Scott Wheway CGU Insurance in London.
Independent non-executive director Limited GEMS, the Hong Kong-based private Age 44 6.
Mary Francis CBE equity firm.
Formerly chief executive and Appointed to the Board in December 2007.
Independent non-executive director managing director of Insurance Australia Age 62 Currently a strategic advisor to Best Buy Co. Group Limited insurance.
Member of the Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
Formerly chief executive Risk Committee.
Currently senior independent director of officer of Best Buy Europe Distributions Limited Centrica plc utilities and a non-executive 10.
Former director of The Boots Independent non-executive director director of Cable & Wireless Communications Company plc now known as The Boots Age 53 plc telecoms.
A senior adviser to Chatham Company Limited pharmacy and managing Appointed to the Board in May 2003.
A House and chair of governors, James Allens director of Boots the Chemist at Alliance Boots member of the New York and Paris Bars.
Formerly a senior civil servant, plc.
Formerly held a number of senior executive Currently managing director of Naxos UK director general of the Association of British positions at Tesco plc retail services.
Chairman private equity, a non-executive director of Insurers and a non-executive director of the of the Remuneration Committee and member Amyris Biotechnologies, Inc. renewable Bank of England, Alliance & Leicester plc of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
products, Sanofi-aventis healthcare products banking, St Modwen Properties plc property and Eutelsat Communications satellite development and the Almeida Theatre operator.
Formerly a non-executive director of Company Limited.
Chairman of the Risk Dairy Crest Group plc dairy products, Toepfer Committee and a member of the Audit, International GmbH trading and a member of Nomination and Remuneration committees.
the biotech advisory board of Monsanto biotechnology.
Former chairman of Amylum Group agricultural industrial and non-
