74 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Accounting basis of preparation Critical accounting policies and estimates Accounting basis of preparation The preparation of financial statements requires the group to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions Our consolidated financial statements are prepared under IFRS, that affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, using standards issued by the International Accounting Standards consolidated statement of financial position, other primary Board IASB and endorsed by the EU.
In addition to fulfilling this statements and notes to the financial statements.
These are set legal obligation, the Group has also complied with IFRS as issued out on pages 170 to 182. by the IASB and applicable at 31 December 2010.
The financial data contained in the report and accounts has Critical accounting policies been prepared using the Groups accounting policies set out on The major areas of judgement on policy application are pages 170 to 182.
Where applicable, the financial statements considered to be over whether Group entities should be have also been prepared in accordance with the Statement of consolidated set out in policy D, on product classification Recommended Practice SORP on accounting for insurance set out in policy F and in the classification of financial business issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI, the investments set out in policy S. most recent version of which was issued in December 2005 and amended in December 2006.
Use of estimates All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV basis of reporting facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge We present the results and financial position of our life and and their predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results related businesses on an MCEV basis, in addition to the IFRS basis.
can always differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.
MCEV methodology represents an alternative basis of reporting The table below sets out those items that we consider particularly the value of the Groups life and related businesses and the susceptible to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the drivers of performance.
This basis values cashflow from assets relevant accounting policy.
consistently with market prices and is consistent with the way pricing is assessed and the business is managed.
Accounting The MCEV methodology adopted is in accordance with the Item policy MCEV Principles published by the CFO Forum in October 2009.
Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities F & K Under this methodology, the total profit recognised over the full Goodwill, AVIF and other intangible assets N Fair values of financial investments S lifetime of an insurance policy is the same as under the IFRS basis Impairment of financial investments S of reporting.
However, the MCEV basis gives a market-consistent Fair value of derivative financial instruments T indication of the profitability of business on inception.
Deferred acquisition costs and other assets W Provisions and contingent liabilities Z Additionally, shareholders funds on an MCEV basis AA Pension obligations incorporate internally-generated additional value of in-force Deferred income taxes AB business AVIF, which is excluded for IFRS reporting.
These financial statements include supplementary information on MCEV Future accounting developments reporting in the Alternative method of reporting long-term We continue to take an active role in the development of business section.
new accounting standards, via industry forums and working parties, and reviewing and providing comment on proposals from Longer-term investment return the IASB.
Phase II of the IASBs project on insurance contracts The long-term nature of most of our operations means that shortcontinues to be the most significant area of development for us, term realised and unrealised gains and losses are shown as an and we continue actively to engage in the debate.
We fully adjustment to operating profit.
We focus instead on operating support the timely development of a global standard for profit incorporating a longer-term investment return LTIR.
Our insurance accounting that reflects the economics of our business, rates of return that we use for equity and property in our LTIR and are working directly and through the CFO Forum of leading methodology are aligned with the rates that we use under MCEV European insurers, to achieve this.
While this standard is still principles.
For fixed interest securities, we include the amortisation under development, we will continue to focus on embedded of premiums or discounts arising on purchase, thereby producing value as the best measure of value for our long-term business.
an LTIR that is equivalent to the gross redemption yield.
We continue to monitor other major IASB projects, including financial instruments, revenue recognition, leasing, pensions accounting and fair value measurement.
