78 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 the feedback from our customers as well as including NPS making it easier to work by simplifying and fide-cluttering performance targets as part of our executive directors annual HR tools and processes remuneration.
building strong global HR and CR functions.
Products and services Locally, the use of global tools and One Aviva processes supports Our product portfolio is designed to allow customers to make the delivery of our business strategies.
informed choices about their insurance and financial needs which provide socio-economic and environmental benefits: Simplifying our key people processes and tools Our affordable microfinance and insurance products for lowTalking Talent is designed to match the right people to the right income earners have reached around three million rural lives roles and equip individuals to take personal responsibility for their in India to date, in many cases offering financial protection development.
Over the last four years, this has been firmly for as little as US$2 a year.
established as a signature process at Aviva and, since the end of Car insurance customers in some of our general insurance 2010, has been deployed in all regions.
The support material for markets are rewarded by lower premiums if they opt to drive Talking Talent has been simplified and translated into 11 vehicles with low CO emissions.
languages so that staff at all levels can now use the same process 2 As part of our response to climate change we launched worldwide.
The outputs of Talking Talent are the cornerstone of insurance products in February 2011 that support our key people-related decisions from rewarding great work to commercial development of low-carbon products including recruiting expertise from outside while ensuring we achieve a wind farms and biomass energy conversion plants.
healthy mix of promotions from within.
We have eliminated almost all of the bureaucracy previously We have continued this year to run the Aviva Customer Cup associated with performance management.
The focus is now on competition first launched in 2009.
The Customer Cup challenges frequent, open, honest and informal conversations between employees from around the Group to increase customer individuals and their line manager throughout the year with a satisfaction and loyalty by improving our product offering and much simpler and clearer annual mechanism for recording these service delivery.
Projects from more than 200 teams are evaluated formally.
by judges in three tournament stages with ten teams making it We are focusing on simplifying HR processes and procedures through to the grand final in June 2011.
We are pleased that the to reduce the administration burden and complexity apparent due Customer Cup has been recognised externally by the Financial to legacy.
As part of this we are harmonising terms and World Innovation Awards 2010 for Innovation in Staff conditions in employment contracts within the UK to apply Participation.
consistent employment conditions to all UK employees.
We are Our You are the Big Picture campaign reflected the progress in the process of introducing a new HR management system, we have made in the transition towards a customer-focused Workday, to consolidate all HR databases globally and have organisation.
The campaign featured our customers, employees, created New Beginnings, a central repository of information business partners and communities bringing to life our brand to help new employees at Aviva.
Employees and customers Creating a culture of performance, responsibility relived their stories of the part Aviva played at a time of crisis and recognition to deliver peace of mind.
Since their launch in 2008, the Aviva senior leadership summits in each region have become our primary means of engaging the top Attracting and retaining talent 500 leaders in our purpose, vision and strategy.
This year, we As a global financial services organisation we recognise our role used these gatherings to launch the concept of Living Leadership in finding and building new skills for the workforce, developing which defines leadership simply as the act of making a a workplace that employees want to join and develop their difference.
This model has three levels.
Leading Myself clarifies career with.
our expectations of every Aviva employee in terms of personal Delivering on our strategic plans and commitments requires responsibility, accountability and contribution.
It has provided a strong leadership and the energy, dedication and belief of all our refreshed focus on ethics and risk as well as the foundations of employees.
Over the past three years we have built a strong both our employee and brand promise.
Leading People reinforces global HR function to lead our cultural transformation.
We have our belief that excellence in line management is essential to turn a clear purpose to bring to life our employee promise to deliver the talents of individual employees into sustained superior exceptional business performance.
We have approached this by business performance.
Leading Organisations provides a focus implementing strategies designed to: on strategic leadership with the aim of beating the competition.
encourage talented people to join Aviva and stay Over the course of 2011, we will use Living Leadership to drive match the right people to the right roles and take action employee engagement and a recommitment to the Aviva values.
where there are gaps enable people to be the best they can be Our employee promise build pride in Aviva.
We want every employee to be able to say At Aviva I am recognised for who I am and my contribution matters.
Our We will do this by focusing globally on: employee promise, launched in 2009, helps us to create an developing leaders capable of winning for Aviva in our employment brand that differentiates Aviva as an employer of chosen markets choice.
We use Aviva Day, an annual celebration in June, to embedding a culture of recognition, personal responsibility, mark achievements across the Group.
In 2010, a key part of this risk awareness and performance event was to raise awareness for our global community building engagement and commitment by living the programme Street to School.
This included participation in a employee promise variety of fundraising activities where employees raised in excess strengthening our CR performance by engaging employees of 100,000.
Employees were able to post information about and influencing our communities and stakeholders their Aviva Day activities on Aviva World, our global intranet, in Corporate responsibility 79 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 11 different countries and nine different languages.
The fact that senior leaders took part in a specially developed induction process there was a high level of engagement and input in this activity this year and received take-away information packs.
gained Aviva an International Visual Communications Association Diversity, equality and human rights IVCA Gold Award for experiential digital events.
Being respectful of each others differing backgrounds, cultures, A key part of our employee promise is to recognise the needs and views is key to our delivery of the employee promise contribution of our employees.
Our You are the Big Picture I am recognised for who I am and my contribution matters.
Our brand campaign, recognises employees by celebrating their Diversity and Inclusion policy and practices are aligned with the dedication to our customers.
This campaign was shared online United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the both internally and to an external audience.
Indeed, our annual International Labour Organisations core labour standards.
employee promise survey tells us that individual recognition is Last year, our Employee Promise survey results showed that now our most important engagement priority.
our commitment to valuing diversity in our organisation could be Listening to our employees improved.
In response to this we have run a series of online One of the ways that we listen to our employees is through our discussions and employee forums to gain an insight into what is Employee Promise survey.
In 2010, this achieved an 80% understood by diversity and how employees would like us to response rate, our highest response rate to date 2009: 76%.
improve the perception and management of diversity issues.
The survey measures our employees engagement levels, our Based on this we have started to focus on instilling balanced leadership capabilities, delivery of Avivas strategy and tells us leadership to create an effective gender mix at all levels in the how we are doing in other areas that are important to our organisation.
As well as telling us what our key strengths are it We are recognised for being one of the few FTSE 100 gives detailed analysis of where we need to improve.
One companies for having three female non-executive directors, one example of a key strength is our commitment to CR, 74% of of whom, Carole Piwnica, chairs our Corporate Responsibility employees think that this is genuine 2009: 66%.
Within our senior management group however, perception of our reputation for the quality of our products and representation of female colleagues has declined slightly to 21% services is also a growing strength.
2009: 22% making our commitment to achieving balanced We need to improve the perception amongst our employees leadership all the more important.
Whilst we have been making that we value diverse perspectives in the workplace.
some improvement in terms of the internal promotion of our The survey results not only inform action planning for the senior managers, we are committed to monitoring gender following year but are also linked to senior management throughout this process to ensure a balance exists.
series of workshops with our senior management group we have We make sure that each manager with five direct reports or implemented an action plan with a staged approach which more receives their own local survey results, helping them to have comprises: honest conversations on the successes and challenges the survey embedding balanced leadership in our talent management results present and most importantly to decide on actions to take programme locally as a team.
senior leaders role modelling personal behaviours that As with last year, each completed survey triggers a 1 support balanced leadership.
One example is the group donation to our global Street to School charity partner Save the executive committee reciprocal mentoring scheme which Children.
This year we raised 37,000 2009: 37,000. will be launched in 2011 We also focus on talking and listening to our employees when raising awareness and building engagement around working on more challenging changes which we have to address balanced leadership principles as a business.
This year, in the UK, we announced that in order to hardwiring balanced leadership into HR practices and provide a sustainable pension scheme, changes would need to be processes made to the current arrangements.
Following a three-month embedding balanced leadership into our regional consultation with employees, the trade union Unite, and pension HR strategies.
trustees we announced that the final salary scheme would close in April 2011.
The 7,600 employees impacted by the changes Our employee network group Aviva Pride successfully launched have been fully consulted throughout the process.
We ran 344 Friends of Aviva Pride in York this year with guest speaker Welsh workshops across 34 locations, attended by 5,038 employees.
rugby player, Gareth Thomas to encourage all colleagues to All impacted employees were also kept informed of progress by support a working environment that is open and inclusive.
In post to their home addresses.
North America our Aviva Pride and diversity networks have been formed this year as part of the programme launched by the Strengthening our leadership capability Diversity and Inclusion advisory council set up by Aviva North Over the last two years we have introduced new management America in 2009. and leadership programmes to nurture talent and create proactive We further improved our position in Stonewalls Workplace dialogue with leaders and their teams.
In the UK business we Equality Index, achieving 42nd position 2009: 54th, which puts have implemented a programme to develop frontline managers, us in the top ten private sector companies.
We continue to be the focused specifically on the Asia top 60 and introduced a Europeonly insurer in the top 100.
We have also received another Star wide learning and development curriculum.
Performing Network award recognising the activities of our We have also improved the way that we provide information employee network group as an example of best practice, with to senior leaders who are new to Aviva, to introduce them to our special acknowledgement for our work supporting local culture, values and management processes.
