Performance review 27 Performance review Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Information on the company Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information regulatory environment has moved towards greater regulatory History and development of Aviva scrutiny and the advent of Solvency II.
General We assessed our strategic direction against the backdrop of We are a public limited company incorporated under the laws these changes and came away with three principal conclusions: of England and Wales.
We are one of the worlds leading global Increasing geographic focus insurance groups.
We are the sixth largest insurance group in We will focus on markets where we have strength and scale.
the world, based on gross written premiums for the 2009 year.
In determining our focus we will judge markets on their We are one of the top five providers of long-term insurance and potential to generate both $100 million of IFRS operating savings products in the UK, Ireland, the Netherlands, Poland and profits and a 12% return on capital employed, or $1 billion Spain and one of the top ten providers of long-term insurance of franchise value for younger businesses.
This focus will and savings products in France and Italy for 2009.
More detail allow us to capitalise on our leading market positions in the is provided within the operating segment review later in this UK and Europe, the worlds largest life and pensions market.
Our main activities are the provision of products and Benefiting from the combination of life and general services in relation to long-term insurance and savings, general insurance insurance and fund management.
Our life and general insurance operations are excellent businesses in their own right, but in addition to their Our history inherent strengths there are significant advantages of The Group was formed by the merger of CGU plc and Norwich running these businesses under one brand and in one Union plc on 30 May 2000.
CGU plc was renamed CGNU plc on group, supported by Aviva investors.
completion of the merger, and subsequently renamed Aviva plc Building on our core strengths on 1 July 2002.
To be the best in both life and general insurance, we will CGU plc and Norwich Union plc were both major UK-based focus on our four core strengths of marketing and insurers operating in the long-term insurance business and distribution, financial discipline, technical excellence and general insurance markets.
Both companies had long corporate operational effectiveness, benefiting from a powerful brand histories.
CGU plc was formed in 1998 from the merger of and growing customer franchise.
Commercial Union plc and General Accident plc.
Hand in Hand, which was incorporated in 1696, was acquired by Commercial Our business Union in 1905, which itself was incorporated in 1861.
General Overview Accident plc was incorporated in 1865.
Norwich Union plc was Our principal activity is the provision of financial products and founded as a mutual society in 1797 and operated as such until services, focused on the following lines of business: long-term 1997, when it demutualised and became an English public insurance and savings business, general insurance and health and limited company.
Between 2000 and 2002 we actively withdrew from lines Our business is managed on a geographic basis through a of business and markets that did not offer the potential for regional management structure based on four regions: UK, Europe, market-leading positions or superior returns, or did not otherwise North America and Asia Pacific.
The four regions function as six meet our strategic objectives, principally through the disposal operating segments as both the UK and Europe regions are split of property and casualty businesses in the UK London Market, into two operating segments.
Due to the size of the UK region it is the US, Australia, New Zealand and certain European countries.
split into the UK Life and UK General Insurance segments, which Since 2002, we have grown in part through carefully undertake long-term insurance and savings business and general selected acquisitions, in particular the acquisitions of RAC in insurance respectively.
In Europe, Delta Lloyd is managed separately 2005 and AmerUs in 2006. from the other European businesses: therefore the region is split During 2009, we disposed of our long-term and savings into Aviva Europe and Delta Lloyd operating segments.
and wealth management in Australia and through an IPO we Aviva Investors, our fund management business and sixth sold approximately 42% of our Dutch business, Delta Lloyd.
operating segment, operates across all four regions providing In January 2010 we integrated our life, general insurance and fund management services to third-party investors and to our health businesses in the UK under one CEO.
We also announced long-term insurance business and general insurance operations.
the acquisition of River Road Asset Management, a US equity For information on the main categories of products sold in manager, to support the expansion of Aviva Investors business.
each of these geographic segments over the last three years, see Further details of recent acquisitions and disposals can Financial and operating performance Regional performance.
be found in the section Financial statements IFRS Note 3 Our geographic operating segments offer the following lines Subsidiaries.
of business to a greater or lesser extent: Business overview Long-term insurance and savings business Our aims and strategy Long-term insurance and savings business accounted for over We have simplified and streamlined the Group, moving from 75% of our total business based on sales for the year ended a federation of independent businesses to a successful global 31 December 2010.
We reported total long-term insurance and business.
However there is no doubt the world has changed savings new business sales of 33.4 billion and investment sales significantly in the last few years.
of 4.0 billion for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Our focus This is particularly true for Avivas customers, who are remains on growing our business profitably and improving our responding to the uncertain economic climate and lower operational efficiency so that we can fully benefit as our major disposable incomes by paying down debt and saving more, to markets return to economic growth.
ensure a more secure financial future for themselves and their anies, such as Aviva, the capital families.
For insurance comp Market position constraints of today demand investment discipline, greater In the UK we have a market share of 11% based on annual strategic focus and strong balance sheets.
In addition, the premium equivalent APE according to the Association of British Insurers ABI quarter three 2010 data.
