Performance review 73 Performance review Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Basis of preparation Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Accounting basis of preparation Basis of preparation In addition to presenting our results and financial position on an This review complies with the recommendations of the European International Financial Reporting Standards basis, we also use Union EU Modernisation Directive, the Companies Act 2006 Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV as an alternative Contents of Directors Report: Business Review and is in line with performance measure.
Details of the accounting basis of current best practice.
It is addressed to, and written for, the preparation are set out on the following page.
members of Aviva plc with the aim of providing a fair review of our business development, performance and position at the Forward-looking statements current time.
In producing this review, we aim to present a view This business review contains forward-looking statements that is balanced and comprehensive and that is consistent with about: the size and complexity of our business.
The review is written in Our future plans: the context of the risks and uncertainties facing our business.
Our current goals: and We anticipate that the format and content of the review will Our expectations of our future financial condition, evolve over time, along with developments in our business and performance and results.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and Key performance indicators uncertainty because they relate to future events that are beyond The Companies Act requires that a fair review of the business our control.
For example, certain insurance risk disclosures are contains financial and, where applicable, non-financial key dependent on our choices about assumptions and models, which performance indicators KPIs.
We consider that our financial KPIs by their nature are estimates.
As such, actual future gains and are those that communicate to the members the financial losses could differ materially from those that we have estimated.
performance and strength of the Group as a whole.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially These KPIs comprise: from those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, Earnings per share International Financial Reporting but are not limited to: Standards basis : Global economic business conditions: Proposed ordinary dividend per share and dividend cover: Monetary and interest rate policies: Operating profit Market Consistent Embedded Value basis : Foreign currency exchange rates: Operating profit IFRS basis : Equity and property prices: Worldwide sales: The impact of competition, inflation and deflation: Operational capital generation: and Changes to regulations, taxes and legislation: Return on equity shareholders funds.
The timing and impact of acquisitions and business combinations in relevant industries: Management also use a variety of other performance indicators Natural and other disasters: OPIs in both running and assessing the performance of Changes to consumer saving and spending habits: and individual business segments and units, rather than the Group as Our success in managing the above factors.
OPIs include measures such as new business margins, combined operating ratio and underwriting profit.
Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance In addition to reporting on our financial performance, it is and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and important that as a forward-thinking company we are aware of expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
We our wider responsibilities and report on the non-financial aspects undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking of our performance.
We consider that our employees and statements contained in this review or any other forward-looking customers are fundamental to the success of our business: statements we make.
as such, they form the basis for our non-financial measures, and include: Leadership and employee engagement: and Customer advocacy.
