36 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The credit crisis has resulted in a number of Delta Lloyds The US long-term insurance and annuity market and the competitors seeking state or shareholder support.
We expect Canadian property and casualty insurance market are highly this situation to result in further industry reorganisation and fragmented markets with a large number of insurers.
Competitors consolidation in the coming years.
for the products in which we specialise include global insurers In 2010, the Dutch Actuaries Association commented that such as Allianz, Royal & Sun Alliance, ING and AEGON.
Local current longevity models have underestimated the longevity market competitors also feature in various product segments.
improvement trend in the last two decades.
A new set of We consider our competitive advantages in the North America mortality tables has been issued by the Actuarieel Genootschap region to be: AG, CBS and the Insurers Association Verbond van Product innovation combined with a clear customer focus: Verzekeraars.
The whole Dutch market will be impacted Quality of distribution partnerships: by the assumption changes arising from these new tables.
Sophisticated pricing and underwriting capabilities: Financial strength and performance: and Products Investment management.
The long-term insurance and savings business of Delta Lloyd offers a range of protection, bonds and savings and pensions USA Business overview and strategy services, including group pension schemes, annuities, unit-linked bonds, savings products and protection insurance.
Aviva USA is a leading provider of both fixed indexed life insurance and fixed indexed annuities according to sales reports Our general insurance business offers a well diversified product portfolio including personal, motor, travel and home released in 2010 by the industrys Life Insurance and Market Research Association LIMRA and Indexed Sales and Market insurance and small to medium-sized commercial policies.
We also sell retail investment fund and mortgage products Reports from AnnuitySpecs.
Over the last several years, Aviva USA has achieved significant in the Netherlands and retail banking products in Belgium.
growth and market penetration in the US market.
Aviva USAs Distribution strategy is to accelerate our growth of life insurance and Delta Lloyd distributes long-term insurance and savings and protection business and to expand our access to savings and general insurance products under three brands: Delta Lloyd, income markets.
Today, Aviva USA has approximately one million OHRA and through a joint venture with ABN AMRO.
In the customers and employs more than 1,500 people across the Netherlands the Delta Lloyd brand works exclusively with country from its headquarters in West Des Moines, Iowa, and independent insurance intermediaries, while OHRA focuses on offices in Topeka, Kansas, and Melville, N. Y. direct channels such as telephone, internet and mail.
The third Underlying our strategy is a focus on developing compelling brand comprises a joint venture with ABN AMRO, reaching customer value propositions including enhanced product customers through the extensive distribution networks of ABN offerings, personalised service and deeper relationships with key AMRO bank.
The joint venture remains the exclusive insurance distribution partners.
We believe that US consumers want to be partner for the current and future Dutch banking operations of understood and recognised for the distinct financial needs they ABN AMRO, including Fortis branches which were integrated in face.
In 2010 Aviva USA introduced Building insurance around 2010.
We believe the Fortis integration will improve the YOU, a strategic focus on the customer with products designed distribution opportunities in bancassurance.
for their individual stage of life.
By understanding our customers Individual investment products are sold through private banks priorities, we believe we can best deliver life and annuity products including ABN Amro, ING and Rabobank.
to meet their changing needs.
North America Market According to the World Bank, the US is the worlds largest Regional overview and strategy national economy, based on 2009 GDP.
It is also the largest Aviva North America consists of two businesses: our life insurance insurance market according to an August 2010 Swiss Reinsurance and annuity business in the US and our general insurance report on total premiums.
This is especially true for retirement business in Canada.
Our strategic priorities for the region are savings products as more than 78 million members of the baby focused on driving profitable growth through improving our boom generation move into retirement in the US.
At the same position and competitiveness in North America through: time, the US economy and its financial sector in particular focusing on our customers with compelling value continues to feel the impact of the severe contraction due to the propositions, enhanced service and personalised customer financial crisis of the past two years.
There are increasing signs of experience: economic recovery and, despite the recession, North Americas improving the profitability and capital generation of the economies remain among the worlds largest and its population North American Region, which is a net capital contributor among the worlds wealthiest.
Retirement savings represent to the Group: 34% of household assets in the US, according to a report by selectively expanding and growing our core life insurance Investment Company Institute, and, despite the uncertainty and annuity distribution, products and capabilities: affecting the financial markets, people continue to save and buy leveraging the sophisticated underwriting capabilities in our insurance from brands they trust.
general insurance business: and In Aviva USA, we believe we are well positioned to respond building on our strong high quality relationships with our to customer needs, having savings and investment products with distribution partners.
downside guarantees as a major component of our product Market and competition portfolio.
The indexed annuity and indexed life markets in which The North American region is home to two of the worlds largest Aviva USA operates are dominated by a small number of insurers.
Aviva has two businesses that currently According to third quarter 2010 data compiled by LIMRA, the top serve their respective home markets and are led by our regional five indexed annuity providers hold 61% of the indexed annuities headquarters in Chicago.
market, while for indexed life insurance, the top five providers account for 68% of the market.
This product segment has seen
