70 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Capital management Accounting basis: Capital management Capital employed by segment and financing of capital Capital management objectives The table below shows how our capital, on an MCEV basis, The primary objective of capital management is to optimise the is deployed by segment and how that capital is funded.
balance between return and risk, whilst maintaining economic and regulatory capital in accordance with risk appetite.
Avivas Restated capital and risk management objectives are closely interlinked, 2010 2009 m m and support the dividend policy and earnings per share growth, Long-term savings 21,793 20,792 whilst also recognising the critical importance of protecting General insurance and health 5,613 4,562 policyholder and other stakeholder interests.
Fund management 465 269 Overall capital risk appetite, which is reviewed and approved Other business 178 246 1 Corporate 1,521 1,327 by the Aviva Board, is set and managed with reference to the Total capital employed 26,528 24,050 requirements of a range of different stakeholders including Financed by: shareholders, policyholders, regulators and rating agencies.
Risk Equity shareholders funds 15,295 13,092 appetite is expressed in relation to a number of key capital and Minority interest 3,977 4,279 risk measures, and includes an economic capital risk appetite of Direct capital instruments 990 990 holding sufficient capital resources to enable the Group to meet Preference shares 200 200 Subordinated debt 4,572 4,637 its liabilities in extreme adverse scenarios, on an ongoing basis, External debt 1,494 852 calibrated consistently with the Groups strategic target of Total capital employed 26,528 24,050 maintaining credit ratings in the AA range.
1 Corporate includes centrally held tangible net assets, the element of the staff pension scheme deficit or surplus In managing capital we seek to: allocated centrally and also reflects internal lending arrangements.
These internal lending arrangements, which net out on consolidation, arise in relation to the following: maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength in Aviva International Insurance Limited AII acts as both a UK general insurer and as the primary holding company accordance with risk appetite to support new business for our foreign subsidiaries.
Internal capital management mechanisms in place allocate a portion of the total capital of the company to the UK general insurance operations, giving rise to notional lending between the general growth and satisfy the requirements of our regulators and insurance and holding company activities.
These mechanisms also allow for some of the assets of the general other stakeholders giving both our customers and insurance business to be made available for use across the Group.
Certain subsidiaries, subject to continuing to satisfy stand-alone capital and liquidity requirements, loan funds shareholders assurance of our financial strength: to corporate and holding entities.
These loans satisfy arms length criteria and all interest payments are made when due.
optimise our overall debt to equity structure to enhance our returns to shareholders, subject to our capital risk appetite Total capital employed is financed by a combination of equity and balancing the requirements of the range of shareholders funds, preference capital, subordinated debt and stakeholders: borrowings.
retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, At 31 December 2010 we had 26.5 billion 31 December including significant unutilised committed credit facilities 2009: 24.1 billion of total capital employed in our trading and access to a range of capital markets: operations, measured on an MCEV basis.
allocate capital rigorously across the Group, to drive value Financial leverage, the ratio of external senior and adding growth through optimising risk and return: and subordinated debt to MCEV capital and reserves, was 31.5% declare dividends on a basis judged prudent, while retaining 31 December 2009: 31.6%.
Fixed charge cover, which measures capital to support future business growth, using dividend the extent to which external interest costs, including subordinated cover on an IFRS operating earnings after tax basis in the debt interest and preference dividends, are covered by MCEV 1.5 to 2.0 times range as a guide.
operating profit was 9.4 times 31 December 2009: 8.7 times.
In line with these objectives, the capital generated and invested Regulatory capital overview by the Groups businesses is a key management focus.
Individual regulated subsidiaries measure and report solvency Operating capital generation, which measures net capital based on applicable local regulations, including in the UK the generated after taking into account capital invested in new regulations established by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
business before the impact of non-operating items is a core These measures are also consolidated under the European regulatory capital based management performance metric used Insurance Groups Directive IGD to calculate regulatory capital across the Group.
This is embedded in the Group business adequacy at an aggregate group level, where we have a planning process and other primary internal performance and regulatory obligation to have a positive position at all times.
This measure represents the excess of the aggregate value of Capital is measured and managed on a number of different regulatory capital employed in our business over the aggregate bases.
These are discussed further in the following sections.
minimum solvency requirements imposed by local regulators, excluding the surplus held in the UK and Ireland with-profit life funds.
The minimum solvency requirement for our European businesses is based on the Solvency 1 Directive.
In broad terms, for EU operations, this is set at 4% and 1% of non-linked and unit-linked life reserves respectively and for our general insurance portfolio of business is the higher of 18% of gross premiums or 26% of gross claims, in both cases adjusted to reflect the level of reinsurance recoveries.
For our major non-European businesses the US, and Canada a risk charge on assets and liabilities approach is used.
Performance review 71 Performance review Aviva plc Capital management continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Regulatory capital group insurance and investment contracts on the consolidated IFRS European Insurance Groups Directive balance sheet at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009.
UK Life Other funds business 2010 2009 Estimated Estimated bn bn bn bn Estimated Estimate realistic Support risk 2009 realistic realistic inherited arrangecapital Estimated Estimated Insurance Groups Directive IGD 1 2 3 5 assets liabilities estate ment Margin excess excess capital resources 6.0 10.3 16.3 15.7 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Less: capital resource requirement CRR 6.0 6.5 12.5 11.2 NWPSF 20.8 20.8 1.2 0.4 0.8 0.6 OWPSF 3.1 2.8 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.1 Insurance Groups Directive IGD 4 WPSF 20.4 18.6 1.8 1.4 1.4 0.4 excess solvency 3.8 3.8 4.5 Aggregate 44.3 42.2 2.1 1.2 0.9 2.4 2.1 Cover of EU minimum calculated 1.7 excluding UK Life funds 1.6 times times 1 These realistic liabilities include the shareholders share of future bonuses of 0.7 billion 31 December 2009: 0.6 billion.
Realistic liabilities adjusted to eliminate the shareholders share of future bonuses are 41.5 billion 31 December 2009: 42.1 billion.
These realistic liabilities make provision for guarantees, options and promises on a market consistent stochastic basis.
The value of the provision included within realistic liabilities is 1.9 billion, 0.3 The EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD regulatory capital billion and 3.1 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively 31 December 2009: 2.2 billion, 0.3 billion and solvency surplus has decreased by 0.7 billion since 31 December 3.1 billion.
2 Estimated realistic inherited estate at 31 December 2009 was nil billion, 0.2 billion and 1.6 billion for NWPSF, 2009 to 3.8 billion.
The key movements over the period are set OWPSF and WPSF respectively.
3 This represents the reattributed estate of 1.2 billion at 31 December 2010 31 December 2009: 1.1 billion held out in the following table: within the non-profit fund with WPSF included within other UK life operations.
4 The WPSF fund includes the Provident Mutual PM fund which has realistic assets and liabilities of 1.7 billion, and therefore does not impact the realistic inherited estate.
bn 5 The risk capital margin RCM is 3.7 times covered by the inherited estate and support arrangement 31 December IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2009 4.5 2009: 3.6 times.
Operating profits net of other income and expenses 1.0 Dividends net of scrip 0.5 Investment mix Market movements including foreign exchange 0.2 The aggregate investment mix of the assets in the three main Pension scheme funding 0.3 with-profit funds at 31 December 2010 was: Increase in Capital Resource Requirement 0.3 Acquisitions River Road and other small transactions 0.2 Other 0.2 2010 2009 % % Estimated IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2010 3.8 Equity 26% 21% Property 16% 12% Regulatory capital Long-term businesses Fixed interest 57% 59% For our non-participating worldwide life assurance businesses, our Other 1% 8% capital requirements, expressed as a percentage of the EU minimum, are set for each business unit as the higher of: The equity backing ratios, including property, supporting withThe level of capital at which the local regulator is profit asset shares are 69% in OWPSF and NWPSF, and 68% empowered to take action.
The capital requirement of the business unit under the groups economic capital requirements: and, Economic capital The target capital level of the business unit.
We use a risk-based capital model to assess economic capital requirements and to aid in risk and capital management across The required capital across our life businesses varies between the Group.
The model is based on a framework for identifying the 100% and 325% of EU minimum or equivalent.
The weighted risks to which business units, and the Group as a whole, are average level of required capital for our non-participating life exposed.
A mixture of scenario based approaches and stochastic business, expressed as a percentage of the EU minimum models are used to capture market risk, credit risk, insurance risk or equivalent solvency margin has decreased to 129% and operational risk.
Scenarios are specified centrally to provide 31 December 2009: 130%.
consistency across businesses and to achieve a minimum These levels of required capital are used in the calculation of standard.
Where appropriate, businesses also supplement these the groups embedded value to evaluate the cost of locked in with additional risk models and stressed scenarios specific to their capital.
At 31 December 2010 the aggregate regulatory own risk profile.
When aggregating capital requirements at requirements based on the EU minimum test amounted to business unit and Group level, we allow for diversification benefits 6.8 billion 31 December 2009: 6.1 billion.
At this date, the between risks and between businesses, with restrictions to allow actual net worth held in our long-term business was 10.0 billion for non-fungibility of capital when appropriate.
This means that 31 December 2009: 9.8 billion which represents 147% the aggregate capital requirement is less than the sum of capital 31 December 2009: 159% of these minimum requirements.
required to cover all of the individual risks.
This model is used to support our Individual Capital Regulatory capital UK Life with-profit funds Assessments ICA which are reported to the FSA for all our UK The available capital of the with-profit funds is represented by the regulated insurance businesses.
The FSA uses the results of our realistic inherited estate.
The estate represents the assets of the ICA process when setting target levels of capital for our UK long-term with-profit funds less the realistic liabilities for nonregulated insurance businesses.
In line with FSA requirements, profit policies within the funds, less asset shares aggregated the ICA estimates the capital required to mitigate the risk of across the with-profit policies and any additional amounts insolvency to a 99.5% confidence level over a one year time expected at the valuation date to be paid to in-force policyholders horizon equivalent to events occurring in 1 out of 200 years in the future in respect of smoothing costs, guarantees and against financial and non-financial tests.
Realistic balance sheet information is shown below for The financial modelling techniques employed in economic the three main UK with-profit funds: Old With-Profit Sub-Fund capital enhance our practice of risk and capital management.
OWPSF, New With-Profit Sub-Fund NWPSF and With-Profit They enable understanding of the impact of the interaction Sub-Fund WPSF.
These realistic liabilities have been included of different risks allowing us to direct risk management activities within the long-term business provision and the liability for appropriately.
These same techniques are employed to enhance product pricing and capital allocation processes.
Unlike more 72 Aviva plc Capital management continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Capital generation and utilisation traditional regulatory capital measures, economic capital also recognises the value of longer-term profits emerging from inThe active management of the generation and utilisation of capital is a primary Group focus, with the balancing of new force and new business, allowing for consideration of longer-term value emergence as well as shorter-term net worth volatility in our business investment and shareholder distribution with operational capital generation a key financial priority.
risk and capital management processes.
We continue to develop our economic capital modelling capability for all our businesses as The 2010 result of 1.7 billion represents a 0.7 billion increase on 2009 and reinforces our confidence in the capital part of our development programme to increase the focus on economic capital management and meeting the emerging generation position of the Group.
This excludes the negative impact of the Delta Lloyd longevity assumption change of requirements of the Solvency II framework and external agencies.
0.2 billion which is included in the MCEV existing business free Solvency II surplus generation.
The development of Solvency II continues in 2011.
The European Profits from the life business remain strong, generating 1 Commission is focused on concluding the development of the 2.1 billion of capital 31 December 2009: 1.9 billion, with a Level 2 implementing measures that will establish the technical further 0.6 billion 31 December 2009: 0.6 billion generated requirements governing the practical application of Solvency II.
by the general insurance, fund management and non-insurance The European Commission has published a draft directive businesses.
Capital invested in new business has reduced Omnibus II proposing some changes, including as expected significantly to 1.0 billion 31 December 2009: 1.5 billion, a change to the date for implementation of Solvency II from benefiting in particular from management actions to improve 31 October 2012 to 31 December 2012.
Aviva continues to capital efficiency in the US business, the utilisation of the RIEESA actively participate in the development of the requirements to finance new business in UK Life and reduced required capital through the key European industry working groups and on general insurance business.
engaging with the FSA and HM Treasury to influence the on-going negotiations in Brussels.
2010 2009 m m The European Commission is now giving further consideration Operational capital generation: to the wording of the implementing measures and is expected 1 Life in-force profits 2.1 1.9 to finalise these during 2011.
General insurance, fund management and non-insurance profits 0.6 0.6 Rating agency Operational capital generated before investment in Credit ratings are an important indicator of financial strength and new business 2.7 2.5 Capital invested in new business 1.0 1.5 support access to debt markets as well as providing assurance to Operational capital generated after investment in new business partners and policyholders over our ability to service business 1.7 1.0 contractual obligations.
In recognition of this we have solicited Operational capital generation comprises the following components: relationships with a number of rating agencies.
The agencies Operating Free surplus emergence, including release of required capital, for the life in-force business net of tax and generally assign ratings based on an assessment of a range of minorities : IFRS operating profits for the general insurance and non-life businesses net of tax and minorities : financial factors e. g. capital strength, gearing, liquidity and fixed Capital invested in new business.
For the life business this is the impact of initial and required capital on free surplus.
For general insurance businesses this reflects the movement in required capital, which we have assumed to equal two charge cover ratios and non-financial factors e. g. strategy, times the regulatory minimum.
Where appropriate, the movement in capital requirements excludes the impact of competitive position, and quality of management.
1 Life in-force profits exclude the negative impact of the Delta Lloyd longevity assumption change of 0.2 billion which is Certain rating agencies have proprietary capital models which included in the MCEV analysis of free surplus generated.
they use to assess available capital resources against capital As well as financing new business investment, operational capital requirements as a component in their overall criteria for assigning generated is used to finance corporate costs, service the Groups ratings.
Managing our capital and liquidity position in accordance debt capital and to finance shareholder dividend distributions.
with our target rating levels is a core consideration in all material After taking these items into account the net operational capital capital management and capital allocation decisions.
generated after financing remains at a 0.6 billion surplus, a The Groups overall financial strength is reflected in our credit strong improvement on the 2009 position.
The Groups rating from Standard and Poors is AAvery strong with a Stable outlook: Aa3 excellent with a Stable 2010 2009 outlook from Moodys: and A excellent with a Positive outlook m m from A M Best.
These ratings continue to reflect our strong Operational capital generated after investment in new competitive position, positive strategic management, strong business 1.7 1.0 Interest, corporate and other costs 0.6 0.5 and diversified underlying earnings profile and strong External dividend net of scrip 0.5 0.6 liquidity position.
Net operational capital generation after financing 0.6 0.1 Financial flexibility The Groups borrowings are comprised primarily of long dated hybrid instruments with maturities spread over many years, minimising refinancing risk.
In addition to central liquid asset holdings of 1.5 billion, the group also has access to unutilised committed credit facilities of 2.1 billion provided by a range of leading international banks.
