96 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Executive management Andrew Moss Amanda Mackenzie Group chief executive Age 53 Chief marketing and communications officer Age 47 See page 94 Joined the Group in 2008.
Currently a non-executive director of Mothercare plc.
Formerly commercial and marketing director for Patrick Regan British Gas plc and has 25 years of experience in the marketing Chief financial officer Age 45 and advertising profession.
Holds a Bachelor of Science degree in See page 95 Psychology from the University of London and is a graduate of the INSEAD advanced management programme.
She is a Fellow Mark Hodges of the Royal Society of Arts and the Marketing Society and is a Chief executive, Aviva UK Age 45 governor of the National Youth Orchestra.
She is also a member See page 95 of the Lord Davies inquiry into women on boards and the Cabinet Office review of the Central Information Office.
Igal Mayer Chief executive, Aviva Europe Age 49 Robin Spencer See page 95 Chief risk officer Age 41 Joined the Group in 1995.
Formerly chief executive officer of John Ainley Aviva Canada, chief financial officer of Aviva Canada and held Group human resources director Age 54 various senior management positions in the finance function of Joined the Group in 1999.
Formerly held senior HR positions with Norwich Union and was finance director for London & Edinburgh WH Smith plc, ICL plc and General Electric plc.
Previously Group Insurance Company Limited.
Previously spent five years with HR Director for Norwich Union plc and HR Director for Norwich Procter & Gamble Limited.
Holds an MA in Economics from Union Insurance and Norwich Union Life.
Holds a Law degree and Aberdeen University and is a chartered management accountant.
is a Companion of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development.
Former chairman of Canadas Property and Casualty Insurance Compensation Corporation.
Alain Dromer Chief executive, Aviva Investors Age 56 Joined the Group in September 2007.
Formerly global head of group investment businesses at HSBC, senior executive vicepresident and head of asset management and insurance at Credit Commercial fide France and director of capital markets at La Compagnie Financire Edmond fide Rothschild.
Formerly at the French Treasury in the Ministry of Finance and the French Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies.
Educated at lcole Polytechnique, Paris and lcole Nationale fide la Statistique lAdministration conomique, Paris.
Richard Hoskins Chief executive, Aviva North America Age 46 Joined the Group in 2009.
Formerly executive vice-president and chief financial officer of Aviva North America.
Previously executive vice-president and chief financial officer for Old Mutual US and acting group finance director and deputy group finance director for Old Mutual plc, London.
Formerly head of National Australia Insurance Services, a subsidiary of National Australia Banks UK operations and chief financial officer of their European wealth management business.
Previously held several senior management roles in Sydney at Lend Lease Corporation, Qantas Airways Limited and Deloitte and Touche.
Holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Business Studies from Sheffield University and is a Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Simon Machell Chief executive, Aviva Asia Pacific Age 47 Joined the Group in 1994.
Formerly chief executive of Norwich Union Insurance and managing director of RAC plc.
Previously held positions with Ernst & Young LLP and Legal & General Group plc.
Holds a BA Honours in Economics from the University of Durham and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
