30 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Products independent financial advisers IFAs.
This is particularly the case for our savings and investment products as customers seek advice We provide a range of general insurance products focused on personal and commercial customers.
We held top three positions due to the complex nature of the products, the regulation surrounding them and the need for these products to meet the in all our major classes of business for 2009, according to Datamonitor, based on gross written premiums.
Our general individual circumstances of the customer.
We are a leading insurance partner for the biggest UK banks insurance business mix is approximately 60% personal lines and 40% commercial lines.
We recently agreed the renewal of our successful strategic partnership with Royal Bank of Scotland Our general insurance products include personal motor, home, travel, payment protection, commercial motor, commercial Group with a new, exclusive seven year distribution agreement for the sale of life, protection and pensions products from property and commercial liability insurance.
We also offer a range of breakdown products through the RAC.
We will also be launching life protection products through the extension of our existing general insurance Our personal motor insurance product range includes cars, motorcycles and vans.
For businesses we offer cover for fleets and distribution agreement with Santander from June this year.
We have strong existing relationships with a number of banks and commercial vehicles.
Our home insurance products include building and contents building societies, distribution deals with the Co-operative Insurance Society and the Post Office, and growing corporate insurance and home emergency cover.
Our commercial products focus on insurance for small to and direct channels.
medium enterprises and, from 2010, the larger UK corporate risk United Kingdom Aviva General Insurance market.
Looking forward we are aiming for controlled expansion Business overview and strategy in both the corporate risks and specialty lines.
Aviva is a leading general insurer in the UK, with a market share in 2009 of over 10% according to Datamonitor.
We focus on Distribution personal and commercial insurance and are also a leading We have a multi-distribution strategy.
Our personal products are provider of motoring services through the RAC, as voted by sold directly to customers over the phone and through our the JD Power survey since 2006. website www.
co. uk, via brokers and through over 100 Our key strengths include underwriting excellence and product corporate partnerships.
Our RAC insurance offerings are also and distribution leadership.
We aim to maintain a market-leading available through price comparison sites.
For commercial position while focusing on insurance fundamentals to maximise insurance, we focus on broker distribution and believe that returns through the insurance cycle.
We seek to provide excellent independent brokers remain the best source of the advice customer service, maintain disciplined underwriting and pricing and required by business customers.
control the impact of claims inflation.
As part of our strategy to increase our appetite in the Corporate Risks Sector CRS, we now have a bespoke trading floor in the City Market and competition of London, providing direct access to our CRS specialists.
The UK is the third largest insurance market in the world according to the ABI based on data for 2009.
In 2009, the top Europe four companies had approximately 36% 2008: 39% of the Regional overview and strategy general insurance market share, based on Datamonitor figures Europe excluding the UK offers a huge opportunity for Aviva, for gross written premiums.
with $1.7 trillion growth in life and pensions assets expected Insurance profits in the UK general insurance market are between 2009 and 2014, according to Oliver Wyman.
We have a cyclical in nature, with different segments of the market at major presence in the five markets of France, Ireland, Italy, Poland different stages in the cycle.
In personal motor we have seen and Spain, which between them represent nearly 80% of our significant premium rate increases in 2010 in response to recent new business premiums.
We are also focused on increasing our increases in claims costs and frequencies, most notably for bodily presence in the growing markets of Russia and Turkey and injury claims.
Homeowner rates have seen little movement continue to manage our strategic investment in Delta Lloyd reflecting a competitive environment and the depressed housing in the Netherlands.
Conditions in commercial lines have also remained Through our leading bancassurance franchise and established competitive with rating increases proving difficult to achieve.
We retail networks, we offer a range of life, pensions, general and are growing our capability in Corporate Risks and Specialty Lines health insurance and asset management propositions, providing business, building on our core underwriting and pricing strengths the diversity and competitive strength that only a composite to win in these markets.
We are already a top six provider in In recent years, the growing proportion of commercial brokers 5 our five largest markets for life products and have a strategy to seeking to trade with us online has led us to invest more heavily in grow our general insurance presence.
our e-commerce propositions, ensuring we remain competitive and alert to evolving customer needs in this important distribution Aviva Europe channel.
Our Quantum Leap transformation plan is focused on delivering We consider our main competitors to be RBS, RSA, AXA, benefits in the markets of France, Ireland, Italy, Poland, Spain, Zurich, Lloyds Banking Group, Allianz and The Admiral Group.
Across these we operate a composite model, The principal competitive factors for our general insurance selling life and pensions products, general insurance products and business in the UK are: providing asset management propositions.
In Russia and Spain we Range and quality of products: currently have a purely life distribution model.
Access to distribution: This pan-European composite distribution model enables us to Pricing and underwriting discipline: exploit our existing relationships and networks in order to develop Brand association: higher margin customer targeted products, to improve our Customer satisfaction: Claims handling: and Cost management.
5 Based on regulatory data from FFSA, IIF, ANIA, KNF, ICEA Performance review 31 Performance review Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information product mix by increasing sales of protection and unit-linked measured by gross written premiums, according to LArgus fide products and to expand our general insurance distribution.
Our lAssurance, as at 31 December 2008.
Our life business has a strategy is focused on developing five core capabilities, which are: 4.5% market share according to the Fdration Franaise des Customer-focused multi-channel distribution: Socits dAssurances FFSA as at 31 December 2010, based on Product simplification and innovation: gross written premiums.
Our general insurance business has a Shared operational excellence: 1.9% share of the market as based on 2010 premium income, General insurance claims management: and according to the FFSA, measured by gross written premiums.
Our health business has a 2.3% share of the market based on 2008 premium income, also according to the FFSA, measured We have a strong bancassurance model that serves customers by gross written premiums.
throughout Europe via 55 banking agreements.
We have strong We offer a range of long-term insurance and savings partnerships including Credit du Nord in France, six of the savings products, primarily for individuals, which focus on the unit-linked banks in Spain, Allied Irish Bank in Ireland and relationships with market.
We have a longstanding relationship with the Association five banks in Italy, including UniCredit Group.
Franaise dEpargne et fide Retraite AFER, which is the largest We also have a significant retail franchise, with a presence in retirement savings association in France with 730,000 members all of our markets, operating through more than 8,000 direct and as at 31 December 2010.
We have a strong partnership with tied agents across 30 networks and with an independent sales Crdit Du Nord, operating through 931 bank branches as at force of 6,000 consultants.
This is supported by our move to a 22 September 2010.
Aviva France operates through two main single retail operating model, where shared tools and the creation companies: Aviva Vie and Antarius.
of centres of excellence are enabling us to maximise our sales In our general insurance business we predominantly sell capability.
personal and small commercial lines insurance products through We are also building a shared platform that will provide an agent network and our direct insurer, Eurofil.
us with the ability to meet the demands of each prospective Our strategy for Aviva France is to continue the diversification partners requirements in a rapid and efficient way, creating value and growth of our business and to maintain a high level of for both Aviva and our partners, all whilst driving down the cost profitability.
We seek to accomplish these goals through our per policy.
This strategy is enabling us to increase our sales force distribution expertise, innovation of products and services, greater productivity, improve customer retention, develop and price communication and brand visibility.
innovative and customer-centric product propositions and create Market economies of scale through pan-European cost management.
We believe that the long-term insurance and savings market in Market and competition France has longer-term growth potential due to the ageing The region is split between mature Western European markets population and the growing need for private pensions.
We also with high wealth and insurance penetration and the developing believe that the current volatility in the financial markets has markets of Central and Eastern Europe.
Competitive intensity and affected customer confidence in purchasing risk bearing products market consolidation varies across the region depending on the although we believe that over a longer period, multi-funds size and stage of development of each market.
Across the region policies and unit-linked funds are the best insurance vehicles for consolidation is low: based on total insurance premiums from the performance.
In the context of the ageing population and CEA the top five insurers hold less than 35% of the market.
economic crisis, we believe our customers are expressing the need Our competitors comprise a mixture of large pan-European to be reassured and protected financially.
We believe that there insurers, such as Allianz and AXA, and local insurers, such as are real needs for protection in the form of long-term care and Powszechy Zaxlad Ubezpieczan PZU in Poland and CNP safeguarding wealth.
The largest insurers across the The increase in health spending and the public authorities region are Allianz, Generali and AXA.
difficulties in financing the system are leading to a gradual Market data from SwissRe SIGMA shows that as at transfer of health spending to private insurers.
The general 31 December 2009, Aviva has a 5.5% share of the life markets insurance market in France is mature and characterised by fierce in which we operated including the UK and non-participatory competition.
For several years, price competition was high as they investment contracts, excluding business written outside of aimed to gain market share, particularly in the personal lines Europe, non-primary insurance and inaccessible markets, for market.
Price competition has, however, reached its limits as the example compulsory healthcare, which makes us the fourth market currently faces increased claims frequency and a higher largest insurer in Europe.
In the last few years, the industry has also We have several strengths that we believe give us a faced major climatic events storms Quentin, Klaus and Xynthia competitive advantage in Europe, which include: as well as floods which have impacted general insurers results.
our strong bancassurance franchise: Products our diversified insurance model: Aviva France provides a wide range of insurance solutions: life our firm establishment in the markets in which we have and long-term savings, general insurance and asset management chosen to compete: and through Aviva Investors France.
The main products sold through our pan-European transformation plan.
our life channel are long-term savings, pensions and regular premium products and a broad range of protection products.
We All of these strengths support our efficient, effective, composite are the main distributor of the AFER product which is a leading insurance model and allow us to pursue growth potential in the savings product, benefiting from high customer confidence, a underpenetrated markets of Russia and Turkey.
strong reputation and strong financial performance.
In particular France we believe we have developed a reputation for excellence in unitBusiness overview and strategy linked products with on average 50% of our unit-linked funds Aviva France is one of the top ten insurance businesses in France, being first quartile performers in 2009, according to Aviva being sixth in life insurance and eighth in general insurance as Investors France.
32 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Products Aviva France holds a majority stake in Union Financire fide France UFF which we believe has gained a reputation for Our long-term insurance and savings business offers a comprehensive range of protection, bonds and savings and expertise in managing, selecting and distributing mutual funds and sourcing tax optimisation products.
The protection products include single, dual and joint life insurance, mortgage protection, specified illness and In the general insurance market, our product range includes household, motor, health, legal protection products and also a guaranteed whole life cover products.
The pension range covers retirement and investment products including government broad range of insurance products for farms, craftsmen, tradesmen and small to medium sized entities and specific promoted personal retirement savings account PRSA schemes.
Our general insurance and health businesses provide a wide products for building firms and motor fleets.
range of products including property, motor, travel, farm and Distribution business insurance.
Our motor business is more focused on Aviva France has developed a multi-distribution model combining personal lines, while our property business is primarily commercial retail, direct and bancassurance networks through owned lines.
Our health insurance business provides a range of plans in distribution channels, independent networks and partnerships.
both the personal and company plan sector with access to Our retail networks sell through 870 tied agents, a direct sales hospitals, treatment and scan centres.
force composed of 338 advisors and 662 UFF consultants and more than 1,000 active brokers in the life, health and Distribution Aviva Ireland has a wide range of distribution channels, including construction markets.
Direct distribution is sold through Eurofil for personal general insurance, Aviva Direct for health and protection intermediary channels such as brokers, bancassurance partners, corporate partners and direct channels including call centres, and Epargne Actuelle for the AFER product.
Eurofil is the second largest direct general insurer and Aviva internet and a nationwide branch network.
Our long-term insurance and savings products are distributed Direct is the second largest insurer of funeral expense plans in France by number of policies according to the FFSA as at through our broker network, our bancassurance partnership with Allied Irish Bank plc AIB and our branch network.
We also operate in the bancassurance market through our insurance business is sold through all of our distribution channels, with an increasing proportion offered by direct and corporate partnership with Crdit du Nord, a subsidiary of Socit Gnrale selling life, savings, protection and general insurance products.
We also provide branded products for a number of financial institutions, namely AIB, Ulster Bank and Postbank.
This partnership gives Aviva access to 1.8 million customers, as at 31 December 2010.
We also have several partnerships with Traditionally the majority of our health business was sold via our direct channels: however there has been a significant increase in car manufacturers including Volvo, Ford, Mazda, Mercedes Benz and GM.
the business sold through the intermediary channel in 2010.
Italy Ireland Business overview and strategy Business overview and strategy Aviva Ireland had a 16% share of the Irish long-term insurance Aviva Italy is the countrys sixth-largest life insurer, with a market share of 5% based on 2009 premiums according to Associazione and savings market in 2009 based on gross written premiums according to the Irish Insurance Federation IIF, and is the fourth Nazionale fra le Imprese Assicuratrici ANIA.
We are the 13th largest general insurance company in Italy with a market share largest life and pension provider in Ireland.
Our general insurance business is the largest in Ireland, with a market share of 16% in of 1%, and over 2.3 million customers, according to ANIA.
Our strategy is to continue to work with our partners on 2009 according to the IIF.
Aviva has a 13% market share making it the third largest health insurer in Ireland based on research new products, suited to the current markets, to develop our bancassurance relationships and to expand our customer conducted by REDC Research and Marketing REDC on behalf of the Irish Health Insurance Authority HIA.
Aviva Ireland has over reach, through customer penetration and expanding our distribution reach.
one million customers across its general insurance, life & pensions, asset management which is managed by Aviva Investors and Market health insurance businesses.
In the Italian life market, large groups dominate the market, with Our strategy is focused on delivering sustainable, profitable the top four providers writing 50% of the life premium income in growth, maximising capital generation and leveraging our 2009 according to ANIA.
After the decline in the market in 2008, product portfolio.
the insurance industry in Italy reported a strong growth in volumes in 2009 with gross written premiums up by 28% to Market The life insurance market in Ireland is largely consolidated with 118 billion according to ANIA.
The life segment grew by 49% driven by the strong demand by customers for with-profit approximately 78% of the market share being held by the top four providers, including Aviva, according to a report by IFF based products.
The general insurance segment declined 2% due to a reduction in the motor segment.
We believe that customers have moved away from traditional life products in Ireland because of In the Italian market, we believe that many customers prefer investment products from well-established long-term insurance volatility in the stock markets and a slowdown in the housing market in the last three years.
companies as long-term savings vehicles.
We also think that consumers prefer developing a personal relationship with We believe that the general insurance market in Ireland remains extremely competitive in both personal and commercial the bank distributing products through one-to-one contact.
Internet and telephone channels are not widely used in Italy.
lines, with large weather related losses in 2010 across the market in January, November and December.
Motor is the largest class Over the last few years, the Italian government has introduced legislation to break the exclusive relationship between general of business representing 43% of the general insurance market followed by property which accounts for 30% of the market insurance companies and their tied agents and therefore has widened the availability of general insurance products from at 31 December 2009, according to the IIF.
Performance review 33 Performance review Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information different insurers.
This has opened up the general insurance retain our status as one of the market leaders in terms of assets marketplace to increased competition from different channels.
In the short term we have overhauled our compensation and bonus structure for our sales force with the Products aim of linking compensation directly with the value generated by Our long-term insurance and savings business offers a wide range the sale.
of products covering protection, bonds and savings and pensions.
Our general insurance business in Poland commenced in 1997 The largest segment is single and regular premium savings and and continues to develop.
For reporting purposes the general investment products.
These include unit-linked policies linked to a insurance business is shown within Other Europe in the general range of investment funds as well as profit-sharing policies where insurance segment.
there is a minimum annual return credited to the policy and the potential for an additional bonus.
Also, we provide index-linked Market products where there is typically some protection of capital at the The Polish market for protection products has seen significant end of the policy term and a pay-out linked to the performance of growth since 1999, although penetration rates remain relatively an index or basket of shares.
low according to our analysis of KNF statistics.
A growing area of the market is credit protection insurance, In 1999, Poland launched a comprehensive reform of its state where protection on death and disability is provided for mortgages pension system and created privately managed funds.
Individual and group pension plans are also enabled private companies to offer pension products and made available and this part of the market is expected to grow in the it obligatory for all employees under 30 years of age to join one long-term given the ageing population and government reforms to of the competing pension funds.
As described above, from 2010 reduce the cost of state retirement provision.
Our general the Polish government started to implement restrictions on the insurance business in Italy mainly provides motor and home fees that pension fund management companies can charge, insurance products to individuals, as well as small commercial risk and it is expected that the government will start to take higher insurance, including marine insurance, to businesses.
For reporting proportions of pension payments in 2011. purposes the Italian general insurance business is shown within The general insurance market is continuing to grow, although Other Europe in the general insurance segment.
at a slower rate than the long-term insurance and savings market.
Growth is mainly driven by household and travel personal lines Distribution and an increase in rates in commercial lines.
Our products are distributed principally through bancassurance partnerships with UniCredit Group, Banco Popolare Italiana Group Products BPI, Banca Popolari Unite BPU and Unione di Banche Italiana Our life business in Poland provides a broad range of protection, UBI.
These partnerships give us access to more than 6,300 annuities and bonds and savings products.
In addition, we also have 650 insurance agents offers unit-linked life policies, annuities, single premium savings and access to approximately 5,100 sales advisers, as at and health insurance.
For institutions it offers group life 31 December 2010. insurance and employee pension programmes, which are both We distribute general insurance products primarily unit-linked products.
through agents and brokers, with a growing proportion of Our pension business offers a standard product for all bancassurance sales.
customers as part of the privately managed second pillar pensions market.
Poland including Lithuania We offer general insurance products to both institutions and Business overview and strategy individuals in Poland.
For institutions we offer selected commercial Our Polish life operation is the fourth largest overall life insurer in lines risks such as fire and loss-of-profit insurance, technical Poland including JV Life, with a market share of 6% based on insurance, insurance against loss of property during transportation, total premium income as at 30 September 2010 according to the civil liability insurance and commercial health insurance.
For Polish Financial Supervision Authority KNF.
Aviva Poland individuals we offer home, accident and travel insurance, which completed its rebrand to Aviva in June 2010.
It has more than are primarily sold by tied agents, as well as motor insurance, which 900,000 individual and group customers and manages over is sold primarily through our direct operation.
3.1 billion of customers assets, providing both long-term insurance and savings products.
Our businesses have Distribution approximately 2,600 direct sales force members with 60 sales The direct sales force is the main distribution channel for most of branches across the countries as at 31 December 2010. the Polish group and is made up of 2,400 tied insurance agents Aviva Poland has been one of the leaders of the second-pillar whose work is co-ordinated by a network of our sales branches pension fund market since its launch in 1999.
Second pillar run by over 250 sales managers.
pension funds are privately managed with first pillar being the We are developing our bancassurance distribution channel.
pay-as-you-go state pensions and third pillar being voluntary Our biggest relationship is a joint venture with Bank Zachodni contributions.
WBK a subsidiary of AIB that sells both life and general insurance We have seen two tranches of significant legislative changes products through the banks network of over 600 branches.
to the pensions market in the last two years.
In 2010 a change We also co-operate with independent insurance agencies and was made to pensions legislation which limited pension funds brokers.
We believe that these insurance brokers play a key role potential income through a reduction of contract fees and a cap in selling commercial lines general insurance.
Our mutual funds on total asset management revenues.
From 1 April 2011, a are also sold in brokerage houses and our individual products further change has been announced whereby contributions are supported by call centre and website sales.
We also have received by mandatory pension funds will be reduced from 7.3% a direct platform internet and call centre for distribution of of gross salary to 2.3%.
This has had the effect that our pensions business in Poland has a market share of around 24% down from 25% last year and 2.8 million customers.
Our product strategy for pensions is to 34 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Spain Aviva Vida y Pensiones distributes our products through Business overview and strategy professional intermediaries financial advisers, agents and brokers Aviva Spain is the countrys fifth-largest long-term insurer by gross and a direct sales force, supported by a branch office network written premiums with a market share of 7% in the third quarter and call centres.
of 2010 according to Investigacin Cooperativa entre Entidades The strength of our distribution relationships has enabled Aseguradoras y Fondos fide Pensiones ICEA.
Aviva Spain sells us to maintain our position as the second largest provider of long-term insurance and savings, health and accident insurance in protection products in the market, according to the ICEA at Spain through a bancassurance network based on joint ventures 30 September 2010. with six banks Bancaja, Caja Espaa, Caixa Galicia, Unicaja, Caja Russia Granada and Cajamurcia and through Aviva Vida y Pensiones, Business overview and strategy the wholly owned Aviva branded long-term insurance company.
Aviva Russia is ranked fifth in the life insurance market with Our strategy in Spain is to further develop our bancassurance a 7.8% market share according to the data published by the relationships and attract new partners when the opportunities market regulator, Finance and the Federal Service for Insurance arise.
We also intend to develop our general insurance offerings Supervision FSSN and first in the non-captive Pillar III pension through our existing partnerships.
Overall, we will continue to be market with 17.5% market share, as at 30 September 2010.
We customer-focused, react quickly to market trends and maximise began trading in early 2006, with a strategy that we continue to the sales of our core products, such as pensions and savings.
pursue, to position the business to take advantage of the growth Market expected to occur as the Russian life insurance industry develops.
We believe Spains savings banks, the cajas, continue to be under Compared with the same period last year, in the third quarter of pressure and a number may have to pursue mergers to secure 2010 Avivas gross written premiums grew by 142%, which is their positions.
Any opportunities arising from this will be four times faster than the market, according to FSSN and the considered by Aviva on their individual merits.
In relation to insurance market regulator.
distribution agreements with bancassurance partners, Aviva is also Aviva Russia is made up of a life company and two non-state protected financially within our contracts with the cajas should a pension funds.
Aviva Russia has a Net Promoter Score of 86 in merger result in the insurance services of the newly merged 2010, a score that has been consistently high 2009: 85. company being awarded to the insurer of the other party involved.
Market The top positions in the long-term insurance market are The life insurance market in Russia has grown rapidly from a low dominated by bank-owned or bank-insurer joint ventures, with base over the last five-year period.
Life insurance penetration in the overall bancassurance channel accounting for more than 65% Russia is much lower than in other BRIC countries Brazil, Russia, of gross written premiums in the third quarter of 2010 in the India and China are all countries that are deemed to be at a Spanish life insurance market according to ICEA.
similar stage of newly advanced economic development and Customers in Spain are accustomed to receiving advice we believe demonstrates strong potential for further growth.
through traditional banking channels, and we leverage our cajas distribution channels to capitalise on this characteristic.
Products We believe that customers have a high level of financial In Russia, we sell a range of products including individual accident understanding and require comprehensive advice on insurance largely through bank partners, group protection and products and services.
Products Distribution We offer a wide range of bonds and savings, and protection At the end of 2010 Aviva Russia had 966,000 customers.
Investment products include both unit linked and Russia has 19 distribution agreements with banks, operating in traditional plans, where profit sharing is regularly used to increase 63 out of 83 Russian regions.
Approximately 50% of new the policy return.
Our traditional plans include savings schemes business sold is Group protection and corporate pensions.
Pension savings products have valuable tax advantages each year for such contributions within permitted Turkey limits and we offer a flexible range of individual and group plans Business overview and strategy with alternative investment choices.
We also offer protection AvivaSA, our long-term insurance and savings business in Turkey, products, covering both mortgages and credit loans typically is the second largest pension provider in the market in terms of providing cover for the family in the event of death or disability.
assets under management AuM, with a market share of 21% as of 24 December 2010 as reported by the Turkish Pensions Distribution Monitoring Centre.
Our largest competitor in this market, Through bancassurance partnerships we have established Anadolu, ranks first with a market share of 22%.
We are also subsidiaries to distribute our products with each of the banks the fourth largest life insurer in Turkey with a market share of as set out below: 7% as of 30 November 2010, as reported by the Association of Aseval in conjunction with Bancaja since 2000 Insurance and Reinsurance Companies of Turkey.
Unicorp Vida in conjunction with Unicaja since 2001 AvivaSA has a bancassurance agreement with Akbank T. A. S. CxG in conjunction with Caixa Galicia since 2001 Akbank, Turkeys second largest privately-owned bank based in Caja Espaa Vida in conjunction with Caja Espaa terms of total assets according to The Banks Association of Turkey.
since 2001 Aviva Sigorta, our general insurance business in Turkey, is Caja Granada Vida in conjunction with Caja fide Granada the 12th largest general insurer in Turkey with a market share of since 2002 3% as of September 2010 according to the Insurance Union of Cajamurcia Vida in conjunction with Cajamurcia Turkey.
Aviva Sigorta has over 750,000 customers and a sales since 2007 force of over 750 independent agents and brokers.
Our strategy in Turkey is to pursue the high growth potential that we believe this market offers.
Performance review 35 Performance review Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Market has been listed on the NYSE Euronext Amsterdam since 3 We believe that Turkey, with its large population and strong November 2009.
At the time of listing we retained 58.3% of the economic growth, is a highly attractive market in the medium term.
ordinary share capital and 54.0% of the voting rights in Delta The pensions market, for example, is growing very fast, increasing Lloyd.
The IPO raised 1 billion of gross disposal proceeds and 31% in the year to 31 October 2010 according to the TSRBS.
The since then the strategic management of our investment in Delta general insurance market is slightly more tempered, growing 5% in Lloyd has been managed independently from other operations.
the year to 30 September 2010, according to the TSRBS.
During 2010 Delta Lloyd offered scrip dividends in exchange for cash dividends.
We did not exercise this option which resulted Products in the dilution of our shareholding by 0.7% to 57.6% at AvivaSAs life and savings products include unit-linked pensions, 31 December 2010. supplemented by protection insurance and other savings products, which are aimed at medium to high-net-worth Business overview and strategy customers and the leading national and multinational Delta Lloyd operates in the life insurance and pensions, general corporations in Turkey.
insurance, fund management and selected banking markets in Aviva Sigorta sells a diverse range of products including the Netherlands and Belgium.
The group employs approximately personal motor, household, commercial property, SME, personal 5,800 permanent staff as of 31 December 2010.
The German life accident, marine and travel insurance.
insurance operations are no longer considered core business by management and we ceased writing new business in Germany in Distribution the third quarter of 2010.
In Turkey, we operate through a multi-channel distribution We identified Delivering sustainable value for shareholders framework consisting of bancassurance, direct sales force, through long-term focus as being core to our strategy.
To realise corporate sales, agencies and brokers.
this strategy the following initiatives have been implemented: Simplify organisational structure in 2010, with the aim of Other Europe reducing costs by 2012 compared with the 2010 cost level.
Business overview and strategy Economies of scale through volumes.
We will position Avivas other European businesses are in the Czech Republic, ourselves through our brands Delta Lloyd, OHRA and ABN Hungary, Slovakia and Romania.
In the Czech Republic we are Amro Verzekeringen and develop standardised, flexible the 13th largest life insurer, with a 1.4% market share as at white-label products.
31 December 2010 according to the Czech Insurance Association.
Asset accumulation for the longer term via long term We have more than 50,000 customers and 115 staff as at pension and investment contracts.
In Hungary, we are the seventh largest life Enhance knowledge of the customer and respond to insurance business, measured by gross written premiums as at changing customer needs.
Aviva Romania is the fifth largest voluntary Prudent risk management by using hedging strategies to pensions provider as at 31 December 2010 as measured by fund protect against interest rate and equity risk.
value according to the Private Pension Regulator CSSPP and the Take a disciplined approach to consolidation.
We believe we seventh largest life insurance provider as at 30 September 2010 are well placed for expected future consolidation within our according to data gathered by Signal Iduna in Romania.
Delta Lloyd will only consider pursuing We are currently continuing to manage these markets for mergers and acquisitions if strategic opportunities arise profitable growth.
and will create shareholder value.
Raise capital through the issue of senior unsecured debt.
Market In October 2010, a European Mid-Term Note EMTN Across these new European markets there are countries at programme of maximum 2.1 billion 2.5 billion was different stages of development.
Hungary and the Czech Republic established to increase Delta Lloyds financial flexibility.
are the most developed markets although they still have a gap as Under this programme 491 million 575 million worth compared to Western European markets.
of debt was issued in 2010 which will be used for working Products capital purposes.
Czech Republic sells flexible unit-linked insurance products and Market group life insurance schemes for corporate clients.
Hungary sells Delta Lloyd continues to operate in a competitive saturated market.
flexible unit-linked and traditional life products and sells unitWe believe that the Dutch insurance market is mature and linked savings products through Brokernet Slovakia.
Romania cost reduction and economies of scale are becoming increasingly provides traditional life insurance products and started to offer important.
Customers are increasingly demanding that suppliers pension products to customers following government reforms provide value-for-money high-performing products with introducing compulsory pensions in 2008. transparent charges.
The Dutch savings market is extremely Distribution competitive with banks now able to offer retirement products In the Czech Republic, our sales force is made up of over 380 on the same terms as insurers.
agents operating across 14 regional offices, with 17 independent In the life segment the focus is on profitable growth, for distributors.
In Hungary, in addition to the direct sales force we example in the group pension market, and retaining customers also sell through brokerage partners.
In Romania, we distribute through the tax favourable bank savings product.
through a direct sales force branch network of approximately In the general insurance market there continues to be 500 agents and have bancassurance partners, which include local competition on premium rates, particularly in the motor sector, units of Piraeus Bank, Emporiki and Credit Europe Bank.
and increasing claims frequencies linked with the economic downturn and weather related events.
Managing the claims Delta Lloyd ratio and cost savings are the top priority in this highly Delta Lloyd is one of the top five financial services providers in the competitive market.
Netherlands, with a growing operation in Belgium.
