82 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Working with government stakeholders Financial capability Aviva is committed to working with regulators, government and We believe its vital to help build financial capability as the across our sector to build greater financial capability.
capacity for consumers to save and make provision is the single As part of this, we believe that individuals need to take most important ingredient for future prosperity.
We work across greater responsibility for their own retirement provision.
The a number of fronts, especially to help lower-income groups: biggest influence on an individuals ability to maintain their increasing awareness of personal responsibility, improving standard of living is how much they save during their working financial education and ensuring access to products and services lives relative to their retirement expectations.
Were also working with government and policy To encourage individuals to plan their financial futures, it is makers to help create the right environment to close pensions important to understand current attitudes and concerns and we and savings gaps.
are sharing findings from our seven-year study into consumer A lack of trust in financial institutions, made worse by the attitudes to savings in our markets.
banking crisis, has further undermined customers trust and ability Findings from our consumer attitudes survey have been shared to save and make provisions.
Aviva is determined to address this, with HM Treasury in the UK particularly around retirement and in particular, issues around the significant level of underconcerns.
We also presented our Mind the Gap pensions research provision for retirement.
and recommendations to the European Commission EC.
In Europe, for people retiring in the next 40 years an Empowering our customers additional 2.4 trillion will be required each year to fill the We want to help our customers secure their financial futures by 3 pensions gap.
designing products and services to meet their needs.
Individuals, Aviva has called on the EC to create a European Quality too, have a responsibility to plan, decide and act.
Standard for Pensions to restore consumer confidence in pensions Across Aviva, communicating with our customers openly and savings vehicles and to establish and monitor a European Pensions effectively is fundamental to the business.
We continue to Savings Target.
It is hoped that through this national governments develop all the channels available to us to reach our customers, will be encouraged to rebalance their pensions systems with and provide good, clear information, whether written or spoken, greater funded schemes.
to help people with financial decisions.
To illustrate this in the UK our customer portal now has 15,000 registered users who use the Sustainable stock markets site to find up-to-date valuations and use a range of online help The most significant project on voting and engagement issues tools including a pension tracker and a retirement calculator.
is our involvement in the Sustainable Stock Exchanges initiative.
It remains a fact, however, that there is substantial underThis is focused on enabling all investors to vote directly on the provision for retirement.
In Europe, for example, where we have sustainability disclosure of listed companies, rather than using a carried out a significant amount of research to understand the surrogate such as the annual report and accounts.
In 2008 Aviva pensions requirements, we estimate that some individuals will Investors CEO Alain Dromer called on all the listing authorities of need to increase their savings by an average of 12,000 per the global stock markets to consider whether their corporate annum to fully close their own personal pension gap.
governance codes should be updated to include a provision Our Consumer Attitudes to Saving research, which has now promoting CR reporting.
Specifically, we proposed that all stock covered over 100,000 people, analyses what consumers are market listing authorities establish a listing requirement that thinking and feeling about financial matters, revealing common companies: concerns about retirement.
However, these worries are not being consider how responsible and sustainable their business translated into personal action.
model is: and The issues are complex but we are looking at new ways to present a forward-looking sustainability strategy at their better engage consumers to take greater personal responsibility.
annual general meeting AGM for shareholder approval.
This is why we have convened experts in behavioural change and psychology to join our Future Prosperity Panel, with the aim of Overall, the main purpose of our proposed corporate publishing new thinking on the issues in 2011. responsibility reporting requirement, and the associated AGM vote, is to try to create the right kind of discussions within the Community initiatives boardrooms of listed companies around the world, and then Through our community development programme we have between the company and its shareholders.
defined financial capability as one of our key strategic areas.
Since 2008, the Sustainable Stock Exchange initiative has We are therefore supporting financial education, in young people continued to gather momentum.
In 2009 and 2010 we co-hosted and adults, by funding education programmes and by offering events with the UN-backed Principles for Responsible Investment the time and expertise of our colleagues.
Initiative PRI, UN Global Compact and the United Nations In the UK our Paying for It and Learn and Thrive programmes Conference on Trade and Development UNCTAD, to examine educate young people to be financially literate while our Chance the various ways in which stock exchanges promote sustainable to be Chancellor competition gives 14 19 year-olds the business practices.
We believe this initiative has significant opportunity to have their say on the economy, to develop their potential to make capital markets work better and be more own Budget and identify their priorities for public spending.
While in Sri Lanka, our community projects include helping small businesses to improve their financial capability and providing internships to university students to develop a greater awareness of a financial services workplace.
3 Source: Mind the Gap quantifying Europes pensions gap: Aviva & Deloitte, Sept 2010
