20 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Aviva UK Our continued disciplined focus on operational capital Winning in the UK generation across our UK businesses resulted in a 85% increase to 973 million Aviva is the leading insurance brand and customer franchise in the UK.
Our combination of life, health Our life business is winning in an attractive marketplace We delivered a record result in our UK life business with IFRS and general insurance, together with motoring services operating profits up 26% to 850 million as we drove increased from RAC, is unique in its scale and breadth in the UK earnings from our new and in-force business.
We are the UKs largest insurer with 19 million competitive advantage from our strong and diversified new customers, and one in three households has a business franchise, leading brand and multi-distribution.
Customers can choose to buy Total long-term savings were up 19% to 11,846 million and life and pensions sales increased 16% to 10,298 million.
The UK our products through intermediaries, our corporate market is growing again and we grew our market share for the partners or from Aviva direct and we have become third consecutive quarter Q3 2010 11%: Q3 2009 9.7% with the partner of choice for many of the UKs biggest a strong performance in annuities and core life protection.
We are ranked as one of the UKs top increased margins significantly to 3.4% 2009: 2.8% through our ten most valuable brands.
disciplined approach to business mix, costs and capital.
Our IRR was 15% with a reduced payback period of 7 years.
We are well Strategy placed for the Retail Distribution Review RDR in 2013 We want to become the most recommended company in our with our diverse distribution and broad product range.
market by our customers, distributors and our people.
To do Significant opportunity for future earnings growth as general this we aim to excel in each of the markets in which we operate, insurance performance accelerates while creating additional value by operating our life and general Our general insurance and health business delivered a strong insurance businesses together.
We aim to maintain our market performance with IFRS operating profit increasing 8% to 579 leadership by: million and our general insurance combined operating ratio Offering a broad range of market-leading products across improving from 99% to 96%, demonstrating the quality of our long-term savings, health, general insurance and motoring portfolio and our continuing focus on cost control.
Our enhanced services pricing and risk selection techniques enable us to more accurately Growing our unparalleled distribution network, maximising recognise individual risks with the most competitive premium, the potential of our strong brand and being the partner of which in turn has been reflected in our improved claims choice for intermediaries, banks and other corporate experience.
Our approach to reserving and prior year releases partners has remained consistent to previous years.
Maintaining a clear focus on the customer: simplifying our Our general insurance business has delivered four consecutive processes and improving our service and retention, while quarters of sales growth with net written premiums 5% higher at increasing the number of policies each customer holds 4,046 million.
Our direct business is growing fast with over one Managing a controlled expansion of our risk appetite into million customers holding direct motor policies with Aviva, 200,000 attractive growth markets where we are underweight, such more than at the start of 2010.
Direct pricing has been rolled out to as corporate risks and specialty lines 2,300 brokers making a significant contribution to our growth and Ensuring strong financial discipline, including excellence in RAC Panel sales have more than doubled.
We continue to exploit underwriting, claims management, asset liability our market leading SME franchise in commercial lines and SME net management and an ongoing focus on costs.
We have made good progress in Market environment building our corporate risks and specialty lines business through the In 2010 economic uncertainty continued, with its consequent controlled expansion of our risk appetite and the recruitment of impact on consumer confidence, discretionary spending and specialist expertise.
We are attracting high-quality risks with 50 investment performance.
However the long-term savings market million of new gross premiums and a COR of 81%.
Our disciplined returned to growth, following two consecutive years of approach to risk selection, claims excellence and our geographical contraction.
We gained market share in annuities and core spread helped mitigate some of the effects of the adverse winter protection as customers turned to strong brands they can trust, weather experienced in late November and December.
The general insurance market remained highly received over 23,000 weather related property claims for homes competitive.
The most notable trend in 2010 was a rise in and businesses at a cost of 60 million above our long-term personal motor premiums across the industry in response to the average weather assumptions.
Weather in the rest of the year recent increases in bodily injury claims costs and frequencies.
was better than expected, despite the January freeze, taking the Elsewhere, the competitive environment has constrained increases overall impact to 40 million above long-term average for the in homeowner and commercial lines.
An excellent year with momentum building in profit, sales and Benefiting from the trust, confidence and visibility of being the service across our UK business UKs leading insurance brand and customer franchise In 2010 we delivered strong and profitable growth across our UK We have 19 million customers in the UK, meaning that one in business.
IFRS profit increased 21% to 1,411million: clearly three households has an Aviva relationship and we continue to demonstrating the significant value generated from our unique invest in developing our brand and customer franchise.
combination of life and general insurance businesses.
We have embedded strong customer focus in everything we do We significantly increased our distribution strength during the by making it part of our reward package for every member of staff.
In year by expanding our corporate partnerships across our UK 2010 service improved across our business on all measures and we businesses while at the same time being voted the UKs top insurer by launched a number of innovative new services that allow customers insurance intermediaries across life, general insurance and health.
to benefit from our expertise through their mobile devices.
Performance review 21 Performance review Aviva plc Aviva UK continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information The Aviva brand is strong: customer recognition and Long-term and savings sales m consideration levels improved in 2010 with spontaneous 10 11,846 awareness at 54% at the year end.
We have also adopted a single approach to TV advertising using Paul Whitehouse which has 09 9,963 both contributed to growing customer interest and sales.
08 13,343 Our unrivalled product range means Aviva can meet customer 07 14,548 needs throughout their lives and our customer research highlights the significant opportunity we have to increase value and deliver 06 13,812 a wider service to our UK customers.
The number of customers who hold multiple Aviva products is growing and we are Long-term and savings operating profit m focussing on further developing this IFRS MCEV Becoming the partner of choice 10 850 Our strategic partnerships with leading banks and other leading 1,085 organisations delivered strong financial results in 2010 with an 09 672 IRR of 15% and a COR of 96%.
787 We are now the leading UK bancassurer based on both new 08 751 business volume and breadth of offer.
We strengthened this 883 market-leading distribution with some significant wins in 2010 and will build further on these in 2011.
In our exclusive 07 723 822 relationship with Santander we are adding life protection products to our existing general insurance distribution agreement.
06 629 Our long-term successful strategic partnership with RBS was 744 renewed in 2010 on the basis of a new exclusive distribution On an MCEV basis from 2007.
Prior years presented on an EEV basis.
agreement for the sale of life, protection and pensions products.
In general insurance we also secured or renewed ten partnership arrangements with bank and building society partners in 2010.
Aviva Premiership Rugby sponsorship Aviva has become the new title sponsor of English rugby unions Driving value across our UK business for customers top-flight league.
Under the four-year 20 million deal, the worldand shareholders leading rugby union competition became Aviva Premiership In 2010 total costs including brand and restructuring have fallen Rugby from September 2010.
When combined with our by 200 million to 1.7 billion.
Costs continue to be an area of sponsorship of UK Athletics it provides year-round visibility of the focus and we remain on track to deliver 200 million of cost and Aviva brand.
The Aviva Premiership includes more than 135 efficiency gains by the end of 2012. games each season, watched by 1.7 million people at the grounds Following consultation with our staff, we are closing our UK and many more on Sky, ITV and ESPN.
The deal also allows Aviva final salary pension schemes to future accrual from 1 April 2011. to extend its grassroots programme designed to encourage young This will reduce the pension fund deficit benefiting Avivas net people to get involved in sport.
The 12 rugby clubs in the Aviva asset value by 286 million and reducing future funding costs by Premiership are committing 15,000 man hours to work with approximately 50 million per year.
36,000 pupils at 600 primary schools in England, as well as We continue to simplify our business and improve our service providing them with equipment and teacher training.
Our new online services mean that 95% of new online general insurance customers receive their documents General insurance and health net written premiums m electronically.
10 4,539 Outlook: A growing business with a unique opportunity 09 4,298 Aviva is growing profitably in the UK and we expect this momentum to continue in 2011 as we benefit from our strong brand, broad 08 5,413 product range and diverse distribution.
07 5,897 The long-term savings market continues to show resilience and is 06 6,000 growing.
While we remain cautious about the economy overall, we expect to continue to grow as we extend our competitive advantage and retain a disciplined approach.
The growth dynamics in the UK General insurance and health IFRS operating profit m market remain compelling with new research from Aviva finding that Combined Operating Ratio COR the UK has the largest pensions gap per person in Europe at 318 1,200 108 billion overall: in addition 61% of families have no life insurance protection.
As a trusted brand Aviva is well placed to respond.
960 104 The general insurance market remains competitive.
Through disciplined deployment of our capital we will extend our risk appetite 720 100 and business mix to drive superior returns.
At the heart of this will be 480 96 continued excellence in our risk selection and underwriting.
We will drive additional and unique benefit from operating 240 92 our life and general insurance businesses together and have clear 0 88 plans to expand distribution, develop our customer agenda and further improve cost management.
