Corporate responsibility 91 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Our conclusions Independent assurance statement On the basis of our review we provide the following conclusions The Aviva corporate responsibility content on pages 76-90 the on the CR Report in relation to each of the AA1000AS 2008 CR Report has been prepared by the management of Aviva, assurance principles, overall plausibility and the completeness who are responsible for the collection and presentation of and accuracy of environmental and community investment information reported.
Our responsibility, in accordance with performance data.
Our conclusions should be read in managements instructions, is to provide a limited assurance conjunction with the above section on What we did to form engagement on the CR Report content and on selected our conclusions.
environmental and community investment data presented in the CR Report.
We do not accept or assume any responsibility for Inclusivity any other purpose or to any other person or organisation.
Has Aviva been engaging with stakeholders across the business Any reliance any such third party may place on the CR Report to further develop its approach to corporate responsibility?
is entirely at its own risk.
We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from dialogue.
What we did to form our conclusions We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in conclude that Aviva has not applied the inclusivity principle accordance with ISAE3000 and to meet the requirements of a in developing its approach to corporate responsibility.
Type 2 assurance engagement as defined by AA1000AS 2008.
The AA1000AS 2008 assurance principles of Inclusivity, Materiality Materiality and Responsiveness have been used as criteria Has Aviva provided a balanced representation of material issues against which to evaluate the CR Report.
concerning its corporate responsibility performance?
To form our conclusions on the CR Report we undertook the With the exception of the subject areas listed below, we steps outlined below: are not aware of any material aspects of Avivas corporate 1.
Interviewed a selection of executives and senior managers responsibility performance which have been excluded from at Avivas Group headquarters in London and selected Aviva the CR Report.
businesses to understand the current status of corporate We consider that Aviva could have covered the following responsibility activities, and progress made during the subject areas in more depth in the CR Report: reporting period The role of Aviva Investors in voting on corporate 2.
Reviewed Avivas approach to stakeholder engagement responsibility disclosures and driving greater transparency through interviews with a selection of employees at Aviva in reporting.
businesses in the UK, India, USA and Group headquarters The corporate responsibility challenges of growing Aviva and reviewed selected associated documentation businesses in developing countries.
Reviewed a selection of external media reports and selected Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to corporate level documents relating to corporate believe that Aviva management has not applied its responsibility aspects of Avivas performance to test the processes for determining material issues to be included coverage of topics within the CR Report in the CR Report.
Reviewed Avivas processes for determining material issues to be included in the CR Report Responsiveness 5.
Reviewed the collation and aggregation of selected Has Aviva responded to stakeholder concerns?
environmental and community investment performance We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to data at Aviva businesses in the UK, India, USA and Group conclude that Aviva has not applied the responsiveness 6.
Reviewed information or explanations about selected data, principle in considering the matters to be reported.
statements and assertions regarding Avivas corporate Performance information responsibility performance How plausible are the statements and claims within the CR Level of assurance Report?
Our evidence gathering procedures were designed to obtain We are not aware of any inconsistencies in the assertions a limited level of assurance as set out in ISAE3000 on which made with regards to performance and achievement.
The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed is less than that of a reasonable How complete and accurate is the environmental and assurance engagement such as a financial audit and therefore community investment data in the CR Report?
a lower level of assurance is provided.
With the exception of the limitations identified in the CR Report, we are not aware of any material reporting units Limitations of our review that have been excluded from Group data.
Our review of data processes included the following data sets: Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to environmental and community investment.
believe that the data relating to the above topics has not We did not review environmental or community investment been collated properly from Group-wide systems.
performance data for years prior to 2010.
We are not aware of any errors that would materially affect the data as presented in the CR Report.
1 International Federation of the Accountants International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits 1 AA1000AS 2008 A second edition of the AA1000 assurance standard from the Institute of Social and or Reviews of Historical Financial Information ISAE3000.
92 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Observations on particular aspects of our engagement Our observations and areas for improvement will be raised in a report to Aviva management.
Selected observations are provided below.
These observations do not affect our conclusions on the CR Report set out above.
Aviva has introduced a data collection tool, Credit360, as a means of standardising the environmental and community data collation process.
Aviva should consider improving the guidance for the collation and reporting of environmental performance data to enhance consistency across the Group.
The CR Report includes examples of corporate responsibility performance in key markets.
In future Reports it will be important to use these examples to show a balanced picture of performance, including challenges faced in relation to corporate responsibility across all markets.
Our independence As auditors to Aviva p. l. c. Ernst & Young are required to comply with the independence requirements set out in the Auditing Practices Boards APB Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Ernst & Youngs independence policies apply to the firm, partners and professional staff.
These policies prohibit any financial interests in our clients that would or might be seen to impair independence.
Each year, partners and staff are required to confirm their compliance with the firms policies.
Our assurance team Our assurance team has been drawn from our global Climate Change and Sustainability Services Practice, which undertakes engagements similar to this with a number of significant UK and international businesses.
The work has been led and reviewed by a Lead Sustainability Assurance Practitioner.
Ernst & Young LLP London 2 March 2011
