Performance review 37 Performance review Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information record sales growth in 2010, and continues to expand with new With over 200 insurance companies, the Canadian general carriers introducing new product options, particularly in the life insurance industry is highly fragmented with many small players insurance side of the business.
and no dominant consumer brand.
Steady consolidation has resulted in the top five companies sharing 35% of the market Products with the top two companies, Intact Insurance and Aviva, Avivas broad product portfolio offers flexible solutions to multiple controlling 19%.
The rest of the industry consists largely of customer needs.
We offer traditional universal life UL and smaller, provincially based or niche companies.
indexed UL products which are designed to accumulate cash While the direct and affinity channels are gradually increasing values that can later be used, if needed, by our customers.
In the market share, the traditional broker channel accounts for over protection market, the product offerings include term insurance 70% of distribution according to Axcos Insurance Market Report and secondary guarantee UL insurance designed to offer lower for Canada.
Competition for growth has moved to investment in cost death benefit protection with little to no cash accumulation brokers, direct to consumer marketing, and technology.
In addition, Aviva offers a wide array of riders to customise the coverage to meet each customers unique needs.
Products Amongst the riders is the innovative Wellness for Life that offers We provide a number of general insurance products through our cost of insurance discounts to insureds that meet certain wellness Canadian companies including: criteria.
The rider benefits include a menu of wellness information Property, home and automobile insurance, including services provided through an exclusive relationship with Mayo recreational vehicles and mobile homes insurance: Clinic Health Services.
Niche personal insurance products including holiday and In the savings market, Avivas fixed annuity portfolio offers park model trailers, horses, hobby farms, sailboats, power customers tax-advantaged savings opportunities and protection boats and antique classic and custom cars: and against the risk of outliving ones assets.
We are receiving greater Small and medium-size enterprise commercial insurance, demand for the guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit which including motor, property, liability, boiler and machinery, gives customers an opportunity to accumulate premiums at an and surety.
attractive guaranteed interest rate for the purposes of taking Distribution withdrawals over his or her lifetime.
In 2010, Aviva USA entered We operate in Canada through a distribution network primarily the managed account guaranteed investment contract GIC focused on approximately 1,700 independent retail brokers who market with a product offering that leverages the investment distribute our core personal and commercial lines.
In addition, we management capabilities of both our life insurance business and work closely with both independent and wholly owned specialty those of Aviva Investors North America.
In the past, Aviva has also brokers to distribute group insurance and specialty personal lines, issued funding agreements in the institutional market.
such as insurance for antique cars.
Distribution Aviva USA uses a multi-channel distribution strategy to bring its Asia Pacific products to market.
We leverage these relationships to promote Regional overview and strategy and sell our fixed indexed annuities and life insurance products.
Aviva Asia Pacific operates in nine countries across the region Our network covers all 50 states and includes 30,000 annuity and through both joint ventures and wholly-owned operations.
China life insurance producers, including career marketing organisations, and India, our key strategic markets, have large populations, personal producing general agents, independent marketing relatively high economic growth and are expected to generate a organisations and brokerage general agents.
significant portion of the insurance growth in Asia in the future.
Most of our businesses in our other countries Singapore, Hong Canada Kong, South Korea, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Taiwan and Indonesia Business overview and strategy are bancassurance led with strong joint venture partners.
Aviva Canada has an 8% share of the Canadian general Aviva Asia Pacific aims to create franchise value through insurance market, with a top five position in all major provinces organic growth.
Our goal remains to increase new business sales according to 2009 industry data provided by MSA Research Inc. and increase margins by strengthening our multi-channel We believe that we are well placed in Canada for steady distribution platform.
organic growth and that our success is underpinned by strong In November 2010 we announced our intention to exit broker relationships, underwriting excellence and a balanced Taiwan as we do not believe we can achieve our desired financial portfolio of commercial and personal lines.
We will continue to returns in this market.
develop and leverage our sophisticated pricing and underwriting capabilities.
We will also continue to address increasing customer Market and competition demand for choice and simplicity through our broker-distribution The Asia Pacific insurance market includes both mature markets model.
In commercial lines, we aim to continue to profitably grow such as Singapore, Hong Kong and South Korea and emerging our business by leveraging techniques developed in personal lines markets such as China and India.
China and India are must-win in the small and medium enterprise sector.
markets given their demographics and are expected to generate a very significant portion of the insurance new business in the future.
Market These markets accounted for around 33% of the Asia Pacific As the seventh-largest in the world, according to Swiss Res Sigma segments long-term and pension sales in 2010.
Markets in South World Insurance Report, Canadas general insurance market is East Asia Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia remain attractive established and stable.
The four largest provinces generate given their high margins and double-digit growth.
These markets around 90% of total premiums with Ontario, the largest, represented 36% of the segments long-term and pension sales in representing 47% on its own, according to 2009 industry data 2010.
South Korea is a large market where we have a successful provided by MSA Research Inc.
In recent years the most growing business, accounting for 25% of the segments long-term significant growth rates have been seen in western Canada, and pension sales in 2010.
Other small markets accounted for 6% where economic development has resulted in significant of the segments long-term and pension sales in 2010. population increases and a changing demographic profile.
38 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 In long-term insurance and savings, we believe that the outlook is with another CIMB Group subsidiary, CIMB Bank.
We are ranked positive, with high growth rates expected in the medium-term 14th with a market share of 1.8% at 30 September 2010.
We owing to currently low penetration rates of insurance products in aim to become a top five life and takaful company in Malaysia.
many markets, high GDP growth, generally high savings rates and In 2010, Aviva entered Indonesia through a joint-venture with the growing need for old age provision.
Our business is a top five provider of We believe that fundamentals of the Asia Pacific region group health and pension products and we aim to grow the life are highly attractive and competition from both local and insurance business.
international players is increasing as a result.
Local companies In Sri Lanka, we own a 51% stake in Aviva NDB.
We were are our main competitors in most markets.
ranked the third largest life insurer and fifth largest general We believe that the following factors position us well to insurer in the country, based on gross written premiums in 2009 compete effectively in the region and provide a solid platform according to the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka.
We aim to become for creating franchise value: a market leader in the life business.
Balanced portfolio of fast-growing and high-margin markets: In Taiwan, we have a 49% stake in First-Aviva Insurance Strong position and or partner in most major markets: Company, a joint venture with First Financial Holdings Company Multi-channel distribution, with particular strength in FFHC.
After three years of operation, we have recently bancassurance: announced our decision to exit this market as we do not believe A clear strategy with a sharp focus on franchise value we can achieve our desired financial returns.
creation and organic growth: and Market Global group brand, expertise, capital.
We believe that the fundamentals of the Asian markets are Asia attractive.
Asias economies are reverting to pre-crisis levels.
Business overview and strategy The economic forecast from Asian Development Bank predicts Aviva has operations in nine markets in Asia, with businesses at GDP growth for emerging markets in Asia of 8.2% in 2010 and different stages of development.
Asian Development outlook 2010 update, In China, through our joint venture with COFCO Limited 28 September 2010.
Asian economic growth is expected to COFCO, we are ranked second in terms of annualised premium continue to outpace the West, most notably in China and India.
equivalent APE among 28 foreign insurers according to China In our view, we expect Asia to be the fastest growing region Insurance Regulatory Commission as at 30 September 2010. for life insurance globally over the next decade.
We also believe We have a presence in 11 provinces at 31 December 2010, with that we are well-positioned to continue delivering strong growth a total of 44 city branches.
We aim to achieve a top ten position in both volumes and margins in our Asia Pacific business.
Recent by 2014, whilst improving profitability margins.
We will do so by IPOs and M&A transactions have evidenced favourable valuations.
strengthening our multi-distribution competencies and continue While competition is increasing as a result of many international to be cost efficient, whilst developing talent and improving competitors focusing on Asia for growth and domestic leaders customer experience.
leveraging strong brands, we believe that our opportunity to In India, we operate in partnership with the Dabur Group create franchise value through organic growth in Asia is through an associate, Aviva Life Insurance Company India Limited.
We currently rank 11th among the private life insurance Products companies in India based on APE as at 30 November 2010, Our Asian businesses generally offer a range of protection, according to the Insurance Regulatory and Development bonds and savings and pension products including universal life, Authority IRDA.
We aim to be amongst Indias top 10 insurers participating life, unit-linked single and regular premium life by evolving our product portfolio towards traditional products, insurance, other savings and pensions products and a range of increasing productivity of our current bancassurance operations, accident and health insurance products.
We believe that Aviva establishing new bank relationships and continuing to upgrade has established itself as a strong player in the health and our agency network into a high-performance channel.
protection market as well as in the child education segment.
In In South Korea we own a 47% stake in Woori Aviva Life April 2010 Aviva launched an innovative direct insurance business Insurance Co. Ltd. through a partnership formed with Woori in Singapore by offering car, home and travel insurance online.
Finance Holdings Company Ltd. Woori Bank is the second-largest commercial bank in South Korea by market capitalisation.
Our Distribution business is young and growing: by the end of 2010 we have We operate a multi-distribution strategy in Asia, with particular increased our market share to 2.2% since our entry in April 2008, strength in bancassurance.
We aim to continue to harness the and we aim to become a top ten player in the medium-term.
benefits of multi-distribution in all of our markets as we expect In Singapore, we rank fifth in the life long-term insurance the regionally dominant agency sales force model to decline as market by APE as at 30 September 2010 according to the Life Asian markets mature.
We are one of the leading bancassurance Aviva Singapore has a multi-channel distribution strategy players in the market.
We aim to be a top five player in the life building on a core bancassurance relationship with DBS Bank and and health market, whilst continuing to improve margins, an expanding network of IFAs.
We have launched Aviva Advisors building on the sales momentum in DBS in 2010 306% above in 2010, an innovative owned channel led by high performing 2009 and through the launch of our financial advisory channel advisors.
We also launched the first online motor sales platform Aviva Advisors.
In Hong Kong we are ranked 19th in the long-term insurance In Hong Kong, we distribute the majority of our products market by APE as at 30 September 2010 according to the Office through bancassurance and IFAs.
of the Commissioner of Insurance.
Our strategy is to build scale in In China, India, Malaysia and South Korea bancassurance is this high-margin market by expanding our distribution channels.
However, as we continue building In Malaysia we own a 49% stake in two of CIMB Groups our multi-distribution platform across the region, other channels subsidiaries, Commerce Life Assurance Berhad and Commerce are increasing in importance, diversifying our sources of revenue.
Takaful Berhad who have entered into bancassurance agreements
