Performance review 39 Performance review Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Products Aviva Investors Our product range is broad and covers most asset classes.
Business overview and strategy In Europe we have a range of SICAVs domiciled in France, Aviva Investors was set up in 2008 to combine major fund Luxembourg and Poland.
These funds cover all key asset classes management components of the Aviva Group into a single global and normally have different share classes depending on the size fund management business.
We have 260 billion in assets under and type of investor.
Our normal distribution model for these management as at 31 December 2010 and offer a broad range funds focuses on wholesale distributors, asset allocators and of expert investment skills and experience around the world.
manage internal funds for our long-term insurance and savings, In the UK, we supply products to the UK retail and wholesale and general insurance operations as well as a range of external markets.
These funds are mostly owned by Aviva UK Life with retail and institutional funds.
We provide these services across Aviva Investors as asset manager, although we have a small most of our geographic operating segments, with services in 15 number of funds registered in the Aviva Investors name.
These countries around the world, including the UK, the US, Canada, funds are promoted to investors via IFAs, fund platforms, France, Poland and Australia.
supermarkets and discretionary asset managers.
In addition, we Aviva Investors provides investment management services have a range of pooled pension funds which are aimed at the to a broad range of client types.
Our largest client group are the smaller pension fund market.
These funds are normally defined long-term insurance and savings, and general insurance benefit schemes and tend to be advised by investment businesses of Aviva plc.
For these clients we provide bespoke consultants.
asset management services, across a broad spectrum of asset We manufacture hedge funds in the UK, US and Poland.
We work extremely closely with these clients to develop These funds are generally registered offshore and are primarily tailored solutions to their policyholder needs.
sold to the hedge funds industry, although we do also promote Our distribution model to external clients is a business-tosingle strategy funds to institutional clients, family offices and business model, and this is consistent across all regions.
The asset classes include fixed interest, multiprovide both bespoke segregated solutions for larger clients or asset, convertibles and equities.
offer access to a variety of fund ranges.
Our target clients for the We also have an expanding range of specialist property funds.
larger segregated solutions tend to be large pension schemes and These funds are targeted at specialist real estate buyers and large financial institutions such as insurance companies and banks.
institutions mostly pension funds and local authorities, and Our strategy is to rapidly grow our external business through provide real estate solutions to a wide range of risk appetites, offering client-centric solutions and products to our customers ranging from secure income generating funds to highly leveraged across an expanding global footprint.
This will be achieved in growth funds.
These funds address the UK, European and Asian conjunction with the establishment of a globally integrated markets.
organisation, supported by a high-performance culture and In Australia, we have a range of unit trusts that are primarily global core processes.
The funds we manufacture are primarily equity related funds with an Australian and Asian focus.
Market and competition We also have four Dublin domiciled money market funds Following the creation of Aviva Investors, we consider our addressing the sterling and euro money market segments.
competitor peer group to include large-scale global asset These funds are sold by a specialist sales team based in London managers such as those owned by Blackrock, AXA and Allianz.
and target corporate treasury functions.
In addition, we continue to look at UK-based providers who have significant overseas operations, including both insuranceAsset classes owned companies such as Standard Life Investments and the Aviva Investors offers a wide range of investment across all asset combined asset management businesses of Prudential plc classes and in all significant financial centres worldwide.
Where primarily M&G, as well as independent, listed managers like we do not directly manage assets, we believe we have the skills Schroders and Aberdeen Asset Management.
and experience to select the right third-party asset managers to Where appropriate, we also look at other managers with a complement our own products.
strong presence in the UK institutional and retail markets such Our investment capabilities, products and services comprise: as F&C Asset Management, Henderson Global Investors, Jupiter Alternatives We offer a range of alternative investment Asset Management and Threadneedle.
These managers also products from private equity fund of funds to hedge funds.
have non-UK operations, particularly in Europe.
Equities locally based teams focused on generating above Key identified competitive factors for Aviva Investors include: market performance.
Investment performance: Fixed Income Our Fixed Income teams cover a Brand: comprehensive product set: UK government securities, Our Aviva Group parentage: liquidity products, corporate bonds, European and global Client service: sovereigns, index-linked bonds, emerging markets hard and Scale: local currency debt and high-yield instruments.
Global product breadth and distribution reach: Global Investment Solutions our Global Investment A range of capabilities to provide tailored solutions Solutions team constructs client solutions across markets.
for clients: Real Estate We offer funds specific to property assets in Risk management expertise: and the UK, Europe and Asia, in addition to a global fund, clientCapability in socially responsible investing and specific segregated funds and a multi-manager service.
