Performance review 27 Performance review Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Information on the company Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information regulatory environment has moved towards greater regulatory History and development of Aviva scrutiny and the advent of Solvency II.
General We assessed our strategic direction against the backdrop of We are a public limited company incorporated under the laws these changes and came away with three principal conclusions: of England and Wales.
We are one of the worlds leading global Increasing geographic focus insurance groups.
We are the sixth largest insurance group in We will focus on markets where we have strength and scale.
the world, based on gross written premiums for the 2009 year.
In determining our focus we will judge markets on their We are one of the top five providers of long-term insurance and potential to generate both $100 million of IFRS operating savings products in the UK, Ireland, the Netherlands, Poland and profits and a 12% return on capital employed, or $1 billion Spain and one of the top ten providers of long-term insurance of franchise value for younger businesses.
This focus will and savings products in France and Italy for 2009.
More detail allow us to capitalise on our leading market positions in the is provided within the operating segment review later in this UK and Europe, the worlds largest life and pensions market.
Our main activities are the provision of products and Benefiting from the combination of life and general services in relation to long-term insurance and savings, general insurance insurance and fund management.
Our life and general insurance operations are excellent businesses in their own right, but in addition to their Our history inherent strengths there are significant advantages of The Group was formed by the merger of CGU plc and Norwich running these businesses under one brand and in one Union plc on 30 May 2000.
CGU plc was renamed CGNU plc on group, supported by Aviva investors.
completion of the merger, and subsequently renamed Aviva plc Building on our core strengths on 1 July 2002.
To be the best in both life and general insurance, we will CGU plc and Norwich Union plc were both major UK-based focus on our four core strengths of marketing and insurers operating in the long-term insurance business and distribution, financial discipline, technical excellence and general insurance markets.
Both companies had long corporate operational effectiveness, benefiting from a powerful brand histories.
CGU plc was formed in 1998 from the merger of and growing customer franchise.
Commercial Union plc and General Accident plc.
Hand in Hand, which was incorporated in 1696, was acquired by Commercial Our business Union in 1905, which itself was incorporated in 1861.
General Overview Accident plc was incorporated in 1865.
Norwich Union plc was Our principal activity is the provision of financial products and founded as a mutual society in 1797 and operated as such until services, focused on the following lines of business: long-term 1997, when it demutualised and became an English public insurance and savings business, general insurance and health and limited company.
Between 2000 and 2002 we actively withdrew from lines Our business is managed on a geographic basis through a of business and markets that did not offer the potential for regional management structure based on four regions: UK, Europe, market-leading positions or superior returns, or did not otherwise North America and Asia Pacific.
The four regions function as six meet our strategic objectives, principally through the disposal operating segments as both the UK and Europe regions are split of property and casualty businesses in the UK London Market, into two operating segments.
Due to the size of the UK region it is the US, Australia, New Zealand and certain European countries.
split into the UK Life and UK General Insurance segments, which Since 2002, we have grown in part through carefully undertake long-term insurance and savings business and general selected acquisitions, in particular the acquisitions of RAC in insurance respectively.
In Europe, Delta Lloyd is managed separately 2005 and AmerUs in 2006. from the other European businesses: therefore the region is split During 2009, we disposed of our long-term and savings into Aviva Europe and Delta Lloyd operating segments.
and wealth management in Australia and through an IPO we Aviva Investors, our fund management business and sixth sold approximately 42% of our Dutch business, Delta Lloyd.
operating segment, operates across all four regions providing In January 2010 we integrated our life, general insurance and fund management services to third-party investors and to our health businesses in the UK under one CEO.
We also announced long-term insurance business and general insurance operations.
the acquisition of River Road Asset Management, a US equity For information on the main categories of products sold in manager, to support the expansion of Aviva Investors business.
each of these geographic segments over the last three years, see Further details of recent acquisitions and disposals can Financial and operating performance Regional performance.
be found in the section Financial statements IFRS Note 3 Our geographic operating segments offer the following lines Subsidiaries.
of business to a greater or lesser extent: Business overview Long-term insurance and savings business Our aims and strategy Long-term insurance and savings business accounted for over We have simplified and streamlined the Group, moving from 75% of our total business based on sales for the year ended a federation of independent businesses to a successful global 31 December 2010.
We reported total long-term insurance and business.
However there is no doubt the world has changed savings new business sales of 33.4 billion and investment sales significantly in the last few years.
of 4.0 billion for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Our focus This is particularly true for Avivas customers, who are remains on growing our business profitably and improving our responding to the uncertain economic climate and lower operational efficiency so that we can fully benefit as our major disposable incomes by paying down debt and saving more, to markets return to economic growth.
ensure a more secure financial future for themselves and their anies, such as Aviva, the capital families.
For insurance comp Market position constraints of today demand investment discipline, greater In the UK we have a market share of 11% based on annual strategic focus and strong balance sheets.
In addition, the premium equivalent APE according to the Association of British Insurers ABI quarter three 2010 data.
APE is a recognised sales 28 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Market position measure in the UK and is the total of new annual premiums plus 10% of single premiums.
Long-term insurance and savings We are one of the leading general insurers in the UK and Ireland based on gross written premiums for the year ended products in the UK represented 25% of our worldwide sales for the year ended 31 December 2010.
31 December 2009 and we are one of the top five general insurers in Canada and the Netherlands, as based on gross Long-term insurance products from our European businesses excluding the UK represented 40% of total Group worldwide written premiums for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Group has other European general insurance operations in sales for the year ended 31 December 2010.
In North America our life and annuity business is a leading France, Italy, Poland and Turkey, and in Asia Pacific we sell general insurance and health products in Malaysia, Singapore, provider of both fixed indexed life and fixed indexed annuity products, according to reports in 2010 from LIMRA and Indonesia and Sri Lanka.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, 47% of our total AnnuitySpecs.
In the Asia Pacific region we operate in nine countries with general insurance and health business was written in the UK.
businesses at different stages of development.
Brands and products Brands and products Our general insurance business currently operates under different brand names, with Aviva and the RAC in the UK and Delta Lloyd In the UK we operated under the Norwich Union brand until June 2009, when Norwich Union became Aviva.
Following the rebrand in the Netherlands.
Our other general insurance operations in Europe, Canada and Asia Pacific operate under the Aviva brand.
of Hibernian Aviva in Ireland to Aviva in January 2010 and Aviva Commercial Union in Poland to Aviva in June 2010, we operate During 2010, businesses in Ireland and Poland completed their transition to the Aviva brand as part of a global branding exercise.
under the brand name Aviva throughout Europe and the rest of the world.
The exception to this is in the Netherlands, where we RAC in the UK and Delta Lloyd in the Netherlands will remain unchanged.
operate under the Delta Lloyd brand.
Our long-term insurance and savings businesses offer a broad Our general insurance business concentrates on personal lines and commercial lines insurance through the provision of motor, range of life insurance and asset accumulation products.
Our products are split into the following categories: household, travel, creditor, commercial liability and commercial property coverage.
Our health insurance business concentrates on Pensions a means of providing income in retirement for an individual and possibly his or her dependants.
Our pension private health insurance, income protection and personal accident insurance, as well as a range of corporate healthcare products.
products include personal and group pensions, stakeholder pensions and income drawdown.
Distribution Annuities a type of policy that pays out regular amounts We have various distribution agreements with bancassurance of benefit, either immediately and for the remainder of a partners and joint ventures across many markets in which we persons lifetime, or deferred to commence from a future operate.
The agreements contain similar terms and depending date.
Immediate annuities may be purchased for an on our line of business in that market offer long-term insurance individual and his or her dependants or on a bulk purchase products, general insurance and health products, asset basis for groups of people.
Deferred annuities are asset management services or a combination thereof.
The agreements accumulation contracts, which may be used to provide have a defined contract term, frequently with the option to benefits in retirement, and may be guaranteed, unit-linked extend.
In return for offering our products to their customers, or index-linked.
the bank or joint venture partners receive a commission as a Protection an insurance contract that protects the percentage of sales and in some cases achieve extra commission policyholder or his or her dependants against financial loss if agreed target levels of sales are met.
Certain agreements have on death or ill-health.
Our product ranges include term a profit sharing element based on a predetermined percentage.
assurance, mortgage life insurance, flexible whole life and The success of the agreement is regularly monitored against critical illness cover.
certain performance indicators which are those typically used by Bonds and savings accumulation products with single or the management of the business.
In some cases, if the agreed regular premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed investment targets are not met, the terms of the contract can be returns.
Our product ranges include single premium renegotiated, typically with respect to the level of commission or investment bonds, regular premium savings plans, mortgage profit sharing percentage.
Under joint venture agreements, the endowment products and funding agreements.
costs of running the venture are often split between the partners.
Other, which includes equity release and structured settlements.
Fund management Investment sales comprise of retail sales of mutual fund type The fund management businesses manage the funds of Avivas products such as unit trusts, individual savings accounts general insurance and long-term insurance and savings operations ISAs and Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs.
and provide investment management for institutional pension funds, as well as developing and selling retail investment Some of our insurance and investment contracts contain a products.
Our main brand for fund management is Aviva discretionary participating feature, which is a contractual right to Investors.
The main fund management operations are in the UK, receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed France, the Netherlands, Ireland, the US and Australia.
These are referred to as participating contacts.
retail fund management products are included in our long-term insurance and savings business sales.
General insurance and health General insurance and health insurance together accounted for Market position 21% of our total sales for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Aviva Investors is ranked 32nd globally by assets under In the year ended 31 December 2010, we reported general management, according to Cerulli Associates December 2009 and health insurance net written premiums of 9.7 billion.
ranking of asset managers by assets under management.
Aviva Investors operates under a single brand in 15 countries across our regions of the UK, Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
Performance review 29 Performance review Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information The other fund management businesses of Aviva comprise our balanced distribution and broad product mix, a strong brand, and collective investment business with the Royal Bank of Scotland underwriting and risk management expertise.
This breadth of Group in the UK, Delta Lloyd in the Netherlands and our Navigator distribution and product range aims to makes us more resilient wrap administration business in Hong Kong and Singapore.
Total to changes associated with the implementation of the Retail worldwide funds managed by Aviva Investors at 31 December Distribution Review.
We seek to outperform the UK Life market 2010 was 260 billion, the substantial majority of which currently while delivering enhanced margins and an increase in Internal relates to Avivas insurance and savings operations.
Brands and products Market and competition Our business in the UK manages investments including equities, The UK long-term insurance market is highly competitive.
fixed income, property, hedge fund and socially responsible According to research undertaken by Aviva, in conjunction with investments SRIs on behalf of institutional, pension fund Deloitte, there is a potential annual pensions gap of some 317 and retail clients.
Up until 31 December 2010, we also sold retail billion, the difference between what an individual saves today, ISAs, unit trusts, OEICs and structured products under the Aviva and what they need to save in order to pay for a comfortable Investors and the Royal Bank of Scotland Group RBSG brands.
standard of living in retirement.
Research by Swiss Re also identifies a potential protection gap of 2.4 trillion, which is the Operating segments difference between the life insurance and financial protection Each operating segment has a member of our executive cover an individual has and the amount they need to meet their management team who is responsible for it and who is needs.
We believe these shortfalls offer significant opportunities accountable to the group chief executive for the operating for long-term insurance companies within this market.
The full membership of our The UK long-term insurance market is highly competitive.
We executive management team is set out on page 96.
This structure consider our main competitors to be Prudential, Legal & General, for our operating segments is intended to ensure the Groups AEGON, Standard Life and Lloyds Banking Group.
The principal ability to take advantage of market opportunities, improve speed competitive factors for our life insurance business in the UK are: of response, eliminate duplication of effort, and encourage the Financial strength and ratings: sharing of best practice in the interests of our customers and Brand strength and customer advocacy: shareholders, while providing local knowledge.
Focus on customer and quality of service: Range of product lines and quality of products on offer: United Kingdom Aviva Strength of distribution channels: Business overview and strategy Pricing: and As a leading UK insurer, our UK business operates through two Investment management performance.
major brands, Aviva and RAC.
Our aim is to provide prosperity Products and peace of mind to the 19 million customers, or one in three We provide an extensive product range in the UK that covers UK households, who hold either long-term insurance, general pensions, annuities, protection, bonds and savings and equity insurance, healthcare or motoring services products with us.
release products, as well as investment products.
We hold strong Aviva is a leading insurance brand and customer franchise in the positions in each of our key markets of savings, protection, and UK.
We have significant customer reach with customers able annuity products based on APE in 2010 according to ABI returns.
to purchase our products direct, through intermediaries, and We write both non-profit and with-profit business.
Non-profit through significant partnerships with the top UK banks and business means that shareholders retain 100% of the distributed other institutions such as the Post Office.
With-profit business means that policyholders are entitled We employ 21,000 people and operate from a number of to at least 90% of the distributed profits, with shareholders locations throughout the UK, including York, Norwich, Perth, receiving the balance.
Glasgow, Eastleigh, Bristol and Sheffield.
We also have The with-profit products share profits and losses of the withoutsourcing relationships with a number of partners including profit fund with its investors.
This is achieved through a system of Swiss Re, Scottish Friendly and International Financial Data bonuses.
In deciding the regular bonuses Aviva aims to smooth Services IFDS in the UK, and WNS in India and Sri Lanka.
the return of the policyholders plan.
As bonuses are added to the The UK life and general insurance businesses were drawn plan, valuable guarantees build up.
These guarantees are unique together under common leadership at the start of 2010, creating to with-profits investments.
At the close of the plan the investor significant opportunities for shareholders and customers.
We receives a terminal bonus based on the performance of the fund.
identify brand, financial strength and a commitment to service, We provide a number of traditional life insurance products as our key strengths.
Our core strategy is to leverage our range including level-term, decreasing-term and guaranteed whole life of market-leading products, our extensive distribution network insurance, guaranteed lifelong protection plans and critical illness and our customer base to outperform the UK market.
that our rigorous use of capital, further improvement in customer Our savings and investment products include ISAs, investment retention, reduction in new business acquisition costs and bonds, funds, base rate trackers, capital protected plan and withincrease in productivity through the simplification of processes, profits products.
services and costs will drive greater value for shareholders.
The pensions and retirement products we offer include In 2010, Avivas UK markets have continued to be affected by stakeholder, personal pensions, equity release, annuities, income the challenging economic conditions experienced by the UK as a drawdown and with-profits products.
Our annuity offerings whole, including the slowdown in the housing market.
include immediate life, enhanced and with-profit pension United Kingdom Aviva Life annuities.
Business overview and strategy Our UK life insurance business is a leading long-term insurance Distribution We have a multi-distribution strategy.
We are a leading provider and savings provider in the UK with a market share of 11% based on third quarter 2010 ABI returns.
Our key strengths include a in the intermediary market with the majority of our sales through
