Performance review 25 Performance review Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Asia Pacific Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information scale and focused cost management.
We have also focused on Committed to building franchise capital efficiency.
Our internal rate of return IRR has improved significantly from 6% to 11% through increasing benefits of scale value through organic growth coupled with careful portfolio management and capital discipline.
Aviva Asia Pacific operates in nine countries across Strengthening our multi-channel distribution capability the region through both joint ventures and wholly Our improved performance in 2010 can be largely attributed owned operations.
China and India, both with large to strengthened relationships with our bank partners.
This has populations and relatively high economic growth, are encouraged an evolving product portfolio focused on highermargin products in areas such as protection and saving.
must-win markets and are expected to generate a We have continued to build our multi-distribution platform significant proportion of our future new business.
We and now have over 50 bank partnerships, with sales from our will continue to pursue franchise value growth through bancassurance operations increasing by 76% since 2009. organic investment and improved margins, focusing Outlook on these key markets.
The fundamentals of the Asian markets remain attractive with the regions economies reverting to pre-crisis levels.
The longer-term Strategy outlook for our business in Asia remains positive and high growth Our strategy is to grow our franchise value through: rates are expected in the medium term, owing to the current low Securing strong organic growth in our chosen markets, in penetration rates of insurance products in many markets, high GDP particular China and India.
growth, a growing middle class and ageing populations.
By Evolving our product portfolio to improve margin and profit.
strengthening our multi-channel distribution capability as well as Strengthening our multi-channel distribution capability.
managing our product portfolio for margin and profit, we will be Strengthening our talent pool.
well positioned to continue delivering strong growth in both Market environment volumes and margins.
4 The economic forecast from Asia Development Bank predicts GDP growth for emerging markets in Asia excluding Japan of Aviva Advisors 8.2% in 2010 and 7.3% in 2011.
While competition is increasing The financial needs of our customers are evolving rapidly in Asia.
both as a result of international competitors focusing on Asia and To address this, in Singapore and Hong Kong, we are domestic leaders leveraging strong brands, we believe that the transforming the traditional agency model with the launch of a opportunity for Aviva to create franchise value through organic truly innovative channel Aviva Advisors.
This owned channel, growth in Asia is unprecedented.
unique in the market, is led by professional advisors who are equipped with innovative and differentiated life insurance Franchise value growth through organic investment products, services and state of the-art tools to meet their clients We continue to progress against our strategic priorities, pursuing needs.
It bridges the gap between the traditional agency and franchise growth though organic investment and improved independent financial advisors.
While we operate in nine countries, we have further sharpened our focus on markets where we have strength and Total sales m scale such as China, India and Singapore where we expect to generate a significant proportion of our new business growth.
10 2,178 5 Sales increase significantly as Asian franchise grows 09 1,717 Total sales were 1,911 million in 2010.
This represents an 08 1,852 increase of 25% on 2009, with margin on a Present Value of 07 1,883 New Business Premium PVNBP basis increasing from 0.9% to 3.2%.
Life and pensions sales increased by 48%, reflecting the 06 1,459 growth and development of Avivas franchise in Asia.
We delivered a strong performance in our priority markets of China Sales include Aviva Investors Australia, and excludes the Australian business sold on 1 October 2009 and India where sales increased by 28% and 22% respectively.
Outside China & India, life and pension sales increased from Operating profit m 665 million to 1,085 million.
This reflects the regions strong IFRS MCEV economic recovery as well as our renewed strategic focus on delivering strong new business margins.
Markets such as 10 31 Singapore recorded a rise in life and pensions sales to 69 345 million from 155 million and Korea is now our second 09 77 largest market after China in terms of sales volumes, growing by 86 41%.
IFRS operating profit of 31 million was lower than prior 08 36 year, which included favourable reserve releases in Singapore and 69 Avivas Australian life business sold 1 October 2009.
Excluding 07 37 these one-off factors and the one-off impact from the change in 101 Chinas GAAP accounting basis this year, underlying adjusted operating profit increased by 40 million reflecting our increased 06 50 92 On an MCEV basis from 2007.
Prior years presented on an EEV basis.
4 Asian Development Bank outlook 2010 update, 28 September 2010 5 Excludes the Australian life business sold on 1 October 2009
