98 Aviva plc Directors report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Health and safety The following persons served as directors of the Company during The health and safety of the Groups employees is a priority and is the year and up to the date of this report: reviewed at regular intervals.
Each business within the Group has an appointed health and safety representative, whose role is to Mary Francis bring to the attention of senior management any areas of Richard Karl Goeltz concern that should be addressed within the health and safety Euleen Goh programme.
Information on health and safety matters is Michael Hawker communicated to staff through the normal communication Mark Hodges channels.
Under the Groups Health and Safety Policy the Group Igal Mayer appointed 19 January 2011 chief executive is accountable for health and safety.
Andrea Moneta resigned 19 January 2011 Developing communities Andrew Moss Carole Piwnica As a sustainable business, the Group is committed to playing its Patrick Regan part in the development of the communities where it operates Philip Scott retired 26 January 2010 and it strives to listen carefully, collaborate and together create a Lord Sharman of Redlynch genuine and lasting impact on the issues affecting those Leslie Van fide Walle communities.
This includes the broader Millennium Development Russell Walls Goals set by the United Nations to focus governments, businesses Scott Wheway and civil society on major global concerns.
Using the Groups strengths and working around the The biographical details of the persons currently serving as directors strategic focus on education, life trauma and financial literacy, appear on pages 94 and 95. a contribution of over 11.4 million was made in 2010, a 42.5% The new UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provides increase on 2009.
The Group delivered over 80,000 hours of that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to volunteering and working in partnership with field experts across annual re-election by shareholders.
The Company is within this the public and third sector.
There is also recognition of the mutual category of listed companies and has adopted this provision early.
benefit of the Groups community development activity as Therefore, at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, all directors of employees feel engaged and proud, communities where the the Company will offer themselves for election re-election in Group operates feel the impact and the Groups brand reputation compliance with this provision of the Code.
The Groups flagship global community development Directors interests and indemnity arrangements programme, Street to School, is a five-year commitment which At no time during the year did any director hold a material aims to help 500,000 children fulfil their potential, and which interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any showed the adopted approach in action.
By the end of 2010, of its subsidiary undertakings other than an indemnity provision the Group had already helped 128,000 children through between each director and the Company and service contracts prevention work, community outreach, healthcare, safe housing between each executive director and a Group company.
There is and a significant focus on education and training projects.
no arrangement or understanding with any shareholder, The Groups community development activity also included: customer, supplier, or any other external party, to appoint a Grassroots Athletics and Rugby activity, financial literacy work in director or a member of the Executive Committee.
The Company schools and adult education and the ongoing partnership with has purchased and maintained throughout the year, directors Oxfam 365 which helped them respond immediately to and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
emergencies such as the earthquake in Haiti and flooding The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity provision in Pakistan.
contained in the Companys articles of association.
The Company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director Political donations of the Company, and each person who was a director of the At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, shareholders passed a Company during the year, in respect of liabilities that may attach resolution, on a precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to them in their capacity as directors of the Company or of to make political donations and or incur political expenditure associated companies.
These indemnities were granted at as such terms are defined in sections 362 to 379 of the different times according to the law in place at the time and Companies Act 2006, in each case in amounts not exceeding where relevant are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as 100,000 in aggregate.
defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
These The definitions used in the Companies Act 2006 are broad in indemnities were in force throughout the year and are currently in nature and this authority was sought to ensure that any activities force.
Details of directors remuneration, service contracts and undertaken throughout the Groups businesses which could interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the otherwise be construed to fall within these provisions could be Directors Remuneration Report.
undertaken without inadvertently infringing them.
During the year, the Companys American subsidiary, Aviva USA, through its Financial instruments employee-funded Political Action Committee, made contributions Aviva Group companies use financial instruments to manage to four different industry bodies and the re-election committee of certain types of risks including those relating to credit, foreign a state governor, which could all be construed to fall within the currency exchange, cash flow, liquidity, interest rates, and equity political donations provisions.
The total sum of the donations was and property prices.
Details of the objectives and management of $12,500 and the donations were used to support candidates for these instruments are contained in the Shareholder information nomination and or election to public office.
It is not the policy of section on pages 153 to 166 and an indication of the exposure of the Company to make donations to EU political organisations or the Group companies to such risks is contained in note 57 to the to incur other political expenditure.
