24 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 North America We made further progress enhancing our sophisticated Improving our position and underwriting capabilities and dealt successfully with new regulation in the Ontario auto market, further strengthening our profitability in a key region position in that sector.
We have taken difficult but necessary actions to improve our cost base and operational performance, The North America region is home to two of the including targeted cost reductions announced in November 2010 worlds largest and richest economies.
Aviva North that form part of the overall 60 million of cost savings and America consists of two businesses: our life insurance efficiencies to be achieved across the North American Region and annuity business in the United States and our by the end of 2012. general insurance business in Canada both serve Outlook their respective home markets with support from our Regional economic growth is recovering and the outlook is regional headquarters in Chicago.
In this context, our disciplined underwriting and operational effectiveness in our general Strategy insurance business combined with a continued focus on Our strategic priorities for the region are focused on driving profitable growth underpinned by compelling value propositions profitable growth through improving our position and to our customers in our life business positions the North competitiveness in North America: America region well to further grow our contribution to Avivas focusing on our customers with compelling value overall profits.
propositions, enhanced service and personalised customer experience Building insurance around YOU improving the profitability and capital generation of the Aviva USA approaches the life insurance and annuities North American region, which is a net capital contributor marketplace in a very innovative way: by building insurance to the Group around the concept that every individual matters.
Recent market selectively expanding and growing our core life insurance shifts have made many customers wary of financial services in and annuity distribution and product capabilities general which is why we wanted to make it clear that we put our operating as a great underwriting company in our general customers at the centre of everything we do.
Todays consumers insurance business want to be understood and have recognition of the specific and building on our strong high-quality relationships with our unique reasons for considering and making decisions about distribution partners.
We approach the market with products that Market environment are tailor-made for an individuals stage in life.
Launched in 2010, There are increasing signs of economic recovery and, despite the Building insurance around YOU is the outcome of our recession, North Americas economies remain among the worlds commitment to customers, articulating our focus on getting to largest and its population among the worlds wealthiest.
The US know them, fully understanding their priorities, and delivering life life insurance and annuity market and the Canadian property and and annuity products to meet their changing needs.
casualty insurance market are very competitive and highly fragmented with a large number of insurers.
Total sales m General insurance Long-term savings Strong profits and progress against strategic priorities across the region 10 6,686 In 2010, the North American businesses saw strong financial 09 6,345 performance as a result of our focus and discipline.
We increased 09 7,316 our total regional IFRS operating profit by 77% to 376 million, benefiting from strong pricing and underwriting management, 07 5,058 cost discipline and an improved economic environment.
06 2,284 Healthy profit growth in US life and annuity business In the US, our disciplined pricing management led IFRS operating Operating profit m profits from our life and annuity business to more than double, MCEV IFRS with life new business profitability also improving significantly to 10 491 a 14% IRR 2009: 7%.
Our US protection sales as measured on 376 a PVNBP basis rose 15% to 999 million and are the largest 09 394 across Aviva.
Annuity sales grew moderately as we focused on 213 profitable growth and capital efficiency.
We continue to focus 08 on diversifying our business mix, specifically targeting the growth 334 149 of life sales in existing and new channels.
07 274 Strong general insurance performance in Canada 229 In Canada, operating profit rose 54% to 222 million reflecting 06 180 improved underwriting performance combined with benign 161 weather in the early part of 2010.
Following our decision last year to exit unprofitable business we saw a moderate decline in On an MCEV basis from 2007.
Prior years presented on an EEV basis.
premiums on a local currency basis and we concentrated efforts on growing profits from our book.
