R&A Text 13 01 2011 08:28 Page 19 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 19 Directors Richard Brewster Richard Burns Richard Killingbeck Francis Sumner Matthew Thorne Richard Brewster FCA Chairman was appointed as a Francis Sumner Senior Independent Director was director in 1991 and became Chairman in 2005.
Having appointed as a director in 1997.
He spent most of his working qualified as a chartered accountant he has spent over 30 years life as a City solicitor specialising in corporate finance.
From 1983 he was Chief Executive Officer of D. S. for many years a partner in Norton Rose, Bankers having been Smith plc until 1991 when he became Chief Executive Officer one of his plc clients.
He is currently the Deputy Chairman of of Jarvis Porter plc until 1998.
Since then he has taken an the Crown Agents and a member of the Council and interest in a number of private equity investments both as Executive Committee of The City and Guilds of London Chairman and investor.
He is also Chairman of BlackRock Institute.
Matthew Thorne FCA, MA was appointed as a director Richard Burns was appointed a director in 2006.
Mr Thorne is an adviser to the Consensus Business former joint senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co and former Group.
He was Group Finance Director of McCarthy & Stone fund manager of Monks Investment Trust plc.
He is also a plc and also Investment Director of Beazer plc.
A qualified director of EP Global Opportunities Trust plc, Euronova Chartered Accountant, he has significant experience as a European Smaller Companies Fund, JPMorgan Indian finance director, predominantly in the property sector.
Investment Trust plc, Mid Wynd International Investment He is a Council Member of Cheltenham Ladies College Trust plc and Standard Life Equity Income Trust plc.
From and Chairman of the Finance and Executive Committee.
1999 to 2006 he was a director of the AIC.
Richard Killingbeck was appointed as a director in 2003.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee He has been involved in the financial services industry for 20 Member of the Audit Committee years, primarily as a fund manager.
He has held a number of Member of the Nominations Committee senior positions in the industry both in London and New York including being the Chief Executive Officer of Singer & Friedlander Investment Management.
He joined the asset management subsidiary of Close Brothers Group plc in 2005 and was appointed deputy Chief Executive of Close Investments in 2006, and Chief Executive Officer of its Private Client division in 2008.
He is currently Managing Director of Credit Suisse Private Bank.
Management Alex Crooke Tim Stevenson Antony Gifford Mike Kerley Michael Wood-Martin Wendy King The portfolio is managed by Alex Crooke who is engaged full time in investment trust management.
He is assisted by Tim Stevenson Europe, Antony Gifford North America, Michael Kerley Pacific ex-Japan and Michael Wood-Martin Japan.
Wendy King acts as the Company Secretary and is the representative of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, the corporate secretary to the Company.
