R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:39 Page 5 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 5 Managers Review defence for a wider audience.
We are very privileged to have such a deep and liquid stock market in London: one which attracts investors and companies from around the world.
Alex Crooke Increasingly the largest companies quoted in London and listed under our UK portfolio conduct ever decreasing The challenge when managing a portfolio is that there are a amounts of their business in the UK.
The bar graph shows the considerable number of levers that can be pulled, controlling a underlying revenue aggregated from our UK listed holdings, variety of factors influencing performance but knowing when when weighted by the size of our investment.
Less than a and which ones to pull is far from easy.
For instance, in recent third of their revenue actually comes from the UK and the years we have deliberately invested heavily in Asia because it analysis shows how over a quarter is actually sourced in Asia gave us access to high growth markets but also helped offset a and the Emerging Markets.
The latter is dominated by Africa relatively light exposure to the US market.
American stocks were especially oil exploration and is a region which we favour not historically cheap, which made us wary, however cheaper and believe offers good opportunities over the next decade.
Asian companies gave us a geared recovery to US economic growth because they supplied products that Americans Our directly held Emerging Market portfolio amounts to only consumed.
This combination of Asia and US had served us well 3% and had a difficult year, although this compares to the until the beginning of 2010 when a period of US dollar strength increase of 80% in 2009.
The cause of underperformance was combined with domestic buying pushed the US market higher really only the holding in Petrobras, whose protracted and against most other markets.
larger than anticipated equity raising depressed the share price during 2010 but it has put the company into a position to start The predominance of growth investing over a value approach development of the huge oil fields off the Brazilian coast.
We still affected our performance, although again, in the second have taken a closer look at how we access emerging stock half of the year there was a swing back toward higher markets around the world and as the number and size of yielding sectors performing well.
As inflation has been muted, companies grow we need to adapt our selection process.
In there is a genuine scarcity of growth and those stocks that do future, this will combine a deeper and more diversified portfolio have potential to increase sales and profits are put on very of smaller sized holdings, with additional selected specialist high valuation multiples.
If inflation is returning, it should help funds where we feel a local presence may be better placed.
broaden out the market, as more companies have the capacity Overall, following the spectacular performance of emerging to increase prices and offset cost growth.
Rising bond yields markets today is not the best time to be increasing our are pointing to the period of low inflation nearing an end.
exposure but in time we need to be in a position where cash We are often challenged about the large exposure to the UK can be allocated efficiently to the region, across a wider market within the portfolio and it is worth setting out the selection of opportunities.
Finally, the prospects for dividend growth have been steadily Bankers UK Portfolio, geographic split of revenue, improving.
Recently the main focus for management has been weighted by size of holding to limit cost growth and reduce borrowings, but as this focus % 40 eases, corporate cash flows should be reallocated towards 30 dividends and investment.
The payout ratio the ratio of 30 earnings to dividends across all markets has been increasing 22 21 20 because earnings growth has exceeded dividend growth.
This 15 12 paves the way for companies to have a more generous 10 dividend policy in the future and to rebalance the payout ratio back to 2x, currently 2.7x in the UK market.
0 United Europe North Asia Emerging Kingdom ex UK America Markets Alex Crooke Source: Oriel Securities 17 January 2011
