2% 6% R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:39 Page 8 8 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Europe Total Return Year to 31 Oct 2010 % Bankers 21.6 FTSE World Europe ex UK 10.6 Review attempt to break into the US market with DHL.
It also sold its Although European markets have experienced a more modest bank subsidiary at a high price to Deutsche Bank.
We have return than a number of other regions during the year our continued to be very cautious about banks and we have small holdings rose by 21.6% some 11.0% ahead of the index.
holdings in Credit Suisse and UBS.
We are in no rush to This performance more than compensates for the lag in the change this view.
previous year, and reflects a return to favour of the higher quality investments which have always been our main focus.
Outlook During the year we took the decision to increase the European A year ago we suggested that growth would probably begin position and this was executed half way through the reporting to slow towards the end of 2010.
This looks quite likely now period.
as uncertainty surrounding sovereign debt swirls around the Euro.
There are also concerns that the rate of growth in the The performance has been achieved in spite of a turbulent dynamic Chinese economy will slow and the USA and UK time for European markets.
In the spring the whole concept of economies also look set to achieve, at best, slow growth.
the Euro came under intense pressure due to huge debts in Clearly many European exporters continue to do well and we Greece, Spain, Ireland and Portugal.
This crisis subsided for a have some exposure to these.
few months during the summer but reared its head again at the end of the period under review.
While so far the We have continued with the same policy of trying to find good enormous 750bn European Financial Stability Fund EFSF quality, consistent, soundly financed, steady growth companies, has acted as a kind of backstop the fundamental strains will which are not too dependent on just one region or product.
take years to resolve and will require a great effort.
We do not This emphasis on quality continues to serve the portfolio well, think that the Euro will collapse but we are watching the and the new names we have added during the year all have situation very carefully and are in no way complacent about these characteristics.
We have become more optimistic about what needs to happen and the implications.
the outlook for European equities and in recent months there have been early signs that investors have begun to increase Activity their exposure to equities.
We have a variety of holdings that During the year we introduced a number of new holdings and offer steady growth and some income and valuation levels increased the size of most positions when it was decided to which look far better than for European Bonds.
add to the European weighting, which reached 13.1% European portfolio classified by market 68.3m of the total portfolio from 8.6% 39.0m a year value of company at 31 October 2010 earlier.
Fifteen new holdings have been added and four sold leaving 36 positions.
It is interesting that a significant number Market Capitalisation of holdings have been in the fund for many years and some A Over 13,000m of these have performed very well during the year.
In B B 3,000m-13,000m particular we have seen strong performance from Fresenius C Under 3,000m 35% 40% German hospital management and medical products, Dior Last years figures in brackets and Richemont the latter two operating in the luxury sector A 63% 54% which has been strong for most of the year due in part to a surge in spending by Chinese consumers.
New holdings include a return to Deutsche Post which has sorted out many C of its former problems, notably its expensive and loss making
