R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:39 Page 14 14 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Pacific ex Japan Total Return Year to 31 Oct 2010 % Bankers 18.5 FTSE World Asia Pacific ex Japan 23.8 Review The worst performers were Australia, China and Taiwan.
The year to October 2010 was another good year for Asian Although the resource sector in Australia did well, the financial equities with strong returns in all markets.
The performance and property sectors were impacted by lethargic consumer was significantly enhanced by the strength of Asia Pacific demand and rising interest rates.
The constant intervention by currencies against sterling over the period with currency alone the government to manage the growth profile impacted the contributing a 20% return in some markets.
The weakness of returns in China, while Taiwans economy and stock market Chinese shares and an underweight position in consumer were negatively impacted by slowing recovery in the US and EU.
areas especially in the south east Asia region resulted in the portfolio underperforming the broader index.
Activity The portfolio retains a high weighting in China although the Although the recovery in western economies appears to be constituents changed over the period.
We sold China Mobile losing momentum, the medicine of low interest rates and and China Communication Construction over fears of a abundant liquidity has been very supportive for the Asian slower growth profile and moved into logging company Sino growth story.
Asian economies continue to recover at a rapid Forest and property company Shimao Property.
Sino Forest is pace buoyed by recovering exports but, more importantly, benefiting from the Governments support for sustainable through increased consumption as well.
In some cases the logging and being a consolidator in a fragmented industry growth has been too strong resulting in Government measures while Shimao is well exposed to the growth in property to cool down speculation in property markets and also to demand in tier 2 and 3 cities.
Measures have been introduced in China, Hong Kong, Singapore and Thailand with the former Other key purchases over the period include Singaporean increasing bank reserve requirements and implementing loan beverage and property company, Fraser & Neave, Australian quotas in order to restrict liquidity further.
As inflation has packaging company Amcor and Korean mobile operator SK risen across the region interest rates have moved higher in Telecom.
These companies all benefit from attractive most markets but still lag behind normalised levels.
Real valuations and strong cash flow with a growth profile which is interest rates are still in negative territory in a lot of countries misunderstood by the market.
To fund these purchases we and will need to rise over time but with rates in the US sold Malaysian financial CIMB, uranium producer ERA in unlikely to rise anytime soon there is a reluctance in Asia to Australia and Singaporean shipbuilder Keppel Corp. raise interest rates for fear of attracting further capital inflow.
Outlook The best performing markets over the period were those with Despite the recent strong performance it is important to note least reliance on the global cycle.
The ASEAN markets of that Asian markets have fide-rated over the last twelve months Thailand, Indonesia and The Philippines all posted gains of over as price rises have not matched the pace of earnings growth.
50% with a significant proportion of this return coming from With strong economic growth forecast for 2011 and earnings currency appreciation.
India also did well as domestic consumer likely to be 15% higher we remain positive on the outlook for strength was the most popular theme running through Asian Asia in the coming year.
As a result the consumer discretionary and staple sectors were the outstanding performers followed by materials.
