About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 71 The GMRP also sets detailed standards that a model must meet during Modelling of risk development and subsequent use.
For new models, documentation must be sufciently detailed to allow an expert to understand all aspects of Barclays makes extensive use of quantitative estimates of the risks it model development such that they could reproduce the model.
It must takes in the course of its business.
Risk models are used in a wide range include a description of the data used for model development, the of decisions, from credit grading, pricing and approval to portfolio methodology used and the rationale for choosing such a methodology, management, risk appetite setting, economic capital allocation and a description of any assumptions made, and details of the strengths and regulatory capital calculations.
The types of risks that are covered by weaknesses of the model.
such models include credit, market and operational risks.
All new models are subject to validation and independent review before The Group has a wide range of models in use, covering estimations of they can be signed off for implementation.
The model validation exercise Probability of Default PD, Exposure at Default EAD and Loss Given must demonstrate that the model is t for purpose and provides accurate Default, LGD as well as many other types of risk besides credit risk.
The independent review ensures that the model development The models are developed and owned by each business unit.
To minimise has followed a robust process and that the standards of the GMRP have the risk of loss through model failure, the Group Model Risk Policy GMRP been met, as well as ensuring that the model satisfies business and was developed.
It is managed by the independent Group Risk function regulatory requirements.
In addition, the most material models are subject and is reviewed annually.
to independent review by Group Risk.
Once implemented, all models are subject to post-implementation review.
This confirms that the model has The GMRP helps reduce the potential for model failure by setting Group been implemented correctly and behaves as predicted.
wide minimum standards for the model development and implementation process.
The GMRP also sets the governance processes for models across The GMRP also sets the requirements for ongoing performance the Group, which allows model performance and risk to be monitored, and monitoring and the annual review process.
Once implemented, all models seeks to identify and escalate any potential problems at an early stage.
within the Group are subject to ongoing performance monitoring to ensure that any deficiencies are identied early, and that remedial action To ensure that the governance process is effective, and that management can be taken before the decision-making process is affected.
As part of this time is focused on the more material models, each model is provided with process, model owners set performance triggers and define appropriate a materiality rating.
The GMRP defines the materiality ranges for all model actions for their models in the event that a trigger level is breached.
types, based on an assessment of the impact to the Group in the event of a model error.
The final level of model sign-off is based on materiality, In addition to regular monitoring, models are subject to an annual with all of a business units models initially being approved in business unit validation process to ensure that they will continue to perform as expected, committees.
The more material models are also approved at the Group and that assumptions used in model development are still appropriate.
In Material Models Technical Committee, and the most material models line with initial sign-off requirements, annual validations are also formally require further approval by the Executive Models Committee, a subreviewed at the appropriate technical committee.
committee of Group Executive Committee.
This process ensures that the most significant models are subject to the most rigorous review, and that Within Barclays Capital, where models are used to value positions within senior management has a good understanding of the most material the trading book, the positions are subject to regular independent price models in the Group.
Although the final level of model sign-off will vary, testing which covers all trading positions.
Prices are compared with direct depending on model materiality, the standards required by the GMRP external market data where possible.
When this is not possible, more do not change with the materiality level.
analytic techniques are used, such as industry consensus pricing services.
Model Governance Group Risk Oversight Committee Executive Models Committee Group Risk Technical Committee Group Material Models Technical Committee Business Unit Technical Committee
