110 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Risk management Credit risk management continued Derivatives audited The Groups use of derivative contracts is outlined on page 213.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on derivative contracts, which arises as a result of counterparty credit risk and movements in the fair value of credit derivatives.
The Groups exposure to counterparty risk is affected by the nature of the trades, the credit worthiness of the counterparty, and netting and collateral arrangements.
Details of credit derivatives are disclosed on page 213.
Nature of derivative trades The Group buys and sells financial instruments that are traded or cleared on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and options on futures.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide margin daily with cash or other security at the exchange, to which the holders look for ultimate settlement.
The Group also buys and sells financial instruments that are traded over the counter, rather than on a recognised exchange.
These instruments range from commoditised transactions in derivative markets, to trades where the specic terms are tailored to the requirements of the Groups customers.
In many cases, industry standard documentation is used, most commonly in the form of a master agreement, with individual transaction conrmations.
The existence of a signed master agreement is intended to give the Group protection in situations where a counterparty is in default.
Counterparty credit quality The credit quality of the Groups derivative assets according to the credit quality of the counterparty at 31st December 2010 and 2009 was as follows: Credit quality audited 2010 2009 AAA to BBBAAA to BBBinvestment investment grade BB to B Band below Total grade BB to B Band below Total As at 31st December m m m m m m m m Derivatives 401,242 15,598 3,479 420,319 399,534 15,565 1,716 416,815 95.5% 3.7% 0.8% 100.0% 95.9% 3.7% 0.4% 100.0% Netting and collateral arrangements Credit risk from derivatives is mitigated where possible through netting agreements whereby derivative assets and liabilities with the same counterparty can be offset.
Group policy requires all netting arrangements to be legally documented.
The ISDA Master Agreement is the Groups preferred agreement for documenting OTC derivatives.
It provides the contractual framework within which dealing activities across a full range of OTC products are conducted and contractually binds both parties to apply close-out netting across all outstanding transactions covered by an agreement if either party defaults or other predetermined events occur.
Collateral is obtained against derivative assets, depending on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and or nature of the transaction.
Any collateral taken in respect of OTC trading exposures will be subject to a haircut which is negotiated at the time of signing the collateral agreement.
A haircut is the valuation percentage applicable to each type of collateral and will be largely based on liquidity and price volatility of the underlying security.
The collateral obtained for derivatives is either cash, direct debt obligation government G14 bonds denominated in the domestic currency of the issuing country, debt issued by supranationals or letters of credit issued by an institution with a long-term unsecured debt rating of A A3 or better.
Where the Group has ISDA master agreements, the collateral document will be the ISDA Credit Support Annex CSA.
The collateral document must give Barclays the power to realise any collateral placed with it in the event of the failure of the counterparty, and to place further collateral when requested or in the event of insolvency, administration or similar processes, as well as in the case of early termination.
Under IFRS, netting is permitted only if both of the following criteria are satisfied: the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts: and the entity intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
This results in Gross derivative assets of 420bn 2009: 417bn.
Under US GAAP, netting is also permitted, regardless of the intention to settle on a net basis, where there is a counterparty master agreement that would be enforceable in the event of bankruptcy.
