02 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Executing our strategy Delivering superior performance through diversification by business, geography and funding sources, and relentless focus on customers and clients Strategy and business model We continue to believe that our integrated universal banking strategy is the best model to serve our customers and clients as well as optimising risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders.
Global Universal Bank Customer and client focus Our customers and clients are at the centre of our strategy and business model.
Putting their needs first is essential to Customer and Geographic Product developing a long term sustainable business.
client focus spread breadth Geographic spread We aim to meet the needs of our clients and build a business Risk management with diverse revenue sources, business segments, customer and clients and geographic exposure.
Product breadth Financial discipline The most successful banks are those that serve their clients across all their needs though a wide range of distribution channels.
Financial discipline Risk management Effective risk management underpins all the commercial decisions we take.
As a global universal bank we are well placed to understand the risks our clients take because of the breadth and depth of the relationships we have with them.
Financial discipline As we look to execute on our strategy and build the business, it is essential to ensure that we retain financial discipline required to deliver returns.
Whilst business model and strategy determine the shape How we manage our performance and direction of Barclays, performance is managed against a specific set of key performance indicators KPIs.
These KPIs are closely aligned to our execution priorities in order to deliver on our goal of generating top quartile shareholder Goal returns over time.
Our execution priorities are: Capital operating within our capital resources Execution priorities Returns generating returns in excess of our cost of equity Income growth sustainable growth in selected markets and geographies Citizenship demonstrating our wider value to society both globally and in every community we serve Key performance indicators Key performance indicators
