72 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued These services enable peer banks to compare structured products and The Board Risk Committee agrees the range of scenarios to be tested model input parameters on an anonymous basis.
The conclusions and the independent Group Risk function co-ordinates the process, and any exceptions to this exercise are communicated to senior levels using bottom-up analysis performed by the businesses.
The results of of business management.
the stress tests are presented to the Executive Committee, the Board Risk Committee, the Board and the UK Financial Services Authority FSA.
Externally developed models are subject to the same governance standards as internal models, and must be approved for use following In 2010, the range of stress scenarios included the stress test set out the validation and independent review process.
External models are by the FSA as part of its assessment of the Groups resilience to stressed also subject to the same standards for ongoing monitoring and annual credit risk, market risk and economic conditions over a five-year period.
This stress scenario analysis took into account a wide range of factors, including: Stress testing The Groups revenue generation potential given stressed macroeconomic variables such as GDP and interest rates: A fundamental duty of risk management is to ensure that organisations The effect of the scenario on the probability of default and possible do not neglect to prepare for the worst event as they plan for success.
losses given default within its loan book: and Stress testing helps Barclays to understand how its portfolios would react if business conditions became signicantly more challenging.
We generate Possible declines in the market value of assets held in the trading specic forward-looking scenarios and analyse how well our profitability books caused by the stress.
would be maintained, whether our levels of capital would be adequate and what managers could do in advance to mitigate the risk.
Following this work and discussion with the FSA, the Group was able to confirm that its capital resources, after exposure to the stress, were Barclays uses stress testing techniques at Group, portfolio and expected to continue to meet the FSAs capital requirements.
product level and across a range of risk types.
For example, portfolio management in the US cards business employs stressed assumptions In addition, Barclays, along with 90 other banks, was included in the of unemployment to determine profitability hurdles for new accounts.
a Committee of European Banking Supervisors CEBS stress test In the UK mortgage business, affordability thresholds incorporate stressed performed in July 2010.
The stress test was designed to assess the estimates of interest rates.
resilience of the EU banking sector and each of the selected banks ability to absorb possible shocks on credit and market risks, including sovereign In the Investment Banking division, global scenario testing is used to risks.
Under the scenario considered, results indicated that Barclays would gauge potential losses that could arise in conditions of extreme market be well-placed to withstand the stress.
Stress testing is also conducted on positions in particular asset classes, including interest rates, commodities, equities, credit and In 2010, Barclays integrated reverse stress testing into the Group wide foreign exchange.
Reverse stress testing aims to identify the conditions that would result in the business model no longer being viable, such as At the Group level, stress tests capture a wide range of macroeconomic extreme macroeconomic downturn scenarios or specic idiosyncratic variables that are relevant to the current environment, such as: events.
This is being used to help support the on-going risk management of the Group, for example reverse stress testing has been integrated into GDP: the Risk Appetite framework.
This also supports the Group in meeting new unemployment: regulatory requirements in regards to reverse stress testing.
asset prices: and Information on the Groups stress testing specifically relating to liquidity interest rates.
Note a On 7th February 2011 CEBS was renamed the European Banking Authority
