66 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy Barclays has clear risk management objectives and a Assigning responsibilities well-established strategy to deliver them, through core Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels within the Group, risk management processes.
from the Board and the Executive Committee down through the organisation to each business manager and risk specialist.
Barclays At a strategic level, our risk management objectives are: distributes these responsibilities so that risk return decisions are taken To identify the Groups significant risks.
at the most appropriate level: as close as possible to the business, and subject to robust and effective review and challenge.
The responsibilities To formulate the Groups Risk Appetite and ensure that business prole for effective review and challenges reside with senior managers, risk and plans are consistent with it.
oversight committees, Barclays Internal Audit, the independent Group Risk To optimise risk return decisions by taking them as closely as possible function, the Board Risk Committee and, ultimately, the Board.
to the business, while establishing strong and independent review and challenge structures.
The Board is responsible for approving Risk Appetite see page 69, which is the level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business To ensure that business growth plans are properly supported by objectives.
The Chief Risk officer regularly presents a report to the Board effective risk infrastructure.
summarising developments in the risk environment and performance To manage risk prole to ensure that specic financial deliverables trends in the key portfolios.
The Board is also responsible for the Internal remain possible under a range of adverse business conditions.
Control and Assurance Framework Group Control Framework.
It oversees the management of the most significant risks through the regular review To help executives improve the control and co-ordination of risk taking of risk exposures and related key controls.
Executive management across the business.
responsibilities relating to this are set via the Groups Principal Risks Policy.
The Groups approach is to provide direction on: understanding the The Board Risk Committee BRC monitors the Groups risk prole against principal risks to achieving Group strategy: establishing Risk Appetite: the agreed appetite.
Where actual performance differs from expectations, and establishing and communicating the risk management framework.
the actions being taken by management are reviewed to ensure that the The process is then broken down into five steps: identify, assess, control, BRC is comfortable with them.
After each meeting, the Chair of the BRC report, and manage challenge.
Each of these steps is broken down further, prepares a report for the next meeting of the Board.
Barclays first to establish end to end activities within the risk management process and established a separate Board Risk Committee in 1999 and all members are the infrastructure needed to support it see panel below.
The Groups risk non-executive directors.
The Finance Director and the Chief Risk officer management strategy is broadly unchanged from 2009. attend each meeting as a matter of course and the Chief Risk officer has a dotted reporting line to the Chair.
The BRC receives regular and comprehensive reports on risk methodologies and the Groups risk prole including the key issues affecting each business portfolio and forward risk trends.
The Committee also commissions in-depth analyses of significant risk topics, which are presented by the Chief Risk officer or senior risk managers in the businesses.
The Chair of the Committee prepares a statement each year on its activities see pages 163 and 164.
Steps Activity Identify Establish the process for identifying and understanding business-level risks.
Assess Agree and implement measurement and reporting standards and methodologies.
Control Establish key control processes and practices, including limit structures, impairment allowance criteria and reporting requirements.
Monitor the operation of the controls and adherence to risk direction and limits.
Provide early warning of control or appetite breaches.
Ensure that risk management practices and conditions are appropriate for the business environment.
Report Interpret and report on risk exposures, concentrations and risk-taking outcomes.
Interpret and report on sensitivities and Key Risk Indicators.
Manage and Review and challenge all aspects of the Groups risk profile.
Challenge Assess new risk-return opportunities.
Advise on optimising the Groups risk profile.
Review and challenge risk management practices.
About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 67 The Board Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on control issues Summaries of the relevant business, professional and risk management of signicance and a half-yearly review of the adequacy of impairment experience of the Directors of the Board are given on pages 9 to 11.
The allowances, which it reviews relative to the risk inherent in the portfolios, terms of reference for each of the principal Board Committees are available the business environment, the Groups policies and methodologies and the from the Corporate Governance section at: www.
performance trends of peer banks.
The Chair of the Board Audit Committee also sits on the Board Risk Committee.
See pages 160 to 162 for additional The Chief Risk officer is a member of the Executive Committee and has details on the membership and activities of the Board Audit Committee.
overall day to day accountability for risk management under delegated authority from the Finance Director.
The Finance Director must consult the The Board Remuneration Committee receives advice from the Board Risk Chairman of the Board Risk Committee in respect of the Chief Risk Ofcers Committee on the management of remuneration risk, including advice on performance appraisal and compensation as well as all appointments to the setting of performance objectives in the context of incentive packages.
or departures from the role.
Governance structure at Group level Board oversight Board Approves overall Group Risk Appetite.
Board Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Board Remuneration Committee Considers the adequacy and effectiveness Reviews the Group risk profile.
Reviews remuneration principles of the Group Control Framework.
Approves the Group Control Framework.
Reviews reports on control issues of Approves remuneration based on Approves minimum control requirements Group-level significance.
Risk adjusted performance Authority controls appetite Assurance Reporting and control Chief Executive Group Executive Committee Monitors and manages risk adjusted performance of businesses.
Governance and Control Committee Group Risk Oversight Committee Reviews the adequacy and effectiveness Monitors risk profile in respect to Sets policy controls for liquidity, maturity of the Group Control Framework.
transformation and structural interest rate exposure.
Monitors compliance with the Framework Debates and agrees actions on the risk including remediation of significant profile and risk strategy across the Group.
Monitors the Groups liquidity and interest control issues.
Considers issues escalated by Risk Type Reviews reports on control issues of Heads and Business Risk Directors.
Monitors usage of regulatory and Group-level significance.
Oversees the management of the Groups capital plan.
Assurance Internal Audit Assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework.
68 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued The Chief Risk officer manages the independent Group Risk function and identication and management of their business risk proles and for chairs the Group Risk Oversight Committee, which monitors the Groups implementing appropriate controls.
These teams also assist Group Risk risk prole relative to established risk appetite.
Reporting to the Chief Risk in the formulation of Group policies and their implementation across the officer, and working in the Group Risk function, are risk-type heads for: businesses.
The business risk directors report jointly to their respective retail credit risk, wholesale credit risk, market risk, operational risk, financial business heads and to the Chief Risk officer.
crime risk and capital demand.
Along with their teams, the risk-type heads are responsible for establishing a Group wide framework for risk control The risk type heads within the central Group Risk function and the framework and oversight.
These risk-type teams liaise with each business business risk directors within the business units report to the Chief Risk as part of the monitoring and management processes.
officer and are members of the Group Risk Oversight Committee.
In addition, each business unit has an embedded risk management For further details on the management of each of the principal risks see function, headed by a business risk director.
Business risk directors and pages 74 to 81. their teams are responsible for assisting business heads in the Governance structure by key risk type Board Internal Audit Chief Executive a Group Finance Director Divisional Chief Executive Officers Chief Risk Officer Group Treasurer Business Heads Business Risk Directors Group Risk Heads Capital and Wholesale and Market Operational Financial Crime Capital Liquidity Risk Retail Credit Risk Risk Risk Risk Demand Manage the Group's Plan and control Ensure traded Capture, Develop a clear Maintain and capital plan.
the taking of credit market risk resides understand profile of financial develop the risk based on clear primarily within and report the crime risk across Groups economic Manage the and accurate Barclays Capital, operational risks the Group.
and minimise being taken by risk management Share intelligence, Prepare Risk non-traded the Group.
Support business adopt common Appetite for the market risk.
decision-making On a cost-benefit standards and Board to approve Stress reporting and proactive Understand and basis, minimise respond promptly and track.
for a number of identification of control market the frequency to emerging issues.
risk by robust and impact of Drive forward law testing exercises.
measurement operational risk Ensure a robust enforcement and and setting of events.
Co-ordinate Group framework for other government position limits.
Risk input in the the creation, initiatives.
Groups mediumuse and Facilitate business term planning.
monitoring of growth within credit risk models.
controlled and Provide assurance transparent risk on each business management capital demand.
Note a Reporting lines effective from January 2011, previously reported to the Group Finance Director.
