12 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Leadership and governance Group Executive Committee Bob Diamond 59 Robert Le Blanc Mark Harding Antony Jenkins Thomas L Kalaris Chief Executive, Executive Director Chief Risk Officer Group General Counsel Chief Executive of Chief Executive of Barclays Wealth Global Retail Banking Chris Lucas 50 Group Finance Director, Robert has been the Chief Risk Mark joined Barclays as Group Antony was appointed Tom joined Barclays in September Executive Director Officer for Barclays Group since General Counsel in 2003.
Included Chief Executive of Global 1996 after 18 years at JP Morgan 2004.
He first joined Barclays within his area of responsibility are Retail Banking and joined the where he held a number of roles, See pages 9 and 11 for full in 2002 as Head of Risk legal and regulatory compliance Barclays Executive Committee including Head of Fixed Income biographies.
Prior to Sales, Trading and Research, and Robert is a non-executive Director He chairs the Group Operating that he had been Chief was responsible for all activities of Absa, which is majority owned Committee and Group Executive of Barclaycard with investors in the United States.
Before joining Barclays, Governance and Control since January 2006.
Antony He has served on the US Treasury Robert spent most of his career Committee.
Previously, Mark was is a Barclays appointed Borrowing Advisory Committee at JP Morgan in the capital a partner in the international law non-executive Director of Absa, and is a former Chair of the US markets, fixed income, emerging firm, Clifford Chance, where his which is majority owned by Bond Market Association, a market and credit areas in New practice spanned bank finance, Barclays.
Since October 2008, predecessor organisation to York and London.
capital markets and financial Antony has been on the Board SIFMA Securities Industry and services regulation.
He spent four of Visa Europe Ltd. Financial Markets Association.
years at UBS as General Counsel of its investment bank.
Mark is past Chairman of the General Counsel 100 Group and of the Board of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA.
He is a Governor of the College of Law.
Key responsibilities Board of Directors The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Group: the executive Directors are directly responsible for running the business operations and the non-executive Directors are responsible for bringing independent judgement and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board.
In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure that the Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
Jerry del Missier Maria Ramos Rich Ricci Cathy Turner The Board determines the strategic Co-Chief Executive of Barclays Group Chief Executive of Absa Co-Chief Executive of Barclays Barclays Human Resources objectives and policies of the Group Capital and Co-Chief Executive of Capital and Co-Chief Executive of Director to deliver long-term value, providing Corporate and Investment Banking Corporate and Investment Banking overall strategic direction within an appropriate framework of rewards, Jerry joined Barclays Capital in Maria is the Group Chief Executive Rich joined Barclays Capital in Cathy was appointed as Group incentives and controls.
June 1997 from Bankers Trust of Absa Group Ltd, which is 1994 and assumed responsibility Human Resources Director in Executive Committee in London where he had been majority owned by Barclays.
Prior for several of its support areas.
April 2005 prior to which she The Board delegates the a Senior Managing Director of to joining Absa on 1st March He became Chief Operating held the position as Investor responsibility for the day-to-day Derivatives Products, responsible 2009, she was the Group Chief Officer COO of Barclays Global Relations Director for four management of the Company for the European business.
Prior Executive of Transnet Limited, Investors BGI and a member of years.
In July 2008 her remit to the Chief Executive and he is to this, he was based in Toronto, the state-owned South African the BGI Executive Committee in was extended to include responsible for ensuring that the Canada, where he was responsible freight transport and logistics December 2002.
In January 2005, Strategy, Corporate Affairs and business is operating effectively.
for the Canadian Dollar interest service provider.
This was after Rich was appointed COO of Brand and Marketing.
Prior to The Chief Executive chairs the rate derivatives business.
Before a successful term as DirectorBarclays Investment Banking and Barclays, Cathy was a Practice Executive Committee, which Bankers Trust, he worked for the General of the National Treasury Investment Management Leader at Ernst and Young and supports him in this role.
Jerry currently formerly the Department of businesses comprising Barclays has previously held roles at Executive Committee is supported serves on the Boards of Room Finance.
She currently serves on Capital, Barclays Wealth and BGI.
Deloitte, Watson Wyatt, by a number of management to Read, the Securities Industry the executive committees of the Prior to joining Barclays Capital, Percom and Volex Plc.
Cathy is committees, including the and Financial Markets Association International Business Council, Rich held senior front-office, a Council Member of the Royal Disclosure Committee, the SIFMA, the Global Financial the World Bank Chief Economist finance and technology positions College of Art and a Board Group Governance and Control Markets Association GFMA, Advisory Panel, Business at the Bank of Boston and the Member of the IFS School of Committee, the Group Risk the Markets Management Group Leadership South Africa and Bank of New England.
Cathy has announced Oversight Committee and the MMG of the International the Banking Association of her departure from Barclays Group Brand and Reputation Institute of Finance IIF, and the South Africa.
and will be leaving on 31st Committee.
Advisory Board of the Queens March 2011.
University School of Business in Further information on the Kingston, Ontario.
responsibilities of the Board and the Executive Committee can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 149 to 165.
