About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 23 Business review Absa As expected, 2010 was another challenging year given a slow, uneven economic recovery both globally and in South Africa.
In particular, retail and corporate credit demand and transaction volumes remained muted.
Nonetheless, Absa managed to report 17% higher profit before tax, while continuing to invest significantly in our strategic growth initiatives.
Lower interest rates and our enhanced collections capability improved our retail impairments materially.
Moreover, our margin hedging strategy protected net interest income as rates fell to 36-year lows.
Our One Absa strategy is on track.
It is enhancing business as usual, improving sustainable growth in target areas and strengthening the core fundamentals underlying our operations.
While we believe that our operating environment will remain challenging, we also believe that we have the right strategy to grow the business and generate the Aligning Absa more closely returns that will keep us competitive.
with Barclays Africa gives us better As you know, Africa presents a significant opportunity opportunities to serve clients across for Barclays and the decision to align Absa more closely with Barclays Africa by executing One Bank in Africa the continent strategy gives us better opportunities to serve clients across the continent, thereby enhancing our joint competitive advantage.
Maria Ramos Group Chief Executive, Absa Group Limited Citizenship Financial Inclusion A key component of our strategy is to find innovative and cost effective ways to serve Absas existing mass segment customers.
As such in 2010 we launched a number of innovative offerings: a refocused branch approach called Absa 1234 offering transactional, loan, savings and insurance products: a branchless banking approach which includes in-store banking deposits, withdrawals, balance inquiry, air time purchases with the merchant providing these services using a point of sale terminal with our In-Store Banking application: a remote account opening service for savings and transmission accounts using mobile phone technology: and a tap-and-go card product for low value payments.
