18 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Business review Global Retail Banking At the Global Retail Banking investor day in June 2010, we said our strategic goals were Happy customers, strong profit growth, good returns.
We are making significant progress against these goals.
We are focused on improving the service we provide to our customers and have seen positive results from this.
For example, weve reduced the time it takes to issue a replacement debit card in the UK from five to two days.
Our use of innovation is also transforming the customer experience.
Our pioneering contactless payment strategy in the UK has resulted in a much easier experience for our customers.
Ninety percent of the contactless cards issued in the UK are now issued by Barclays, which puts us in a leading position.
In Kenya and Botswana, registration for our mobile banking service increased almost four-fold over the year.
In Western Europe, we continued to expand our network, increasing the number of distribution points by In 2010 we delivered a good over a hundred, making it easier for customers to access our banking services.
These are just some examples of financial performance with increasing what we have done to improve the customer experience.
momentum through the year and Further progress needs to be made and this is a key priority for us.
made strong progress against our strategic and financial goals This focus on our customers will generate sustainable value for our shareholders.
GRB improved its loan to deposit ratio by 4 percentage points to 140%.
Return on equity increased from 10% to 11% reflecting strong profit growth in UKRB, Barclaycard and Barclays Africa.
We are facing challenging economic conditions in Western Europe but remain committed to a presence in the region and to converting the investment we have made into sustainable profit.
Weve achieved greater depth through the integration of Standard Life Bank in the UK and Citigroups card business in Italy.
Our promises I am confident that we are on the right track to meet our Global Retail Banking 2013 Targets objectives and deliver significant value to all our stakeholders.
Income and profit Strong compound growth annual profit growth Antony Jenkins Chief Executive, Global Retail Banking Income growth in excess of cost growth Stable funding ratio Deposits and secured funding to keep pace with asset growth Depth, not breadth Existing markets focus and continued product diversification Strong returns and c 2% RoRWA net equity generation 13-15% RoE c 20% RoTE About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 19 Reinforcing our leading position Supporting in technology and innovation financial literacy Helping people manage their money is at the core of our business, and is an important part of Barclays citizenship strategy.
In 2010 we delivered more than 8,500 financial literacy workshops around the world, and through a combination of face-to-face seminars and online content, reached more than half a million people, helping them build the skills and confidence to manage their money effectively, achieve financial independence and build a secure future.
In the UK, Barclays Money Skills is working with key partners to develop a range of projects and tools to help vulnerable young people.
For example, were working in partnership with Action for Children to benefit more than 2,500 of the hardest to reach young people.
Sean is 16 years old and lives in Glasgow.
He is currently in the process of moving from a care home into supported living accommodation, where he will gradually be assuming responsibility for paying bills, furnishing his At Barclays, we continue to lead the from a Barclays-issued card, and transaction flat and providing meals for himself.
Sean technological revolution that is sweeping volumes more than doubling in the last year.
said: because of what Ive learnt on the across the banking world.
We have pioneered Barclays Money Skills course, Ive made a contactless payments in the UK and we will be Our innovative edge will allow us to move one spending plan, so I know what cash I have offering contactless mobile phone payment step further in 2011.
In the UK, in association for food, travel, bills and my social life.
solution for customers in the summer of 2011. with Orange or Everything Everywhere as In addition, customers can also use their GPS they are now known, Barclaycard customers, GRB is also delivering financial literacy facility on their mobiles to find the nearest from the summer of 2011, will be able to use programmes in a number of other countries Barclays branch and cash machines.
their mobiles for contactless payments of up including Ghana, Mauritius, Zambia and to 15 for goods and services at retailers Egypt.
In Botswana, Barclays launched a Recognising that mobile access is fast by simply waving their handset against a financial literacy campaign in 2010 with becoming the new frontier in the banking contactless reader.
The Club is an space, and building upon our achievements organisation that provides life skills training with Barclays.
mobi in the UK, we recently This is the beginning of a revolution in how and counselling to HIV positive adolescents.
went live in France and in Portugal, giving we pay for things on the high street.
Its With Barclays support, the Teen Club is now customers access to banking at a place and a cultural shift that is as important as the working in six villages across the country time that suits them.
In Kenya and Botswana, launch of the personal credit card or ATMs.
and has partnered with Barclays colleagues registration for our mobile banking service Gerry McQuade, Chief Development Officer to deliver training to 280 HIV positive teens.
this year increased almost four-fold.
at Everything Everywhere At the same time, we continue to be leaders in Go online Go online bringing contactless technology to the UK, with For more information go to For more information go to approximately 90% of contactless transactions www.
