About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 69 Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk management Risk Appetite and the control environment.
Its objective is to provide reliable, valued and timely assurance to the Board and Executive Management over the Risk Appetite is dened as the level of risk that Barclays is prepared to effectiveness of controls, mitigating current and evolving high risks and in sustain whilst pursuing its business strategy, recognising a range of so doing enhancing the controls culture within the Group.
The Board Audit possible outcomes as business plans are implemented.
Barclays framework Committee reviews and approves Internal Audits plans and resources, and combines a top-down view of its capacity to take risk with a bottom-up evaluates the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
view of the business risk prole associated with each business areas medium term plans.
The appetite is ultimately approved by the Board.
An assessment by external advisers is also carried out periodically.
In addition to the Committees shown in the chart, there is a Brand and The Risk Appetite framework consists of two elements: Financial Volatility Reputation Committee reviewing emerging issues with potentially and Mandate & Scale.
Taken as a whole, the Risk Appetite framework provides a basis for the Risk management responsibilities are laid out in the Principal Risks Policy, allocation of risk capacity across Barclays Group.
which covers the categories of risk in which the Group has its most significant actual or potential risk exposures.
Financial Volatility Financial Volatility is dened as the level of potential deviation from expected The Principal Risks Framework: financial performance that Barclays is prepared to sustain at relevant points on the risk prole.
creates clear ownership and accountability: ensures the Groups most significant risk exposures are understood and The Board sets the Groups financial volatility risk appetite in terms of managed in accordance with agreed risk appetite for financial risks broad financial objectives ie top down on through the cycle, 1 in 7 and and risk tolerances for non-financial risks : and 1 in 25 severity levels.
The Groups risk prole is assessed via a bottom-up analysis of the Groups business plans to establish the financial volatility.
ensures regular reporting of both risk exposures and the operating If the projections entail too high a level of risk i. e breach the top-down effectiveness of controls.
financial objectives at the through the cycle, 1 in 7 or 1 in 25 level, management will challenge each area to rebalance the risk prole to bring Each of the Principal Risks, which are set out on pages 74 to 81, is owned the bottom-up risk appetite back within top-down appetite.
Performance by a senior individual within Barclays, known as the Group Principal Risk against Risk Appetite usage is measured and reported to the Executive Owner GPRO.
The GPRO is required to document, communicate and Committee and the Board regularly throughout the year.
maintain a risk control framework which makes clear the mandated control requirements in managing exposures to that Principal Risk, for To measure the risk entailed by the business plans, management every business across the rm.
estimates the potential earnings volatility from different businesses under various scenarios, represented by severity levels: These control requirements are given further specication, according to the business unit or risk type, to provide a complete and appropriate expected loss: the average losses based on measurements over system of internal control.
many years 1 in 7 moderate loss: the worst level of losses out of a random sample Business unit and Group centre function heads are responsible for of 7 years obtaining ongoing assurance that the controls they have put in place to manage the risks to their business objectives are operating effectively.
1 in 25 severe loss: the worst level of losses out of a random sample Six-monthly reviews support the regulatory requirement for the Group of 25 years to make a statement about its system of internal controls the Turnbull statement, in the Annual Report and Accounts.
GPROs report their assessments of the risk exposure and control effectiveness to Group-level oversight committees.
Their assessments form the basis of the reports that go to the Board Risk Committee.
Risk Appetite concepts diagram not to scale Mean Loss Expected Economic capital Loss Moderate Stress Severe Stress Extreme Stress Potential size of loss in one year Probability of loss 70 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued Barclays uses the Mandate & Scale framework to: These potentially larger but increasingly less likely levels of loss are illustrated in the Risk Appetite concepts chart above.
Since the level of Limit concentration risk loss at any given probability is dependent on the portfolio of exposures in each business, the statistical measurement for each key risk category gives Keep business activities within Group and individual business mandate the Group clearer sight and better control of risk-taking throughout the Ensure activities remain of an appropriate scale relative to the underlying enterprise.
specifically, Barclays believes that this framework enables it to: risk and reward Improve management confidence and debate regarding the Groups Ensure risk-taking is supported by appropriate expertise and capabilities risk prole Re-balance the risk prole of the medium-term plan where breaches As well as Group-level Mandate & Scale limits, further limits are set by risk managers within each business unit, covering particular portfolios.
are indicated, thereby achieving a superior risk-return prole Identify unused risk capacity, and thus highlight the need to identify Risk Appetite and Stress Testing further profitable opportunities Stress testing occurs throughout the Bank and it helps to ensure that our medium term plan has sufficient exibility to remain appropriate over a Improve executive management control and co-ordination of risk-taking across businesses multi-year time horizon during times of stress.
Mandate & Scale Stress testing allows us to analyse a specic potential economic scenario or event using dened macro and market based parameters.
The results of The second element to the setting of risk appetite in Barclays is an extensive system of Mandate & Scale limits, which is a risk management a stress test, whether at a Group or business level, will produce an output which could be compared to a point in the curve of our Financial Volatility approach that seeks to formally review and control business activities to ensure that they are within Barclays mandate i. e. aligned to the based statistical outcomes, although stress tests are scenario based and as such are not calibrated to a specic confidence level.
expectations of external stakeholders, and are of an appropriate scale relative to the risk and reward of the underlying activities.
Barclays Given that the stress testing, Risk Appetite, and medium term planning achieves this by using limits and triggers to avoid concentrations which would be out of line with external expectations, and which may lead to timelines are all aligned, the outputs of stresses are used by risk functions throughout the Group to inform Risk Appetite particularly at a business unexpected losses of a scale that would be detrimental to the stability of the relevant business line or of the Group.
These limits are set by the level.
The outputs of stresses also feed into the setting of Mandate & Scale limits.
For example, via the use of primary and secondary stresses independent Risk function, formally monitored each month and subject to Board-level oversight.
in Market Risk, we identify and limit the scale of risks that DVaR would not automatically capture.
For example, in our commercial property finance portfolios, a Reverse stress testing also supports our Risk Appetite framework.
Reverse comprehensive series of limits are in place to control exposure within each business and geographic sector.
To ensure that limits are aligned to stress testing starts with dening a worst case set of metrics and deduces a scenario that could theoretically cause that situation to occur.
This will the underlying risk characteristics, the Mandate & Scale limits differentiate between types of exposure.
There are, for example, individual limits for help to ensure that we understand the tail risks across our books and property investment and property development and for senior and explain what would have to happen to generate a change in strategy.
Since the onset of the global economic downturn, Group reverse stress testing also identies risks that in one business alone these limits have been reduced signicantly and the frequency of review would not have been sufficient to be a critical event, thereby complementing has been increased.
The Groups exposure to Ireland has been restricted the Financial Volatility and Mandate & Scale processes.
through the recent reduction in Mandate & Scale limits.
For further information on stress testing see page 72.
