22 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Business review Barclays Wealth In 2010, we launched a five-year strategy to transform Barclays Wealth and, in our first year, financial results were strong, with total income up by 18% to 1.56bn and profit before tax up by 14% to 163m.
Adding back investment expenditure of 112m, we achieved a 92% increase in underlying profitability.
The early stages of 2010 marked a pivotal point for the wealth management industry.
After the disruptive events of the financial crisis, we entered a more benign environment, with global wealth assets returning to pre-crisis levels.
At Barclays Wealth, conditions were particularly favourable thanks to the strength of our balance sheet and brand and the successful consolidation of our Americas business which made us a truly global player for the first time.
In this context we launched the Gamma programme in March.
Gamma is a five-year project to invest 350m in our people, platforms and processes in order to achieve a step We are transforming Barclays change in client experience and a significant improvement to our productive efficiency.
We believe we can set a Wealth into a premier global wealth standard for the industry.
manager At the end of 2010 we are on or ahead of all our target metrics.
Client assets grew by 8% over the year to 164bn, and we showed a net increase in banker headcount.
We have seen an 18% improvement in the productivity of our relationship managers and 30% in our core High Net Worth business.
2011 will be a challenging year as we take on the next set of Gamma targets.
These include material upgrades to our core platforms, an accelerated on-boarding process for clients and a refresh of our banker training and marketing tools.
I remain confident that we can meet all of our commitments to our clients, thereby beginning to redefine the landscape of the wealth management industry.
Thomas Kalaris Chief Executive, Barclays Wealth Barclays Wealth enters Japan In July 2010, Barclays Wealth launched a unique joint venture in Japan with two highly qualified partners.
SMBC Barclays Wealth Division brings together the local knowledge and heritage of the Japanese bank Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation SMBC, with the expert wealth management capabilities of Barclays Wealth, and the platform expertise of Nikko Cordial Securities, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SMBC.
In its first six months, SMBC Barclays Wealth Division is running successfully and has received a very promising response from the market.
The need to demonstrate established trust and reputation in Japan has historically been a barrier for foreign firms wanting to enter the market.
The success of the Barclays Wealth joint venture is testament to the determination of all three partners in building the right proposition for our Japanese clients.
