20 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Business review Corporate and Investment Banking Our Corporate and Investment Banking business provides clients with the lending, finance, risk management, advice, and transactional payments support that they need to succeed, whatever the economic environment.
The strength of our model ensures that we are able to focus on their needs when they need us most.
Barclays Capital is a premier global investment bank operating at the very top of the investment banking industry.
In a challenging year, the business increased profit before tax by 2%, and generated a 17% increase in total income by remaining close to its clients.
Barclays Corporate is strengthening its relationship-led core UK business, where significantly reduced impairment and a focus on clients drove a 16% increase in profit before tax.
Overall though, Barclays Corporate recorded a loss and we have taken decisive action in Russia and Spain to either Our integrated universal banking exit or refocus operations that are not generating the returns we expect.
model allows us to meet the needs of our clients by connecting capabilities Corporate and Investment Banking plays a crucial role in supporting corporate clients to achieve growth and job from across the Barclays Group creation in the real economy: governments to deliver their stability and growth plans: and institutional clients to meet the long-term investment needs of their customers.
The strategic build in key growth areas at Barclays Capital is delivering tangible benefits to clients around the world, alongside the focused execution of robust plans for the future right across the business.
Barclays Corporate continues to invest in the people, products and infrastructure to support clients in its core UK market, and strengthen its offering for multi-nationals and large companies in overseas markets.
Our promises Our integrated universal banking model allows us to meet the needs of our clients by connecting capabilities from Barclays Capital 2013 Targets across the Barclays Group, and our focus on bringing clients Strong returns c 15% RoE on Basel III basis the best solution continues to underpin our commitment to their success.
Jerry del Missier Rich Ricci Income growth Additional 2bn in Equities Co-Chief Executive, Co-Chief Executive, and Investment Banking Corporate and Corporate and revenues Investment Banking Investment Banking Cost management 60-65% cost: net income ratio Barclays Corporate 2012 Target Profitability Return to aggregate profitability About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 21 What is corporate and investment banking?
Resolution acquires AXAs UK Life business Providing opportunities to generate returns We support clients, like pension managers and investment funds, in making decisions on where to make their investments and in executing those investments.
With our support, they can achieve the returns they need to meet their obligations and satisfy their customers.
Risk management We can help clients manage many of the risks they face, from foreign exchange and interest rate risk, to the varying price of commodities.
This reduces Corporate and Investment Banking is uncertainty and allows clients to focus on about helping corporate, government and their core operations.
institutional clients to finance and grow their operations, manage their risks and invest Strategic and financial advice We advise their capital.
Barclays Capital played multiple roles across clients on how to manage and expand their all aspects of Resolutions 2.75bn acquisition businesses.
That might be through a merger Capital raising and financing We lend money, of the AXA UK Life Business last June.
or an acquisition, or it might be through the and enable companies, banks, cities and The success of the deal, and strength of best way to manage their balance sheet, countries to raise equity capital and issue debt relationships, led to the firm being appointed capital or cash flow.
in the capital markets: to provide cash flow Joint Corporate Broker to Resolution in and enable investment in the future.
The right November the third FTSE client and seventh type of lending is different for every client: from Go online overall Corporate Broking win last year.
overdraft facilities and asset-based finance, to For more information go to In order to fund the cash component of the rights issues and syndicated loans.
com annualreport10 acquisition, Resolution announced a fully underwritten rights issue of approximately 2bn, and agreed a fully underwritten bridge facility of 400m.
Mayfly Containers expands into overseas markets Financing and executing the deal saw In 2009, Mayfly identified an opportunity Barclays Capital hold multiple roles, including Joint Underwriter, Joint Bookrunner and Joint to expand into overseas markets, focusing primarily on China and Brazil.
Barclays Corporate Broker on the rights issue, Joint Lead Arranger on the bridge facility and Joint Corporate was able to assist the company with their expansion strategy by providing foreign Financial Adviser to Resolution on both the rights issue and the acquisition.
The bridge exchange expertise, information on rates, and risk management solutions to help protect the facility was also jointly underwritten by Barclays Capital.
In the firms first lead role in a significant David Rudge, Finance Director, said: When we took the decision to expand into overseas equity capital raising in Europe, and its first advisory role for Resolution, Barclays Capital Established in 1983 Mayfly is a family-run markets, Barclays Corporate was able to assist business based in Derbyshire which us with our foreign exchange requirements.
demonstrated the strength of teamwork across the firm in delivering seamless manufactures containers used for the deep-sea Our joint venture established in Brazil is proving off-shore oil and gas industries.
Barclays successful and we continue to expand our capital markets, acquisition financing and advisory capabilities.
Corporate has banked the business since 1985. operations in the export markets.
