146 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Directors report continued Health and Safety Contracts of Signicance We are committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of our Under the terms of a stock purchase agreement dated 16th June 2009 employees and to providing and maintaining safe working conditions.
which was entered into by and among Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays PLC Barclays regards legislative compliance as a minimum and, where and BlackRock, Inc. BlackRock, Barclays agreed to sell Barclays Global appropriate, we seek to implement higher standards.
Barclays also Investors BGI to BlackRock.
The sale completed on 1st December 2009 recognises its responsibilities towards all persons on its premises, such following the receipt of all necessary shareholder and regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other closing conditions.
The consideration at as contractors, visitors and members of the public, and ensures, so far as is reasonably practicable, that they are not exposed to significant risks to completion was US$15.2bn 9.5bn, including 37.567 million new BlackRock shares, giving Barclays an economic interest of 19.9% of the their health and safety.
Barclays regularly reviews its Statement of Health and Safety Commitment, issued with the authority of the Board and enlarged BlackRock group.
Barclays has provided BlackRock with customary warranties and indemnities in connection with the sale.
which applies to all business areas in which Barclays has operational control.
In this statement Barclays commits to: Barclays will also continue to provide support in respect of certain BGI cash funds until December 2013 and indemnities in respect of certain of BGIs demonstrate personal leadership that is consistent with this fully collateralised securities lending activities until 30th November 2012. commitment: provide the appropriate resources to full this commitment: Research and development In the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products and carry out risk assessments and take appropriate actions to mitigate the services in each of its business units.
risks identied: consult with our employees on matters affecting their health and safety: Financial Instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including ensure that appropriate information, instruction, training and the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which supervision are provided: hedge accounting is used, and the exposure to market risk, credit risk appoint competent persons to provide specialist advice: and and liquidity risk are set out on pages 66 to 136 under the headings, Barclays risk management strategy, Credit risk management, Market risk review Barclays Health and Safety Group Process and the Statement management and Liquidity risk management.
of Commitment, at regular intervals.
Events after the Balance Sheet Date Barclays monitors its health and safety performance using a variety Events after the balance sheet date are noted on page 270. of measurements on a monthly basis and the Board Remuneration Committee receives annual reports on health and safety performance The Auditors from Barclays Human Resources Director.
In 2010, a Health and Safety The Board Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the external Steering Committee was established to ensure decisions are taken auditors, as well as their relationship with the Group, including monitoring relating to the Health and Safety Global Standard and to oversee the the Groups use of the auditors for non-audit services and the balance of operation of a coordinated Health and Safety control framework.
audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
More details on this can be The Committee meets on a quarterly basis and produces a quarterly found on page 208. report for the HR Risk Committee.
As part of its Partnership Agreement with Unite Amicus section, Barclays currently funds full time Health  LLP have been the Companys auditors for and Safety Representatives.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committee has not considered it necessary to date Creditors Payment Policy to require them to tender for the audit work but will keep this issue under Barclays values its suppliers and acknowledges the importance of paying review.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partners invoices, especially those of small businesses, in a timely manner.
Barclays responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years.
Our policy follows the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills Prompt previous lead audit partner, who had been in place for five years, was Payment Code, copies of which can be obtained from the Prompt Payment replaced for the 2010 year end.
There are no contractual obligations Code website at www.
restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that the existing auditors, The trade creditor payment days for Barclays Bank PLC for 2010 were  LLP, be reappointed.
This is an arithmetical calculation based on the Companies Act regulations and does not necessarily reect our practice,  LLP have signied their willingness to continue which is described above, nor the experience of any individual creditor.
in ofce and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the Essential Business Contracts 2011 AGM.
So far as each of the Directors are aware, there is no relevant There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each of arrangements that are considered essential to the business of the Group.
