Performance by division continued Our structure ensures that we can adapt quickly at a time when competition is more intense in some parts of the world than others.
Adrian Cox Head of specialty lines specialty lines The specialty lines division, led by Adrian Cox, concentrates on data breach as professionally and reassuringly as possible, professional and management liability business.
Our experience including providing free credit monitoring for affected individuals.
in these lines of business is substantial.
We have been Other growth lines of business include miscellaneous medical underwriting some lines, including lawyers professional liability risks and small business see case study.
Healthcare is the and architects and engineers A&E professional liability which largest industry in the US and there is a very wide array of together comprised 14% of our book in 2010, since Beazley specialist healthcare providers and service companies including was founded 25 years ago.
blood and tissue banks, contract research organisations, and We are therefore no strangers to soft or softening markets and medi-spas and dialysis clinics that require tailored coverage and our cycle management experience played a major role in expert claims services.
Our team, led by Evan Smith in Chicago, achieving a 93% combined ratio in 2010, despite competition in is well equipped to meet their needs.
The diversity of our book also benefited We have made encouraging progress in the new markets that we us: we underwrite a wide range of professional liability risks in the began to target in 2009 and 2010, environmental risks and M&A US and Europe and our Lloyds-based management liability transaction liability.
Our environmental risks team, based in underwriters are the leading insurers of US directors and officers Philadelphia under John Beauchamp, now has a full product D&O insurance and employment practices liability EPL range.
One member of the team, Nick Pearson, has begun insurance in the London market.
Over the past several years, we underwriting at the Beazley box at Lloyds: we aim to help foster have achieved a diversity of product, geography, size of risk and the development of a specialist environmental risks market in the distribution channel that has significantly mitigated our exposure London market.
John McNally, who joined us at the end of 2009, has made a Our structure ensures that we can adapt quickly at a time when very strong start in building a presence for Beazley in the growing competition is more intense in some parts of the world than in market for M&A transaction liability insurance.
Our combined underwriting and claims teams are globally have been buoyed by a rise in M&A activity globally and also by a organised and can therefore flex their underwriting strategies to more risk averse attitude among private equity investors, making maximise profitable opportunities on a global basis.
In 2010 we them more inclined to purchase insurance.
were able to grow our business profitably in a number of areas while retrenching in lines that did not meet our underwriting Exceptional claims service strengthens client loyalty in requirements, such as D&O and mid-market A&E business.
a competitive environment and is central to our value proposition.
In 2010 we began to handle a large volume of A&E and EPL We have historically maintained, and will continue to maintain, a claims internally, as opposed to outsourcing them to external conservative approach to reserving.
As the cost of claims against counsel a move that has helped us get closer to our clients as the policies we underwrite becomes clear, we can make prudent well as saving costs.
These releases amounted to $56.9m in 2010 2009: $57.8 million.
We are always mindful of the pressures facing our clients and look for ways we can help them grow and prosper.
At the end of Our strongest growth line has been data breach insurance.
Our 2010, we were delighted to win the business of a large Beazley Breach Response flagship product continues to make international law firm created by the merger of two smaller, but the running in a market where demand is constantly fuelled by still substantial firms, neither of which had been Beazley clients high profile media stories of the damage that poorly managed before.
We see significant opportunities ahead for us to help data breaches can cause.
Ours is essentially a reputation meet the needs of large scale professional services firms with management solution, focusing on handling the aftermath of a global operations.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Gross premiums written Portfolio mix 780 760 $ 740 720 700 744.0m 680 Gross premiums written 660 640 620 Small business 19% 600 Management liability 19% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Technology media and business 15% Healthcare 12% Professions 28% Treaty 7% Small business shows robust growth The professional liability needs of small businesses have proven a strong growth area for Beazleys US underwriters, with premiums more than doubling in volume in two years, from $9.1 million in 2008 to $18.5 million in 2010.
Beazleys US private enterprise team focuses primarily on For both Beazley and our brokers, small business the professional liability needs of businesses with fewer which typically generates commissions of only a few than 500 employees or with assets of less than $35 hundred dollars per client must be transacted very swiftly million.
Many of these businesses are technology service and efficiently if it is to be economical.
Beazley structures providers that can face crippling lawsuits if they fail their its small business units to allow efficient distribution of its clients.
Others engage in widely varying activities such as products both in London and on-shore in the US.
We use a market research, or event planning or graphic design variety of methods of placement to allow both access to that would not generally be seen as professions but skilled underwriters and process efficiency through the use where clients nevertheless expect professional standards of MGAs as well as an in-house sales force for our US and can sue if they are dissatisfied.
These exposures are admitted business.
This latter distribution has proven to be covered by what is known as miscellaneous professional extremely effective, and the growth of our small US liability cover, demand for which has been growing steadily.
admitted business has been rewarding.
A more recent driver of demand has been the risk of In these markets, as in others, Beazleys credibility is losing sensitive customer data.
Small companies have supported by a long track record as the insurer of some of been sensitized to this risk by almost daily news coverage the largest professional services businesses in the world, of high profile data breaches and their impact on customer including many of the largest and best known confidence.
Beazley Breach Response, which provides a management consultants, law firms, and engineering turnkey service to notify and protect customers whose design firms.
In the technology arena, Beazley also insures personally identifiable data has been lost or stolen, is two thirds of the top 25 global software and software particularly attractive to small businesses that lack the services companies as ranked by Software Magazine.
knowledge or resources to manage a data breach effectively by themselves.
