Quick read continued Life, accident & health Marine A growing and diversifying portfolio: With an experienced team of leading We participate in the insurance Since Beazleys establishment in 1986 underwriters who have been together of approximately 13.5% of the since the early 1990s, our personal worlds ocean-going tonnage and and particularly since 2001 our accident and specialty life business is are the prominent leader of voyage business has grown and diversified written on both an insurance and and tow business in the London reinsurance basis and covers a market.
We insure 35% of the top significantly.
This chart shows the number of niche classes, including 200 global oil and gas companies sports disability.
The business was growth of gross written premiums for and are a major lead for upstream acquired by Beazley in 2008. energy clients.
We have extensive all business managed by the group.
experience insuring a wide variety The group share of this premium was of cargoes including project, fine art and specie.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Political risks & contingency Property Reinsurance Specialty lines In addition to traditional lines such Weve protected clients ranging The reinsurance team specialises Specialty lines comprises as contract frustration, expropriation from Fortune 1000 companies to in writing worldwide property professional liability and and credit, we insure a growing homeowners through 18 years of catastrophe: per risk: aggregate management liability risks number of businesses against natural and man-made excess of loss and pro-rata business: underwritten for clients on both a terrorism and political violence.
More than 80% primary and excess basis in North Our contingency team is one of the of our top 20 clients have reinsured America, Europe and around the In addition to the worldwide strongest in the London market.
Our US clients are served commercial property business we We specialise in event cancellation both by our underwriters at Lloyds write at Lloyds, we also underwrite writing everything from weddings and by our local US-based construction and engineering risks to world cups.
underwriters, including our dedicated in Singapore: commercial property small business team that focuses on risks both admitted and nonthe needs of smaller scale clients.
admitted locally in the US: as well as high value homeowners risks in the US and UK.
Your insurance and for architects and engineers.
Today, Lloyds Market Board from 1994 to has been cancelled, ran the Beazley insures almost half of the top 100 1997, during which time the market headline of a cover story in Time law fi rms in the US and almost two thirds responded to some of the heaviest magazine on 24 March 1986. of the top 50 architectural and losses in its history with radical reforms The article described a national engineering design fi rms.
including the creation of Equitas to reinsure liabilities from earlier years.
crisis in liability insurance Andrew led the company for 22 years following years of eye-popping before handing over to Andrew Horton in Throughout this time, Beazley damage awards.
His ambition for the company underwriters travelled constantly to the grew as new opportunities arose but his United States then as now Lloyds Some might have found it an alarming vision to maintain Beazley as the most largest market to talk with clients and time to establish a Lloyds managing attractive home for the most talented brokers about the challenges Lloyds agency focusing on US professional underwriters and claims professionals in faced and its plans to overcome them.
liability business and catastrophe treaty the insurance business never At a time when the Lloyds market was reinsurance.
But Andrew Beazley and changed.
unrated by the credit rating agencies, Nick Furlonge supported by Robert the personal credibility of Andrew The early growth and diversifi cation of Hiscox, who backed the new managing Beazley and his colleagues was the fi rm took place against a backdrop agency saw an opportunity.
important in maintaining confi dence of often extreme turbulence for the Twenty fi five years later, their confi dence in Lloyds.
In the late 1980s has proved justifi ed.
Between 1986 when and early 1990s, the Lloyds market was Later, Andrew was a member of the the stamp capacity of Beazley syndicate shaken to its foundations by the Chairmans Strategy Group at Lloyds, 623 at Lloyds was $13.4 million and combined impact of long-tail liabilities which set down a blueprint for further 2010 when Beazley Group underwrote for risks such as asbestosis and reforms including the creation of the $1.74 billion in gross premiums the pollution cleanup and more recent Franchise Board in 2003.
With the business has achieved an unbroken catastrophes such as the Piper Alpha oversight of the Franchise Board, Lloyds record of profi tability.
In 1986, Andrew North Sea oil rig explosion in 1988 and has enjoyed the most profi table period Beazley underwrote the syndicates fi first hurricane Hugo in 1989.
com Quic Quick r k read ead Annual s Annual st tat atement ement P Per erf for ormance b mance by division y division F Financial r inancial re evie view w Cor Corpor porat ate go e gov ver ernance finance F Financial s inancial st tat atements ements 25 years of profi table growth...... and inspiration In the early years of the 21st century, solely by numbers.
He created an Andrews contribution to Beazley Group Andrew championed the most signifi cant entrepreneurial fi rm with a culture that was as signifi cant at the end of his strategic move the company had made proved a magnet for talent in London tenure as chief executive as at the since its foundation, leading it to expand and around the world a company that beginning.
Leadership transitions can be locally into the US market from 2005. was as unstuffy and stylish as its chief challenging, particularly when the baton As before, the vision was consistent executive.
His inimitable humour, is being passed by a founder of the to apply to small and mid-sized US charisma and style will be remembered company whose name is also over the business the same entrepreneurial by all who knew him.
Andrew was staunch in his underwriting approach, in the same lines Furlonge, Andrew pioneered open plan support of Andrew Horton as the of business, that had succeeded for offi ces at Beazley at a time when most companys new chief executive from large risks in London.
London market insurance executives September 2008 onward, but was were cloistered in panelled rooms.
always careful to give him the space to Expansion in the US market was a risk in redefi ne the role and develop his own its own right.
Beazley was the fi first Andrew was diagnosed with cancer in vision for the companys future.
Lloyds-based insurer to obtain a licence 2007.
His response was characteristic to underwrite insurance on an admitted Andrew Beazley died on 13 October of the man.
A bump in the road was basis in all 50 US states.
The company that he and Nick how he described his condition to has paid off, with Beazleys US offi ces Furlonge founded in 1986, in a small colleagues, while making plans for a writing gross premiums both admitted City offi ce with two second hand desks, smooth leadership transition.
As the and non admitted of $393.6m locally a battered hatstand and a borrowed aggressive therapies prescribed to fi ght in the US in 2010, nearly a quarter of computer, lives on.
the disease took their toll on his physical the groups total premiums.
appearance, Andrew dusted off his fathers old bowler hat, which he wore To his friends and colleagues at Beazley, with considerable lan.
Andrew Beazleys contribution to the company that he led as chief executive for 22 years can never be measured Beazley Annual Report 2010 11
