Performance by division continued Our well diversified portfolio mitigated the impact of earthquakes in Chile and New Zealand and we achieved a combined ratio of 90%.
Patrick Hartigan Head of reinsurance reinsurance Our reinsurance division, led by Patrick Hartigan, saw $8bn.
The share of this borne by the reinsurance strong growth in 2010, writing $174.4m in gross division must wait on the adjustment of claims at the premiums, an increase of 23% on 2009.
diversified portfolio mitigated the impact of earthquakes The New Zealand loss proved more challenging for the in Chile and New Zealand and we achieved a combined market to quantify and in common with almost all ratio of 90%.
Our main focus is on property reinsurance, market participants, we have revised our original more than two thirds of which is catastrophe protection estimate upward to $35.0m originally $15m-$30m.
for clients that, in many cases, have reinsured with Beazley for much of the companys 25 year history.
Losses of this kind are of course the raison dtre of a reinsurer.
In the aftermath of the Chilean earthquake we In 2010 we increased our premium capacity through took steps to support clients that were under severe the establishment of a new special purpose syndicate, financial pressure by advancing funds before their claims 6107, supported by additional capital supplied by Lloyds were fully adjusted.
This has enabled us to write larger lines for our preferred clients.
We see a broad range of business at the Beazley box at Lloyds but in 2008 we also opened an office in Munich Eighteen named storms formed in the north Atlantic but to access continental European business that would none made landfall in the US.
However, the Chilean normally be placed exclusively in the local market.
earthquake that struck at the beginning of the year Andreas Bergler and his team moved to a new and generated a loss to Beazley, across our reinsurance and larger office in 2010 and the business, sourced from proprty teams, originally estimated at between $55m throughout southern Europe, continues to grow and and $75m, based on a market-wide loss of $5bn to perform well.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Portfolio mix Gross premiums written 250 $ 200 150 1 74.4m 100 Gross premiums written 50 Property catastrophe 81% 0 Casualty clash 1% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Property risk pro rata 17% Misc 1% Chile earthquake Early in the morning of 27 February 2010, the seventh strongest earthquake ever recorded occurred off the coast of Chile, 325km southwest of the capital Santiago.
The quake, which killed hundreds and badly damaged more than half a million homes, was the biggest to hit Chile in 50 years.
Far stronger than the quake that had hit Haiti the For Beazley the cost of the quake, which ranked as previous month, the Chile earthquake was also far the most expensive catastrophe of 2010 for insurers, deeper.
This, combined with the more robust was relatively modest, at between $55 million and $75 construction of many of the affected buildings, million.
Lloyds has estimated net losses for the Lloyds meant that the destruction and loss of life although market as a whole at $1.4 billion.
extensive was far less than that caused by the The full scale of claims will take some time to earlier catastrophe.
materialise for reinsurers, judging from previous For insurers, however, it was a far more costly event.
However, the pressures on Estimates of the total insured cost were in the region of the local insurance market in the immediate aftermath $8 billion.
Chile is a heavily insured country and the of the quake were in some cases acute and our quake struck near to major centres of population, reinsurance team moved swiftly to provide the including Santiago, with a population of more than support needed.
