Board of directors Executive directors Andrew Horton Martin Bride Nicholas Furlonge Andrew Horton aged 48 was Martin Bride aged 47 is group Nicholas Furlonge aged 60 started appointed chief executive on fi finance director having joined Beazley his Lloyds career in 1971.
Martin has 25 years He co-founded Beazley Furlonge was fi finance director and he joined experience in the insurance industry with Andrew Beazley in 1985.
Prior to that, with more than half of those as a director of risk management and is he was UK chief fi financial offi cer at fi finance director.
He trained as a also responsible for the groups ING and was deputy global chief general insurance actuary before brand and communications.
He is fi financial offi cer and global head of pursuing a career in the composite a non-executive director of: Lloyds fi finance for the equity markets division insurance sector with Aviva and Zurich franchise board, Lloyds market of ING Barings, having held various Financial Services.
His experience association and chairman of the fi financial positions with ING Barings spans personal and commercial lines Lloyds community programme.
He qualifi ed as a general insurance, the London Market, chartered accountant with Coopers life insurance and asset management and Lybrand in 1987. in both the UK and France.
Adrian Cox Jonathan Gray Neil Maidment Clive Washbourn Jonathan Gray aged 57 is the head Neil Maidment aged 48 is the Clive Washbourn aged 50 is the Adrian Cox aged 39 was appointed of the groups property division.
chairman of the groups underwriting head of the groups marine division.
to the board on 6 December 2010 Jonathan has 34 years of experience committee and has responsibility for Clive has 24 years experience in the and heads up the specialty lines at Lloyds, joining Beazley in 1992. the reinsurance division, political risks marine insurance industry and division.
Prior to joining Beazley in He is an active underwriter in his area & contingency group and the accident actively underwrites marine hull, June 2001, Adrian was at General of expertise, open market commercial and life division.
Neil has 25 years of marine liability and marine war risks.
Cologne Re for eight years.
He joined Beazley He is a member of the LMA Marine his career writing short tail facultative in 1990 and is the active underwriter Committee, the LMA Underwriting reinsurance before moving to the for the managed syndicates.
and Claims Committee and is the treaty department in 1997, where chairman of the Joint War Committee.
he wrote both short and long tail business, specialising in fi financial lines.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Non-executive directors Jonathan Agnew George Blunden Gordon Hamilton Padraic OConnor Jonathan Agnew aged 69 is the George Blunden aged 58 was Gordon Hamilton aged 65 retired Padraic OConnor aged 61 is chairman of the company.
He is as a senior audit partner in Deloitte & chairman of the Irish Stock Exchange was formerly a managing director of currently chairman of Charity Bank Touche LLP after more than 30 years, and a non-executive director of Morgan Stanley and subsequently the and a non-executive director of the principally involved with listed Rabobank, JP Morgan Bank Dublin Ltd chief executive of Kleinwort Benson.
investment advisory fi rm Meridian.
He multi-national company audits and and a number of other companies.
He He has been the chairman of Limit retired as senior vice president and major forensic assignments.
He is was managing director of NCB Group plc, Gerrard Group plc, Nationwide director from AllianceBernstein Ltd in currently a non-executive director between 1991 and 1999 prior to Building Society and LMS Capital plc.
He had previously of a number of companies including which he was chief economist at the He is currently chairman of Ashmore been chief executive of Union plc and the listed South African group, fi rm.
Before joining NCB, Mr. OConnor Global Opportunities Limited and The a director of SG Warburg Securities Barloworld Limited, and is a member worked at the Department of Finance Cayenne Trust plc and is senior and Seccombe, Marshall and of the Financial Reporting Review and the Central Bank of Ireland.
He independent director of Rightmove Campion plc.
holds primary and postgraduate plc.
He was a member of the Council degrees in economics from University of Lloyds and of Lloyds Market Board College Dublin.
Andy Pomfret Vincent Sheridan Ken Sroka Rolf Tolle Andy Pomfret aged 50 was Vincent Sheridan aged 62 is currently Ken Sroka aged 57 was appointed to Rolf Tolle aged 63 was appointed appointed chief executive of Rathbone a non-executive director of FBD the board on 12 November 2010.
He to the board on 6 December 2010.
Brothers plc in 2004, having held the Holdings Ltd, Mercer Ireland Limited was formerly head of product He joined the board of Beazley position of fi finance director since and a number of other companies.
He development at Zurich Financial Furlonge Ltd in June 2010.
Prior to that, he held positions retired as Chief Executive of Vhi Services, retiring in 2008.
During his as franchise performance director at at Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co now Healthcare in 2008 and prior to that fi fifteen years at Zurich Financial Services, Lloyds in December after seven years KPMG and Kleinwort Benson.
was Group Chief Executive of the he created and directed Zurichs in the role, during which time he was Norwich Union Insurance Group in fi financial lines business in North America widely credited for establishing a new Ireland for ten years from 1991 to and more recently and successful partnership between 2001.
He is a past president of the he focused on the development of the Corporation of Lloyds and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in specialist products in North America market.
Prior to that, he served as Ireland and a former Director of the as president and CEO of Zurich North chief underwriting offi cer of Faraday Irish Stock Exchange.
American Specialties Division products Group, General Res Lloyds insurance included environmental, excess liability, and reinsurance operation.
professional liability, political risk and accident & health.
Prior to joining Zurich in 1993, Mr Srokas career included roles at Chubb, AIG and USF&G.
