Performance by division continued A cohesive team, combined with the strength of the Beazley name, contributed to a 15% growth in premiums.
Chris Branch Head of life, accident & health life, accident & health Life, accident & health, led by Chris Branch, is Beazleys Lloyds reputation as a market for specialist Life assurance.
It contributed to the groups strong A large proportion of our book is annually renewable group underwriting performance in 2010, recording a combined life business covering death by natural causes.
ratio of 97% 2009: 108% on gross premiums that rose Our sports portfolio is smaller but very high profi le.
The majority of The Lloyds sports consortium, which we lead with a 40% our team has worked together for more than a decade, share, is the largest insurer of sports liability risks for building a recognised presence as a leader in the London professional athletes outside the US.
Rates in this sector market, fi first through Momentum Underwriting have been under pressure but we continue to see profi table Management Limited MUM and, since Beazley business.
We insured more than 150 of the players who acquisition of MUM in 2008, under the Beazley banner.
participated in the 2010 World Cup in South Africa.
Two renewals have occurred since the team joined Beazley and our business has grown by 42% since that In the US, we have pursued a two-pronged approach to time.
We lead 65% of the business we underwrite.
Peter Slot has been underwriting accident and health risks on a reinsurance basis from Personal accident business is our biggest class, our Chicago offi ce since January 2009.
Simultaneously underwritten on both an insurance and reinsurance we have been building a team capable of securing us a basis.
This business represented 74% of our total book presence as a specialist US insurer of gap protection or, in premium terms, $57.6m, in 2010.
The risks we accident and health cover at a time of great upheaval in underwrite are diverse, including the crews of ships and the US healthcare insurance market.
Gap protection aircraft, television crews on assignment to high risk insurance covers exposures not normally covered under locations, credit card holders and key man cover for healthcare insurance policies.
In January last year we corporate executives.
The depth of our experience as a appointed Paul Gulstrand to head this team and Paul direct insurer in this class is often invaluable to us as a has been building the team and designing a product reinsurer, giving us a better understanding of the risks we suite that will be attractive to brokers, employers and are shown.
The fi first of these products will be launched The Beazley Life syndicate, 3622, was established in this spring.
We recently contracted with Health Payment November 2008 and was at that time the fi first such Systems, one of the largest third party administrators in syndicate to be created in 20 years.
Since then a further the US, to ensure that our online enrolment and claims fi five life syndicates have been established, strengthening service is streamlined and easy to use.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Portfolio mix Gross premiums written 90 80 $ 70 60 78.1m 50 40 Gross premiums written 30 20 10 PA direct 32% Life reinsurance 9% PA reinsurance 41% Sports disability 4% 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Life direct 14% For club or country?
Rugby has never been a sport for the fainthearted and the risk of injury when a club player plays for his country is very real.
Fortunately an innovative form of personal accident insurance led by Beazley provides comfort for clubs that their fi nances will be protected from the effects of such injuries.
The cover protects clubs in more than a dozen countries tournament, could be an anxious time for rugby clubs against the cost of paying salaries to players who are across Europe.
In a single match against Wales in temporarily sidelined due to injuries they sustained 2010, three Scottish players suffered injuries that while playing for their country.
For players up to 29 resulted in prolonged absences from the game and, years of age, the full salary will be covered, up to a limit in one case, early retirement.
At present around 300 professional rugby players are The insurance also protects the players themselves or covered under the programme, alleviating the potential their families in the event of permanent total disability for tensions between club and country over the match or accidental death while playing, practising or training readiness of increasingly valuable players.
Prior to the expansion of the cover beyond English clubs in 2010, the months of February and March, when teams from England, Wales, Scotland, France, Ireland and Italy battle it out in the Six Nations Beazley Annual Report 2010 21 $m Performance by division continued With one of the most experienced teams at Lloyds, we achieved an improved combined ratio in 2010.
Clive Washbourn Head of marine marine Our marine division, led by Clive Washbourn, delivered pricing in the market has been signifi cant.
Our Oslo another excellent performance in 2010, achieving a offi ce, which we opened at the beginning of 2010 to combined ratio of 71% 2009: 74% on gross premiums access Scandinavian energy business that is normally of $261.7m.
The team is among the most experienced retained in the local market, wrote $4.2m of premium at Lloyds, leading 53% of business underwritten and during 2010. covering risks that include marine hull, liability and cargo: In addition to our London presence, we now have four energy: and war and terrorism risks for both ships and regional offi ces in the UK, focusing on cargo business, aircraft.
Within our liability account, we have a growing as well as the offi ce in Oslo and an offi ce in Hong Kong.
book of professional liability business, protecting Our Hong Kong offi ce has been successful in developing organisations involved in marine trade and in shipbuilding our position in the Asian cargo market: in the UK our from marine surveyors to shipyards against fi financial portfolio has been slower to develop and a focus of the liability arising from a breach of their professional duties.
team in 2011 will be to strengthen broker relationships Our marine hull and cargo underwriters had a successful to access a larger share of this business.
year, despite a depressed freight market.
Global demand In 2009 we established a new team focusing on marine has been stronger in the bulk transport sector, where we professional liability risks under Zareena Hussain.
This is have focused, than in the containerised sector.
Risk not business that has historically been insured at Lloyds selection is ever more important: as economic pressures and we are delighted to be playing a role in developing on ship owners have risen, some have cut expenditures the market.
The strength of Beazleys specialty lines on upkeep sharply, resulting in more breakdowns.
Our division in non-marine professional liability, where we ship construction portfolio has also shrunk as fewer ships are a recognised market leader, has proved a source of with smaller contract values have been ordered.
credibility and valuable broker introductions to the team.
War risks business, which includes piracy risks on maritime At the end of the year, we put Zareena and her team in trade routes, has remained profi table and demand is high.
charge of our entire marine liability book.
Lloyds is by a large margin the worlds pre-eminent market Our claims capabilities are critical to our reputation in the for marine war risks and we play an active role in this eyes of both brokers and clients.
In our market, insureds market, offering expert consulting and negotiation services and insurers have an important shared interest at the time to our clients as well as insurance cover.
The more rapidly the claim is reported In the energy market, premium rates remain strong, and adjusted, the sooner the insured will be paid and having risen by 9% in the Gulf of Mexico following the often the lower the overall cost of the claim will be.
Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion in April.
Deepwater We pride ourselves on settling valid claims swiftly.
Horizon was not a large loss for us but its effect on 22 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Portfolio mix Gross premiums written 300 $ 250 200 26 1.
7m 150 Gross premiums written 100 50 Cargo 13% Liability 5% Energy 40% War 12% 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Hull & misc 30% The longest voyage Roll-on, roll-off car ferries do not routinely make 12,000 mile voyages.
But at the end of their useful lives, a surprisingly large number of such vessels fi nd themselves on epic journeys across the high seas, bound for the west coast of northern India to be demolished.
Beazley has long been a leading insurer in the London During the next stage of the ships eventful voyage, market of so-called single voyage risks for such vessels.
Beazleys in-house marine surveyor, Kelvin Euridge, They can give rise to some complex claims.
In one had to fl y to Diego Suarez in northern Madagascar to recent case, a German-made roll-on, roll-off ferry that investigate why the vessel had once again lost power.
had been sold for scrap set out from Mayaguez, Puerto He recommended the despatch of two package Rico on 31 July 2010 and, at the time of writing, has generators from Durban in South Africa to enable the still to make port at Alang in Gujarat.
ship to attempt the fi final leg of her journey across the The vessels journey across the Atlantic was plagued Indian Ocean.
by mechanical diffi culties and took nearly three months.
Most single voyage risks are less eventful than this.
On 20 October 2010 she dropped anchor in Table Bay But due to the relatively poor condition of the vessels off Cape Town, where lacking propulsion she came that have been sold for scrap, they can prove close to running aground when the anchor failed to challenging to insure.
Over a number of years, Beazleys hold.
Following repairs to the starboard main engine marine team has won recognition in the market as the turbocharger, she once again took to sea on 31 October.
foremost insurer of such hard to place risks.
