Performance by division continued Claims on the trade credit component of our political risks book reverted to more normal levels and our combined ratio fell significantly.
Adrian Lewers Head of political risks & contingency political risks & contingency The political risks & contingency division at Beazley, led the same in the US, where we have appointed Lila Rymer to by Adrian Lewers, brings together a number of lines of underwrite political risks and trade credit business from our business that were either invented at Lloyds or substantially New York office.
The team writes three types Terrorism rates continued to decline in 2010 as we had of insurance risks: political risks, terrorism, and event expected, falling by 5% in line with the long-term trend since cancellation the last of which forms the largest part of our 2002, when commercial property insurers began to exclude contingency book.
In 2010 the team delivered an excellent coverage for terrorism risks.
Profitable opportunities result, achieving a combined ratio of 65% 2009: 112% continue to exist in this market, in which we underwrote on gross premiums of $100.9m, and representing an $44.4m.
The terrorism team has specific expertise in hard impressive return to profit compared to 2009.
Our business to place countries like Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan but is predominantly written in Lloyds and we lead 67% of has little exposure in India and Thailand which have seen risks underwritten.
the major loss activity in recent years.
In January this year, After a difficult year for the political risks market in 2009 Chris Parker joined us from Marsh to lead the team.
caused by a number of large trade credit losses in emerging Our contingency team, led by Chris Rackliffe, had an markets following the global financial crisis, claims excellent year, writing total premium of $24.5m, including frequency has returned in 2010 to below long-term leading the event cancellation cover for the World Cup in averages.
Rates on our political risks business rose 6% and South Africa.
We underwrite event cancellation risks of we underwrote $34.0m in gross premiums.
Our highly widely varying sizes, from major international sporting events regarded claims team also progressed towards some to small trade shows and exhibitions.
The small risks part of significant recoveries albeit that we continue to take a our business was boosted in 2010 by the launch of Beazley cautious view in our reserves of the quantum and timeframe Access, our web-based broker trading system, designed to for future recoveries.
help brokers place small scale risks more effectively and We reaffirmed in 2010 our appetite for trade credit risks efficiently.
The initial focus for Beazley Access has been that meet our exacting underwriting criteria, including a the UK and to this end we appointed Michael Price to focus on experience and positive track record on the part of implement our UK growth strategy.
our clients and significant coinsurance requirements to align our clients interests more closely with ours.
Our main focus continues to be on trade credit risk in developing markets but we are also seeing an increasing volume of business in the developed world.
Our preference whenever possible is to underwrite political risks business from London, where we have a strong concentration of underwriting, claims and analytical skills, but we are willing to locate underwriters overseas in markets that either have a critical mass of their own or attract business that is not seen in London.
This was the approach that we took in 2008 with the appointment of Crispin Hodges to spearhead the growth of our business in Singapore.
And from the beginning of this year, we are doing 24 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Portfolio mix Gross premiums written 140 120 $ 100 80 100.9m 60 Gross premiums written 40 20 Contingency 27% Political 30% 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Terrorism 43% More than talking about the weather Everybody talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it, said Mark Twain.
In 2010, Beazley started to do something about the weather, offering clients contingency cover to address business disruptions caused by severe or unexpected weather patterns.
The service is underpinned by an exceptional database of local authorities.
Insurance may prove a more efficient of climate data from around the world that is way of providing for this risk than stockpiling salt or continuously updated.
The most obvious application is holding funds in escrow.
weather-related event cancellation insurance, for which Weather-related promotions are also growing in Beazley is a leading market.
But other forms of cover popularity, with stores offering to reimburse customers are also available: hotels, for example, may wish to for their purchases if, for example, snowfalls during a compensate guests for untypically poor weather that predetermined period prove far greater than normal.
may have spoiled a holiday experience.
Winter weather in the UK has recently been unusually severe, with heavy snowfalls overwhelming the resources Beazley Annual Report 2010 25 $m
