Performance by division continued Our leadership position in the market gave us flexibility and an improved underwriting performance at a time of falling premium rates.
Jonathan Gray Head of property property Our property team, led by Jonathan Gray, is a major insurer successful.
We have retained the skilled underwriters who of large property risks on a global basis in the Lloyds had won for First State a deserved reputation as one of the market, leading 77% of the business we underwrote in most professional insurers in the market: and we have 2010.
In the US, we have a substantial and growing book integrated the First State and Beazley offices and the of surplus lines commercial property business underwritten systems that support them.
In 2010 we underwrote by the highly experienced team that joined Beazley through $110.0m in surplus lines commercial property premiums, our acquisition of First State in 2009: we also insure US up from $102.8 million in 2009. high value homeowners.
In 2010, we began writing Our construction and engineering business had a more construction business locally in the US.
Despite losses in challenging year with competition both in London and in Chile, this diverse book of business still generated a profit of Singapore, where since 2006 we have been underwriting $24.2m and a combined ratio of 97% in 2010, down from construction risks that would not normally be shown to 103% in 2009.
Global demand for cover has been Competition continues in our markets, with premium rates lower than in the early years of the decade due to the overall falling by 4%.
While we cannot buck market trends, recession, although activity is stronger in South East Asia the high proportion of business that we lead does give us than elsewhere.
In 2010 we also began to write more flexibility in setting rates and terms at a time of construction business known as builders risk locally in deteriorating market conditions.
High quality claims service the US, a market in which we were previously underweight.
also reduces the price sensitivity of clients who have Our US team, based in Chicago, is building good insured with Beazley for many years.
At 73%, the retention relationships in the US broking community.
rate on our large risks London market business is high.
Our UK homeowners business, which wrote $16.9m in A large proportion of the property business that comes into 2010, is now smaller than it used to be, and more profitable.
Lloyds is small-scale risks underwritten under delegated We have concentrated on our core account binder facilities authorities granted to intermediaries known as Lloyds with well known producers that generate high retention rates coverholders in the US and elsewhere.
Paul Bromley and cancelled a number of unprofitable binders.
In the US, handles this aspect of our business, which performed we underwrite a book of high-value homeowners on a surplus well in 2010. lines basis through a small number of trusted wholesale brokers who are able to access this business efficiently.
In the US, 2010 was the year in which we completed the integration of First State.
The acquisition has proven very 26 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Portfolio mix Gross premiums written 450 400 $ 350 300 250 382.5m 200 Gross premiums written 150 100 50 US admitted property 10% Engineering 6% 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Jewellers & homeowners 11% Commercial property 62% Small property business 11% Jewellers block: a growing market For more than a decade, Beazley has been a leading insurer of British wholesale and retail jewellers and today insures around half of the jewellers premises in the country.
Jewellers block, as the class of business is known at making the criminals task more difficult.
For example, a Lloyds, is a growing market worldwide.
Insured values number of companies now offer systems that, at a push have increased with the rising price of gold and other of a button, can fill a jewellers shop with impenetrable precious metals, but perhaps even more significant black smoke, making it impossible for thieves to see the has been the growing affluence of consumers in Asia.
goods they seek or even the exit.
Another system In addition to UK jewellers, Beazley has a strong triggers sprinklers to spray water containing a compound presence in continental Europe and in the fast growing that stains the thieves clothes and skin ineradicably.
If the thieves are later apprehended, the police can Beazleys team is led by Derrick Harris, who has been simply shine ultra-violet light at them and, with the right underwriting jewellers block business since the early detection equipment, the compound will appear as a 1980s.
The teams success has hinged on careful client kind of digital fingerprint, uniquely coded to reveal the selection, good relationships with knowledgeable premises that they robbed.
brokers, and rigorous security surveys.
For clients, an However innovative the technology deployed, important attraction of Beazleys service is the very jewellers premises will continue to be attractive targets detailed advice on security that they receive, free of for theft for obvious reasons.
Fire losses can also be charge, with the cover.
Beazleys claims team has worked together Jewellers and their insurers are engaged in a constant for a number of years and is widely recognised to be battle of wits with criminals seeking to penetrate their among the most knowledgeable and responsive in the security systems.
Technology plays an important part in market.
