Annual statement Competitive markets are not new to Beazley.
In 2010 we delivered an improved underwriting performance against a backdrop of deteriorating market conditions.
Jonathan Agnew Andrew Horton Chairman Chief executive 2010 saw an exceptional performance from the company Growth opportunities for the insurance industry as a whole that Andrew Beazley and Nick Furlonge founded twenty proved limited in 2010.
At Beazley we identified and five years ago, maintaining our track record of unbroken capitalised on three, two organic and one the result of a profitability with a pre-tax profit of $250.8m 2009: prior acquisition.
Organically, our reinsurance business $158.1m on gross premiums that fell 1% from 2009 to grew by 23% to $174.4m, supported by our new special $1,741.6m.
Excluding a one-off foreign exchange gain of purpose syndicate 6107, backed by third party capital.
$33.7m, the pre-tax profit was $217.1m and despite By the end of December our reinsurance team had written competition increasing across most of our lines of $16.4m for the account of this syndicate.
business, we achieved an improved combined ratio of We also continued to see strong growth in demand for 88% 2009: 90%.
data breach insurance in the US.
Publicity surrounding The board is pleased to announce a second interim corporate data breaches involving the loss of personal dividend of 5.1 pence per ordinary share 2009: customer information continues at a high level.
Beazley 4.7 pence per ordinary share and a special dividend of Breach Response has been successfully introduced in 2.5 pence per ordinary share.
Together with the first the US market as a comprehensive solution to this interim dividend of 2.4 pence per ordinary share these growing risk.
dividends give a total of 10.0 pence.
Our third area of growth was in our life, accident & health Premium rates on renewal business fell by 2% 2009: 3% business, following our acquisition in 2008 of Momentum increase, placing increased emphasis on the skill of our Underwriting Management Limited MUM.
Premiums underwriters in identifying profitable underwriting underwritten by this division grew by 15% to $78.1m and opportunities.
Competitive markets are not new to the business performed better than we had expected, Beazley: through our history we have experienced multiple contributing $4.7m to profits.
As we had hoped, the market cycles.
The peaks and troughs vary by line of conjunction of the skills of the team, most of whom have business, geography and size of risk, so the task for a worked together for more than a decade, and the Beazley diversified business such as ours is to optimise the name has proved very attractive to brokers.
portfolio mix to achieve healthy returns across the cycle.
A further recent acquisition, that of the First State Our combined ratio of 88% and our return on equity of underwriting agency in the US, is now fully integrated 21.4% in 2010 2009: 16.0% reflects our success in into Beazley.
The highly experienced team led by Judy achieving this.
Patterson focuses on surplus lines commercial property Our investments returned $37.5m or 1.0% 2009: risks and forms the core of our excess and surplus E&S $88.1m, 2.7% in an environment characterised by commercial property business in the US, which continuing macro-economic uncertainty, weak global underwrote premiums of $110.0m last year demand and very low interest rates.
returns increased in the course of the year, but our focus Demand was also strong for energy insurance in 2010, remains on capital preservation given the continuing risk following the Deepwater Horizon disaster in the Gulf of of severe market downturns.
Accordingly, the majority of Mexico.
We expect demand for our products to remain our invested assets 63.8% at year end are cash, cash strong in 2011 as a result of rising commodity prices, equivalents and sovereign or supranational bonds and the customer awareness of risk and, in some cases, duration of our overall fixed income portfolio is just over regulators requiring additional financial security from oil one year.
We seek some return above risk free rates via a and gas companies.
Paul Dawson and his team are portfolio of capital growth assets.
respected heads of this class and will look to increase their share of the market if conditions remain attractive.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements The number of claims in our political risks book, which Change in functional currency had risen in 2009 due to the impact of the global In April 2010, we announced a change in our functional economic crisis on trade credit business, returned to currency for Beazley plc and its principal operating long-term average levels in 2010. entities from sterling to the US dollar, reflecting the growth of our dollar denominated premiums and the fact Specialty lines, our largest single division, also saw a that the regulatory capital supporting the business is reduction in frequency of claims for directors and largely held in dollars.
We believe that this change will officers D&O and employment practices liability EPL give investors a clearer understanding of the groups business, two of our more recession-exposed lines.
Accounting in dollars will approach to recession planning and cycle management significantly reduce the future volatility of Beazleys in specialty lines has been rigorous, reducing our reported earnings due to foreign exchange movements exposures in areas such as EPL, D&O and mid market and in particular due to foreign exchange on nonarchitects and engineers A&E professional liability while monetary items.
increasing our underwriting in areas such as data breach insurance and parts of our healthcare account.
Irish domicile In June 2009 we redomiciled our holding company to The end of 2010 and the start of 2011 have been Ireland.
The move has achieved all the objectives we marked by heavy rains and flooding in Queensland, described in last years annual report, affording us a Australia as well as a significant tropical storm, Yasi.
strong regulatory environment, and a competitive tax We do not expect the cost to Beazley of the insured regime.
Our effective tax rate in 2010 was 13%.
losses occuring in 2010 from these events to be We take comfort in the Irish governments strong material.
Whilst it is too early to be able to make any commitment to the existing corporate tax rate, which definitive statement concerning the events that have has proved an incentive to investment by many occurred so far during 2011 due to the uncertainty, we companies in the insurance industry, among others.
believe they will be contained within our first half 2011 catastrophe budgets.
Claims experience Delivery against strategic priorities Our claims experience was positive in 2010, with a Our strategy focuses on three areas: prudent capital claims ratio of 52% that was an improvement on 55% allocation to achieve sustainable profitability across the in 2009, despite the impact of two major earthquakes.
group: nurturing and enhancing our skills base: and Our balanced underwriting portfolio gives us the ability to scaling our operations so that, as growth opportunities offset the impact of catastrophe losses with profits from arise, we can continue to provide the high level of service other lines of business.
This also improves the capital that our clients and brokers have the right to expect.
In the second half of 2010 we made an approach to In 2010 the US hurricane season passed without acquire Hardy Underwriting Bermuda Limited Hardy, a incident but there were two significant earthquakes along small complementary and high quality specialty insurer.
the Pacific ring of fire, the first in Chile and the second Whilst our indicative offer represented a significant in New Zealand.
Our estimate of the claims cost from premium to Hardys net tangible assets, we would have the Chilean earthquake remains in the range of $55m to been able to achieve our target of return.
In the case of New Zealand we initially estimated Hardys board were of the view that our proposals did a group loss of $15m-$30m based on a market loss of not fully value the company and so we withdrew.
We have subsequently increased this to a Seeking to acquire teams of underwriters, underwriting group loss of $35m, based on the updated market view agents or small or medium sized insurance companies of losses to $3bn-$5bn.
Beazley Annual Report 2010 13 Annual statement continued In 2010 we planted the seeds for a number of growth opportunities that we expect to bear fruit in 2011 and future years.
in our target markets and product sets remains one of delighted to welcome Paul Gulstrand, who joined us from our key priorities.
UnitedHealth Group to develop our accident and health insurance business in the US.
We have to date been We have never been reluctant to return capital to underwriting accident and health risks on a reinsurance shareholders in circumstances where we are not basis locally in the US.
In the course of 2011, Paul and confident that we can allocate it to meet or exceed our his team will begin to offer a range of simple and pretax cross-cycle return on equity target rate of 18%.
streamlined insurance products to US employers that During the course of 2010 Beazley plc acquired 16.8m wish to offer gap protection to their employees in an of its own shares to be held in treasury at an average affordable manner, providing cover not normally afforded price of 112.1p.
under company health care plans.
Our markets are becoming more competitive but in All of our product lines, old and new, rely on the skills of 2010 we planted the seeds for a number of growth seasoned underwriting and claims professionals, working opportunities that we expect to bear fruit in 2011 and closely together, to deliver profitable growth over time.
John McNally, one of the most experienced Beazley is not a hierarchical or bureaucratic company: underwriters of M&A-related transaction liability over our 25 years we have found that the greatest insurance in London, joined our management liability success comes from taking highly motivated and team at Lloyds.
The team has since encountered a experienced individuals and giving them the strong appetite from private equity investors looking to entrepreneurial freedom to develop their business.
reduce some of the risks to which merger and This is the approach that has governed the growth of acquisitions M&A transactions are exposed.
We are fast our Lloyds business and we have found it holds becoming a leading market in London for these specialist particular appeal in the US where our marketing tag types of insurance, which are increasingly appealing to line is straight answers.
clients in Europe and Asia, as well as to the traditional buyers in the US.
A consequence of this approach is that we make hiring decisions very carefully.
Entrepreneurial freedom is not In the US, our newly formed environmental liability team to everyones taste and some underwriters lack the led by John Beauchamp unveiled three new products in experience to exercise it with confidence and success.
Environmental risks threaten a But the payback for investing time in identifying these wide variety of commercial organisations, including owners individuals is high: good people tend to stay with Beazley of property: industrial and commercial operations: general for many years.
and specialty contractors: and the environmental services industry.
The claims can be complex and benefit from Growth of locally underwritten US business strong risk management and claims support.
They play to In March, we celebrated our fifth anniversary as a local the strengths of Beazley and of Lloyds and we will begin US insurer.
In our first year, 2005, we underwrote $15m underwriting environmental risks from the Beazley box at through our US operations: last year we underwrote Lloyds in 2011.
A third area in which we see considerable growth potential for Beazley is the specialist accident and health market in the United States.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Locally underwritten US premiums 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Surplus business Admitted business Our local US business focuses on smaller scale risks Andrew Beazley in lines of business with which we were already very Andrew Beazley, who co-founded the company with familiar through our Lloyds syndicates.
Our position Nick Furlonge and led it successfully for 22 years, at Lloyds in large risk business has proved a powerful died on 13 October.
Andrew was a powerful source of source of credibility for our US underwriters in targeting inspiration to us and, through his career, to hundreds of smaller clients.
people at Beazley and in the broader insurance market.
We will miss him deeply as a colleague and as a friend.
Board and executive changes We made a series of additions to the Beazley board in Andrew co-founded and led a company that has 2010.
In November Ken Sroka joined the board as a achieved a 25-year record of unbroken profitability and non-executive director.
He was formerly head of product steady growth through often turbulent market conditions, development at Zurich Financial Services, where he built on mutual trust, openness, respect and a strong created and directed Zurichs financial lines business in sense of fun.
North America and more recently focused on the development of specialist products.
Jonathan Agnew Andrew Horton Rolf Tolle and Adrian Cox were appointed to the board in Chairman Chief executive December.
Rolf had joined the board of Beazley Furlonge Ltd, the Lloyds managing agency which forms part of the 8 February 2011 Beazley group, in June.
He retired as franchise performance director at Lloyds in December 2009 after seven years in the role.
Adrian has headed our largest division, Specialty Lines, since 2008.
We also made two appointments to the Beazley executive committee in 2010.
Strong broker relationships are the lifeblood of Beazley and we were delighted to welcome Dan Jones as a member of the senior management team in June.
In his new role, Dan who stood down as a non-executive director on the Beazley plc board is focusing on deepening relationships with key business producers around the world.
Dan brings extensive knowledge of the insurance broking sector on both sides of the Atlantic.
Between 1997 and 2005, he served as a senior executive at Marsh, Inc. Andrew Pryde has also joined the executive committee as chief risk officer.
As group actuary, Andrew has been leading our efforts to ensure compliance with Solvency II, which are well advanced.
