Investment Managers Report Portfolio performance In April, the Australian Government revealed plans to place a new After a difficult first six months, impacted by macro events such as the heavy tax burden on the domestic mining sector via a proposed Australian Resources Tax and fears of a Chinese hard landing, we are Resource Super Profit Tax RSPT.
This levy was filled with many happy to report a strong finish to 2010.
In fact it would be remiss of us contentious points and would have penalised efficient operations that not to highlight that at the end of 2010 the share price had recovered had already paid back the original capital investment.
This would have all of the ground lost during the financial crisis.
For the year to made Australia one of the least attractive places in the world for 31 December 2010, the Companys net asset value NAV and share mining companies to operate and invest notwithstanding the fact that price rose by 46.3% and 48.6% respectively both percentages it has one of the greatest mineral endowments!
calculated in sterling terms with income reinvested.
In capital only terms, the NAV rose by 45.3% and the share price by 47.5%.
By The prospect of this tax coming into effect caused significant falls in comparison, the HSBC Global Mining Index, in sterling terms, rose by the valuations of all mining assets.
The Company was caught up in this 33.6% capital only and 35.6% total return.
move due to the high exposure to growth orientated companies, especially in the iron ore and coal sectors in Australia.
However, as a Mining share overview result of combined pressure from the voting public and the mining After the massive rebound in valuations seen in 2009, we started this sector, an amended proposal was eventually agreed between the year confident of further recovery in commodity demand and company industry and the new Prime Minister.
The revised version of this tax, valuations but nonetheless cautious given how fresh the memories the Mineral Resources Rent Tax MRRT, overcomes most of the were of the rollercoaster moves of the previous two years.
As such, controversial aspects of the RSPT and results in a more manageable the portfolio started 2010 with only 42 million of gearing, which was increase in taxation.
Nevertheless, the spectre of the original proposal offset against the high yield resource debt portfolio accumulated is fresh in investors minds and there remains some uncertainty during the mining company re-financings of the previous year, and around the ability of companies to offset State level royalties against commodity exposure was focused on copper, precious metals and the the Federal MRRT.
We hope for clarity on this as soon as possible.
In hindsight this strategy served the Company well, as it was not long before the unbroken run of six consecutive months of positive Despite the volatility in share prices, supply and demand fundamentals gains for the sector ended in the first month of the year.
in the sector were robust.
Commodity demand remained strong throughout the year driven by continued growth in the emerging nations.
In addition, the actions to cut supply taken by the producers during 2008 2009, accelerated inventory depletion and in return helped Equity markets January 2010 December 2010 US$ markets back into balance or deficits in some cases sooner than most anticipated.
Metal prices started to reflect this early on in the year but it S&P 500 MSCI World HSBC Global Mining Index was not until the second half that prices really started to make new 130 ground on the back of the second phase of quantitative easing.
The 6 125 price of copper reached the previous all time high, set in 2008, at the 5 120 115 end of September and then promptly surged higher finishing the year up 2 110 3 31.4% and some 8% higher than the level reached in 2008.
105 100 95 1 Merger & acquisition M&A activity 4 90 As forecast in last years annual report, M&A took centre stage in 85 80 2010.
According to analysis by Citigroup, it was a record year for M&A Dec 09 Feb 10 Apr 10 Jun 10 Aug 10 Oct 10 Dec 10 in the mining sector with over 186 successful deals worth a total of US$134 billion.
This number does not include deals that failed but only Macro Events: those which were either completed or still in progress at the year end.
Introduction of monetary tightening policies by China to cool down rate of economic growth 2.
Original Resource Tax proposal announced by Australian Government The gold sector topped the leader-board with over US$40 billion of 3.
Eurozone debt concerns emerge deals announced, followed by coal and iron ore. What these sectors 4.
New Resource Rent Tax proposal announced have in common is a strong commodity price that is translating into 5.
FED policy makers start to discuss QE2 6.
Eurozone debt concerns resurface robust cash flows today, coupled with a supply demand outlook that should support elevated prices for a number of years hence.
therefore not surprise us to see further M&A in these sectors in 2011.
Other sectors with similar characteristics and where we would also January was marked by fears that Chinese financial tightening would expect to see further corporate activity would be copper, platinum result in a hard landing for the economy.
This prompted a rapid sell off although opportunities are limited due to the high level of in metal prices and a fide-rating of equity valuations.
However, consolidation and possibly mineral sands where demand has confidence soon returned and by the end of April the sector was back significantly improved in recent months.
into positive territory for the year.
What happened next can only be described as one of the most ill-considered political adventures to One of the larger transactions in the gold sector and the one that impact the mining sector in recent times.
impacted the portfolio most significantly was Newcrest Minings Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 5 Rebased to 100
