Directors Remuneration Report The Board presents the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 which has been prepared in accordance Performance from 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2010 with the requirements of sections 420-422 of the Companies Act 400 2006.
An ordinary resolution for the approval of this report will be put 350 to members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
300 250 The law requires the Companys auditors to audit certain parts of the 200 disclosures provided.
Where disclosures have been audited, they are 150 100 indicated as such.
The auditors opinion is included in their report on 50 page 30.
0 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 Remuneration Committee The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Remuneration BlackRock World Mining Trust NAV per share income reinvested Committee, which meets when necessary to consider any change in the Directors remuneration policy.
The Board is of the opinion that a HSBC Global Mining Index Remuneration Committee is not appropriate for a Company of this size income reinvested and nature and a separate Committee has therefore not been Sources: BlackRock and DataStream.
The Company has no employees.
The Companys Directors, all of whom are non-executive, are independent of the Investment Manager.
Remuneration Service contracts The maximum remuneration of the Directors is determined within the Remuneration policy aggregate limit set out in the Companys Articles of Association which The Boards policy is that the remuneration of the Directors needs to amounts to 125,000 per annum.
No element of the Directors be sufficient to attract and retain Directors with suitable knowledge remuneration is performance related.
The Company has not awarded and experience and should be fair and reasonable in relation to the any share options or long term performance incentives to any of the duties and responsibilities involved.
It is intended that this policy will Directors.
continue for the forthcoming year.
None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company or The Secretary provides a comparison of the Directors remuneration receives any non cash benefits or pension entitlements.
The terms of with other investment trusts of similar size and or mandate as well as their appointment are detailed in a letter sent to them when they join taking into account any data published by the Association of the Board.
These letters are available for inspection at the registered Investment Companies.
This comparison, together with consideration office of the Company.
of any alteration in non-executive Directors responsibilities, is used to review whether any change in remuneration is necessary.
Retirement of Directors All of the Companys Directors are subject to retirement by rotation as Performance per the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors are appointed for The graph which follows compares the Companys mid-market share an initial term covering the period from the date of their appointment price with income reinvested with the HSBC Global Mining Index until the first Annual General Meeting thereafter, at which time they income reinvested.
This Index was chosen for comparison purposes are required to stand for election in accordance with the Articles of as it is deemed to be the most relevant to the Companys investment Association.
Subsequently, Directors retire by rotation at least every objective and is the benchmark used when reporting to shareholders.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 23 Price rebased to 100
