Investment Managers Report continued increased exposure to gold via these funds.
At the end of the year The improvement in the spot price appears to have been triggered by combined ETF holdings of gold reached 2,138 tonnes, which would the combination of a production disappointment from ERA, the worlds place it sixth on the list of Central Bank gold holdings.
Official sector fourth largest uranium producer, which forced them into the spot activity continued to be supportive for the price: the IMF completed its market to fulfil contract requirements and increases in Chinese well publicised divestment of part of its gold reserves and it appears purchases.
Uranium equities, which had underperformed the that this gold was predominantly acquired by other governments, mining sector during 2009 and the first half of 2010, rebounded making 2010 the third year in a row in which Central Banks have significantly on the back of improved market sentiment.
The only accumulated gold for their reserves.
We believe that with no planned uranium holding in the Company, UEX 0.9% of the portfolio, was up sales of any size lined up for 2011, if Central Banks continue to acquire 122.6% for the year.
gold at the same rate, then this could be very positive for the market.
Fundamentals for uranium appear to be improving, particularly over For the Company, the most important factor in 2010 was that gold the medium to long term.
It is evident that the Chinese build-out of miners profit margins continued to grow as limited cost inflation nuclear power has begun in earnest and the World Nuclear Association allowed them to capture most of the rise in the gold price.
This estimates that the country will have over 70GWe of installed nuclear increase in profitability is leading some gold producers to raise the capacity by 2020, compared to less than 10GWe today.
Russia has level of dividends paid to shareholders.
Given the poor track record of also committed to significantly increasing its nuclear power capacity.
returns on M&A within the gold sector, we hope that more producers However, offsetting this, demand growth that had been expected to follow this trend of returning capital.
come from the US, Europe and India looks likely to fall short of previous expectations.
Therefore over the next two years, given the The focus of the Companys gold investments is in companies that growth in supply forecast, particularly out of Kazakhstan, the market have production growth, the ability to grow margins and deliver looks set to remain in surplus.
However, with increasing operating and exploration success.
This served the portfolio well as the Companys capital costs, we believe the downside to uranium prices is limited.
largest gold investment Minas Buenaventura 5.5% of the portfolio, delivered some of the best returns in the sector.
However, the Direct exposure to thermal coal was increased during the year as portfolios limited exposure to the worlds largest gold producers hurt industry fundamentals continued to improve.
The move by China from performance as generalist investors turned to these companies to gain being exporter to importer, combined with rising demand for coal in gold exposure.
many nations, tightened the market throughout the year.
Also, the upgrading of high quality thermal coal for use in the steel industry Exposure to silver via holdings in Fresnillo 4.4% of the portfolio and reduced supplies of thermal to existing consumers.
This trend has Industrias Penoles 2.7% were key contributors to the overall result for been accentuated by the recent floods in Australia, as consumers have the year.
The price of silver outperformed gold during the year, rising had to enter the lower quality PCI coal market to replace lost supply of over 80% versus the 29.4% rise in the price of gold.
This appears to coking coal.
The Company has benefited from its holding in Coal & have been caused by investors reaching out to silver as the cheaper Allied, which produces such product from its mines in an area of alternative to gold for financial diversification.
We are well aware that Australia the Hunter Valley that has not been hit by flooding.
During trends like this can be short lived but we are reassured by the the year, the holding in Coal & Allied was increased substantially from excellent production track record of these two companies and the circa 0.5% of the portfolio to 1.8%.
growth they are forecast to achieve over the coming years.
For the year to December 2010, Fresnillo shares finished up by over 110% and Diversified mining companies and industrial commodities Penoles up by 76%.
What a difference a year made for the diversified mining companies.
During 2009, the majority of these companies were desperate to Platinum markets were mixed during the year with the majority of the repair balance sheets via rights issues, convertible bonds issues and price rally concentrated in the second half of the year.
Palladium on issuing corporate bonds at close to junk bond interest rates.
This was the other hand managed to deliver a stunning result.
The combination done with the experience of 2008 at the forefront of managements of apparent reduced exports out of Russia and rejuvenated demand minds and the expectation that commodity prices would take a while from the automotive sector led to the price rallying 105% during the to recover.
The opportunities thrown up by this process were year, well ahead of its sister metals.
For the producers, the shine of numerous and it allowed the Company to build up a number of very the dollar price increases was offset by the continued strength in the attractive investments at what now look like bargain-basement prices.
Rand, production issues for most companies and local cost inflation in In addition, these investments were funded using the low cost debt South Africa.
During the year, exposure was further concentrated on that was available to the Company.
Impala Platinum 4.2% of the portfolio, as we expect this company to work through these challenges better than its peers.
With the benefit of hindsight, this approach taken by the mining companies has proved to be overly cautious and it has left many Energy commodities companies with balance sheets now approaching lazy status.
The uranium spot price increased by over 40% in 2010, in US dollar However, we as shareholders are also very conscious that almost the terms.
The long term price, which is equivalent to a contract price and biggest risk faced by shareholders is poor reinvestment of corporate which represents over 85% of the uranium market, was up only 4.8%.
8 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
