Directors Anthony W Lea appointed 29 July 2005 Colin A M Buchan appointed 25 July 2001 Chairman Chairman of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee is chairman of The Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund, a nonis chairman of Standard Life Investments Limited and a non-executive executive director of BSI Group and The Office of Fair Trading, and a director of Standard Life plc, National Westminster Bank plc, The Royal trustee of the RAF Benevolent Fund.
He was the finance director of Bank of Scotland plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and The Anglo American plc in London from 1999 to 2005, one of the worlds Fettes Foundation.
He was Global Head of Equities at UBS Warburg leading mining and natural resources companies.
He was also a and a member of the Group Management Board of UBS AG until his non-executive director of AngloGold Ashanti Limited, the worlds retirement in March 2001. second largest gold producer, and fide Beers Investments SA.
Gordon H Sage appointed 25 July 2001 Ian C S Barby appointed 1 December 2003 Senior Independent Director is non-executive chairman of Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities plc was a director of Balfour Beatty plc until retiring at the end of and INVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc, December 2010.
He was also an executive director of Rio Tinto plc and a non-executive director of Pantheon International Participations until his retirement in 2001 and was deputy chairman of ERM PLC, Schroder Income Growth Fund PLC, SR Europe Investment Trust Holdings Limited, an environmental consulting concern, until retiring plc and Madagascar Oil Limited.
He was managing director of Merrill in October 2006.
Lynch Investment Managers now BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Investment Trusts division until 2003.
Oliver A G Baring appointed 4 November 2004 is executive chairman of Mwana Africa PLC and non executive chairman of First Africa Group Holdings Limited, as well as holding directorships in Robert Fox Limited, Tilley International plc and Ferrexpo plc, and is a council member of the Sentient Group, a private equity mining fund.
All the Directors are non-executive.
The Board as a whole constitutes the Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
16 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
