Directors Report continued Going concern Conflicts of interest The Directors, having considered the nature and liquidity of the The Company changed its Articles of Association to reflect the portfolio, the Companys investment objective on page 1 and the codification of certain directors duties arising from the Companies Companys projected income and expenditure, are satisfied that the Act 2006 and in particular the duty for Directors to avoid conflicts of Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence interest which became effective from 1 October 2008. for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Ongoing The Board has put in place a framework for Directors to report annual expenses are approximately 1.3% of net assets.
conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest which it believes has worked effectively during the year.
All Directors notified the Directors Company Secretary of any situations where they considered that they The Directors of the Company on 31 December 2010, all of whom held had a direct or indirect interest, or duty that conflicted or possibly office throughout the year under review and their interests in the conflicted, with the interests of the Company.
All such situations were ordinary shares of the Company, are shown in the table below.
reviewed by the Board and duly authorised.
Directors were also made aware that there remains a continuing obligation to notify the 31 December 2010 1 January 2010 Company Secretary of any new situation that may arise, or any change to a situation previously notified.
It is the Boards intention to continue A W Lea 6,000 6,000 to review all notified situations on an annual basis.
I C S Barby 25,000 25,000 O A G Baring C A M Buchan 24,000 24,000 Directors Remuneration Report G H Sage 12,000 12,000 The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 23 and 24.
An ordinary resolution to approve this report will be put to members at All of the holdings of the Directors are beneficial.
No changes to these the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
holdings had been notified up to the date of this report.
Substantial share interests At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, in compliance with the As at 18 February 2011, the Company had received notification in Combined Code, Mr Buchan and Mr Sage are being nominated for accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2 R re-election as they have served on the Board for more than nine years of the following interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attaching and, accordingly, will offer themselves for re-election for a further year.
to the Companys issued share capital.
The Companys Articles also provide that one third of Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Director shall retire and offer Holding % himself for re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
The Lazard Asset Management LLC 8,574,457 4.8 Director who is subject to re-election under this provision is Mr Baring.
BlackRock Investment Management All of the Directors have considerable knowledge of the mining sector UK Limited 8,500,514 4.8 worldwide, as well as wider commercial experience.
Accordingly, their City of London Investment Management re-election is recommended to shareholders.
Company Limited 8,330,148 4.7 Rensburg Sheppards Investment There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in Management Limited 7,704,660 4.3 which a Director of the Company is or was materially interested and Legal & General Group PLC 6,538,829 3.7 which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
1.2% held on behalf of the BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings Plan and ISA.
0.4% held on behalf of clients.
None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
No Director is entitled to compensation for loss of office on the takeover No other shareholder has notified an interest of 3% or more in the of the Company.
Companys shares up to 24 February 2011.
Directors indemnity Donations In addition to Directors and Officers Liability Insurance cover, the The Company made no political or charitable donations during the Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the provisions of year.
applicable UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors in respect of costs incurred in the defence of any proceedings brought against them Payment of suppliers by third parties arising out of their positions as Directors, in which they It is the policy of the Company and its subsidiaries to settle all are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour.
The Company has investment transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions entered into Deeds of Indemnity with each of the Directors individually of the relevant market in which it operates.
Suppliers of goods and which are available for inspection at the registered office of the services are generally paid within 30 days of the date of any invoice.
Company and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company has no trade creditors.
20 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
