Tin was the best performing base metal in 2010, up 59.6% for the year during the year: these are earlier stage explorer-developers with in US$ terms.
Nickel and copper were also strong performers, rising interesting deposits in Botswana and Australia respectively.
All three commodities experienced significant draw-downs in global inventories, as demand outstripped The Company remains underweight with regard to aluminium supply.
Zinc was the only base metal to end the year in negative producers in the portfolio owing to the less robust supply-side territory, down 3.4%, owing to a supply surplus which saw LME fundamentals.
Global inventory levels are high on a historical basis: inventories rise by over 43%.
However, for the producers, the key was production capacity that was shut down during the financial crisis that all of the metal prices averaged materially higher than the remains off-line waiting to be switched back on once prices strengthen previous year.
and new capacity in China continues to be built, albeit at a slower rate than over the previous five years.
We see the combination of these Copper ended the year at an all time high of US$4.38 lb.
The factors acting as a drag on the aluminium price in the short to medium fundamentals for copper are compelling: emerging market demand for term, although we are cognisant that strong demand from emerging copper driven by the rapid rates of urbanisation and industrialisation, markets and the pressure of rising power prices suggest the longer coupled with an increasing focus on energy efficiency globally, means term outlook for the aluminium price is increasingly positive.
The the demand outlook for copper over the coming years is positive.
The Company exited its position in Alcoa in the first half of the year, supply side is struggling to grow owing to declining grades and rising replacing it with a position in Rusal 0.3% of the portfolio.
Owing to its costs at existing mines and a lack of significant new discoveries to financial gearing, Rusal is highly leveraged to any increase in the replace depleting assets.
In addition, the countries where new projects aluminium price, whilst also having a captive low cost power base are available to be developed tend to be associated with other risks giving it a competitive advantage in an environment in which energy such as political interference, title uncertainty and in some cases costs are rising globally.
The only other aluminium-related holding in unstable fiscal policies.
All of this is hampering the rate at which these the portfolio is Alumina 1.2% of the portfolio which performed deposits can be developed and further constraining supply growth.
strongly in the second half of the year, up 88.6%.
In our view this was due to the weakening of the pricing relationship between alumina and As a result of these supply demand dynamics, the market has aluminium which has meant that the more positive fundamentals for become increasingly focused on the outlook for copper, with alumina could translate into better margins.
This is a theme that is significant investment flows into the copper futures markets and now, expected to continue in 2011 with the likely effect being that more with the launch of a physically-backed copper ETF, increasingly into of the value in the aluminium supply chain will accrue to producers the spot market.
In this supply-constrained environment, the price of of alumina.
copper is the only mechanism that can limit demand and keep the market in balance and therefore most analysts are predicting copper The strong performance of nickel in 2010 came as somewhat of a prices averaging higher this coming year than in 2010, with some surprise.
A greater degree than expected of restocking in the stainless market commentators predicting a peak of US$6 lb in 2011.
The steel market, strikes at existing operations and delays in new Company maintained its significant exposure to copper throughout production coming online pushed the market into deficit.
The 2010 and at year end had 19.7% of the portfolio exposed to copper Company has little exposure to pure nickel producers, but has producers compared to 16.1% at the end of 2009.
We are aware that significant exposure to nickel production through its holdings in the the increase in investment demand may lead to heightened copper diversified producers.
The Companys zinc exposure is predominantly price volatility which in turn may have a negative impact on end-user in Nyrstar 0.8% of the portfolio, a zinc smelting company that is demand and we will be watching market developments closely.
seeking to increase its vertical integration upstream.
The company made significant progress with this strategy in 2010 having signed a Of the Companys core copper holdings, the strongest performer was supply agreement with Talvivaara, the Finnish nickel producer, for its Cerro Verde 3.3% of the portfolio which delivered a gain of over 139% bi-product zinc concentrate: acquired the Coricancha, the Contonga in sterling terms for the year.
Freeport McMoRan owns 53.6% of the and Pucarrajo mines in Peru: and agreeing to a friendly takeover with company and is the operator of the Cerro Verde mine, a high quality, the Canadian listed Farallon Resources.
Towards the end of the year, low cost copper-molybdenum open pit operation.
First Quantum the Company also began to rebuild a position in Volcan, a Peruvian Minerals, the largest copper holding within the portfolio at 3.9% both listed zinc silver producer.
equity and convertible bond, had what could be described as an annus horribilus.
Following the confiscation of the Kolwezi Gold & precious metals development project in 2009, in 2010 First Quantums Frontier mine The supportive trends of the last few years continued in the gold was also expropriated by the Government of the Democratic Republic market throughout the year.
The gold price reached new highs in US of Congo.
Throughout this period of uncertainty, the companys share dollars and most importantly it has now risen in most other major price experienced a significant derating relative to its peers.
Production growth has failed to match the more with the loss of these assets, the company has now been able to focus than 350% rise in the gold price from when production last peaked in the markets attention on its other high quality, low cost assets and 2001.
In fact, mined gold supply only managed to edge higher this year compelling development pipeline.
With a strong copper price leading and might finally match the peak achieved in 2001.
ETF demand to even stronger cash flows, the stock ended the year up over 46%.
continued to grow as investors, looking to shelter capital from the Two small positions in Discovery Metals and Rex Minerals were added ravages of currency debasement and the prospect of inflation, Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 7
