Directors Report The Directors present the annual report and financial statements of particular time or for a particular period, enhance the performance of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December the Group in the pursuit of its objectives.
It is the Boards policy that 2010. the aggregate exposure to such derivatives does not exceed 10% of the gross assets of the Group.
Business Review Principal activity Although investments are principally in companies listed on recognised The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Its principal stock exchanges, the Company may invest up to 10% of its gross activity is portfolio investment and that of its trading subsidiary, assets in unquoted securities.
As at 31 December 2010, the Company BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited, is investment held one unquoted investment, Australian Energy Corporation.
BlackRock Gold Limited is a non trading subsidiary.
Unquoted investments can prove to be more volatile than listed investments.
Two further investments, Glencore Finance AG and Status of the Company Grafton Resource Investments Limited, were held at Directors In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs valuation.
The Company is also permitted to enter into stock lending during the year under review, and subsequently, so as to qualify as an arrangements.
investment trust for the purposes of Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The last accounting period for which the It is the Boards current policy that the Company will not invest in any Company has been treated as approved as an investment trust by holding that would represent more than 10% of its gross assets at the HM Revenue & Customs HMRC was for the year ended time of acquisition.
In addition, while the Company may hold shares in 31 December 2009.
It is the Companys intention to continue to seek other listed investment companies including investment trusts, the approval under Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Board has agreed that the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies.
The Company is registered as an investment company as defined in section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an The Groups accounts are maintained in sterling.
investments are denominated and quoted in currencies other than sterling, the Group does not intend to employ a hedging policy against The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the fluctuations in exchange rates.
provisions of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and has no employees.
Information regarding the Companys investment exposures is The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in the stocks and contained within the ten largest investments on pages 11 and 12, the shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
investments listing on pages 13 and 14, and portfolio analysis on page 15.
Further information regarding investment risk and activity Continuation of the Company throughout the year can be found in the Investment Managers Report.
As agreed by shareholders in 1998, an ordinary resolution for the continuance of the Company is proposed at each Annual General Gearing Meeting.
The Investment Manager believes that tactical use of gearing can add value from time to time.
This gearing is typically in the form of an Investment policy overdraft or short term loan facility, which can be repaid at any time.
The Companys investment policy is to provide a diversified investment in quoted mining and metal securities worldwide, actively managed The level and benefit of gearing is discussed and agreed with the with the objective of maximising total returns.
Up to 10% of the gross Board regularly.
The Investment Manager generally aims to be fully assets of the Company and its trading subsidiary, BlackRock World invested and it is anticipated that gearing will not exceed 15% of the Mining Investment Company Limited the Group, may be invested in Groups net assets.
At the financial reporting date, gearing stood at physical metals.
No material change will be made to the investment 1.8% of shareholders funds.
For further details refer to note 14 on policy without shareholder approval.
It is intended that the Group will normally be fully invested, which Performance means at least 90% will be invested in stocks, shares and physical In the year to 31 December 2010, the Companys net asset value metals.
However, if such investments are deemed to be overvalued, or NAV per share increased by 46.3% compared with a rise in the if the Investment Manager finds it difficult to identify attractively HSBC Global Mining Index of 35.6% and the Companys share price priced opportunities for investment, then up to 25% of the portfolio rose by 48.6% all percentages calculated in sterling terms with may be held in cash or cash equivalents.
Risk is spread by investing in income reinvested.
a number of holdings, many of which themselves are diversified companies.
The Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 10 includes a review of the main developments during the year, together with information The Group may also occasionally utilise derivative instruments such as on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
options, futures and contracts, if it is deemed that these will, at a Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 17
