crucial factor in delivering good performance and the loss by the BlackRock is a subsidiary of BlackRock, Inc. which is a publicly traded management of key staff could affect investment returns.
The corporation on the New York Stock Exchange operating as an Investment Manager has training and development programs in independent firm.
The Bank of America Corporation, The PNC place for its employees and its recruitment and remuneration Financial Services Group, Inc. and Barclays PLC each have a packages are developed in order to retain key staff.
significant economic interest in BlackRock, Inc. PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and Bank of America Corporation, are both US Market risk Market risk arises from volatility in the prices of the public companies.
It represents the potential loss the Company might suffer through holding investments in the face of BNYM is the custodian of the Companys assets.
The BNYM fee is negative market movements.
In addition, it should be noted that payable at rates depending on the number of trades effected and the location of the companies in which the Company invests and location of securities held.
The custodian agreement is subject to six shares in the mining sector can prove to be volatile and therefore months notice by either party.
present a greater degree of risk.
The Board considers asset allocation, stock selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis Appointment of the Investment Manager and has set investment restrictions and guidelines which are The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment monitored and reported on by the Investment Manager.
The Board management services to the Company on an ongoing basis and a monitors the implementation and results of the investment formal review is conducted annually.
The Board believes that the process with the Investment Manager.
continuing appointment of the Investment Manager, on the terms disclosed above, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Financial risks The Companys investment activities expose it to a variety of financial risks that include market price risk, foreign As part of the annual review the Board considered the quality and currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity and credit risk.
Further continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, details are disclosed in note 18 on pages 44 to 51, together with a the investment process and the results achieved to date.
The summary of the policies for managing these risks.
specialist nature of the Companys investment remit is, in the Boards view, best served by the Natural Resources team at BlackRock, who Social and community issues have a proven track record in successfully investing in the mining As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or sector.
However, the Company believes that it is in shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and Change of control governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Details There are no agreements which the Company is party to that might be of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment are set out affected by a change of control of the Company.
Voting policy Future prospects The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys portfolio has The Boards main focus is to maximise total returns.
The future been delegated to the Investment Manager, whose voting policy states: performance of the Company is much dependent upon the success of the investment strategy and, to a large degree, on the performance of we intend to vote at all shareholder meetings of companies in financial markets.
The outlook for the Company in the next twelve which our clients are invested.
In cases where there are significant months is discussed in both the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and obstacles to voting such as share-blocking or requirements for a the Investment Managers Report on pages 9 and 10. power of attorney we will review the resolutions to assess the extent of the restrictions on voting against the potential benefits: Investment management and administration BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited BlackRock we will vote in favour of proposals which we expect to enhance provides management services to the Company under a contract shareholder value, and on routine issues where we are supportive terminable on six months notice.
BlackRock also acted as the of a companys management: Secretary and Administrator of the Company throughout the year.
BlackRock receives an annual management fee of 1.3% of gross we will vote against proposals which we believe may damage assets.
Where the Company invests in other investment or cash funds shareholders rights or economic interests: and managed by BlackRock, any underlying fee is rebated.
we will abstain on proposals where we wish to indicate to the No penalty on termination of the investment management contract company issues over which we have some concerns.
would be payable by the Company in the event that six months written notice is given to BlackRock.
There are no provisions relating to In all situations the economic interests of our clients will be payment of fees in lieu of notice.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 19
