With this in mind, we have been encouraging management opportunity gives exposure to the worlds largest commodity trader to return excess capital.
that also owns stakes in a number of other mining companies e. g. Xstrata, 34%, as well as directly owning and operating mines across a One of the drivers of this rebound in fortunes for the diversified miners range of commodities.
The income element of the bond 5% per has been the continued strength in the prices of raw materials used in annum has benefited the Company in 2010 in an environment where steel making: iron ore and coking coal were up 50.2% and 75.8% yield has been at a premium.
There has been much media speculation respectively.
Most importantly this year, producers managed to about a potential IPO for Glencore or a possible merger with Xstrata: capture an increased share of the industrys economics as the annual whichever path is taken, we are hopeful that significant value will contract pricing for iron ore was abandoned and replaced with more be released.
frequent price adjustments directly related to spot prices.
In addition, iron ore is now able to be sold with a reference to the landed price in Jumelles At the end of 2009, the Company made an investment in China and this allows producers, such as the Australian miners, to this private company that owns an iron ore project in the Republic of capture the freight differential versus their peers.
At the time of investment, the valuation of the company pricing appears to be a good result for the miners and, longer term, we appeared attractive on a number of early stage metrics, especially expect the logical conclusion of the process to be that iron ore and given the significant potential identified in the license area and the other bulk commodities will be sold on a spot basis.
presence of Xstrata as their partner on the pre-feasibility study.
The company achieved several key milestones during 2010 Xstrata Looking further out to the future we expect the prices of iron ore and provided the funding for the second stage of the pre-feasibility study: coking coal to be driven by the marginal cost of supply.
There are, engineering studies for the mine and rail links were updated and, however, differences between the two.
In iron ore the marginal importantly, the company successfully listed on the London Stock producer is also the largest producer, China, and with domestic mines Exchange in November as Zanaga Iron Ore.
The valuation achieved at producing higher cost and lower quality product this should allow listing reflected an uplift of almost three times versus the value the producers in other countries to gain market share from these domestic Company had invested at, and the markets positive view on the suppliers.
With costs of Chinese production substantially higher than company continued post-listing with the stock up a further 21% by the those in Australia and Brazil, it looks as though high rates of return end of the year.
In February 2011, another milestone was achieved could be possible for the next few years.
In coking coal the challenge when Xstrata exercised their option to acquire a 50% plus one share is the limited ability of the miners to grow supply in the future as there stake in the project by funding a full bankable feasibility study.
is a real lack of high quality exploitable resource and the concentration of production is in only a small number of regions.
This latter point has Derivatives activity become a very real problem as a result of the catastrophic flooding in The Company sometimes holds positions in derivatives contracts.
Queensland accounts for over 50% of world seaborne These derivative positions, which are small in comparison with the size supply and the floods have impacted the majority of this production, of the Group, usually have the effect of obliging us to buy or sell stock further tightening markets for all types of export coal.
or futures at levels we believe are attractive.
During 2010, we focused on writing short dated calls in order to reduce some of our larger Individual exposure to the diversified miners is chosen based on the positions.
The income generated by such option writing enables us to see-through commodity exposure they offer.
During the year, the best maximise the potential exit price from a position.
At the end of 2010, performing of these was Teck Resources.
Teck is uniquely positioned we had no derivatives positions in the portfolio.
to deliver roughly equal exposure to North American coking coal mines and copper production, two of our most favoured commodities.
At the Gearing other end of the scale limited exposure to Anglo American, held via At 31 December 2010, the Company had a small amount of gearing convertible bonds, benefited the Company given the poor relative amounting to 41.5 million.
This has been drawn down against the return in 2010. higher yielding mining company corporate debt portfolio.
Gearing, which can be drawn down or repaid at any time, is used in the The Company has also benefited from the strong recovery in prices of portfolio to take tactical advantage of market volatility and investment less well known metals such as zircon, ilmenite, manganese and opportunities.
Exposure to these metals has been achieved via holdings in Iluka, Kenmare and African Rainbow Minerals, all of which have Outlook and strategy for 2011 enjoyed a buoyant 2010.
Iluka and Kenmare, in particular, are major 2010 finished with overall economic growth at a higher level than beneficiaries of the mineral sands markets.
Both of these companies many had expected, thanks to the continued stimulatory monetary have been working to grow production during the last two years, policies in the Western World and the better than expected growth in bringing projects into production ahead of this price recovery for the BRIC nations.
However, investors remain rightly cautious when which they seem set to reap the benefits.
looking at the resources sector due to the uncertainty that surrounds how the record cash flows will be managed.
At the time of writing, Pre-IPO investments Xstrata, Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton have increased their dividends and, Glencore In December 2009, the Company made an investment in a in the case of Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton, share buy backs have been convertible bond issued by Glencore.
Whilst we see this as a positive step, the scale of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 9
