Pershing Nominees Limited is custodian the executive directors to be paid any fixed Auditors in relation to certain of the Companys amount of bonus or any fixed provision The Directors have considered the employee benefit schemes and within this for termination compensation.
performance of  holding, Gina Germano has a disclosable LLP PwC during the audit and will holding of 3.02% in the ordinary share Retirement and re-election recommend their re-appointment to capital.
Interests of the Directors, including of directors the Shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
options, are set out in the Remuneration In May 2010 the Financial Reporting Council The resolution will also seek the authority Report on pages 48 to 57. issued the UK Corporate Governance Code for the Directors to determine the formerly the Combined Code which will remuneration of the auditors for 2010 11.
There have been no changes in the be applicable to financial years commencing Directors share interests between on or after 29 June 2010.
The updated Employees 30 June 2010 and the date of this report.
Code calls for the annual re-election of all The Company seeks to operate fair directors and all directors will accordingly practices, reasonable working conditions Directors stand for re-election at the 2010 AGM.
and to be responsive and flexible to the The Directors of the Company are needs of its employees.
The Company Hans-Jrg Rudloff, Terence Eccles, Tom As at 30 June 2010, the Board comprised is an equal opportunities employer and Cross Brown, Alan Gibbins, Hugh Willis, four executive directors and four nonrecruits solely on professional ability and Mark Poole, Nick Williams and Alex Khein.
executive directors including the Chairman.
Directors biographies can be found on pages 38 and 39.
There were no changes Directors interests and Further details relating to the Groups in the membership of the Board or its indemnity arrangements employee policies can be found on page Committees during the period.
27 of the Business Review within the At no time during the year did any Director Corporate Responsibility Report.
hold a material interest in any contract The appointment and termination of of significance with the Company or directors is governed by the Articles of the Political and charitable donations any of its subsidiary undertakings other Company in compliance with the relevant than service agreements between each Charitable donations of 83,000 were legislation.
The Articles can only be executive director and the Company made by the Group during the year amended with the consent of the and letters of engagement between each 2009: 2,000.
Details are included Shareholders and any such alterations non-executive director and the Company.
in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
would usually be proposed at the AGM.
Details of related party transactions No political donations or contributions The Directors of the Company are affecting the directors are set out in note were made or expenditure incurred by empowered to exercise all the powers 25 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
the Group during the year 2009: nil.
of directors as vested in them by both the Articles and applicable legislation.
The Company maintains appropriate Creditors payment policy The authority to allot new shares is directors and officers liability insurance It is the Groups and Companys policy to granted by the Shareholders at the and has entered into a deed poll of honour all of its contractual commitments AGM, as is any authority to make indemnity in favour of the executive and and this includes paying suppliers market purchases of own shares.
The Directors also according to agreed terms.
Average have the benefit of the indemnity provision creditor days at 30 June 2010 were The appointments of the non-executive in the Companys Articles of Association.
11 days for the Company and 11 days directors are terminable without entitlement These provisions, which are qualifying third for the Group 2009: Company: five days, to compensation and without notice, party indemnity provisions as defined by Group: six days.
in accordance with the Articles of the s232 of the Companies Act 2006, were in Company.
Service agreements are in place force throughout the year and are currently For and on behalf of the Board between the Group and the executive in force.
Details of Directors remuneration directors.
The agreements do not have and interests in the shares of the Company James Brace a fixed term, but provide for termination are set out in the Remuneration Report on Company Secretary on the expiry of not less than nine months pages 48 to 57.
15 September 2010 notice by either party.
The agreements contain no contractual entitlement for 41 Directors Review Corporate Governance Report The Board is accountable to the Companys The Board has a formal schedule of matters The Composition of the Board shareholders for sound corporate reserved for its decision.
This is reviewed As at 30 June 2010, the Board comprised governance and is committed to ensuring annually and amended accordingly.
four non-executive directors, including the the integrity of the business, maintaining The schedule includes items such as: Chairman, and four executive directors.
its ethical standards and continuing the the approval of the interim, preliminary The Board considers its size both suitable high degree of professionalism across and annual reports and accounts: and appropriate for the effective control the Company.
and conduct of the business.
The Board any material changes to the Companys recognises that it is not fully compliant overall commercial strategy and For the year under review, the Company with the provisions of the Code 2008 in business plan: is required to report against the provisions regards to the composition of the Board any major Group re-organisations of the Combined Code 2008 the Code in terms of the number of independent or changes in the control structure: 2008.
The Directors consider that the directors but remains confident that the Group has applied the Main Principles setting the risk management and strength of its independent non-executive set out in Section 1 of the Code 2008, internal control policies for the Group: directors continues to be sufficient to throughout the reporting period and consideration of any increases in ensure that no individual or small group outline below how these have been borrowings beyond the limits can dominate the Boards decision-making.
complied with: and in the case of any previously adopted: There were no changes to the composition other relevant provisions of the Code of the Board during the year.
determining the dividend policy: 2008, where they have not been fully consideration of any appointment met and why this is the case.
Terence Eccles is the Companys Senior or removal from the Board, including Independent Director and was appointed the selection of Chairman, Senior The role of the Board to the Board in November 2006.
The Independent Director and Chief The Board is collectively responsible to Senior Independent Director is responsible Executive: membership of Board shareholders for creating and delivering for leading the performance review of committees and their respective sustainable long-term shareholder value the Chairman.
chairmen: and through strong leadership, financial delegation of the Boards powers as well performance and the approval of the Apart from the Chairman, the Board as the assessment of its performance.
It is also considers all three of the remaining responsible for ensuring that adequate non-executive directors to be independent.
The Board fulfils its duties to the Companys resources are made available to ensure In the event Directors have concerns that shareholders by means of direct intervention these objectives are met and for ensuring cannot be resolved about the running of or by delegating its responsibilities to that management maintains systems of the Company, these would be recorded in the principal committees of the Board.
internal control which provide assurance the minutes.
These are the Audit, Remuneration and of effective and efficient operations, strong Nomination Committees.
A more detailed internal financial controls and compliance The Chairmans other significant report of the activities of each committee with applicable laws and regulations.
commitments are described on page 38. is included later in this report on pages There have been no material changes to 46 to 57.
The executive directors are responsible such commitments during the period and for developing the business, day-to-day these commitments are not considered to The Company Secretary is responsible for operations and delivering performance impinge on his duties.
ensuring Board procedures are followed.
according to the strategic objectives established by the Board as a whole.
To the development of these activities, the non-executive directors bring objectivity and constructive debate.
