In this section Directors Review Board of Directors 38 Directors Report 40 Corporate Governance Report 42 Nomination Committee Report 46 Audit Committee Report 47 Remuneration Report 48 Audited section of Remuneration Report 54 Risk Management and Internal Control 58 Directors Responsibility Statement 61 Directors Review Board of Directors 1 3 1 2 3 Hans-Jrg Rudloff, Non-executive Chairman Terence Eccles, Non-executive Senior Independent Director Hans-Jrg Rudloff was appointed Chairman of the Company on Terence Eccles was appointed non-executive director of the 3 July 2001.
He is also Chairman of Barclays Capital and of the Company upon Listing on the London Stock Exchange on International Capital Markets Association, chairing its Compensation 22 November 2006.
He is currently non-executive director of Committee.
He is Vice Chairman of Novartis and sits on the The Paragon Group of Companies plc and Horizon Acquisition Chairmans Committee, Compensation Committee and Audit Company plc.
He was formerly Vice Chairman of JPMorgan Committee.
Hans-Jrg sits on the Board of Rosneft, and is Chairman Cazenove, having previously been Vice Chairman of Investment of the Audit Committee.
He is also a Board Member of the Thyssen Banking at JPMorgan Chase, following the merger between Bornemisza Group and sits on the Advisory Board of Landeskreditbank Chase Manhattan and JPMorgan.
He started his career at JPMorgan Baden-Wrttemberg and the Beirat of Energie Baden-Wttemberg.
in 1970 and has worked in JPMorgans London, New York and He is Chairman of Marcuard SA, President of ABD Capital SA and Hong Kong offices.
During his career, he advised on numerous also sits on the Board of New World Resources N. V. transactions, specialising in the European financial services industry.
1 2 3 1 2 3 Tom Cross Brown, Independent Director Alan Gibbins, Independent Director Tom Cross Brown was appointed non-executive director of the Alan Gibbins was appointed non-executive director of the Company upon the Companys Listing on the London Stock Company on 5 November 2007.
He has extensive experience of Exchange.
Until 2003, he was Chief Executive Officer of ABN public company reporting and financial services spanning 35 years AMRO Asset Management and prior to joining ABN AMRO with Price Waterhouse and  LLP, having Asset Management in 1997, he was Chief Executive Officer been a Partner since 1985 and an Audit and Business Assurance of Lazard Brothers Asset Management.
He is currently nonPartner until June 2006.
He qualified as a chartered accountant executive Chairman of Just Retirement Holdings Limited, in 1974.
He is a non-executive director of Bache Commodities and a non-executive director of Phoenix Group Holdings and Limited and of NASDAQ OMX Europe Limited and is a member Artemis Alpha Trust plc.
of the Audit Committee of The Development Agency for Schools.
He is a trustee and the Treasurer of Emmaus Medway and was until the end of 2009 a Member of Council and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Queen Mary, University of London.
