Business Overview Inside the business BlueBay is one of Europes leading independent asset managers specialising in fixed income and alternative investment products.
Who we are What we do How we do it Founded in 2001, BlueBay was BlueBay is an active asset manager We believe in relentless focus initially established to capitalise focussed on capital preservation and apply this to every area of our on the strong growth trends in and the generation of attractive business.
We have built one of the the European corporate and risk-adjusted returns.
most experienced teams of credit global emerging debt markets.
specialists in Europe with the focus We offer a diverse range of to deliver upper quartile performance.
BlueBays specialisation in fixed products within our area of income is a key feature of our success specialisation of fixed income Alongside this we have invested we concentrate on managing assets that covers investment grade, significantly in developing a within a single defined asset class high yield distressed, convertibles comprehensive and highly scalable while applying an absolute return and emerging markets to institutions infrastructure to provide best-ofmind-set to a disciplined and risk and high net worth individuals.
breed systems and straight through controlled investment process.
We place We offer products with a variety a high priority on maintaining Based in London with offices in of risk return profiles, from a strong risk management culture the USA and Japan, we manage absolute return long short funds within the Group, combining in excess of $34 billion of assets, to relative return long-only funds rigorous internal controls and with 215 employees globally, and segregated accounts.
We focus on creating strong relationships with our clients and have a dedicated client relationship management team that ensures our clients receive a high level of on-going service.
Combining the infrastructure of a world-class asset manager and the investment focus of a boutique has ensured that our operational capacity keeps pace with asset growth.
02 BlueBay Asset Management plc BlueBays investment focus is on capital preservation and the generation of attractive risk-adjusted returns for our clients.
Our business drivers Distribution strength Investment performance BlueBay delivers investment management services via our BlueBays investment focus is on capital preservation direct sales force and distribution partnerships, primarily and the generation of attractive risk-adjusted returns to institutional clients.
We focus on creating strong for our clients across the credit cycle.
We have a well relationships with investment consultants and have developed and rigorous investment process that a dedicated client relationship management team that draws on both top-down and bottom-up inputs, ensures our clients receive a high level of ongoing service.
resulting in an active style of management across Our sales and client relationship teams are based our range of managed asset classes.
in our London, Japan and US offices, ensuring we can service our global client base.
BlueBay Talented people Business risk management and controls BlueBays success is dependent on our ability to As a specialist fixed income and alternatives attract, retain and motivate highly talented portfolio asset manager, we recognise that risk is inherent management teams, sales and marketing and in our business and the markets in which we operate.
We accomplish this by As such, BlueBay is committed to the creation ensuring we have competitive compensation structures and maintenance of strong risk management, key components of which include widespread employee both portfolio and operational, as well as rigorous share ownership and investment in BlueBay funds.
This is control standards throughout the organisation.
designed to ensure employees have a broad alignment of interests with fund investors and shareholders.
BlueBay is also committed to creating a team oriented and collegiate working environment.
