BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Audit Committee meets at least twice annually, being before the Board meets to consider the Companys half-yearly and annual financial reports.
The Audit Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference and provides a forum through which the Companys external auditors report to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available upon request of the Secretary.
During the year under review the Audit Committee met four times.
Messrs Crowder, Meader and Hooley attended all four meetings.
The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the Company.
The independent members of the Board will consider new Board appointments although there is no separate nomination committee.
The Chairman, the directors and the Secretary or other appropriate persons will give new appointees to the Board a preliminary briefing on the workings of the Company.
Management and Remuneration Committee A management and remuneration committee has been established consisting of Mr Meader, Mr Hooley and Mr Crowder, with Mr Dodd and Mr Le Prevost being entitled to attend all meetings of the Committee.
Mr Meader has been appointed as Chairman.
The function of the management and remuneration committee is: a to ensure that the Companys contracts of engagement with the Administrator and other service providers are operating satisfactorily so as to ensure the safe and accurate management and administration of the Companys affairs and business and are competitive and reasonable for the shareholders and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board: b to monitor and assess the appropriate levels of remuneration for all directors: and c to ensure that the Company complies to the best of its ability with applicable laws and regulations and adheres to the tenet of generally accepted codes of conduct.
During the year under review the Management and Remuneration Committee met twice and Messrs Meader, Crowder and Hooley attended both meetings.
The chairmanship of the above two committees is reviewed annually by the Chairman.
In addition, each directors performance is assessed annually by the Chairman and the performance of the Chairman is assessed by the remaining directors.
