BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Board is committed to an evaluation of its performance being carried out every year.
6.2 of the UK Governance Code the Board intends that externally facilitated reviews of its performance are carried out every three years.
The Board are currently in the process of appointing a professional consultant in this area.
As a part of this review the Board will consider whether it should appoint a senior independent director.
Internal Controls The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the significant risks faced by the Company.
The Board carries out an annual review of internal controls.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
The Company is a self-managed investment Company with no separate Investment Manager.
BlueCrest is the Investment Manager of AllBlue.
Administration and Secretarial duties for the Company are performed by Anson Fund Managers Limited.
The directors of the Company clearly define the duties and responsibilities of their agents and advisors.
The appointment of agents and advisers is conducted by the Board after consideration of the quality of the parties involved and the Board monitors their ongoing performance and contractual arrangements.
The Board has also specified which matters are reserved for a decision by the Board and which matters may be delegated to its agents and advisers.
Internal Audit There is no internal audit function.
As all of the directors are non-executive and all of the Companys administration functions have been delegated to independent third parties, the Audit Committee considers that there is no need for the Company to have an internal audit function.
However, this matter is reviewed periodically.
Dialogue with Shareholders All holders of Shares in the Company have the right to receive notice of, and attend, all general meetings of the Company, during which the directors are available to discuss issues affecting the Company, and the directors also 33
