BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT BY THE INVESTMENT MANAGER OF ALLBLUE LIMITED continued BlueTrend Systematic Trend Following BlueTrend contributed 2.07% to AllBlue Limited during 2010, with the fund returning a strong 15.98% Class A, USD for the calendar year.
In what was a volatile year for systematic trend following strategies BlueTrend posted positive returns in three of the four quarters.
The performance in the first half of the year was driven by the returns from BlueTrends fixed income trading, with both the bond and short interest rate sectors generating strong returns, whilst equities and energies underperformed.
The performance for the second half of the year was driven by the equity and energy sectors, which experienced a strong rally into year end, with only the bond sector posting a loss in the second half of the year.
Over the full year only one sector posted a negative return, energies, with the other six sectors all posting positive returns for the calendar year.
The largest returns came from the fixed income sectors.
Volatility for the programme, measured on weekly data, was on target at 17.5% for the year.
The margin to equity of the fund, a measure that represents the risk being taken in the fund, ranged between 7.5% and 19.5%, with an average of 14.9%.
Emerging Markets Emerging Markets EM contributed 1.21% to AllBlue Limited during 2010, with the fund returning 7.81% Class A, USD for the calendar year.
2010 was a year of record inflows in to Emerging Markets fixed income and currency mutual funds.
According to Emerging Markets Portfolio Fund Research and Bank of America, EM bond funds saw an increase of 49% in AUM to a total of $120bln.
The fund has continued to focus on trading within the local interest rate and sovereign credit markets, and has seen many attractive opportunities as a result of the high level of flows into the sector.
The team has also demonstrated its ability to protect against the pitfalls that can affect the sector in May the fund avoided the market crisis, which caught other participants in the sector, and led to the fund delivering a Sharpe ratio of approximately 1.9.
BlueCrest has added to the team behind this fund over the last year with the addition of several new portfolio managers and a new global strategist.
