BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT BY THE INVESTMENT MANAGER OF ALLBLUE LIMITED continued Multi Strategy Credit Multi Strategy Credit Relative Value contributed 0.11% to AllBlue Limited during 2010, with the fund returning 1.56% Class A, USD for the calendar year.
2010 was a year in which the credit environment and the solvency of banks and sovereigns remained a central focus.
The year saw numerous bail out packages for both sovereigns and banks.
The fund posted positive performance for the first three quarters of the year, with the main driver being the Long Short trading strategies.
In addition long positions in subordinated financial entities also contributed to the returns.
The final quarter of the year proved a challenging environment with the European sovereign debt crisis causing lower tier 2 bank debt to suffer badly.
Coupled with the lack of risk taking appetite into year end, contagion quickly spread to the broader Investment Grade and High Yield sectors during late Q4.
Mercantile Trade Finance Mercantile contributed 0.16% to AllBlue Limited during 2010, with the fund returning 3.76% Class A, USD for the calendar year.
The fund continued to trade within three core strategies: Bank Basel II, Trade Credit Opportunities and Commodity Finance.
It was a good year for the Bank Basel II and Trade Credit Opportunities which both made positive contributions to the fund.
Unfortunately the returns of these two strategies were partially offset by negative performance from the Commodity Finance strategy, where we saw revised valuations on some of the hard assets behind the strategy detract from the performance.
Within the Bank Basel II strategy we continued to see very low default rates within the underlying portfolios, which helped ensure the strong performance of this strategy.
BlueMatrix High Frequency Equity BlueMatrix contributed 0.26% to AllBlue Limited during 2010, with the fund returning 6.44% Class A, USD for the calendar year.
The strategy benefited from reasonably high levels of volatility in the markets and a large amount of dispersion between stocks in the equity markets: the dislocations that the strategy seeks to access are therefore more frequent and larger.
In particular, February and May, where we saw strong rallies in the VIX index, were strong months for the strategy.
Volatility in the strategy spiked in Q2 as a result of the market dynamics that we observed in May.
