BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company MANAGEMENT REPORT for the period ended 31 December 2010 A description of important events which have occurred during the financial year, their impact on the performance of the Company as shown in the financial statements and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company, together with an indication of important events that have occurred since the end of the financial year and the Companys likely future development is given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 11 to 12, the Report of the Directors on pages 27 to 34 and the Notes to the Financial Statements on pages 51 to 76 and is incorporated here by reference.
There were no material related party transactions which took place in the financial year, other than those disclosed in the report of the directors and at note 5 to the financial statements.
Going Concern The performance of the investments held by the Company over the reporting year are described in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and in note 6 to the financial statements and the outlook for the future is described in the Chairmans Statement.
The Companys financial position, its cash flows and liquidity position are set out in the financial statements and the Companys financial risk management objectives and policies, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to market price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and the risk of leverage by underlying funds are set out at note 14 to the financial statements.
In order to cover the on-going expenses of the Company, on 21 December 2009 the Company entered into a 500,000 Overdraft Facility the Facility with Barclays Private Clients International Limited Barclays.
This Facility is engaged to cover the costs of the Company as they fall due and is replenished by redeeming shares on a pro-rata basis in the underlying AllBlue Fund.
On 7 February 2011 the Company renegotiated the facility and at present the Facility is due to expire on 30 August 2012 and may be renewed by agreement between the Company and Barclays.
The Companys Articles incorporate a discount management provision which applies to each class of Share individually that requires a continuation vote to be proposed in respect of the particular class of Shares at a class meeting of the relevant shareholders by way of ordinary resolution in the circumstances explained on pages 5 and 6.
As at 31 January 2011, the Sterling Shares had traded at an average 3.01% premium to their net asset values, the Euro Shares at an average 2.51% premium and the US Dollar Shares at an average premium of 3.53%, all over the previous 12 month period.
As at 4 March 2011, being the latest practicable date prior to the issue of this report, the Companys Shares were trading at a premium to their net asset value of 3.70% in the case of Sterling Shares, 3.51% for Euro Shares and 4.24% for US Dollar Shares.
25 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company MANAGEMENT REPORT continued for the period ended 31 December 2010 After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of this annual financial report.
Responsibility Statement The Board of directors, as identified at pages 8 and 9, jointly and severally confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and b This Management Report includes or incorporates by reference a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Richard Crowder Jonathan Hooley Director Director 1 April 2011 26
