Managers Review Introduction escalated and the US economy, in particular the In the year to 30 September 2010, the Companys housing market, revealed signs of a marked slow net asset value total return increased by 12.2 per down, raising fears of a double dip recession.
cent, compared to a return of 11.7 per cent for its However, markets recovered in September, helped composite benchmark index 75 per cent FTSE Allby improving confidence in the fragile European Share Index and 25 per cent FTSE World ex UK financial sector and favourable economic data from Index.
The Companys share price total return was the US that allayed fears of another recession.
Emerging markets continued to outperform developed markets, reflecting the buoyant growth in At 30 September 2010 the Company had gearing, China and India in particular, and ongoing strong net of cash, of 21.0 per cent including 14.8 per cent demand for resources, many of which are key invested in corporate bonds.
exports for the emerging markets.
Corporate bonds also had another good year as the premium in Equities and credit markets have continued to interest rates over government bonds continued to recover, driven by some improvement in the key narrow and the problems emanating from the credit economic indicators, a strong rebound in corporate crisis were steadily addressed.
The UK market had a earnings expectations and a significant improvement reasonable year led by industrial and resource in liquidity conditions.
Companies have been able to stocks.
Income stocks with more stable earnings, defy the slowdown of the broader economy by such as gas, water and electricity companies and becoming more efficient and improving profitability.
tobacco companies, lagged the market and the During the summer months, the markets fell, as cancellation of BPs dividend was a significant concerns over the European sovereign debt crisis adverse factor.
Local Stockmarket Total Returns Year to 30 September 2010 Currency %% FTSEAll-ShareIndex 12.5 12.5 FTSEWorld exUK Index 9.5 6.8  exUK Index 8.7 6.3  22.4 16.0 Source:Datastream  Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 Managers Review continued Asset Allocation The asset allocation of the Company is shown in the table below: 30 September 2010 30 September 2009 ShareShareBenchmark holders Total holders Total 30.09.10 Funds Assets Funds Assets Asset Class %%%%% UK Equities 75.0 76.2 62.0 70.8 56.8 Overseas Equities Global Developed ex UK 22.8 17.3 14.0 19.6 15.8 Emerging Markets 2.2 12.7 10.3 15.1 12.1 Total Overseas Equities 25.0 30.0 24.3 34.7 27.9 Total Equities 100.0 106.2 86.3 105.5 84.7 Corporate Bonds 14.8 12.1 15.5 12.4 Net Current Assets 1.6 2.9 Actual Gearing 21.0 21.0 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Potential Gearing 23.0 24.6 comprising equity gearing of 6.2 per cent 2009: 5.5 per cent and 14.8 per cent in coporate bonds 2009: 15.5 per cent At the start of the financial year, and following a Many companies cut dividends early in the period of strong performance in 2009, we reduced economic downturn but we have already started to our exposure to emerging markets and reinvested see a recovery in dividends this year.
In the UK the the funds in the UK to augment the income earning one exceptional event this year has been the potential for the portfolio.
However, we retain a cancellation of BPs dividend.
Dividend growth significant commitment to emerging markets, the overseas has been less volatile with dividends region we favour for growth.
generally growing at a slower pace than in the UK.
8 British Assets Trust plc Sub-Portfolio Reports UK Major Holdings Market %Total Company Sector Valuem Investments HSBCHoldings Banking 20.1 4.4 RioTinto Mining 18.4 4.0 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals 18.1 4.0 VodafoneGroup Telecommunications 17.7 3.9 RoyalDutchShell Oil&Gas 17.5 3.8 BP Oil&Gas 15.7 3.4  Tobacco 13.0 2.9 AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals 11.6 2.6 Tesco Retailing 10.7 2.3 Scottish&SouthernEnergy Electricity 9.3 2.0 The UK portfolio returned 11.5 per cent compared securities with above average dividend yields, with a return of 12.5 per cent for the FTSE All-Share returned 5.2 per cent, well below the 12.5 per cent Index.
return for the overall market.
The 12.5 per cent overall return for the UK market The UK equity market remains reasonably valued masks a marked divergence across sectors.
and quoted companies have relatively strong Industrial companies delivered strong returns balance sheets with cash to invest.
There has been reflecting the belief in the economic recovery and understandable reluctance to invest in capital improving earnings prospects.
The mining sector expenditure projects and research and development had another strong year.
The utility and given the uncertain economic outlook.
However, pharmaceutical sectors, with more stable growth there has been a recent upturn in mergers and and decent dividends, also delivered reasonable acquisitions, a trend that has much longer to run returns.
In contrast, the banking sector continued and should continue to be a supportive factor for to struggle and oil stocks underperformed as BPs the market.
problems in the Gulf of Mexico dominated the The uncertain economic outlook makes it difficult to news.
forecast dividend prospects next year with any During the year an increasing number of companies degree of confidence.
What we can say is that UK returned to paying or growing their dividends.
The companies, from which we take the bulk of our cancellation of BPs dividend cost the Company income, are generally in a strong position to grow 650,000 of income in the current financial year, a their dividends and growth of around 5 per cent significant amount when compared with would not be unreasonable.
In terms of dividend 17,009,000, the total investment income received.
growth for the market overall, it very much depends BP was the largest dividend payer in the UK and the on a resumption of dividend payments by BP.
We suspension of its dividend has wiped out any expect payments will recommence in 2011 but the income growth for the UK market this year.
As a level at which payments resume is likely to be result the FTSE 350 High Yield Index, a measure of somewhat lower.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 Managers Review continued Global Developed ex UK Major Holdings Market %Total Company Country Sector Valuem Investments Walgreen USA Food&DrugRetailer 1.8 0.4  Switzerland Non-LifeInsurance 1.7 0.4 Ace USA Non-LifeInsurance 1.7 0.4 NipponT&T Japan Telecommunications 1.6 0.3 Microsoft USA Software&ComputerServices 1.6 0.3 TimeWarner USA Media 1.6 0.3 BankofMontreal Canada Banking 1.5 0.3 Ebay USA GeneralRetailers 1.5 0.3 IntelGroup USA TechnologyHardware&Equipment 1.4 0.3 Citigroup USA Banking 1.4 0.3 The Global Developed ex UK Markets portfolio to be less robust than expected.
Sluggish growth in returned 4.2 per cent compared with a return of consumer spending has been the main reason as 8.7 per cent for the FTSE All-World Developed ex individuals seek to reduce debt and increase savings UK Index.
after many years of excess spending.
As is the case across the developed world, state and local The portfolio underperformed the benchmark for the government spending continues to be held down by year having outperformed last year.
Our quantitative mounting budget constraints.
investment process centres on three key variables when looking at the fundamental properties of Europes smaller economies remain challenged by companies in order to predict future returns: value, public borrowing and the steps being taken to growth and quality.
The contribution from these was address massive deficits.
The recovery in the larger broadly neutral when compared to the benchmark economies continues to progress with Germany return.
However, a number of stock specific events notable for its impressive performance.
These contributed significantly to the underperformance this imbalances look set to persist.
However, with the year, in particular Transocean, which was involved in Euro at current levels, European companies remain the Gulf of Mexico incident, for-profit education competitive globally and this should aid growth in provider Apollo Group, which had a bad year due to the region and provide support to those congressional investigations into recruiting practices implementing austerity packages.
in the education sector, and retail drugstore chain In Japan growth this year has been boosted by Walgreen was hit by a lawsuit.
Over one year the strong export growth but there is little evidence of a contribution to performance from these stock sustained recovery in domestic demand.
Investors specific events can be significant but over the longer have been encouraged recently by the fact that term we would expect this to reverse.
equity valuations are cheap and that the authorities The emergence of the US, the largest of the are looking to support exports by forcing the Yen developed markets, from recession has turned out lower.
However, the outlook remains uncertain.
10 British Assets Trust plc Emerging Markets Major Holdings Market %Total Company Country Sector Valuem Investments Vale Brasil Mining 2.4 0.5 Petrobas Brasil Oil&Gas 2.3 0.5 BancodeBrasil Brasil Banking 2.0 0.4 ChinaMobile China  1.9 0.4 Infosys India TechnologyHardware&Equipment 1.5 0.3 HousingDevFinance India FinancialServices 1.4 0.3 MalayanBanking Malaysia Banking 1.4 0.3 PingAnInsurance HongKong LifeInsurance 1.3 0.3 Ambev Brasil Beverages 1.3 0.3 BRF-BrasilFoods Brasil FoodProducers&Processors 1.3 0.3 The Emerging Markets portfolio returned 18.5 per domestic activity as the more important driver.
cent compared to a return of 22.4 per cent for the Within the region, this should be most evident in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
smaller economies of South-East Asia, where structural improvements are taking place.
Across After a year of strong outperformance in 2009, the Asia, inflation remains a threat, but we think portfolio struggled to keep pace with the MSCI pressures should ease as long as food prices do not Emerging Markets Index this year.
However, the slip further out of control.
In China, we expect the principle objective of this portfolio is to deliver capital authorities to remain focused on cooling the returns over and above what we would expect for the property market.
Therefore we do not anticipate any Companys benchmark index and this has been monetary easing in the near future.
We are achieved again this year, with the emerging markets nevertheless positive on the direction of the new portfolio outperforming developed markets.
At a five-year plans, which will continue to foster longercountry level we were underweight in some of the term growth.
For example, the Thai stockmarket rose by 60 per cent despite political The outlook for global growth remains dependent on strife and rioting in the streets.
Concern that this strong demand from the emerging countries.
At the would be negative for economic growth led us to start of the year, this looked to be in the balance as maintain a minimal exposure to the market.
Similarly, the Chinese and Indian authorities moved to rein in despite poor infrastructure and little by way of new their overheating economies.
Investors feared these policy initiatives, South Africa rose 30 per cent, measures would be too heavy handed and lead to benefiting from the halo effect of the World Cup.
Fortunately, monetary policy investments in the smaller markets of Peru, Malaysia in both countries has been deftly handled and and Indonesia did well.
Our focus on companies with growth is now accelerating at a sustainable rate in quality management, excellent growth and financial India and decelerating manageably in China.
strength was less well rewarded in the stock market We currently favour investing in Brazil, India, this year than in the previous twelve months but we Indonesia and Colombia.
We like Brazil and believe that investment discipline is important when Indonesia because strong earnings will keep investing in emerging markets and over the medium valuations looking attractive.
India is benefiting from term this approach will be rewarded.
a robust, broad-based recovery while in Colombia While we believe that the recovery of developed strong domestic consumption is driving growth.
We western markets will be supportive of growth in the are less positive on Taiwan and Korea, which are Asian emerging markets, we continue to view dependent on demand from western consumers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Managers Review continued Corporate Bonds The corporate bond portfolio returned 13.6 per cent lower longer term yields.
First, there is now a greater over the year.
This compares to a return of 11.6 per belief that interest rates will remain low for an cent for investment grade bonds as measured by extended period boosting the attractiveness of fixed the Merrill Lynch All Sterling Non-Gilts Index and a rate investments.
Second, positive economic growth gain of 22.8 per cent for high yield bonds as has helped to stabilise corporate credit quality so measured by the European Currency High Yield reducing the number of companies defaulting on Index.
Sovereign risk fears have also eased in recent months with the markets reacting positively to The primary objective for the bond portfolio is to the European banking stress tests.
supplement the income for the Company.
This is The prospects for the corporate bond portfolio achieved by investing in a diversified portfolio of remain favourable.
The yield premium to government bonds drawn from both investment grade and high bonds remains attractive.
We aim to deliver a total return which is moving in the right direction with deleveraging, comparable with the return we can expect from improved capital adequacy and increased regulation equities and above the cost of borrowing.
all forcing banks away from riskier business and Corporate bond markets had another good year favouring creditors.
On a negative note, volatility has aided by the strength of government bonds and the not disappeared and markets remain illiquid.
A tighter premium in interest rates over government prolonged period of low growth and the fact that bonds.
Short term interest rates were already very deleveraging is taking much longer than many low a year ago but two factors have contributed to expected will inevitably add to the uncertainty.
12 British Assets Trust plc Outlook The level of economic activity in the developed The durability of the global recovery remains economies remains subdued, despite all the uncertain with a modest recovery in growth viewed stimulus measures provided in recent years.
The as the most likely outcome.
We still view a doublemost obvious explanation for this is that debt levels dip back into recession as unlikely but the are still too high.
Excessive borrowing, once underlying mood among investors remains fragile.
If considered to be the preserve of emerging nations, we are correct the outlook for equities is positive for is now very much a problem for the developed next year, particularly as many companies are in world.
We are witnessing buoyant growth in the good financial shape and modest demand will result emerging economies and inflation is more of a in good profit growth.
If this proves to be incorrect, concern whereas, for the developed world, the we will see profit disappointments and a sell off in recovery is modest and deflation is a risk.
However, equity valuations look Although the developed economies are currently reasonable and merger and acquisition activity is attracting more macro-risk than their emerging picking up.
counterparts, the general improvement in world Thanks in the main to the emerging markets, global trade, high productivity growth, low wage growth, growth should exceed 4 per cent in 2011.
This low absolute credit rates and recovering exports and masks what may well be a bumpy ride for the capital expenditure augur well for company profits.
That said, double-dip recessions are a mercifully rare phenomena and we see a Dividends remain an important contributor to total number of factors notably corporate strength, return.
With the economic outlook improving and growing world trade and assertive policy response many blue chip companies offering attractive supporting our view that a fall back into recession dividends in what is still a low yield environment, will be avoided.
investing for yield as well as capital growth remains an attractive proposition.
At current levels, dividend In regional terms, we remain positive towards yields look attractive when compared to the income emerging markets with continued strong expansion on offer from government bonds in all of the major from Brazil, India and China which are the principal developed markets and this income is likely to rise drivers of world growth.
The news that China is at least as fast as inflation.
prepared to let its currency appreciate is also good news for large Asian exporters such as Korea and Taiwan.
China remains a vital source of demand for both developed and emerging markets.
Emerging Julie Dent economies remain supported by robust internal Investment Manager demand as well as by long-term themes including F&C Investment Business Limited demographics, infrastructure investment and 15 November 2010 urbanisation.
