Report of the Directors The Directors submit the Annual Report and Objective Accounts of the Company for the year ended The Companys investment objective is shown on 30 September 2010. page 1.
Results and Dividends Investment Policy The results for the year are set out in the attached The Company invests worldwide in companies accounts.
which F&C Investment Business Limited FCIB or the Managers, believe will generate a combination First, second and third interim dividends, each of of long-term growth in capital and income for 1.442p per Ordinary Share, were paid on 9 April, shareholders.
The Board recommends a final dividend for the year of 1.786p The Company has not set maximum exposures for per Ordinary Share payable on 7 January 2011 to any geographical regions or sectors.
However, the shareholders on the register at close of business on greater part of the Companys investments will 10 December 2010. normally be UK equities.
The Company also invests in the markets of other countries or regions and in a Company Number: SC 3721 portfolio of corporate bonds.
It would normally be expected that most of the Companys investments Principal Activity and Status will be equities and equity-related securities The Company is a public limited company and an including corporate bonds.
However, the Company investment company in terms of the Companies Act is not prohibited from investing in other types of 2006.
It has been approved by HM Revenue and securities.
No individual investment in the portfolio Customs as a investment trust for tax purposes for may exceed 10 per cent of the Companys total previous years up to and including the year ended assets.
The Company will not normally invest more 30 September 2009.
In consequence, the Company than one per cent of its total assets in unlisted is not liable to tax on capital gains.
The Directors securities at the time of investment.
intend to ensure that the Company continues as an No more than 10 per cent of the Companys total investment trust.
assets may be invested in other listed closed-ended The Company is required to comply with company investment companies unless such investment law, the rules of the UK Listing Authority, UK companies themselves have published investment Financial Reporting Standards, and its Articles of policies to invest no more than 15 per cent of their Association.
total assets in other closed-ended investment companies, in which case the limit is 15 per cent.
Capital Structure The Companys capital structure is set out on The Company may use derivatives, principally, but page 17. not exclusively, for efficient portfolio management, that is to reduce, transfer or eliminate investment Business Review risk in its investments, including protection against The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall currency risks.
stewardship of the Company, including investment The Company uses gearing to enhance income and and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, capital returns over the long term and may borrow in corporate governance procedures, and risk sterling or other currencies.
Biographical details of the Directors, of Association contain a borrowing limit equal to the all of whom are non-executive, can be found on value of its adjusted total of capital and reserves.
The Company has no executive Directors However, equity gearing see definition on page 2 or employees.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Report of the Directors continued would not normally be expected to exceed 20 per related.
The Company is also exposed to currency cent of shareholders funds.
risk in respect of overseas markets in which it invests.
More detailed explanations of these risks and the way which they are managed are contained Investment of Assets in note 18 to the accounts.
At each Board meeting, the Board considers compliance with the Companys investment policy Other risks faced by the Company include the and other investment restrictions during the following: reporting period.
An analysis of the portfolio on 30 September 2010 is contained in note 9 to the External events such as terrorism, accounts and in the Managers Review on pages protectionism, inflation or deflation, economic 7 to 13.
The 50 largest investments are shown on recessions and movements in interest rates and pages 14 and 15.
The Companys borrowings are exchange rates could affect share prices in described in notes 11 and 12 to the accounts.
Strategy Investment and strategic incorrect strategy, As part of its strategy, the Board has contractually asset allocation, stock selection and the use of delegated the management of the investment gearing could all lead to poor returns for portfolio, and other services, to the Managers.
The investment strategy employed by the Managers Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead in meeting the investment objective focuses on to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange asset allocation, in particular between UK and listing, financial penalties, or a qualified audit overseas equities, corporate bonds, cash and report.
Loss of investment trust status could lead gearing, coupled with active stock selection.
The to the Company being subject to tax on capital selection of investments is based on analysis of, gains.
amongst other things, market positioning and competitive advantage, financial strength and Operational failure of the Managers accounting cashflow characteristics.
As part of this process the systems or disruption to the Managers business, Managers are cognisant of the Companys or that of third party service providers, could lead requirement for an above average level of investment to an inability to provide accurate reporting and income, which is generated principally from UK monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders equities and corporate bonds.
The Companys performance in meeting its Financial inadequate controls by the Managers objectives is measured against key performance or third party service providers could lead indicators as set on the following page.
Reviews of to misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate the Companys returns during the financial year, the accounting policies or failure to comply with position of the Company at the year end, and the accounting standards could lead to misreporting outlook for the coming year are contained in the or breaches of regulations.
Breaching bond and Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 5 and the loan covenants or being unable to replace Managers Review on pages 7 to 13, both of which maturing borrowing facilities could lead to a loss form part of this Business Review.
of shareholders confidence and financial loss for shareholders.
Principal Risks and Risk Management The Companys assets consist mainly of listed The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these securities and its principal risks are therefore marketrisks through continual review, policy setting and 20 British Assets Trust plc enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also A historical record of these indicators is contained in regularly monitors the investment environment and the Ten Year Record on page 17. the management of the Companys investment portfolio.
Investment risk is spread through holding a Charitable Donations wide range of securities in different countries and During the year the Company made donations to industrial sectors.
On 30 September 2010, the various local charities totalling 10,000 2009 portfolio was made up of 486 investments in 10,000.
The Managers make use of third party risk systems to monitor investment risk Directors and the Board receives quarterly risk reports.
The William Thomson and Christopher Masters retired as Board applies the principles detailed in the internal Directors of the Company on 17 December 2009. control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Lynn Ruddick succeeded William Thomson as Council.
Details of the Companys internal controls Chairman on the same date.
are described in more detail on pages 25 and 26.
The Directors who held office at the end of the year and their interests in the shares of the Company Shareholder Value were: The Board and Managers recognise the importance 2010 2009 of both marketing and share buy-backs in Ordinary Ordinary enhancing shareholder value.
In terms of marketing, Shares Shares the Managers offer a range of private investor Lynn Ruddick Beneficial 34,487 34,157 savings schemes, details of which can be found on Non-Beneficial 3,123 2,459 page 52.
In addition, meetings are held regularly James Long Beneficial 13,665 13,123 with current and prospective shareholders and James MacLeod Beneficial 35,000 35,000 stockbroking analysts covering the investment trust Non-Beneficial 9,500 9,500 sector.
Share buy-backs can help reduce the volatility of the discount, enhance the net asset Ian Russell Beneficial 20,000 20,000 value per share for continuing shareholders and Jimmy West Beneficial 12,000 12,000 provide an enhancement to the revenue return per share.
Communication of up-to-date portfolio information is made through the Companys Since 30 September 2010, Lynn Ruddick and website.
James Long have acquired beneficial interests in a further 73 shares and 123 shares respectively.
Lynn Ruddick has acquired a non-beneficial interest Key Performance Indicators in a further 110 shares.
There have been no other The Board uses a number of performance measures changes in the interests of the Directors in the to assess the Companys success in meeting its Ordinary Shares of the Company between objectives.
The key performance indicators are as 30 September 2010 and 15 November 2010. follows: Net asset value total return against the No Director had an interest in the Companys bonds benchmark index.
Discount of share price to net asset value.
As explained in more detail under Corporate Governance on pages 22 to 25, the Board has Revenue earnings and dividends per share.
agreed that all Directors will retire annually.
Total expenses as a ratio of shareholders funds.
Accordingly, all five Directors will retire at the Annual Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Report of the Directors continued General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves Substantial Interests in Share Capital As at 15 November 2010, the Company had for re-election.
received notification of the following holdings of The Board confirms that, following the evaluation voting rights: process set out in Corporate Governance below, Number of Ordinary Shares Percentage the performance of each of the Directors seeking Held Held re-election continues to be effective and AXA S. A.
48,137,805 16.5 demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board F&C Asset Management 18,945,342 6.5 therefore believes that it is in the interests of Legal & General Group 11,694,807 4.0 shareholders that these Directors are re-elected.
Management No Director has a contract of service with the FCIB provides management and secretarial services Company or any material interest in any contract to to the Company.
A summary of the management which the Company is a party.
agreement between the Company and FCIB in respect of those services is provided in note 3 to the Directors Deeds of Indemnity accounts.
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity During the year, the Board reviewed the in favour of each of the current Directors and William appropriateness of the Managers appointment.
In Thomson and Christopher Masters who retired from carrying out its review the Board considered the the Board on 17 December 2009.
The deeds give past investment performance of the Company and each Director the benefit of an indemnity to the the capability and resources of the Managers to extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 deliver satisfactory income growth and investment against liabilities incurred by each of them in the performance.
It also considered the length of the execution of their duties and the exercise of their notice period of the investment management powers.
A copy of each deed of indemnity is agreement and the fees payable to the Managers, available for inspection at the Companys registered together with the standard of other services office during normal business hours and will be provided which include company secretarial, available for inspection at the Annual General accounting and marketing.
Following this review the Directors are satisfied with the Managers ability to deliver satisfactory income Conflicts of Interest growth and long term investment performance, and Each Director has a statutory duty to avoid a the quality of other services provided.
It is therefore situation where he or she has, or could have, a their opinion that the continuing appointment of the direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or may Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of conflict, with the interests of the Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been authorised by the Board Corporate Governance in accordance with the Companys Articles of Shareholders hold the directors of a company Association.
responsible for the stewardship of that companys affairs.
Corporate governance is the process by The Board has approved a protocol for identifying which a board of directors discharges this and dealing with conflicts and has resolved to responsibility.
The Companys arrangements in conduct a regular review of actual or possible respect of corporate governance are explained in conflicts.
No conflicts or potential conflicts were this section of the Report of the Directors.
22 British Assets Trust plc Listed companies in the United Kingdom are Masters, who had served on the Board for 19 years, required to comply with, or to explain their nonalso retired at that time.
Following William compliance with, the provisions of the Combined Thomsons retirement, Lynn Ruddick was appointed Code on Corporate Governance issued by the as Chairman.
Jimmy West remains as Senior Financial Reporting Council the FRC in June 2008 Independent Director.
The Board normally evaluates the Combined Code.
The Association of the performance of each Director formally each year.
Investment Companies the AIC issued its own However, in light of the changes to the composition Code of Corporate Governance in May 2009 the of the Board, it was not considered appropriate to AIC Code which has been approved by the FRC conduct a formal process during the year but to wait as it addresses all the principles of the Combined until the end of 2010 at which point the new Code as well as setting out additional principles and structure will have been in place for a full year.
recommendations on issues which are of specific Consequently, during the year the performance of relevance to investment trusts.
The Board considers the Board, committees and individual Directors was that reporting against the principles and evaluated through an informal interview-based recommendations of the AIC Code provides better assessment process.
The Board believes that each information to shareholders than if it had adopted Director is independent in character and judgement the Combined Code on its own.
and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect his or her judgement.
Except as disclosed in this and the following paragraph, the Company complied throughout the The Board subscribes to the view expressed in the year with the recommendations of the AIC Code AIC Code that long-serving Directors should not be and the relevant provisions of the Combined Code.
prevented from forming part of an independent In common with most investment trusts, British majority.
It does not consider that a Directors tenure Assets Trust plc differs from commercial companies reduces his or her ability to act independently.
The in one important respect: it does not employ its own Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and staff to manage the Company.
Instead, management experience are considered to add significantly to the is delegated to an external fund management strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the company, FCIB.
Consequently, since all Directors overall length of services of any of the Companys are non-executive, and in accordance with the AIC Directors, including the Chairman, has been Code, the provisions of the Combined Code on the imposed although the Board believes in the merits of role of the chief executive and, except in so far as periodic and progressive refreshment of its they apply to non-executive Directors, on Directors composition.
remuneration are not relevant to the Company and During the year, the Board considered the principles are not reported on further.
and recommendations of The UK Corporate As the Board has agreed that, from this year Governance Code, issued by the Financial Reporting onwards, all Directors will retire annually and, if Council in June 2010 and applicable for accounting appropriate, seek re-election, it is not appropriate for periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010 the Directors to be appointed for a specified term as the new Code.
It has also considered the recommended by the AIC Code and the Combined principles and recommendations of the new code of Code.
corporate governance issued by the AIC in October William Thomson, who had served as a Director and 2010 the new AIC Code.
As at 30 September later Chairman of the Company for 35 years, retired 2010 the Company complied substantially with the from the Board after the Annual General Meeting relevant provisions of the new Code and the new on 17 December 2009.
In addition, Christopher AIC Code and it is the intention of the Board that Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Report of the Directors continued the Company will comply with those provisions The Audit Committee is chaired by James MacLeod, throughout the year ending 30 September 2011. and comprises all of the Directors except Lynn Ruddick who ceased to be a member of the The Companys objective, investment policy and Committee following her appointment as Chairman strategy are set out within the Business Review on of the Board.
The duties of the Audit Committee in pages 19 and 20.
As already mentioned, the discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Company has no executive Directors or employees Annual and Interim Accounts, the system of internal as the day to day management of the Company is controls, and the terms of appointment of the delegated to external managers.
A management auditors together with their remuneration.
It is also agreement between the Company and the the forum through which the auditors report to the Managers sets out the matters over which the Board of Directors.
It meets at least twice yearly.
Managers have authority and the limits beyond The objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the which Board approval must be sought.
All other Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under matters, including corporate strategy, investment which they are appointed to perform non-audit and dividend policies, gearing, corporate governance services.
The Committee reviews the scope and procedures, and risk management are reserved for results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board independence and objectivity of the auditors, with receives full information on the Companys particular regard to non-audit fees, which amounted investment performance, assets, liabilities and other to 11,000 for the year ended 30 September 2010 relevant information in advance of Board meetings.
2009: 7,000 and were for the provision of taxation services and the provision of a bond compliance The Managers, in the absence of explicit instructions certificate.
Notwithstanding such services the Audit from the Board, are empowered to exercise Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP to be discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
independent of the Company and that the provision All shareholdings are voted at all meetings of such non audit services is not a threat to the worldwide where practicable in accordance with the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the Managers own corporate governance policy, which audit.
A description of the main features of the is to seek to maximise shareholder value by Companys internal control and risk management constructive use of votes at company meetings and systems is contained on pages 25 and 26. by endeavouring to use their influence as investors with a principled approach to corporate governance.
The Management Engagement and Remuneration Environmental factors are, where appropriate, taken Committee, chaired by Lynn Ruddick, comprises the into consideration with regard to investment full Board and reviews the appropriateness of the decisions on behalf of the Company.
The Board Managers continuing appointment, together with notes the Managers statement of compliance with the terms and conditions thereof, on a regular basis.
The UK Stewardship Code issued by the Financial In addition to total return performance, the Reporting Council in July 2010, which can be Managers are also judged in relation to management found on its website at www.
com of the revenue account, quality of the fund ukstewardshipcode.
management and administration teams, commitment Much of the Boards corporate governance of the Managers to their investment trust business, responsibilities are discharged through the Audit strength of relationships with shareholders and the Committee, the Management Engagement and appropriateness of the management contract, Remuneration Committee, and the Nomination including fees.
These Committees all operate within clearly defined written terms of reference, which are The Nomination Committee, chaired by Lynn available upon request.
Ruddick, comprises the full Board and is convened 24 British Assets Trust plc for the purpose of considering the appointment of continue in operational existence for the foreseeable additional Directors as and when appropriate.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the considering appointments to the Board, the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Nomination Committee takes into account the Internal Control ongoing requirements of the Company and the need The Board is responsible for the Companys system to have a balance of skills and experience within the of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
No new Directors were appointed during the The Board has therefore established an ongoing year, but whenever there are new appointments process designed to meet the particular needs of these Directors receive an induction from the the Company in managing the risks to which it is Managers on joining the Board.
All Directors receive exposed, consistent with the internal control other relevant training, collectively or individually, as guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The process relies principally on the Managers During the year ended 30 September 2010 there existing risk-based approach to internal control were seven Board meetings, two Audit Committee whereby a test matrix is created which identifies the meetings and one Management Engagement and key functions carried out by the Managers and other Remuneration Committee meeting.
All meetings service providers, the individual activities undertaken were fully attended.
There were no Nomination within those functions, the risks associated with Committee meetings during the year.
each activity and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
The Individual Directors may, at the expense of the test matrix is regularly updated and the Board is Company, seek independent professional advice on provided with regular reports highlighting all material any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of changes to the risk ratings and confirming the action their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate which has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual Directors and Officers liability insurance.
review of these procedures is carried out by the Audit Committee and includes consideration of Going Concern internal control reports issued by the Managers and The Companys investment policy, which is other service providers.
described on pages 19 and 20 and which is subject to regular Board monitoring processes, is designed Such review procedures have been in place to ensure that the Company is invested in mainly throughout the financial year and up to the date of liquid, listed securities.
The Company retains title to approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is all assets held by its custodian, and has agreements satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures relating to its borrowing facilities.
are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, Note 18 to the accounts sets out the financial risk but not absolute, assurance against material profile of the Company and indicates the effect on misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the its assets and liabilities of falls and rises in the value Board monitors the investment performance of the of securities, market rates of interest and changes in Company in comparison to its stated objective, the exchange rates.
benchmark index, and against comparable The Directors believe, in the light of the controls and investment trusts.
The Board also reviews the review processes noted above and, bearing in mind Companys activities since the last Board meeting to the nature of the Companys business and assets, ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed that the Company has adequate resources to investment policy and approved investment Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 Report of the Directors continued guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to Directors Authority to Allot Shares The Directors are seeking authority to allot shares.
Resolution 10 will, if passed, authorise the Directors The Board has reviewed the need for an internal to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal audit function.
The Board has decided that the amount of 7,277,807, being 10 per cent of the systems and procedures employed by the total issued shares on 15 November 2010.
Managers, including their internal audit function, Resolution 11 will, if passed, authorise the Directors which are reported on by a firm of external reporting to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal accountants, provide sufficient assurance that a amount of 3,638,903, being 5 per cent of the total sound system of internal control, to safeguard the issued shares on 15 November 2010, for cash Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit without first offering such shares to existing function specific to the Company is therefore shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
These authorities will continue until the earlier of the expiry of 15 months from the passing of the resolutions and the conclusion of the next Annual Relations with Shareholders General Meeting.
The Directors will only allot new The Company places great importance on shares pursuant to these authorities if they believe it communication with shareholders and welcomes is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to their views.
The Managers hold meetings with the do so and will not result in a dilution of net asset Companys largest shareholders and report back to value per share.
The Directors consider that the the Board on these meetings.
The Chairman and authorisations proposed in resolutions 10 and 11 are other Directors are available to, and do, meet necessary to retain flexibility, although they do not shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting of the intend to exercise the powers conferred by these Company provides a forum, both formal and authorisations at the present time.
informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Managers of the Company.
The notice for the forthcoming Annual Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares General Meeting, to be held on 16 December 2010, The Company did not purchase any Ordinary Shares is set out on pages 53 to 55.
The Annual Report for cancellation during the year ended 30 September and Notice of Annual General Meeting are, where 2010. practicable, sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
Resolution 12, as set out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting, seeks renewal of the Companys Financial Instruments share buy-back authority.
The renewed authority to The Companys financial instruments comprise its make market purchases will be in respect of a investment portfolio, bonds, bank loan, foreign maximum of 14.99 per cent of the issued Ordinary exchange currency contracts, cash balances, Shares of the Company on the date of the passing of the resolution approximately 43.6 million Ordinary overdrafts, and debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and Shares.
The price paid for shares will not be less purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
than the nominal value of 25p per share nor more The financial risk management objectives and than the higher of i 5 per cent above the average policies arising from its financial instruments and the closing price on the London Stock Exchange of an exposure of the Company to risk are disclosed in Ordinary Share over the five business days before note 18 to the accounts.
the shares are purchased and ii the higher of the 26 British Assets Trust plc last independent trade and the highest current Individual Savings Accounts The Companys shares are qualifying investments for independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
This power will only be exercised if, in the opinion of Individual Savings Accounts.
It is the intention of the the Directors, a purchase will result in an increase in Directors that the Company will continue to conduct net asset value per share of the remaining shares its affairs to satisfy this requirement.
and is in the interests of the shareholders.
Any shares purchased under this authority will be Creditor Payment Policy cancelled.
This authority will expire on the later of The Companys payment policy is to settle 16 June 2012 and the conclusion of the next Annual investment transactions in accordance with market General Meeting of the Company.
practice and to ensure settlement of supplier Disclosure of Information to Auditors invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The The Directors confirm that, so far as each of them is Company did not have any trade creditors at the aware, there is no relevant audit information of year end.
which the Companys auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of By order of the Board that information.
G R Hay Smith Auditors Secretary Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness 80 George Street to continue in office as auditors and a resolution Edinburgh EH2 3BU proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
15 November 2010 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27
