Board of Directors Lynn Ruddick ` Ian Russell ` Chairman was appointed in 2008.
He was appointed as a Director was formerly Chief Executive in 2004 and Chairman on of Scottish Power plc.
She is is currently non-executive Chairman of Fidelity Special Chairman of Johnston Press Values plc, a non-executive plc, Remploy Ltd, the Director of Standard Life UK Smaller Companies Advanced Power AG advisory board, and the Trust plc, a member of the Investment Committees University of Edinburgh campaign board, a nonof The Pearson Group Pension Plan and Western executive director of The Mercantile Investment Trust Provident Association, Chairman of the WPA plc, and an adviser to the Clyde Bergemann Power Pension Scheme Board and a trustee of the Scottish Group.
She was previously a Managing Director of Merrill Lynch Investment Jimmy West ` Managers where she headed the companys Senior Independent Director investment trust business unit.
was appointed in 1995 and was formerly a Managing James Long ` Director of Lazard Brothers was appointed in 2006.
He and Co Ltd and Chief is Director of Risk and Executive of Lazard Asset Compliance for AstraZeneca Management Ltd.
He is Chairman of Gartmore Europe and was formerly Fledgling Trust plc, New City High Yield Fund Ltd Corporate Finance Director and Canaccord Genuity Ltd.
He is also a director of of Inchcape plc and JPMorgan Income & Capital Trust plc, Shires Managing Director, Asia and Emerging Markets, for Smaller Companies plc and UK Select Trust plc.
He is Chairman of JPMorgan is Chairman of Associated British Foods Pension Asian Investment Trust plc.
Member of the Audit Committee James MacLeod ` Member of the Management Engagement and Chairman of the Audit Remuneration Committee Committee ` Member of the Nomination Committee was appointed in 1998 and was a partner of Ernst & Young and its predecessor firms for 25 years until his retirement in 1998.
He is a director of Scottish Investment Trust plc, Invesco Perpetual AIM VCT plc and Invesco Perpetual Recovery Trust 2011 plc.
