08 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Investment Managers Review During the year, British Empires NAV on a total return basis increased 14.7% compared with an increase of 14.1% in the Companys benchmark Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index and 9.4% in the MSCI World Index.
British Empire is managed by Asset Value Investors Limited AVIs funds under management have grown from 6m in 1985 to above 1.4bn today.
AVI aims to deliver superior returns while minimising risks and specialises in securities that for a number of reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
AVIs investment philosophy is: invest in companies trading on discounts to their Net Asset Value NAV create a diversified portfolio that will generate growth over the long term identify companies with a potential for discount narrowing and or NAV growth focus on balance sheet strength Over the long-term, each of AVIs funds has significantly outperformed its respective benchmark index.
Throughout the period, your Board has continued to focus with the Manager on the Companys strengths, selecting good businesses around the world whose shares stand at a discount to estimated net asset value, and we remain confident that this approach will continue to produce, over time, good returns for shareholders.
John Pennink Chief Executive Officer of Asset Value Investors Limited, is a Chartered Financial Analyst CFA and the Fund Manager responsible for the British Empire Securities and General Trust portfolio.
Sofina is a Belgian holding company for the Bol family investing predominantly in listed assets in Europe.
The company has a diversified portfolio of high quality listed assets, including a shareholding in SES, the global satellite broadband communications services company.
09 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Overview British Empire has performed well in an equity market still recovering from the credit crisis.
At the Interim stage, the Companys NAV was 5.6% behind the benchmark and we commented that many of our large holdings had underperformed the recovery rally.
However, we felt comfortable with them as they held good quality assets and were modestly valued.
It is gratifying, therefore, to report that in the six months since the Interim Report, British Empires NAV has risen 5.6% while its benchmark was down 0.5%.
We ended the year 0.6% ahead of the benchmark index.
The weighted average discount on the underlying portfolio stands at 23%, compared with 22% one year ago.
We believe that there is still good value in the underlying portfolio.
In addition, Central Banks in the developed world generally remain committed to reflationary policies which should be positive for asset prices albeit with an increasing risk of monetary policy mistakes.
10 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Investment Managers Review Portfolio review Central Banks are encouraging speculation and discouraging conservative saving strategies in an attempt to get both the market and the economy moving again.
While we are sceptical as to the economic benefits of quantitative easing QE, the positive effects on commodity markets, bond markets and equity markets are apparent.
The share price of Exor preference shares has increased by 114% over the period.
The main asset is the 30% stake in Fiat which makes up more than 50% of the value in Exor.
11 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Emergency measures initiated by Governments and Central Banks during We are positive on emerging the credit crisis in 2008 are still with us and look set to continue for some markets and will invest there if we time.
Ultra low rates and quantitative easing QE have helped to bring can find companies on discounts down yields on bonds.
This in turn has made other asset classes more to NAV with strong balance sheets attractive relative to cash and fixed income and provided cheap funding for and good businesses.
We have so called carry trades.
In short, Central Banks are encouraging speculation investments in holding companies and discouraging conservative saving strategies in an attempt to get both in Singapore, Hong Kong, South the market and the economy moving again.
While we are sceptical as to Korea, India and Turkey.
the economic benefits of QE, the positive effects on commodity markets, bond markets and equity markets are apparent.
Japan offers an interesting historical parallel: it was 1999 when the authorities there first began a zero interest rate policy and 2001 when QE commenced.
Ten years on, the Bank of Japan has cut overnight interest rates to less than 0.1% and intends to purchase a further 40bn of bonds.
These policies appear to be much easier to start than to stop.
The Japanese market, meanwhile, is well below the level where it stood in 1999 despite occasional strong rallies.
The return to QE by the Japanese as well as the prospects for further easing in the US and the UK has inspired a further rally in equity markets.
This is concerning as it is a rally based on cheap money rather than on a fundamentally strong economy.
There is a real possibility that the earnings level of companies may not be sufficient to support the current level equity market.
In the meantime, Central Banks competing to keep their economies competitive have introduced an unwelcome measure of currency volatility to the valuation of shares.
As markets have risen, capital preservation has become more important and we have sold certain securities into this rise.
We have sought paying companies as yield may become an increasingly important component of return.
Our net liquidity position has increased from 14.1% at the Interim stage to 20.2% at the year end.
We have increased the duration of our bond holdings in the UK and the US both to increase the income received Turkish holding company Haci Omer and to take advantage of what is still perceived to be a positive Sabanci has interests in companies in environment for Government Bond returns in a deflationary environment.
a diverse range of industries which provides exposure to Turkeys fast We said last year that artificially low rates would likely create rallies as savers growing economy.
The liquidity created in the U. S. will naturally flow to whichever asset is perceived to offer the best returns.
Emerging markets, less burdened by debt and offering greater growth potential than developed markets have benefitted.
We are positive on emerging markets and will invest there if we can find companies on discounts to NAV with strong balance sheets and good businesses.
We have investments in holding companies in Singapore, Hong Kong, South Korea, India and Turkey.
Gold is another beneficiary of the debasement of currencies through QE and we have some exposure to gold mining equities.
Exor holds a 30% stake in Fiat which Portfolio Review produces and sells cars world-wide The weighted average discount on the portfolio is now 23% versus 22% under brands as diverse as Fiat, Alfa one year ago.
European Investment Holding Companies 32.6% Discounts on the European holding companies we own have widened slightly to 33% from 32% last year.
In general, share price performance over the year has been lacklustre.
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert GBL 4.7% for example has fallen 1.9% over the year whilst the share price of Sofina 3.9% has increased by only 2%.
Discounts however, remain attractive and at the wider end of the historic range, which suggests this sector of the portfolio could benefit from discount narrowing in the future.
12 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Investment Managers Review Portfolio review The purchase of assets that are One positive exception has been Exor SpA Preference shares 3.4% where of high intrinsic quality is a the share price has increased by 114% over the period.
Exors main asset subjective judgement, but is its 30% stake in Fiat which makes up more than 50% of the value of the essentially implies assets for company.
The discount on Exor SpA preference shares has narrowed to which there would normally be 50% from 75% a year ago as the Agnelli family has concentrated their a ready demand, even in buyback facility on the Preference shares and investor interest has been unfavourable conditions.
piqued by the proposed restructuring of Fiat.
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert is the listed holding company of Albert Frre that owns stakes in several large listed companies including Total, GDF Suez, Imerys and Lafarge.
The poor share price performance of Lafarge which was forced to strengthen its balance sheet with a rights issue during 2009 has held back returns.
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert traded on a 24% discount to its NAV as at 30 September 2010.
Orkla 3.2% is a Norwegian conglomerate whose main business areas are Nordic branded consumer goods and the manufacture of aluminium products used across many industries.
In recent years, the company has expanded into solar energy where it has had limited success.
A streamlining of the business looks likely following the appointment of a new CEO and we expect this to narrow the discount to NAV which stands at 25%.
The company has a strong balance sheet and the stable nature of the brands business allows it to pay an attractive dividend.
Asian Investment Holding Companies 18.4% Asian holding companies were the largest contributors to overall performance over the period.
Stock markets in the region have benefitted from very strong returns as investors were attracted to the sustainable growth rates available in many Asian economies and the absence of the debt overhang plaguing many developed markets.
Overall discounts on the Asian holding companies are 32% compared to 31% a year ago.
The Jardine companies trade at a 20-40% discount to estimated NAV.
Jardine Matheson 5.5% and Jardine Strategic 6.7% combined are The companies have a range of British Empires largest investment.
The performance of the underlying holdings including One Raffles Quay businesses continues to be strong.
Dairy Farm and Jardine Cycle & in Singapore.
Carriage continue do well on the back of the Asian domestic growth story, while Hong Kong Land has done well from the strength of the Hong Kong property market.
The discount to NAV has narrowed somewhat over the period but we continue to believe this is an attractive way to gain exposure to the Asian markets while also offering the potential for a group restructuring which could lead to a narrowing of the discount at some point in the future.
Doosan Corporation 2.6% is a South Korean holding company whose main asset is a 41% holding in Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction.
The value of Doosan Heavy makes up over 90% of the market capitalisation of the holding company, while the value of other operating businesses and assets owned give it a discount to NAV of over 40%.
Detour Gold is developing a large Doosan Heavy is winning large overseas power plant orders and is a gold deposit in Ontario, Canada.
beneficiary of growing demand in the Middle East and other emerging economies for power plants.
13 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 AVI often buys the shares of companies owning diversified portfolios.
They may be investment holding companies or closed-end funds which themselves own a number of underlying positions.
This approach limits security specific risk.
Deutsche Wohnen is one of the leading listed housing companies in Germany where it holds residential property in Berlin and other cities.
14 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Investment Managers Review Portfolio review Investment Trusts and Funds 3.7% Portfolio value by geography Investment Trusts have become a smaller part of our portfolio as we have found it more difficult than in other areas to find high quality assets trading 2010 2009 on wide discounts.
%% Continental Europe 41.01 42.59 Electra 1.4% Asia Pacific 18.87 11.49 Electra is our largest investment trust holding.
The company trades on a Canada US 6.13 3.97 discount of over 20% to its last announced NAV.
The assets are not highly geared by private equity standards and realisations may be expected to United Kingdom 5.73 14.81 boost NAV further if the market continues to recover.
Electras conservative Japan 4.40 7.43 long term approach to investing has proven to be successful in the face of EMEA 3.63 5.20 difficult market conditions.
Liquidity 20.23 14.51 Japan 4.4% Japan continues to offer significant value but in the absence of meaningful Portfolio value by market capitalisation political and economic reform the opportunity to make investment returns 2010 2009 has been elusive.
We have been reducing our exposure to Japan opportunistically on strength as we see better investments in other %% markets.
1 billion 25.65 24.83 1 billion & 5 billion 21.68 22.76 Resources 8.7% 5 billion & 10 billion 11.22 17.20 Our resource exposure is made up of gold mining shares and oil and gas 10 billion 21.22 18.75 companies.
With the ultimate effects of QE unknown, gold bullion may continue to attract attention as a hedge against currency instability.
Detour Gold 2.0% Detour Gold is developing the Detour Lake gold project in northeastern Ontario.
The Detour Lake deposit is considered to be Canadas largest undeveloped gold reserve with 11.4m ounces.
The value of the company Portfolio value by sector should increase as it proceeds towards production in 2013.
2010 2009 %% Mitra Energy 0.7% Mitra Energy is our sole unlisted holding.
Mitra is an independent oil and Investment Holding Companies 49.48 45.08 gas exploration company with assets in Southeast Asia.
The company has been acquiring large working interests in high impact exploration plays and Other 9.62 13.81 has attracted a high quality shareholder base.
It is anticipated that the exit Mining & Resources 8.52 10.39 from the position may ultimately be through a listing of the shares or a Real Estate Companies 6.93 3.03 takeover by a larger energy company.
Investment Companies 5.22 13.18 Liquidity 20.23 14.51 Other 8.1% Vivendi 7.1% is a French telecommunications and media conglomerate that trades on a discount of over 25% to the sum-of-its-parts.
Vivendi owns stakes in SFR, Canal Plus, Maroc Telecom, Activision and NBC Universal.
The minority position in NBC is in the process of being sold and the proceeds may be used to buy in the minorities of SFR and Canal Plus.
This would serve to simplify the group structure and improve earnings.
Vivendi trades at a PER of 8x and has a dividend yield of over 7%.
Net Liquidity 20.2% Our liquidity position is held mainly in government bonds in the UK and the US.
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA GBL, a Belgian holding company, takes an active interest in its portfolio companies.
It owns a 19.8% stake in Lafarge, a French cement company that provided materials for the Viaduc fide Millau pictured.
15 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Outlook We are still able to find interesting investment opportunities on wide build sustainable prosperity on this basis.
As long as reflationary discounts even after the sharp market rally.
Reflationary policies from policies are seen to be working, however, the equity markets may developed market Central Banks should create an ongoing positive continue to rise but we foresee periodic sharp corrections as market environment for asset prices in the short term.
What concerns us is participants realise that developed economies remain stubbornly that the challenges to economic growth are in many cases structural weak.
Overall, the equity markets may not make much progress.
In issues that require difficult and painful reform and are not going to be this sort of environment, the equities that we find appealing are those solved by QE and low interest rates.
Central Bank reflationary policies with strong balance sheets, high dividend yields and high discounts may turn out to have harmful side effects that outweigh their benefits.
It will pay to find those companies that have their own The beneficiaries of low interest rates and QE are banks and other catalysts in terms of restructuring potential and unrecognised value.
financial institutions but the average person will be hurt by low returns We are trying to find a mix of assets to allow us to ride out the as yet on savings, a stagnant job market and higher inflation.
It is hard to uncertain effects of this experiment with monetary easing.
