06 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Investment Portfolio The top ten investments make up 45% of the portfolio with investments across a diverse range of sectors and regions.
Ten largest investments Company Vivendi A French telecommunications and media conglomerate that trades on a discount of over 25% Nature of business Media Company to the sum-of-its-parts.
Vivendi owns stakes in Cost 61.1m companies operating in the music, games, television, films and telecommunications industries.
Valuation 60.1m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 7.05% Company Jardine Strategic Holdings Jardine Strategic, controlled by Jardine Matheson, an investment vehicle for the Keswick family, trades Nature of business Investment Holding Company on a 34% discount to an attractive collection of Asian listed companies, including Hong Kong Land, Cost 8.8m Dairy Farm and Mandarin Oriental.
Valuation 56.7m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 6.66% Company Jardine Matheson Holdings The other Singapore listed company in the Jardine control chain.
Jardine Matheson trades on a Nature of business Investment Holding Company discount of 20% and owns 81% of Jardine Strategic Cost 17.5m which, in turn, owns 53% of Jardine Matheson.
Jardine Strategic has the higher discount but Jardine Valuation 46.9m Matheson is more liquid with a higher dividend yield.
Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 5.50% Company Groupe Bruxelles Lambert The listed Belgian holding company of Albert Frre trades on a 24% discount to its NAV.
Its holdings Nature of business Investment Holding Company include French blue chip listed companies.
Cost 43.2m Valuation 40.3m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 4.73% Company Investor AB A A Swedish industrial holding company that owns significant shareholdings in major public Nature of business Investment Holding Company multinational companies as well as private Cost 27.1m companies mostly in the healthcare sector.
Investor takes an active ownership role in many of Valuation 36.6m the companies and currently trades on a 31% Valuation basis Market price discount to estimated NAV.
% of total assets 4.29% 07 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Company Sofina A Belgian holding company that invests predominately in listed assets across a diverse range Nature of business Investment Holding Company of sectors.
The company currently trades on a 35% Cost 30.9m discount to estimated NAV.
Valuation 33.5m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 3.94% Company Deutsche Wohnen A German property company which develops, rents and sells properties.
It is Germanys second largest Nature of business Real Estate Company listed residential property company and trades on a 16% discount to estimated NAV.
Cost 35.6m Valuation 33.3m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 3.91% Company Exor SpA Preference An Italian holding company whose main asset is a 30% stake in Fiat.
The company trades on a 47% Nature of business Investment Holding Company discount to estimated NAV.
A proposed restructuring Cost 19.8m of Fiat may lead to further discount narrowing.
Valuation 29.3m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 3.44% Company Orkla A Norwegian conglomerate operating in the branded consumer goods, aluminium and energy sectors.
Nature of business Investment Holding Company A streamlining of the business may narrow the Cost 23.9m discount to estimated NAV which currently stands at 27%.
Valuation 26.9m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 3.16% Company Doosan Corporation A South Korean holding company whose main asset is a 41% holding in Doosan Heavy Industries & Nature of business Investment Holding Company Construction.
The company is currently on a 44% Cost 18.0m discount to estimated NAV.
Valuation 22.5m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets 2.64%
